w^m 



'»li:i 



!lit;is!!!iiiiiliii'::i;r(;';;Jil 



vm 



%i\ 



. .1"' ii 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE 
BOARD OF REGENTS OF 

THE SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION 

SHOWING THE 

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND 
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30 




(Publication 3996) 



UNITED STATES 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

WASHINGTON 1950 



For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Office 
Washington 2S, D. C. Price ?2.7S (Buckram) 



LETTER OF 



TRANSMITTAL 



Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington, December 9, 1949. 

To the Congress of the United States: 

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the 
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents, 
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi- 
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended 
June 30, 1949. I have the honor to be, 
Respectfully, 

A. Wetmore, Secretary. 




CONTENTS 

Page 

List of officials v 

General statement 1 

Presentation of the Wright Brothers' Aeroplane of 1903 to the United 

States National Museum 3 

The establishment 5 

The Board of Regents 6 

Finances 7 

Appropriations 7 

Visitors 8 

Sixteenth James Arthur annual lecture on the sun 8 

Summary of the year's activities of the branches of the Institution 9 

Publications 14 

Library 15 

Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum 16 

2. Report on the National Gallery of Art 25 

3. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts 41 

4. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art 47 

5. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology 55 

6. Report on the International Exchange Service 89 

7. Report on the National Zoological Park 97 

8. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory 109 

9. Report on the National Air Museum 114 

10. Report on the Canal Zone Biological Area 126 

11. Report on the library 132 

12. Report on publications 136 

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents 143 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



The formation of stars, by Lyman Spitzer, Jr 153 

The origin of the earth, by Thornton Page 161 

The 200-inch Hale telescope and some problems it may solve, by Edwin 

Hubble 175 

The determination of precise time, by Sir Harold Spencer Jones 189 

The elementary particles of physics, by Carl D. Anderson 203 

Recent advances in virus research, by Wendell M. Stanley 213 

Ground-water investigations in the United States, by A. N. Sayre 219 

Modern soil science, by Charles E. Kellogg 227 

Time in evolution, by F. E. Zeuner 247 

More about animal behavior, by Ernest P. Walker 261 

III 



IV CONTENTS 

Page 
The breeding habits of the weaverbirds : a study in the biology of behavior 

patterns, bj^ Herbert Friedmann 293 

New Zealand, a botanist's paradise, by Egbert H. Walker 317 

The archeological importance of Guatemala, by A. V. Kidder 349 

Excavations at the prehistoric rock-shelter of La Colombi5re, by Hallam 

L. Movius, Jr 359 

Ronne Antarctic research expedition, 1946-1948, by Commander Finn 

Ronne, U. S. N. R 369 

The state of science, by Karl T. Compton 395 



LIST OF PLATES 



Secretary's report: Plates 1, 2 54 

The formation of stars (Spitzer): Plates 1, 2 160 

The origin of the earth (Page): Plates 1-11 166 

The 200-inch Hale telescope (Hubble): Plates 1-10 182 

Modern soil science (Kellogg): Plates 1, 2 246 

Animal behavior (Ernest Walker): Plates 1-16 278 

The breeding habits of the weaverbirds (Friedmann) : Plates 1-8 310 

New Zealand, a botanist's paradise (Egbert Walker): Plates 1-10 326 

The archeological importance of Guatemala (Kidder): Plates 1-6 358 

Excavations at La Colombiere (Movius): Plates 1-7 366 

Ronne Antarctic research expedition (Ronne) : Plates 1-8 374 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

June 30, 1949 

Presiding Officer ex officio.— Kxnnr S. Truman, President of the United States. 
Chancellor. — Fred M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States. 
Members of the Institution: 

Harry S. Truman, President of the United States. 

Alben W. Barkley, Vice President of the United States. 

Fred M, Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States. 

George C. Marshall, Secretary of State. 

John W. Snyder, Secretary of the Treasury. 

Louis Johnson, Secretary of Defense. 

Tom C. Clark, Attorney General. 

Jesse M. Donaldson, Postmaster General. 

Julius A. Krug, Secretary of the Interior. 

Charles F. Brannon, Secretary of Agriculture. 

Charles Sawyer, Seci-etary of Commerce. 

Maurice Tobin, Secretary of Labor. 
Regents of the Institution: 

Fred M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor. 

Alben W. Barkley, Vice President of the United States. 

Clinton P. Anderson, Member of the Senate. 

Leverett Saltonstall, Member of the Senate. 

Walter F. George, Member of the Senate. 

Clarence Cannon, Member of the House of Representatives. 

E. E, Cox, Member of the House of Representatives. 

John M. Vorys, Member of the House of Representatives. 

Harvey N. Davis, citizen of New Jersey. 

Arthur H. Compton, citizen of Missouri. 

Vannevar Bush, citizen of Washington, D. C. 

Robert V. Fleming, citizen of Washington, D. C. 

Jerome C. Hunsaker, citizen of Massachusetts. 
Executive Committee. — Robert V. Fleming, chairman, Vannevar Bush, 

Clarence Cannon. 
Secretary. — Alexander Wetmore. 
Assistant Secretary. — John E. Graf. 
Assistant Secretary. — J. L, Keddy. 

Administrative assistant to the Secretary. — Louise M. Pearson. 
Treasurer. — J. D. Howard. 
Chief, editorial divis^ion. — Webster P. True. 
Librarian. — Leila F. Clark. 
Administrative accountant. — Thomas F. Clark. 
Superintendent of buildings and labor. — L. L. Oliver. 
Pemonnel officer. — B. T. Carwithen. 
Chief, division of publications. — L. E. Commerford. 
Property, supply, and purchasing officer. — Anthony W. Wilding. 
Photographer. — F. B. Kestner. 



VI ANNUAL REPORT S&UTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

Director. — A. Remington Kellogg. 

Chief, office of correspondence and records. — Helena M. Weiss. 

Editor. — Paul H. Oehsbr. 

Assistant librarian. — Elisabeth H. Gazin. 

scientific staff 

Department of Anthropologt: 

Frank M. Setzler, head curator; A. J. Andrev.^s, chief preparator. 
Collaborator iu anthropology: W. W. Taylor, Jr. 

Division of Archeology: Neil M. Judd, curator; Waldo R. Wedel, associate 
curator; M. C. Blaker, scientific aid; J. Townsend Russell, honorary 
assistant curator of Old World archeology. 
Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; J. C. Ewers, associate curator; 

C. M. Watkins, associate curator; R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator. 
Division of Physical Anthropology: T. Dale Stewart, curator; M. T. Newman, 
associate curator. 
Department of Zoology: 

Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator; W. L. Brown, chief taxidermist; Aime 
M. Awl, scientific illustrator. 
Associates in Zoology; T. S. Palmer, W. B. Marshall, A, G. Boving, C. R. 

Shoemaker, W. K. Fisher. 
Collaborator in Zoology: R. S. Clark. 
Collaborator in Biology: D. C. Graham. 

Division of Mammals: D. H. Johnson, associate curator; II. W. Setzer, asso- 
ciate curator; N. M. Miller, museum aid; A. Brazier Howell, collaborator; 
Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., associate. 
Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; H. G. Deignau, associate 
curator; Alexander Wetmore, custodian of alcoholic and skeleton collec- 
tions; Arthur C. Bent, collaborator. 
Division of Reptiles and Amphibians: Doris M. Cochran, associate curator. 
Division of Fishes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator; E. A. Lachner, associate 
curator; L. P. Woods, associate curator; D. S. Erdman, scientific aid; W. 
T. Leapley, museum aid. 
Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, honorary curator; Edward A. Chapin, 
curator; R. E. Blackwelder, associate curator; W. D. Field, associate 
curator; O. L. Cartwright, associate curator; Grace E. Glance, associate 
curator; W. L. Jellison, collaborator. 

Section of Hymenoptera: S. A. Rohwer, custodian; W. M. Mann, assist- 
ant custodian; Robert A. Cushman, assistant custodian. 
Section of Diptera: Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian. 
Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection. 
Section of Lepidoptera: J. T. Barnes, collaborator. 
Division of Marine Invertebrates: F. A. Chace, Jr., curator; P. L. Illg, asso- 
ciate curator; Frederick M. Bayer, assistant curator; L. W. Peterson, 
G. S. Cain, museum aids; Mrs. Harriet Richardson Searle, collaborator; 
Max M. Ellis, collaborator; J. Percy Moore, collaborator; Mrs, M. S. 
Wilson, collaborator in copepod Crustacea. 
Division of Mollusks: Harald A. Rehder, curator; Joseph P. E. Morrison, 
associate curator; R. Tucker Abbott, assistant curator; W. J. Byas, museum 
aid; P. Bartsch, associate. 

Section of Helminthological Collections: Benjamin Schwartz, collabo- 
rator. 
Division of Echinoderms: Austin H. Clark, curator. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT VII 

Department of Botany (National Herbarium): 

E. P. Killip, head curator; Henri Pittier, associate in botany. 
Division of Phanerogams: A. C. Smith, curator; E. C. Leonard, associate 
curator; E. H. Walker, associate curator; Lyman B. Smith, associate 
curator; V. E. Rudd, assistant curator. 
Division of Ferns: C. V. Morton, curator. 

Division of Grasses: Jason R. Swallen, curator; Agnes Chase, research asso- 
ciate; F. A. McChire, research associate. 
Division of Cryptogams: E. P. Killip, acting curator; Paul S. Conger, asso- 
ciate curator; G. A. Llano, associate curator; John A. Stevenson, custodian 
of C. G. Lloyd mycological collections; W. T. Swingle, custodian of Higher 
Algae; David Fairchild, custodian of Lower Fungi. 
Department op Geology: 

W. F. Foshag, head curator; J. H. Benn, exhibits preparator; Jessie G. 
Beach, aid. 
Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. F. Foshag, acting curator; E. P. 
Henderson, associate curator; G. S. Switzer, associate curator; F. E. 
Holden, exhibits preparator; Frank L. Hess, custodian of rare metals and 
rare earths. 
Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: Gustav A. Cooper, 
curator; A. R. Loeblich, Jr., associate curator; David Nicol, associate 
curator; W. T. Allen, L. Pendleton, museum aids; J. Brookes Knight, 
research associate in Paleontology. 

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology: T. W. Stanton, custodian of 
Mesozoic collection; J. B. Reeside, Jr., custodian of Mesozoic collection. 
Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; D. H. Dunkle, asso- 
ciate curator; Norman H. Boss, chief exhibits preparator; W. D. Crockett, 
scientific illustrator; A. C. Murraj^ F. L. Pearce, preparators. 
Associates in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller, S. H. Perry, J. P. Marble. 
Associates in Paleontology: T. W. Vaughan, R. S. Bassler. 
Department op Engineering and Industries: 
Frank A. Taylor, head curator. 
Division of Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, acting curator. 

Section of Civil and Mechanical Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, in charge. 
Section of Marine Transportation: Frank A. Taylor, in charge. 
Section of Electricity: K. M. Perry, associate curator. 
Section of Physical Sciences and Measurement: Frank A. Taylor, in charge. 
Section of Land Transportation: S. H. Oliver, associate curator. 
Division of Crafts and Industries: W. N. Watkins, curator; F. C. Reed, 
associate curator; E. A. Avery, museum aid; F. L. Lewton, research 
associate. 

Section of Textiles: G. L. Rogers, assistant curator. 
Section of Wood Technology: William N. Watkins, in charge. 
Section of Manufactures: F. C Reed, in charge. 
Section of Agricultural Industries: F. C. Reed, in charge. 
Division of Medicine and Public Health: G. S. Thomas, associate curator. 
Division of Graphic Arts: J. Kainen, cuiator; E. J. Fite, museum aid. 

Section of Photography: A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., associate curator. 
Department of History: 

Charles Carey, acting head curator; T, T. Eelote, Museum historian. 
Divisions of Military History and Naval History: M. L. Peterson, associate 

curator; J. R. Sirlouis, assistant curator. 
Division of Civil History: M. W. Brown, assistant curator. 
Division of Numismatics: S. M. Mosher, associate curator. 
Division of Philately: C. L. Manning, assistant curator. 



Vni ANlSrtJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 49 

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 
Trustees: 

Fred M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman. 

George C. Marshall, Secretary of State. 

John W. Snyder, Secretary of the Treasury. 

Alexander Wetmore, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Samuel H. Kress. 

Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 

Duncan Phillips. 

Chester Dale. 

Paul Mellon. 
President. — Samuel H. Kress. 
Vice President. — Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 
Secretary-Treasurer. — Huntington Cairns. 
Director. — David E. Finlet. 
Administrator. — Harrt A. McBride. 
General Counsel. — Huntington Cairns. 
Chief Curator. — John Walker. 
Assistant Director. — Macgill James. 

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 

Director. — Thomas M. Beggs. 
Curator of ceramics. — P. V. Gardner. 
Exhibits preparator. — G. J. Martin. 
Assistant librarian. — Anna M. Link. 

FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Director. — A. G. Wenlet. 

Assistant Director. — John A. Pope. 

Associate in Near Eastern art. — Richard Ettinghausen. 

Associate in Far Eastern art. — W. R. B. Acker. 

Research associate. — Grace Dunham Guest. 

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

Director. — Matthew W. Stirling. 

Associate Director. — Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. 

Senior ethnologists. — H. B. Collins, Jr., John P. Harrington, W. N. Fenton. 

Senior anthropologists. — G. R. Willey, P. Drucker. 

Collaborators. — Frances Densmorb, John R. Swanton, A. J. Waring, Jr. 

Editor. — M. Helen Palmer. 

Assistant librarian. — Miriam B. Ketchum. 

Scientific illustrators. — Edwin G. Cassedy, E. G. Schumacher. 

Archives assistant. — M. W. Tucker. 

Institute of Social Anthropology. — G. M. Foster, Jr., Director. 

River Basin Surveys. — Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director. 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE 

Chief. — D. G. Williams. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT IX 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

Director. — William M. MaNiV. 
Assistant Directoi. — Ernest P. Walker. 
Head Keeper. — Frank O. Lowe, 

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 

Director. — Loyal B. Aldrich. 
Assistant librarian. — Marjorie Kunze. 
Division of Astrophysical Research: 

Chief. — William H. Hoover, 

Instrument makers. — Andrew Kramer, D. G. Talbeht, J. II, IIahuison. 

Research associate. — Charles G, Abbot. 
Division op Radiation and Organisms: 

Chief. — R. B, Withrow, 

Plant physiologist (physicochemical). — Leonard Price. 

Biological aid {botany). — V, B, Elstad. 

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM 
Advisory Board: 

Alexander Wetmorb, Chairman. 

Maj, Gen. Grandison Gardner, U. S. Air Force. 

Rear Adm. A. M. Pride, U. S. Navy. 

Grover Loeninq. 

William B. Stout. 
Assistant to the Secretary for the National Air Museum.— Cwih W. Mitman. 
Curator. — P. E. Garber, 

Associate curators. — S. L. Beers, R, C. Strobel, W. M. Male. 
Exhibits preparalor. — S, L. Potter. 

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA 
Resident Manager. — James Zetek. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OF THE SMITH- 
SONIAN INSTITUTION 

ALEXANDEE WETMORE 

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1949 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution: 

Gentlemen: I have the honor to submit herewith my report show- 
ing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and 
its bureaus during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1949. 

GENERAL STATEMENT 

The Institution continued vigorously to pursue its program of 
activities in ''the increase and diffusion of knowledge" as stipulated 
by its founder, James Smithson. The increase of knowledge is fos- 
tered by original scientific researches and explorations in the fields 
of anthropology, biology, geology, and astrophysics; the diffusion of 
knowledge, by publications in a number of series that are distributed 
free to libraries and educational institutions throughout the world, 
by extensive museum and art gallery exhibits, by the International 
Exchange Service for the v/orld-wide interchange of scientific and 
governmental publications, and by a large correspondence, both 
national and international. 

I present first certain general features of the year's activities, 
together with a summary of the work of the several bureaus of the 
Institution, to afford a concise picture of the events of the year. 
Next foUow appendixes containing more detailed reports on each 
bureau, and finally there appears the financial statement of the Execu- 
tive Committee of the Board of Regents. The appendixes contain 
reports on the United States National Museum, the National Gallery 
of Art, the National Collection of Fine Arts, the Freer Gallery of 
Art, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the International Exchange 
Service, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, 
the National An Museum, the Canal Zone Biological Area, the Smith- 
sonian library, and the publications of the Institution. 

1 



2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 

When the Smithsonian Institution began its operations more than 
one hundred years ago, it carried on its research programs largely by 
subsidizing the work of scientists not on its own staff, and by publish- 
ing the results of their work. As these pioneer researches expanded 
in scope and became somewhat stabilized, bureaus gradually grew up 
around the Institution, each wdth its own staff specializing in the 
work of that particular field. The value of the various activities 
gradually became known to the Nation, and eventually one by one 
they were recognized as public necessities by the Congress. Most of 
them are now supported largely by Government funds although re- 
maining under Smithsonian direction. At present, nearly all the 
research and exploration of the Institution is done through these 
bureaus, notably the United States National Museum, the Bureau 
of American Ethnology, and the Astrophysical Observatory. 

As stated in last year's report, the Institution has for many years 
operated under the handicap of shortages of personnel and of ade- 
quate housing space. I reported that the Smitlisonian Institution 
has today the same amount of space that it had in 1911 in which to 
accommodate four times as many visitors and four times as many 
museum specimens. Much the same condition still prevails. Some 
slight gain was apparent in personnel in a few of the scientific divi- 
sions, but not sufficient for the prompt execution of essential cura- 
torial work and adequate research on the National collections. The 
crowded condition, particularly in the buildings of the National 
Museum, remained unalleviated. In the report of the Director of 
the Museum it will be noted that there is a considerable decrease in 
number of specimens accessioned during the year, a decrease which, 
he says, "may be attributed in part to the inadequacy of available 
storage facilities for the preservation of such materials." More ade- 
quate building space is one of our major needs. 

Though hampered by space conditions it should be brought to 
attention that the Smithsonian Institution continues to grow and to 
expand its usefulness year by year. In the 5 years during which I 
have served as Secretary, tlu-ee additional activities have been added 
to its responsibilities — the Canal Zone Biological Area, the National 
Air Museum, and the River Basin Surveys, the latter a unit of the 
Bureau of American Ethnology. The work of these new activities 
has notably augmented Smithsonian efforts toward the increase and 
diffusion of knowledge in widely diversified fields, as will be seen in 
reading the detailed reports appended hereto. The purpose in calling 
attention to deficiencies is to emphasize the obvious fact that a growing 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 3 

institution such as the Smithsonian, of so vital interest and importance 
to the American people, must receive increased financial support if 
it is to continue to meet its full obligations and to fm'ther the high 
ideals of its founder, James Smithson, who left his entire fortune in 
trust to the United States of America for the benefit of all mankinds 

PRESENTATION OF THE WRIGHT BROTHERS' AEROPLANE OF 1903 
TO THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

On December 17, 1948, the forty-fifth anniversary of the first flight 
by Wilbur and Orville Wright at Kitty Hawk, N. C, the original 
aeroplane that made that historic flight became the property of the 
American people. At a formal ceremony in the Museum attended 
by many high civil and military officials the plane was presented to 
the United States National Museum by Milton Wright on behalf of 
the estate of Orville Wright. 

The story of the plane goes back to December 17, 1903, when the 
Wright Brothers were ready after several years of research and 
experiment to test out their gasoline-engine-powered biplane at 
Kitty Hawk on the coast of North Carolina. With Orville at the 
controls, the machine was released, and after a 40-foot run on the 
launching track, it lifted into the air in full flight. In Orville Wright's 
own words: 

"The flight lasted only 12 seconds, but it was nevertheless the first 
in the history of the world in which a machine carrymg a man had 
raised itself by its own power into the air in full flight, had sailed 
forward without reduction of speed, and had finally landed at a point 
as high as that from which it started." 

Three more flights were made the same day, but after the last 
flight a strong gust of wind tm-ned the plane over, damaging it so 
badly that no more trials were made that year. The damaged 
machine and engine were sent back to the Wrights' workshop in 
Dayton, and 13 years later were restored, using all the original parts 
available. The aeroplane was displayed at the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology and later at several aeronautical exhibitions. 
In 1928 Orville Wright had it sent as a loan to the Science Museum 
at South Kensington, London, England, where it remained on exhibi- 
tion until World War II. Owing to the danger of damage by bomb- 
ing, the plane was removed to a safe place for the duration of the war. 

When Orville Wright died on January 30, 1948, it was learned 
from papers in his files that he wished the Kitty Hawk aeroplane to 
be returned to the United States and placed in the National Museum. 
The executors of his estate conferred with officials of the Science 



4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Museum and of the Smithsonian Institution, and with the generous 
cooperation of the British Govermnent the actual transfer of the 
plane took place m November 1948. It was brought across the 
Atlantic to Halifax on the Mauretania, from there to Bayonne, 
N. J., on the Navy carrier Patau, and to Washington by Navy truck. 

At the formal presentation on December 17, 1948, the ceremonies 
were opened by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. After 
the invocation by Maj. Gen. Luther D. Miller, Chief of Chaplains, 
Department of the Army, and greetings by the Presiding Officer, 
Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson, Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, a message from the President of the United States was read by 
Col. Robert B. Landry, Air Force Aide to the President. His Britan- 
nic Majesty's Ambassador, Sir Oliver Franks, K. C. B., C. B. E., 
then spoke on "Britain and the Wright Brothers," after which the 
presentation of the aeroplane was made by Alilton Wright, of Dayton, 
Ohio, on behalf of the estate of Orville Wright. Mr. Wright told of 
his boyhood recollections of his uncles' bicycle shop where the Kitty 
Hawk plane was fabricated, and concluded thus: 

"The aeroplane means many things to many people. To some it 
may be a vehicle for romantic adventure or simply quick transporta- 
tion. To others it may be a military weapon or a means of relieving 
suffering. To me it represents the fabric, the glue, the spruce, the 
sheet metal, and the wire which, put together under commonplace 
circumstances but with knowledge and skill, gave substance to 
dreams and fulfillment to hopes." 

The aeroplane was accepted on behalf of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion by Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson, Chancellor of the Institution, 
and the address of acceptance was given by Vice President-Elect 
Alben W. Barkley, a regent of the Institution. In the course of his 
address Mr. Barkley expressed one thought that doubtless was in the 
minds of all participants in the ceremony: 

"It is a matter of deep regret to all of us that Orville Wright could 
not have been here today to see this wide public recognition of achieve- 
ment, and receive in person the fitting acclaim to his brother, to 
himself, and to their Kitty Hawk plane. We are grateful to all of 
those who have made it possible to bring the plane back to its native 
soil, and especially to the heirs of the estate of Orville Wright, for 
depositing the Kitty Hawk machine here where all America will have 
an opportunity to see it, and where aU may do it fittmg honor." 

The Kitty Hawk aeroplane now hangs suspended from the ceiling 
of the north haU of the National Museum's Arts and Industries 
Building, where the presentation ceremony was held. Directly back 
of the main entrance, the plane is the first object to meet the eyes of 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 5 

the thousands of visitors who throng the Museum daily. As thus 
displayed it bears the following label: 

The Original 

WRIGHT BROTHERS' AEROPLANE 

The world's first 

power-driven heavier-than-air machine in which man 

made free, controlled, and sustained flight 

Invented and built by Wilbur and Orville Wright 

Flown by them at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina 

December 17, 1903 

By original scientific research the Wright Brothers 
discovered the principles of human flight 

As inventors, builders, and flyers 

they further developed the aeroplane, taught man to fly 

and opened the era of aviation 

Deposited by the Estate of Orville Wright 

O 

"The first flight lasted only twelve seconds, a flight very modest compared 

with that of birds, but it was nevertheless the first in the history of the world in 

which a machine carrying a man had raised itself by its own power into the air 

in free flight, had sailed forward on a level course without reduction of speed, and 

had finally landed without being wrecked. The second and third flights were a 

little longer, and the fourth lasted 59 seconds covering a distance of 852 feet over 

the ground against a 20 mile wind." — Wilbur and Orville Wright. 

(From Century Magazine, vol. 76, September 1908, p. 649.) 

This is not the final resting place of the plane, however — it is 
destined eventually to occupy the place of honor in the National Air 
Museum, the most recent bureau of the Smithsonian Institution. 
Preliminary plans for the Air Museum envision a special centrally 
located exhibit area for the Wright aeroplane of 1903, to serve as a 
memorial to the birth of aviation. 

THE ESTABLISHMENT 

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of England, 
who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of America 
"to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge 
among men." In receiving the property and accepting the trust, 
Congress determined that the Federal Government was without 
authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore, constituted 
an "establishment" whose statutory members are "the President, 
the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive 
departments." 



6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 

THE BOARD OF REGENTS 

The following changes occurred during the year in the personnel of 
the Board of Regents: 

On January 20, 1949, Vice President Alben W. Barkley (formerly a 
regent by appointment from the Senate) became ex officio a member 
of the Board. 

On February 14, 1949, the following regents were appointed from 
the House of Representatives: Clarence Cannon of Missouri; John M. 
Vorys of Ohio; and E. E. Cox of Georgia to succeed Samuel K. 
McConnell of Pennsylvania. 

On March 8, 1949, Senators Leverett SaltonstaU and Clinton P. 
Anderson were appointed to succeed Vice President Alben W. Barkley 
who became an ex officio member of the Board, and Senator Wallace 
H. White of Maine, retired. 

On March 10, 1949, Dr. Jerome C. Hunsaker was appointed a citizen 
regent from Massachusetts for the statutory term of 6 years, to succeed 
Frederic C. Walcott, retired. 

The roll of regents at the close of the fiscal year, June 30, 1949, 
was as follows: 

Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson, Chancellor; Vice President Alben W. 
Barldey; members from the Senate: Walter F. George, Clinton P. 
Anderson, Leverett SaltonstaU; members from the House of Repre- 
sentatives: Clarence Cannon, John M. Vorys, E. E. Cox; citizen mem- 
bers: Harvey N. Davis, Arthur H, Compton, Vannevar Bush, Robert 
V. Fleming, and Jerome C. Hunsaker. 

Proceedings. — The Board of Regents held its annual meeting on 
January 14, 1949. Present: Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson, Chancellor; 
Representative Clarence Cannon, Representative John M. Vorys, 
Dr. Arthur H. Compton, Dr. Harvey N. Davis, Dr. Robert V. Flem- 
ing, Secretary Alexander Wetmore, and Assistant Secretary John E. 
Graf. 

The Secretary presented his annual report covering the activities 
of the Institution and its bureaus, including the financial report of the 
Executive Committee, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1948, which 
was accepted by the Board. The usual resolution authorizing the 
expenditure by the Secretary of the income of the Institution for the 
fiscal year ending June 30, 1950, was adopted by the Board. 

It was announced that in support of the work of the Astrophysical 
Observatory John A. Roebling had made a further generous gift 
which is of major importance in carrying on these scientific investi- 
gations. 

The annual report of the Smithonsian Art Commission was pre- 
sented by the Secretary and accepted by the Board. A resolution was 
adopted to reelect the following members for 4-year terms: Archibald 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 7 

G, Wenley, David E. Finley, Eugene E. Speicher, Paul Manship. 
The following officers were reelected for the ensuing year: Chairman, 
Paul Manship; vice chairman, Robert Woods Bliss; secretary, 
Alexander Wetmore. 

The Board was advised that in an attempt to recover the Gellatly 
art collection from the Secretary in his status of a private individual, 
though acting as custodian under the Smithsonian Institution, Mrs. 
Charlayne Gellatly 's attorneys had filed action in the District Court 
of the United States for the District of Columbia on June 18, 1947. 
Under date of June 17, 1948, Judge J. McGuire rendered a decision 
that, in the opinion of the Court, there was no merit in Mrs. Gellatly's 
claims, since it was found that there was a valid gift to the United 
States by the deceased, John Gellatly, before his death and before his 
marriage. On July 19, 1948, the attorney for Mrs. Gellatly filed notice 
of appeal before the United States Court of Appeals for the District 
of Columbia. Marvin C. Taylor, special attorney, Department of 
Justice, represented the Institution. 

On the evening of March 1, 1949, an informal meeting of the Board 
was held at dinner in the Main Hall of the Smithsonian Building, with 
the Chancellor, Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson, presiding. At this 
meeting heads of the various activities under the Institution pre- 
sented statements relative to their work. These statements, with the 
ensuing discussion, provided a general view of the existing operations 
of the Smithsonian, particularly in the research field. 

FINANCES 

A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian 
private funds, will be found in the report of the Executive Committee 
of the Board of Regents, page 143, 

APPROPRIATIONS 

Funds appropriated to the Institution for the fiscal year ended June 
30, 1949, totaled $2,259,000, allotted as follows: 

General administration $46, 794 

National Museum 712, 560 

Bureau of American Ethnology 71, 996 

Astrophysical Observatory 101, 590 

National Collection of Fine Arta 32, 543 

International Exchange Service 68, 938 

Maintenance and operation 764, 626 

Service divisions 274, 448 

National Air Museum 180, 285 

Canal Zone Biological Area 4, 760 

Unallotted 460 

Total - 2,259,000 

866591—50 2 



8 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 



In addition $1,073,500 was appropriated to the National Gallery of 
Art, a bureau of the Institution but administered by a separate board 
of trustees; and $528,848 was provided in the District of Columbia 
appropriation act for the operation of the National Zoological Park. 

Besides these direct appropriations, the Institution received funds 
by transfer from other Federal agencies, as follows: 

From the State Department, from the appropriation Cooperation 
with the American Republics, 1949, a total of $97,900 for the operation 
of the Institute of Social Anthropology, including the issuance of 
publications resulting from its work. 

From the National Park Service, Interior Department, $118,500 
for archeological projects in connection with River Basin Surveys. 

VISITORS 

The number of visitors to the Smithsonian buildings for the year 
was 2,606,104, an all-time record of attendance. This was an increase 
of 212,605 over the previous year's attendance. April 1949 was the 
month of largest attendance with 371,871 visitors; August 1948, the 
second largest with 313,364. Records for the five buildings show the 
following number of visitors: Smithsonian, 494,880; Arts and In- 
dustries, 1,148,303; Natural History, 689,233; Aircraft, 198,648; 
Freer, 75,040. 

A summary of attendance records is given in table 1: 

Table 1. — Visitors to the Smithsonian buildings during the year ended June SO, 1949 



Year and month 



Smith- 
sonian 
Building 



Arts and 
Industries 
Building 



Natural 
History 
Building 



Aircraft 
Building 



Freer 
Gallery 
of Art 



Total 



July 

August 

September 

October 

November 

December. 

191,9 

January. 

February 

March 

April 

May 

June 

Total 



61, 529 
65, 412 
45, 178 
34, 460 
27, 380 
18, 242 



26, 748 
22, 949 
25, 650 
64,804 
47, 718 
84, 810 



128, 635 
136, 704 
90, 321 
66, 329 
50, 700 
42, 191 



59,837 
54,470 
66, 814 
177, 144 
142, 007 
133, 151 



74, 243 

75. 026 
51, 839 
47, 962 
39, 829 
23, 419 



37, 212 
35, 220 
41, 452 
97, 135 
88,029 
77, 867 



24, 557 
26, 672 
18, 460 
13,070 
11, 833 
8,512 



11, 085 
10, 842 

12, 499 
23,N32 
19, 653 
17, 333 



9,510 
9,550 
7,269 
5,460 
4,415 
3,153 



4,124 
4,032 
5,092 
9,256 
6,172 
7,007 



298, 474 
313, 364 
213, 067 
167, 881 
134, 157 
95, 517 



139, 006 
127, 513 
151, 507 
371,871 
303, 579 
290, 168 



494, 880 



1, 148, 303 



> 689, 233 



198, 648 



75,040 



2, 606, 104 



' Not including 31,249 persons attending meetings after 4:30 p. m. 
SIXTEENTH JAMES ARTHUR ANNUAL LECTURE ON THE SUN 



In 1931 the Institution received a bequest from James Arthur, of 
New York, a part of the income from which was to be used for an 
annual lecture on some aspect of the study of the sun. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 9 

The sixteen til Arthur lecture was given in the auditorium of the 
National Museum on April 14, 1949, by Sir Harold Spencer Jones, 
Astronomer Ro3''al of Great Britain, the arrangements being made 
through Dr. S. A. Mitchell, of the Leander McCormick Observ- 
atory, University of Virginia. The title of Sir Harold's lecture was, 
"The Determination of Precise Time," a subject on which he is a 
world authority. His lecture will be published in full in the Annual 
Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution for 1949. 

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR'S^ACTIVITIES OF THE BRANCHES OF 

THE INSTITUTION 

National Museum. — Approximately 446,000 specimens were added 
to the collections, for the most part as gifts or as transfers from Gov- 
ernment agencies, bringing the total number of catalog entries to 
31,679,046. Outstanding accessions for the year included: In an- 
thropology, an important collection of 51 artifacts representing the 
work of American Indians, Eskimo of Alaska, and natives of Pacific 
islands, given by Georgetown University; 17 gold-embossed silver 
vessels given by the Govermnent of Tibet to President Truman and 
in turn presented by him to the Smithsonian Institution; and valu- 
able skeletal remains recovered in northern Australia by Frank M. 
Setzler, a member of the Commonwealth of Australia-National Geo- 
graphic Society-Smithsonian Institution Expedition to Arnhem 
Land; in zoology, mammal specimens from many distant parts of the 
world including Northern Territory of Australia, Nepal, Malay Pen- 
insula, Korea, Okinawa, Phihppine Islands, and New Guinea, 778 
birds from Arnhem Land, Australia, and 1,164 from India and Nepal, 
14,000 fishes from the Solomon Islands and the East Indies, and 
5,000 from the Persian Gulf and the Red Sea; in botany, 2,382 plants 
of Fiji, 5,854 plants of Colombia, and 2,157 plants of China; in geology, 
20 kinds of minerals hitherto um-epresented in the National collec- 
tions, a 42-carat brazilianite gemstone, the largest ever found in 
Brazil, an 8,750-gram stony meteorite that fell at Girgenti, Italy, and 
many thousands of fossil specimens collected by staff members in 
various parts of the United States; in engineering and industries, 
the original Wright Brothers' aeroplane of 1903, a collection of elec- 
trical measuring instruments, early lamps, and electronic tubes, some 
of them made in the 1880's, and an exhibit showing the development 
of electric hearing aids; in history, a group of relics bequeathed by 
Gen. John J. Pershing, including uniforms, flags, and medals, a note- 
worthy collection of European gold and silver coins from the four- 
teenth to the twentieth century presented by Paul A. Straub, of 
New York City, and a complete set of Allied military currency pre- 
sented by the Department of the Army. 



10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 

Field work was conducted in Ai-nhem Land in northern Australia, 
India and Nepal, the Persian Gulf and the Red Sea, New Zealand, 
the Canadian Arctic, nine different countries in South and Central 
America, and many parts of the United States, The Museum pub- 
lished its Annual Report, 3 Bulletins, 25 Proceedings papers, and 2 
papers in the Contributions from the United States National Herbar- 
ium. The division of history was elevated to the status of a full 
department of the Museum, with five divisions — military history, 
naval history, civil history, numismatics, and philately. 

National Gallery oj Art. — During the year there were 1,529,568 
visitors to the Gallery, an average daily attendance of 4,225. Acces- 
sions as gifts, loans, or deposits numbered 1,174, including 10 paint- 
ings and 50 prints and drawings from the estate of the late R. Horace 
Gallatin, and 891 prints and drawings from Lessing J. Rosenwald. 
Eleven special exhibitions were held at the Gallery, and two traveling 
exhibitions were circulated to art galleries, museums, and other organ- 
izations throughout the country. In response to inquii'ies received 
by the Gallery, nearly 1,000 research problems requiring reports were 
investigated, and advice was given regarding 233 works of art brought 
to the Gallery for opinion. Numerous books and articles on art sub- 
jects were published by staff members. New publications continued 
to be added to the literature available at the Gallery for purchase by 
the public. Some 15,000 persons attended the special tom-s of the 
Gallery, 20,000 the "Picture of the Week" tallcs, and 18,000 the lec- 
tures in the auditorium. The Gallery's collections of art works has 
grown so fast that all available exhibition space was in use during 
the year. To provide for expansion, contracts have been let for the 
completion of 12 more galleries lq unfinished areas of the Gallery 
buUding. Some 50,000 persons attended the 46 Sunday evening 
concerts given in the Gallery's East Garden Court. 

National Collection of Fine Arts. — At the annual meeting of the 
Smithsonian Art Commission of December 7, 1948, a number of 
paintings were accepted for the National Collection. The Commis- 
sion passed a resolution calling attention to the inadequacy of the 
present art exhibition facilities in the National Museum and recom- 
mending that the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution take action 
to provide proper space for the preservation and exhibition to the 
pubUc of the National Collection of Fine Arts. Two miniatures were 
acquii-ed through the Catherine Walden Myer fund. Under the 
provisions of the Ranger bequest, seven paintings temporarily as- 
signed to various art institutions were recalled for final consideration 
by the Smithsonian Art Commission. Two of these paintings were 
accepted for the National Collection, and the others were returned 
to the institutions to which they were originally assigned. A large 



SECRETARY'S REPORT H 

amount of information on art subjects was furnished to visitors in 
person, as well as by mail and phone. Members of the staff lectured 
on art topics to several organizations, and six special art exhibitions 
were held during the year, for most of which catalogs were furnished 
by the organizations sponsoring the exhibitions. 

Freer Gallery of Art. — Additions to the collections included Chinese 
bronze, jade, lacquer, marble, and painting; Syi'ian glass; Syrian or 
Egyptian gold; Arabic manuscript; Persian manuscript, painting, and 
stone sculpture; Indian painting; and Turkish painting. The work 
of the professional staff was devoted to the study of new accessions 
and to research within the collection of Chinese, Japanese, Iranian, 
Arabic, and Indian materials. Reports were made upon 2,563 objects 
and 372 photographs of objects submitted to the Gallery for examina- 
tion, and 369 Oriental language inscriptions were translated. The 
repair and restoration of the walls of Whistler's Peacock Room were 
completed early in the year, and work was begun on the ceihng. 
Visitors to the Gallery numbered 74,846 for the year, and 1,724 came 
to the Gallery offices for special purposes. Sixteen groups were given 
instruction in the exhibition galleries by staff members, and 13 lec- 
tures were given in art galleries and museums, before clubs, and to 
various associations. 

Bureau oj American Ethnology. — Dr. M, W. Stirling, Director of 
the Bureau, devoted 4 months to a continuation of his archeological 
work in Panamd in cooperation with the National Geographic Society. 
Heretofore undescribed ceramic cultures were found at Utive and 
Barriles, and much new information was obtained on the classic 
Chiriquf and Veraguas cultures. Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., 
continued to direct from Washington the very extensive operations 
of the River Basin Surveys, a unit of the Bureau created to rescue 
important archeological sites threatened by the construction of dams 
and the creation of river basin reservoirs. The work was done in 
cooperation with the National Park Service, the Bureau of Reclama- 
tion, the Army Corps of Engineers, and local organizations. Surveys 
of threatened sites covered 69 reservoir areas in 21 States. Since 
the program started, 2,107 archeological sites have been located and 
recorded, and of these, 456 have been recommended for excavation 
or testing before they are destroyed by construction work. Dr. 
John P. Harrington continued his revision of the Maya grammar. 
Toward the end of the year he went to Old Town, Maine, to pursue 
ethnological and linguistic studies on the Abnaki Indians. Dr. Henry 
B. Collins, Jr., conducted archeological excavations at Frobisher Bay 
on Baffin Island in the Canadian Arctic. Ruins were found of old 
Eskimo semisubterranean houses made of stones, whale bones, and 
turf, the evidence showing that the site has been occupied succes- 



12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 

sively by Eskimos of both the prehistoric Dorset and Thule cultures. 
Dr. William N. Fenton continued his field work and library research 
on the Iroquois Indians, obtaining the life history of an aged Seneca 
and recording Seneca rituals, prayers, and legends. Dr. Gordon R. 
Willey devoted the year to studying and writing up the results of 
previous field work. His monographic work, "Ai-cheology of the 
Florida Gulf Coast," was completed and at the close of the year was 
in process of being published by the Smithsonian Institution. 

The Institute of Social Anthropology, an autonomous unit of the 
Bureau, is financed by State Department funds to carry out coopera- 
tive training in anthropological teaching and research with the other 
American republics. Institute staff members, under the directorship 
of Dr. George M. Foster, Jr., continued to give courses in anthropology 
and to conduct cooperative research and field work in Brazil, Colom- 
bia, Mexico, and Peru. 

The Bureau published its Annual Report and two Publications of 
the Institute of Social Anthropology. The last two volumes of the 
Handbook of South American Indians, volumes 5 and 6, were in 
press at the close of the year. 

International Exchanges. — The Smithsonian International Exchange 
Service is the official United States agency for the interchange of gov- 
ernmental and scientific publications between this country and the 
other nations of the earth. The Exchange Service handled during the 
year a total of 840,125 packages of publications, weighing 796,700 
pounds. These figures represent an increase over the previous year 
of 80,006 packages, but a decrease of 15,489 pounds in weight, indicat- 
ing by the lighter weight per package that most institutions have about 
completed shipment of material held up during the war. Shipments 
are now made to all countries except Rumania, and efforts to resume 
exchanges with that country are being continued. The number of 
sets of United States official publications sent abroad in exchange for 
similar publications of other countries is now 96—58 full and 38 
partial sets. There are also sent abroad through the Exchange 
Service 81 copies of the Federal Register and 75 copies of the Con- 
gressional Record. 

National Zoological Park. — The collection v^^as improved dming the 
year by the addition of a number of rare animals. At the close of the 
fiscal year there were 3,724 specimens in the collection, an increase 
of 927 over the previous year. These represented 755 different species, 
an increase of 65. Among the rare or unusual animals received by 
gift, exchange, or purchase were the rare Meller's chameleon, a 
spectacled bear, a pair of pigmy marmosets — smallest of all monkeys, 
an African two-horned rhinoceros, a pair of wombats, a pigmy ant- 
eater, orang-utans, and chimpanzees. The total number of creatures 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 13 

born or hatched at the Zoo was 157 — 56 mammals, 62 birds, and 39 
reptiles. Persomiel recruitment and training for the organization 
progressed satisfactorily, and the most needed repairs and minor im- 
provements to buildings and grounds were carried out. The year's 
total of visitors to the Zoo was the largest ever recorded — 3,346,050, 
an increase of more than 300,000 over the previous year. Groups 
from schools, some as far away as Maine, Florida, Texas, and Cali- 
fornia, numbered 1,844, aggregating 93,632 individuals. 

Astrophysical Observatory. — 'Year-long tests at the three most 
promising sites for a new high-altitude solar observing station indicate 
that the best skies prevail at the Clark Mountain, Calif., site, the 
second-best site being Pohakuola, Hawaii. Estimates of the cost of 
establishing a field station on Clark Mountain, however, proved to be 
in excess of available funds, forcing postponement of building opera- 
tions. Data and tables were prepared which simplify computations 
at the field observing stations by eliminating the tedious curve-plotting 
process heretofore used in obtaining the air mass. Daily observations 
of the solar constant of radiation were continued at the Montezuma, 
Chile, and Table Mountain, Calif., stations. Intercomparisons 
between the substandard silver-disk pyrheliometer S. I. No. 5 and the 
instruments in use at Miami, Montezuma, and Table Mountain show 
no material changes in constants, confirming the adopted scale of 
pyrheliometry. Special radiation measurements started in 1945 at 
Camp Lee, Va., under contract with the Office of the Quartermaster 
General, were continued there, half of the year by the Observatory 
and half by the Quartermaster Board; similar measurements were also 
made at Miami, Fla., and at Montezuma, Chile. The work of the 
Division of Radiation and Organisms has been concerned chiefly with 
reorganizing and reequipping the laboratories. Besides new office 
space which has been established, five rooms are being converted into 
constant-condition rooms for biological experimentation, and four 
chemistry laboratories will be available. In addition, a photographic 
laboratory, an X-ray room, a cytology laboratory, an electronics 
laboratory, and two general laboratories are being arranged. 

National Air Museum. — The Air Museum was given the responsi- 
bility of receiving, bringing to Washington, and preparing for exhibi- 
tion the original Wright Brothers aeroplane of 1903, presented to the 
National Museum in December 1948. A storage depot to be used by 
the Air Museum until it has a building of its own was acquired in 
November 1948 in the former Douglas Aircraft plant at Park Ridge, 
111. There a field organization was installed, and the Air Museum 
assumed custody of the storage facility itself and the large collection 
of planes and other aeronautical material stored there by the U. S. 
Air Force for the Museum. The Advisory Board held three meetings 



14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

during the year which were devoted mainly to advancing the acquisi- 
tion of a building site and a suitable museum building in the Wash- 
ington area. The Museum expects during the coming year to sub- 
mit to Congress a report regarding sites and a building, the prelim- 
inary study of which has been prepared in cooperation with the Public 
Buildings Administration. Among outstanding accessions of the 
year were the Swoose, the historic B-17-D bomber that served through- 
out World War II from Bataan to the defeat of Japan, presented by 
the city of Los Angeles; Maj. Alford Williams' renowned GulJhawk-2 
presented by the Gulf Oil Co.; a Japanese Baka Bomb, or "suicide 
plane," transferred by the Department of the Navy; and 10 scale 
models of recent types of Naval aircraft received from the manufac- 
turers who produced the original planes. New accessions totaled 
122 objects from 40 different sources. 

Canal Zone Biological Area. — A new building for woodworking and 
carpenter shops and for living quarters for the warden-caretaker was 
completed during the year, the old quarters being converted into a 
two-room laboratory unit. Work on the new 14,000-gallon water 
tank was halted by heavy rains but can be completed with 2 or 3 
weeks of diy weather. The most urgent needs are the fireproofmg of 
existing buildings and the construction of a new six-room laboratory 
and storage building. Twenty-nine scientists representing many 
different organizations worked at the laboratory during the year, and 
their contributions have added materially to our knowledge of tropical 
life. Among the interesting researches were the work of Drs. Scho- 
lander and Walters of the Arctic Research Laboratory at Point Barrow, 
Alaska, on the metabolic reactions to temperature in various animals 
and plants in order to obtain a tropical counterpart for similar work 
on Ai'ctic forms in Alaska; the studies of Drs. Clark and Soper of the 
Research Laboratory of Eastman Kodak on the effects of tropical 
conditions on photographic equipment and materials, including color 
film; and the Resident Manager's own special studies, particularly the 
long-term termite-resistance tests. 

PUBLICATIONS 

In carrying out the diffusion of knowledge, the Institution issues 
eight regular series of publications and six others that appear less fre- 
quently. All these sei'ies, embodying the results of Smithsonian 
researches, are distributed free to more than a thousand libraries, 
both here and abroad, as well as to a large list of educational and 
scientific organizations. The findings of Smithsonian scientists, 
chiefly in the fields of anthropology, biology, geology, and astrophysics, 
are therefore made readily available to all through this wide free 
distribution. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 15 

A total of 71 separate volumes and pamphlets were issued during the 
past year. Among the outstanding publications to appear were Dr. 
Henry Field's compilation in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collec- 
tions entitled "Contributions to the Anthropology of the Soviet 
Union," which presents, for the first time in English, accounts of 
recent findings in this little-known area; a revised edition of the popu- 
lar handbook of the National Aircraft Collection, which is in effect a 
brief history of aeronautics from the mythical flying horses of antiquity 
to the supersonic jet planes of today; two more volumes in the famous 
series of Life Histories of North American Birds, prepared by A. C. 
Bent, bringing to 17 the number so far issued in the series; and a 
paper by Jason R. Swallen on new grasses from several countries of 
South and Central America, in the Contributions from the United 
States National Herbarium. 

The total number of copies of publications in all series distributed 
during the year was 267,491. A complete list of the year's publica- 
tions will be found in the report of the Chief of the Editorial Division, 
Appendix 12. 

LIBRARY 

Of the 57,671 publications received by the Smithsonian library 
during the year, 7,287 came as gifts from many different donors. 
Another 17,713 were periodicals mostly received in exchange for 
Smithsonian publications from research institutions and other scien- 
tific and educational organizations throughout the world. Containing 
the record of progress in science and technology, these periodicals are 
indispensable in the prosecution of the Institution's own work. 

Increasingly heavy demands upon reading and reference services 
of the library vv^ere noted during the year, the interlibrary loans total- 
ing 2,619 publications to 89 different libraries. The new position of 
assistant librarian in charge of the Astrophysical Observatory library 
was filled by the promotion of an acquisitions assistant. 

New exchanges arranged during the year numbered 338; 6,884 
volumes and pamphlets were cataloged, and 31,184 cards were added 
to catalogs and shelflists; 1,060 volumes were sent to the bindery, 
and 1,026 were repaired in the Museum. 

At the close of the year, the library's holdings totaled 921,206 
volumes, more than half of which are housed in the Library of Congress 
as the Smithsonian Deposit. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Alexander Wetmore, Secretary. 



APPENDIX 1 

REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the condi- 
tion and operations of the United States National Museum for the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 1949. 

COLLECTIONS 

Approximately 446,000 specimens (88,000 less than last year) 
were incorporated into the National collections during the year and 
were distributed among the six departments as follows: Anthropology, 
4,099; zoology, 279,621; botany, 38,708; geology, 109,499; engineering 
and industries, 2,610; and history, 11,104. The decrease in the number 
of specimens accepted for the Museum's collections may be attributed 
in part to the inadequacy of available storage facilities for the preser- 
vation of such materials; consequently, a finer screening of collections 
from prospective donors is now mandatory. Most of the accessions 
were acquired as gifts from individuals or as transfers from Govern- 
ment departments and agencies. The complete report on the Museum, 
published as a separate document, includes a detailed list of the year's 
acquisitions, of which the more important are summarized below. 
Catalog entries in all departments now total 31,679,046.^ 

Anthropology. — The most noteworthy additions to the archeological 
collections were as follows : A black-figured Attic lecy thus of the fifth 
century, B. C, presented to President Harry S. Truman as a token of 
gratitude from the people of Greece and lent by the President; 11 
gold-plated ornaments from Veraguas, Panama, and 2 gold fishhooks 
from Colombia, a gift from Karl P. Curtis; and 47 prehistoric earthen- 
ware vessels from the Valley of Nasca, Peru, presented to the late 
Gen, John J. Pershing by former Peruvian President Augusto B. 
Leguia and donated by General John J. Pershing. 

Handicrafts and material culture of many of the world's peoples 
were represented in the additions to the ethnological collections. An 
unusually important collection of 51 specimens representing the work 
of American tribes of the Great Plains and the Great Lakes, of Arizona 
and New Mexico, as well as of the Eskimo of Alaska, of the Igorot of 
the Philippine Islands, and of the Marquesans and Maori of the 

' The revised tabulation of the National collection of insects during the past year, in addition to the 
normal increment, has increased last year's total by more than 4,400,000 specimens. 

16 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 17 

Southeast Pacific, assembled over a period of more than a century, 
was presented by Georgetown University. President Harry S. Tru- 
man presented to the Smithsonian Institution 17 gold-embossed silver 
vessels received at the White House as a gift from the Government 
of Tibet in appreciation of an American gift of wireless receiving and 
transmitting sets made during World War 11. Included are two 
butter lamps and stands, four teacup stands and covers, two bowls 
for grain offerings, one teapot, and two beer mugs, all decorated in 
gold-embossed designs derived from Chinese-Tibetan folklore and 
Buddhist religious art. A collection of 287 folk, costume, and his- 
torical portrait dolls, representing the native dress of peoples of many 
lands, was received as a bequest from the late Mrs. Frank Brett Noyes. 
The Don Diego Columbus mahogany table, traditionally known as 
the writing desk of Diego Columbus, was conditionally bequeathed 
by Mrs. Edith Keyes Benton. This table had been preserved for 
centuries in the cathedral of Santo Domingo City and was presented 
by Archbishop Nouel to Commander Frederick L. Benton, U.S.N. , in 
recognition of his work in Santo Domingo during the influenza epidemic 
of 1918. One of the rarest of musical instruments, a musical gong, 
kyung, carved from white marble, was presented by Ju Whan Lee, 
director of the Korean Court Music Conservatory at Seoul, Korea. 

The largest accession received by the division of physical anthro- 
pology consisted of the skeletal remains recovered in northern Australia 
by Franl?: M. Setzler, a member of the Commonwealth of Australia- 
National Geographic Society-Smithsonian Institution Expedition to 
Arnhem Land. Australian skeletal material available for study in 
the United States is rather limited. Four casts of African fossil 
primates, which illustrate certain characteristics of antecedent special- 
ization, were also acquired during the year. 

Zoology. — The collections made by the Museum staff detailed to the 
Arnhem Land field expedition, under the joint sponsorship of the 
Commonwealth of Australia, National Geographic Society, and the 
Smithsonian Institution, have added many previously unrepresented 
forms of animal life to the National collections. These collections 
included not only vertebrates but invertebrates as well. 

Accessions that enhanced the usefulness of the mammalian collec- 
tion came from the Northern Territory of Australia, Nepal, Malay 
Peninsula, Korea, Okinawa, Philippine Islands, New Guinea, and New 
Hampshire. Field work financed wholly or in part by the W. L. 
Abbott fund resulted in the addition of birds not hitherto represented 
in the National collection. Included among these accessions were 
2,815 skins and 38 eggs of Colombian birds; 900 skins, 24 skeletons, and 
2 sets of eggs of Panamanian birds; 778 bird skins, many of which were 
not represented in the collection, as well as 51 skeletons and 2 eggs 



18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

from Arnliem Land, Australia; and 1,164 bird skins procured by the 
joint National Geographic Society-Yale University-Smithsonian 
Institution Expedition to India and Nepal. Other accessions com- 
prised 611 bird skins from Nyasaland: 177 birds and 1 egg from 
northeastern Venezuela: 171 bird skins from Pacific War areas; and 
125 bird skins from Korea. 

Snakes, lizards, and frogs from Arnhem Land, amphibians from 
Peru, reptiles and amphibians from Honduras, and a general collection 
from Virginia and North Carolina constituted the most important 
additions to the herpetological collection. 

The most noteworthy accessions received by the division of fishes 
were nearly 14,000 specimens from the Solomon Islands and the East 
Indies, which were presented by Dr. Wilbert M. Chapman; 14,300 
from Arnhem Land; and approximately 5,000 from the Persian Gulf 
and the Red Sea, resulting from a survey sponsored by the Arabian- 
American Oil Co. Other important collections of fishes came from 
Puerto Rico, Panamd, British Columbia, and Florida. 

Approximately 25,000 miscellaneous insects from South Pacific 
Islands came to the Museum by transfer from the U. S. Commercial 
Co. Among other large lots were approximately 12,000 flies; 3,500 
chalcidoid wasps; 500 beetles; and some 53,000 insects transferred 
from the United States Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine. 

During the year considerable significant material was added to the 
marine invertebrate collection, of which the most important accessions 
were 11,765 miscellaneous invertebrates from the Department of 
Zoology, University of California; 70 lots of para types, hypotypes, 
and topotypes of hydroids from the Allan Hancock Foundation, 
University of Southern Cahfornia; 760 marine invertebrates from 
California and Mexico; 709 specimens from Bahama Islands; 1,781 
from Pacific Islands and California; 452 from the Persian Gulf and 
the Red Sea; and 859 from Arnhem Land. By transfer from the 
Office of Naval Research, the Museum acquired 3,668 invertebrates 
from Point Barrow, Alaska. The United States Geological Survey 
transferred 568 specimens from the Marianas Islands. 

A rare deep-water Pleurotomaria, dredged at a depth of 160 fathoms 
off Natal, South Africa, and presented by Dr. Cecil von Bonde, con- 
stituted the most notable accession received by the division of 
mollusks. From other sources the division received 250 Peruvian 
terrestrial and fresh-water mollusks and 540 marine mollusks from 
Canton Island, and 150 Japanese land mollusks. Exchanges brought 
to the Museum approximately 1,080 shells from Spain and lesser 
numbers from South Africa, Italy, and Cuba. By transfer the Museum 
received about 1,200 mollusks obtained in the Caroline Islands from 
the United States Geological Survey; approximately 30,600 specimens 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 19 

from the Naval Medical Research Institute; and 600 marine and land 
shells of the Solomon Islands from the Naval Medical School, Mem- 
bers of the staff obtained about 1,200 mollusks in Arnhem Land and 
some 1,500 in the region of the Persian Gulf and the Red Sea. 

Botany. — As exchanges, the National Herbarium received 2,382 
plants, comprising a collection made in Fiji by Dr. A. C. Smith, from 
the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University; 5,854 plants of Colom- 
bia from the Facultad de Agronomla, Universidad Nacional, Medellln; 
and 2,157 Chinese plants from the National Szechwan University. 
The Division of Rubber Plant Investigations, United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, transferred 865 plants from eastern Colombia. 
The Oficina de Estudios Especiales, Mexico City, presented 394 
Mexican grasses. A noteworthy gift of 295 ferns of Micronesia came 
to the Herbarium from the Bernice P. Bishop Museum, Honolulu, and 
Dr. Gunnar Degelius, University of Uppsala, presented 602 lichens 
from various localities. 

Geology. — Gifts and exchanges contributed to the growth of the 
mineral collections. More than 20 kinds of minerals hitherto unrepre- 
sented in the collections were received. Forty exceptionally good 
examples of rare secondary uranium minerals from Katanga, Belgian 
Congo, as well as other unusual minerals were added to the Roebling 
collection. A fine collection of rare copper sulfates from Chuquicam- 
ata, Chile, was presented by the Chile Exploration Co. Included 
among the additions to the Canfield collection were a gem-quality 
golden beryl crystal weighing over 1,800 grams from Brazil and an 
unusually large zircon crystal from Australia. The Chamberlain 
bequest provided funds for the purchase of a 42-carat brazilianite 
gemstone, the largest as yet found in Brazil. An 8,750-gram stony 
meteorite, which feU at Girgenti, Italy, was received as a gift from Dr. 
Stuart H. Perry, and other meteorites were acquired either as gifts or 
in exchange. 

Several large collections of invertebrate fossils were presented to the 
Museum, three of the larger lots being 7,500 Middle Ordovician fossils, 
mostly bryozoans, from O. C. Cole, Kenyon, Minn.; 2,150 Pennsyl- 
vanian fossils from Robert Stark, Grapevine, Tex.; and 10,000 fossil 
mollusks from A. L. Bowsher. Types and paratypes of Upper 
Cretaceous trilobites. Tertiary moUusks, Pennsylvanian goniatites, 
Ordovician invertebrates, and Cretaceous Foraminifera were included 
in other accessions. Through funds provided by the Walcott bequest, 
the Museum acquired 40,000 invertebrate fossils from the Devonian, 
Mississippian, and Pennsylvanian deposits in west Texas, New 
Mexico, and Arizona collected by Associate Curator A. L. Bowsher 
and WiUiam Allen; 25,000 Paleozoic fossils from Texas and Oklahoma 
collected by Curator G. A. Cooper and Associate Curator A. R. 



20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 

Loeblicli; 2,500 Middle Ordovician fossils collected by Dr. Cooper in 
Tennessee and Virginia; and 2,000 Permian and Jurassic ammonites 
and brachiopods from Sicily. As usual the year's accessions included 
a number of transfers from the United States Geological Survey. 

A nearly complete skeleton of the Triassic phytosaur Machaero- 
prosopus gregorii, from the Chinle formation near St. Johns, Ariz.^ 
excavated and transferred to the Museum by the United States Geo- 
logical Survey, constitutes the outstanding acquisition of the year in 
vertebrate paleontology. Through the Walcott funds there were 
received articulated skeletal remains of the condylarth Meniscotherium 
rohustum and the complete skeleton of a large ichthyodectid fish. 
Outstanding gifts include specimens of the Devonian arthrodiran fish 
Eudinickthys terrilli, a partial skeleton of the Pleistocene jaguar Pan- 
thera augusta, an incomplete skull of the Pleistocene walrus Odobenus 
virginianus , and a portion of the skull of a Miocene tapir. The 
Smithsonian River Basin vSurveys transferred mammalian fossUs from 
Eocene and Oligocene deposits of Wyoming and Montana. 

Engineering and industries. — The presentation of the historic 
aeroplane invented and built by Wilbur and Orville Wright and flown 
by them at Kitty Hawk, N. C, on December 17, 1903, was witnessed 
by 1,000 or more distinguished guests at the formal ceremony held 
in the north entrance hall of the Arts and Industries Building of the 
United States National Museum on December 17, 1948. The presen- 
tation was made by Milton Wright, of Dayton, Ohio, on behalf of the 
estate of Orville Wright. The Chancellor of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson, accepted the Wright Brothers' 
aeroplane on behalf of the Nation, and the formal acceptance address 
was delivered by Vice President-Elect Alben W. Barkley. 

A collection of electrical measuring instruments, early lamps, and 
electronic tubes, some of which were constructed in the 1880 decade, 
was presented by the Weston Electrical Instrument Corp. The 
Musemn is indebted to the United States Signal Corps Laboratories 
for an exhibit illustrating radar and microwave radio-relay communi- 
cation. From the Cork Institute of America the section of wood 
technology received 100 samples and 9 photographs which illustrate 
the production and utilization of cork bark. Etchings and serigraphs 
by Forain, Margo, Velonis, Detwiller, and Kainen were added to the 
graphic arts collection through the Dahlgreen fund. A Marcy 
Sciopticon Magic Lantern, a kerosene-lamp projector, patented 
1868-69, was the most interesting accession in the photographic 
section. The division of medicine and public health received from 
Telex, Inc., a number of devices that show the development of electric 
hearing aids. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 21 

History. — Several unusual items were added during the past year 
to the National collection of American antiques and personal relics, 
and of these the spirit set and silverware owned by the Maryland 
surveyor Andrew Ellicott (1754-1820) are the oldest. A marble slab 
from the Temple of Wingless Victory on the Athens Acropolis, pre- 
sented to President Truman by a Greek delegation on March 28, 1949, 
as a token of gratitude from the people of Greece, was lent by the 
President. The most interesting additions to the costumes collection 
were a parasol made of pheasant feathers and an old bonnet of the 
type known as "calash." The outstanding accessions to the military 
collection were the relics bequeathed by Gen. John J. Pershing, 
comprising personal uniforms, presentation flags, medals, decorations, 
and other mementos of his military service. Forty-four portraits of 
World War II heroes painted by Joseph Cummings Chase were 
presented to the Museum by the artist. 

The collection of gold and silver coins, chiefly European issues 
dating from the fourteenth to the twentieth century, which was re- 
ceived as a gift from Paul A. Straub, of New York City, constitutes 
the most noteworthy accession acquired by the division of numismatics 
in recent years. A complete set, in duplicate, of Allied military 
currency was presented by the Department of the Army. 

EXPLORATION AND FIELD WORK 

Staff specialists in the departments of anthropology, zoology, 
botany, and geology were engaged during the year in field work in 
South, Central, and North America, New Zealand, and Australia. 

The four staff members — Franlv M. Setzler, head curator of anthro- 
pology; Dr. David H, Johnson, associate cm'ator of mammals; 
Herbert G. Deignan, associate curator of birds; and Dr. Robert R. 
Miller, associate curator of fishes — who participated in the technical 
work of the Commonwealth of Australia-National Geographic 
Society-Smithsonian Institution Expedition to Arnhem Land under 
the leadership of Charles P. Mountford, returned to Washington, 
D. C, late in 1948 following completion of the field work. The base 
camp of the expedition, which had been established April 4, 1948, on 
Groote Eylandt in the Gulf of Carpentaria, was moved during July 
1948 to YuTkala on the beach of Arafura Sea near the northeastern 
corner of Arnhem Land. A third camp was established September 
21, 1948, at Oenpelli on East Alligator River near the foot of the high 
Arnhem Land escarpment. The entire party returned to Darwin in 
November to pack the collections and field equipment for shipment 
to the participating institutions. 



22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 49 

During the first 3 months of 1949, Dr. T. Dale Stewart, curator of 
physical anthropology, was engaged in taking anthropometric meas- 
lu-ements of some 200 Mayan-speaking Indians in the highlands of 
Guatemala. Most of this field study was carried on at Soloma in the 
Department of Huehuetenango, and at Santa Clara la Laguna in the 
Department of Solola. A secondary project was the examination of 
skeletal remains at archeological sites in the highlands. 

As in the previous year. Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, associate curator of 
archeology, was detailed to the River Basin Surveys under the 
Bureau of American Ethnology to supervise field and laboratory 
operations in the Missouri Valley. 

The National Geographic Society-Yale University-Smithsonian 
Institution Expedition to India and Nepal, which was directed by 
S. Dillon Ripley, brought back important collections of birds and 
mammals from the Karnali Valley in western Nepal and the Kosi 
Valley in eastern Nepal — regions rarely visited by naturalists. 

For 5 months dming the middle of 1948, Donald S. Erdnian, divi- 
sion of fishes, participated in a fishery survey in the Persian Gulf and 
Red Sea under the auspices of the Arabian-American Oil Co. 

At the invitation of the Plywoods-Plastics Corp., Dr. Hemy W. 
Setzer, associate cm'ator, division of mammals, worked in Costa Rica 
and obtained specimens of mammals and birds in the valleys of the 
Rfo Estrella and the Rfo Turrialba. 

Dr. A. Wetmore and W. M. Perrygo conducted ornithological field 
work in the eastern section of the Province of Panama, Republic of 
Panama, a region they had not explored on previous trips. The field 
work of M. A. Carriker, Jr., in the Rio Sinu region of northwestern 
Colombia, resulted in the preparation of one of the most complete 
collections of birds thus far obtained in the area adjacent to Panama. 
Charles O. Handley, Jr., temporarily employed as assistant curator of 
birds, departed from Washington in March 1949 under a cooperative 
arrangement with the Weather Bureau to study the birds and mam- 
mals in one area of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. 

Botanical field projects participated in by the staff included the 
following: After adjournment of the Second South American Botan- 
ical Congress held at Tucuman, Argentina, E. P. Killip, head curator 
of botany, and Dr. Lyman B. Smith, associate curator of phanero- 
gams, made collections in northwestern Argentina; large numxbers of 
plants were assembled by Mr. KiUip in the Santiago-Valparaiso 
region of Chile, and other specimens were subsequently obtained at 
Call, Medellin, and Bogota, Colombia; Dr. Smith collected plants in 
the vicinity of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 

Following the adjournment of the Seventh Pacific Science Congress 
held between February 2 and 22, 1949, Dr. E. H. Walker, associate 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 23 

cui-ator of phanerogams, remained in New Zealand for about 6 weeks 
at the invitation of the University of New Zealand to carry on botan- 
ical field work on the two main islands and on Stewart Island. Jason 
R. Swallen, curator of grasses, at the request of Dr. C. L. Lundell, 
director of the Texas Research Foundation, made a survey of the 
grasses of the Kingsville region, Texas. George A. Llano, associate 
curator of cryptogams, is making a special study of the ecology of the 
lichens of the Arctic slopes of the Brooks Mountains in northern 
Alaska under a project sponsored by the Arctic Institute of North 
America. Paul S. Conger, associate curator of diatoms, devoted 2 
months during the summer of 1948 to an investigation of the ecology 
of diatoms at the Chesapeake Biological Laboratory, Solomons Island, 
Md. Research Associate F. A. McClure continued his field studies of 
American bamboos in Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Puerto 
Rico, Jamaica, and Trinidad. 

A wide variety of paleontological field work financed by the Walcott 
bequest enabled the staff to obtain new materials for the collections. 
Included among these additions are fossil fishes from the Green River 
Eocene beds in northeastern Utah and the Pierre Cretaceous deposits 
in eastern Wyoming excavated by Dr. D. H. Dunkle and A. C. 
MmTay; Eocene mammalian fossils from the Bridger Basin in western 
Wyoming collected by Dr. C. L. Gazin; Paleocene mammalian fossils 
found by Dr. C. L. Gazin and F. L. Pearce in the San Juan Basin of 
northwestern Utah; Permian and Mississippian invertebrate fossils 
obtained by Dr. G. A. Cooper and Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., in Texas 
and Oklahoma; Devonian, Mississippian, and Pennsylvanian fossils 
from New Mexico and Texas collected by A, L. Bowsher and 
WiUiam Allen; and Jurassic microfossils from Montana, Wyoming, 
and South Dakota obtained by Dr. A. R. Loebhch, Jr., and Dr. Ralph 
W. Imlay. 

PUBLICATIONS 

Thirty-one Museum publications were issued during the year: 1 
Annual Report, 3 in the Bulletin series, 25 in the Proceedings, and 2 
nmnbers of the Contributions from the United States National Her- 
barium. A list of these is given in the complete report on Smithsonian 
publications, appendix 12. Especially noteworthy are two numbers 
of A. C. Bent's Life Histories of North American Birds: one on the 
nuthatches, wrens, thrashers, and their allies, the other on the thrushes, 
kinglets, and their allies — completing 17 volumes in this popular 
series. The eighteenth is now in press. 

The distribution of volumes and separates to libraries and other 
institutions and to individuals aggregated 66,459 copies. 

866591—50 3 



24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION 

One important change in the organization of the United States 
National Museum was effected during the year. On August 16, 1948, 
the division of history was raised to the status of a department. 
Charles Carey, who received his first appointment to the Museum 
staff on November 2, 1920, was named acting head curator of the 
department of history. The functions of this department were allo- 
cated to five divisions — military history, naval history, civU history, 
numismatics, and phUately. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Remington Kellogg, Director. 

Dr. A. Wetmore, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 2 

REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

Sir: I have the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees, 
the twelfth annual report of the National Gallery of Art, for the fiscal 
year ended June 30, 1949. This report is made pursuant to the pro- 
visions of section 5 (d) of Public Resolution No. 14, Seventy-fifth 
Congress, first session, approved March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51). 

ORGANIZATION 

The statutory members of the Board of Trustees of the National 
Gallery of Art are the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secre- 
tary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution, ex officio. The five general trustees continu- 
ing in office during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1949, were Samuel H. 
Kress, Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Duncan Phillips, Chester Dale, and 
Paul Mellon. The Board of Trustees held its annual meeting on 
May 3, 1949. Samuel H. Kress was reelected President and Ferdi- 
nand Lammot Belin Vice President, to serve for the ensuing year. 
Donald D. Shepard continued to serve during the year as Advisor to 
the Board. 

All the executive oflicers of the Gallery continued in ofiice during 
the year: 

Huntington Cairns, Secretary-Treasurer. 

David E. Finley, Director. 

Harry A, McBride, Administrator. 

Huntington Cairns, General Counsel. 

John Walker, Chief Curator. 

MacgiU James, Assistant Director. 

The three standing committees of the Board, as constituted at the 
annual meeting May 3, 1949, were as follows: 

Executive Committee 

Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, Fred M. Vinson, Chairman. 

Samuel H. Kress, Vice Chairman. 

Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. Alexander Wetmore. 

Paul Mellon. 

25 



26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Finance Committee 

Secretary of the Treasury, ex officio, John W. Snyder, Chairman. 
Samuel H. Kress, Vice Chairman. 
Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 
Chester Dale. 
Paul Mellon. 

Acquisitions Committee 

Samuel H. Kress, Chairman. 

Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Vice Chairman. 

Duncan Phillips. 

Chester Dale. 

David E. Finley, ex officio. 

On June 30, 1949, the Government employees on the staff of the 
National Gallery of Art totaled 309, as compared with 312 employees 
as of June 30, 1948. The United States Civil Service regulations 
govern the appointment of employees paid from appropriated public 
funds. 

Throughout the year a high standard of operation has been main- 
tained by all departments of the Gallery in the protection of the 
Gallerj^'s collections of works of art and the maintenance of the 
Gallery building and grounds. 

APPROPRIATIONS 

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1949, the Congress of the United 
States appropriated for the National Gallery of Art the sum of 
$1,073,500 to be used for salaries and expenses in the operation and 
upkeep of the Gallery, the protection and care of works of art, and 
administrative and other expenses. This amount includes the regu- 
lar appropriation of $966,000, and a supplemental appropriation of 
$107,500. The supplemental appropriation was made to provide 
$4,600 to meet in part an increase in the rates for electric current, 
which could not be foreseen by the Galleiy and estimated for at the 
time the 1949 budget was submitted to the Congress; and the bal- 
ance of $102,900 was necessary to meet the pay mcreases, effective 
July 11, 1948, amounting to $330 per annum to each employee as 
authorized by Public Law 900, Eightieth Congress. 

From these appropriations the following expenditures and encum- 
brances were incurred : 

Personal services $940, 100. 00 

Printing and binding 6, 626. 95 

Supplies, equipment, etc 126, 739. 30 

Unobligated balance 33. 75 

Total _- 1, 073, 500. 00 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 27 

ATTENDANCE 

During the fiscal year 1949 there were 1,529,568 visitors to the 
Gallery, an average daily attendance of about 4,225. 

From March 17, 1941, the day on which the National Gallery of 
Art was first opened to the public, to June 30, 1949, there have been 
15,070,976 visitors to the Gallery. 

ACCESSIONS 

There were 1,174 accessions by the National Gallery of Art, as 
gifts, loans, or deposits, during the fiscal year. Most of the paintings 
and a number of the prints were placed on exhibition. 

PAINTINGS 

During the fiscal year the Board of Trustees of the National Gal- 
lery of Art received 10 paintings from the Estate of the late R. 
Horace Gallatin. The paintings are as follows: 

Artist Title 

Jean-Charles Cazin The Windmill. 

Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot River View. 

Charles-Francois Daubigny Landscape with Figures. 

Diaz de la Pena Forest Scene. 

Jules Dupre The Old Oak. 

Francesco Guardi The Rialto Bridge, Venice. 

Henri-Joseph Harpignies Landscape. 

School of Claude Lorrain Harbor at Sunset. 

Jean-Francois Millet The Bather. 

Theodore Rousseau Landscape with Boatman. 

A painting by Murillo, "The Return of the Prodigal Son," given 
by the Avalon Foundation, was accepted by the Board of Trustees 
on December 10, 1948. At the same time the Board accepted the 
portrait of Daniel Boardman, b}^ Ralph Earl, from Mrs. W. Murray 
Crane; "Interior of a Church," by Pieter Neefi's, from Senator Theo- 
dore Francis Green of Rhode Island; and two paintings, "Repose," 
by John Singer Sargent, and "Head of a Girl," b)^ James Abbott 
McNeill Whistler, from Curt H. Reisinger. On December 22, 1948, 
the Board of Trustees accepted from Dr. G. H. A. Clowes a painting, 
"Allegory," Venetian School about 1500, and from Vladimir Horo- 
witz a painting, "Head of a Young Girl," by Renoir. The Board 
of Trustees accepted from Miss Georgia O'Keeft'e on March 8, 1949, 
a gift of the following three paintings : 

Artist TitU 

Marsden Hartley Landscape No. 5. 

Arthur G. Dove Moth Dance. 

Georgia O'Keeflfe To be selected later. 



28 ANNUAL REPORT SIVnTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

During the fiscal year, the portrait of Captain Patrick Miller by 
Raeburn, previously on loan, was given to the Gallery by Mrs. 
Dwight Davis. 

SCULPTURE 

On December 10, 1948, the Board of Trustees accepted from 
Stanley Mortimer, Jr., a "Portrait Bust of a Member of the Order of 
San lago" attributed to Leone Leoni, which had previously been on 
loan to the Gallery. At the same time the Board accepted from 
Miss MUdred Howells a portrait medallion of her father, William 
Dean Howells, and herself, by Augustus Saint-Gaudens, to be held 
for a National Portrait Gallery. 

PRINTS AND DRAWINGS 

A gift from Lessing J. Rosenwald of 309 additional prints and 
drawings was accepted on December 10, 1948, to be added to the 
Lessing J. Rosenwald Collection. At the same time, two volumes of 
"The Georgics" of Virgil with 119 illustrations by Andre Dunoyer de 
Segonzac were accepted as a gift from the artist. This gift was 
inspired by an earlier gift to the Gallery of a collection of Segonzac's 
prints and drawings made in memory of the late Frank Crowninshield. 
The Board of Trustees, during the fiscal year, received 50 prints and 
drawings from the collection of the late R. Horace Gallatin. On 
March 8, 1949, the Board accepted from Miss Georgia O'Keeffe three 
water colors by John Marin entitled "Movement, Boat and Sea, 
Deer Isle, Maiae," "White Mountain Country, Summer," and 
"Storm over Taos, New Mexico." The Board of Trustees accepted 
from Mr. Rosenwald on May 3, 1949, 582 additional prints and draw- 
ings. Received during the fiscal year from George Matthew Adams 
were 20 etchings by Alphonse Legros. 

PHOTOGRAPHS 

The Board of Trustees on March 8, 1949, accepted from Miss 
Georgia O'Keeffe a key set of photographs, consisting of about 1,500 
prints, by Alfred Stieglitz. 

EXCHANGE OP WORKS OP ART 

During the fiscal year 1949 the Board accepted the offer of Chester 
Dale to exchange the portrait of Ralph Waldo Emerson by Sully, 
which was being held for the National Portrait Gallery, for the por- 
trait of the Sicard David Children by Sully, which was then on loan 
to the Gallery. The Board also accepted the offer of Lessing J. 
Rosenwald to exchange the prints "Sacrifice to Priapus," by Jacopo 
de Barbari, "Conversion of St. Paul," by Lucas van Leyden, and 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 29 

"Solomon Worshipping Idols," by the Master M. Z., for superior 
impressions of like prints now included in the Rosenwald Collection 
at the National Gallery of Art, 

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN 

During the fiscal year 1949 the following works of art were received 
on loan by the National Gallery of Art: 

From Artist 

Chester Dale, New York, N. Y.: 

Picador Domergue. 

Mrs. Philip Lydig Zuloaga. 

San Sepulveda Zuloaga. 

La Rubia del Abanico Zuloaga. 

Mrs. Brooks Goddard, Paris, France (via the 
National Collection of Fine Arts) : 

Musical Inspiration Romaine Brooks Goddard. 

The Balcony Romaine Brooks Goddard. 

Sketch Romaine Brooks Goddard. 

Self-Portrait _ Romaine Brooks Goddard. 

Alfred Stieglitz Collection: 

(Miss Georgia O'Keeflfe, New York, N. 
Y.) 

Chimneys and Water Tower Demuth. 

A Cow's Skull with Red O'KeeflFe. 

Line and Curve O'Keeflfe. 

Chauncey Stillman, New York, N. Y.: 

A Halberdier Pontormo. 

George Matthew Adams, New York, N. Y.: 

3 etchings Alphonse Legros. 

C. S. Gulbeukian, Lisbon, Portugal: 
28 pieces of Egyptian sculpture. 
3 pieces of eighteenth-century French fur- 
niture. 
1 fourteenth-century Arabian bottle. 
1 sixteenth-century Persian rug. 
7 eighteenth-century French books. 
The Italian Government: 

A marble statue of David __ Michelangelo. 

Robert Woods Bliss, Washington, D. C: 
32 objects of Pre-Columbian art. 

LOANED WORKS OF ART RETURNED 

The following works of art on loan were returned during the fiscal 
year 1949: 

To Artist 

Chester Dale, New York, N. Y. ; 

On the Beach. Winslow Homer. 

Mme. Charlotte Fuerstenberg, at New York, 
N. Y.: 
Sea at Estaque Cezanne. 



30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Anonymous loan: 

Paradise Valley John La Farge. 

Robert Woods Bliss, Washington, D. C: 

16 objects of Pre-Columbian art. 
Peabody Museum, Harvard University, Cam- 
bridge, Mass.: 

70 objects of Pre-Columbian art. 

WORKS OF ART LOANED 

During the fiscal year 1949, the Gallery loaned the following works 
of art for exhibition purposes : 

To Artist 

Albright Art Gallery, Buffalo, N. Y.: 

Joseph Widener Augustus John. 

Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, 111. : 

Alexander Hamilton Trumbull. 

William Thornton Stuart. 

Columbus Gallery of Fine Arts, Columbus, Ohio: 

Abraham Lincoln Healy. 

Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C: 

The White Girl Whistler. 

Dallas Museum of Fine Arts, Dallas, Tex.: 

George Washington (Vaughan-Sinclair) Stuart. 

Dayton Art Institute, Dayton, Ohio: 

Lackawanna Valley Inness. 

Fort Worth Art Association, Forth Worth, Tex.: 

Breezing Up Winslow Homer. 

Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, N. Y.: 

Captain Charles Stewart Sully. 

Pack Memorial Library, Asheville, N. C: 

Thomas Dawson Mather Brown. 

Henry Laurens Copley. 

Andrew Jackson Earl. 

Williamina Moore Feke. 

General William Moultrie Charles Willson Peale. 

John C. Calhoun Rembrandt Peale. 

John Baptista Ashe Stuart. 

Matilda Caroline Cruger Stuart. 

Francis Hopkinson Sully. 

Ann Biddle Hopkmson Sully. 

Josias AUston Theus. 

William Rogers Trumbull. 

Portraits, Inc., New York, N. Y.: 

Mrs. Chester Dale Bellows. 

Mr. Chester Dale Bellows. 

Scott and Fowles, New York, N. Y.: 

Joseph Widener Augustus John. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 31 

EXHIBITIONS 

During the fiscal year 1949 the following exhibitions were held at 
the National Gallery of Art: 

American Paintings from the Collection of the National Gallery of Art. Exhi- 
bition of American paintings, featuring a group of portraits from Pocahontas to 
General Eisenhower. Continued from previous fiscal year, through July 11, 1948. 

American Folk Art. Exhibition consisting of 104 water-color renderings from 
the Index of American Design. July 18 to September 7, 1948. 

American Graphic Art from the Eighteenth Century to the Present Day. 
Selection from the collections of the Library of Congress, the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, and the National Gallery of Art. September 19 to November 14, 1948. 

Paris the Favorable Climate. Exhibition of prints and drawings by Bonnard, 
Vuillard, Maurice Denis, Andre Dunoyer de Segonzac, and Matisse, arranged in 
memory of Frank Crowninshield. November 21, 1948, to January 11, 1949. 

Michelangelo's "David." Lent to the National Gallery of Art by the Italian 
Government. January 24 to June 28, 1949. 

Gulbenkian Collection of Egyptian Sculpture. Lent for an indefinite period to 
the National Gallery of Art by C. S. Gulbenkian. Opened January 30, 1949. 

Studies of Medieval Cathedrals. Exhibition of photographic studies lent to 
the National Gallery of Art by Clarence Ward, head of the Department of Fine 
Arts, Oberlin College. January 30 to February 13, 1949. 

Gulbenkian Collection of Eighteenth Century French Objects. Additions to 
earlier loan by C. S. Gulbenkian, on exhibition at the National Gallery of Art 
for an indefinite period. Opened February 20, 1949. 

American Paintings from the Collection of the National Gallery of Art. Feb- 
ruary 20 to April 10, 1949. 

Early Italian Engraving. Exhibition of early Italian engravings, lent to the 
National Gallery of Art by various museums and anonymous lenders. April 17 
to June 19, 1949. 

R. Horace Gallatin Collection. Exhibition of prints bequeathed to the National 
Gallery of Art by Mr. Gallatin. Opened June 26, 1949. 

The following exliibitions were displayed in the cafeteria corridor 
of the National Gallery of Art during the fiscal year 1949: 

Whistler Prints. Rosenwald Collection; one gift of Myron A. Hofer. Con- 
tinued from previous fiscal year through July 18, 1948. 

Audubon Prints. Mrs. Walter B. James Collection. July 20 to December 12, 
1948. 

Index of American Design. Water-color renderings of early American toys. 
December 13, 1948, to February 15, 1949. 

Index of American Design. Water-color renderings of early American furniture 
and textiles. February 16 to March 28, 1949. 

Legros Prints. George Matthew Adams Collection. March 29 to May 15, 
1949. 

Seymour Haden Prints. Rosenwald Collection and gift of Miss Elisabeth 
Achelis. May 16 to June 12, 1949. 

Ostade Prints. Rosenwald Collection and gift of Mrs. Addie Burr Clark. 
Opened June 13. 1949. 



32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 

TRAVELING EXHIBITIONS 

Rosenwald Collection.- — Special exhibitions of prints from the Rosen- 
wald Collection were circulated to the following places during the 
fiscal year 1949: 

Kenneth Taylor Galleries, Nantucket, Mass.: 

26 French prints. 

July 26 to August 23, 1948. 
Watkins Gallery, American University, Washington, D. C: 

26 French prints. 

October 13 to 30, 1948. 
Los Angeles County Museum, Los Angeles, Calif.: 

20 Blake prints. 

October 1948. 
Wyncote Woman's Club, Wyncote, Pa.: 

11 prints. 

October 17 to 23, 1948. 
Rutgers College, New Brunswick, N. J.: 

9 Italian prints. 

October 1948. 
Fogg Museum of Art, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.: 

1 Rembrandt drawing. 

November 1948. 
Museum of Modern Art, New York, N. Y.r 

I Munch print. 

November 1948 to January 1949. 
Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore, Md.: 

6 Gavarni drawings. 

January 22 to March 6, 1949. 
Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore, Md.: 

5 miniatures. 

January 27 to March 13, 1949. 
City Art Museum, St. Louis, Mo.: 

17 prints. 

March 1949. 
Institute of Contemporary Arts, Washington, D. C: 

II Klee prints. 

March 21 to April 22, 1949. 
Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pa.: 

3 Lehmbruck prints. 

May 1949. 
Art Gallery of Toronto, Toronto, Canada: 

67 prints. 

May 1949. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



33 



Index of American Design. — During the fiscal year 1949 exhibitions 
from this collection were shown at the following places: 

Stephens College, Columbia, Mo. 
Brown University, Providence, R. I. 
Fort Valley State College, Fort Valley, 

Ga. 
Washington College, Chestertown, Md. 
Everhart Museum, Scranton, Pa. 
Art Gallery, Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Florida Agricultural and Mechanical 

College, Tallahassee, Fla. 
Farnsworth Museum, Rockland, Maine. 
Tuskegee Institute, Tuskegee, Ala. 
Young Playways, Inc., Washington, 

D. C. 
Smith College, Northampton, Mass. 
Prairie View University, Prairie View, 

Tex. 
University of North Dakota, Grand 

Forks, N. Dak. 
American University, Washington, D. C. 
Rockford Art Association, Rockford, 111. 
Sweet Briar College, Sweet Briar, Va. 
Arkansas Agricultural, Mechanical and 

Normal College, Pine Bluff, Ark. 
Alfred University, Alfred, N. Y, 
Fisk University, Nashville, Tenn. 
St. Paul Public Library, St. Paul, Minn. 
Spelman College, Atlanta, Ga. 
Arnot Art Gallery, Ehnira, N. Y. 
Kenneth Taylor Galleries, Nantucket, 

Mass. 



Library of Congress, Washington, D. C. 
Western Reserve Historical Society, 

Cleveland, Ohio. 
Shaker Village Work Camp, Pittsfield, 

Mass. 
New York State Historical Association, 

Cooperstown, N. Y. 
Damariscotta Information Bureau, 

Damariscotta, Maine. 
University of Tennessee, Knoxville, 

Tenn. 
Wustum Museum of Fine Arts, Racine, 

Wis. 
City Art Museum, St. Louis, Mo. 
William Rockhill Nelson Gallery, Kan- 
sas City, Mo. 
Munson -Williams- Proctor Institute, 

Utica, N. Y. 
Toledo Museum of Art, Toledo, Ohio. 
Mint Museum, Charlotte, N. C. 
Museum of Fine Arts, Montgomery, Ala. 
Schenectady Museum, Schenectady. 

N. Y. 
University of Oklahoma, Norman, 

Okla. 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 

Mich. 
North Carolina College, Durham, N. C. 
Art Institute, Zanesville. Ohio. 
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga. 
Currier Gallery of Art, Manchester, 

N. H. 



CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES 

The Curatorial Department accessioned 1,118 new gifts to the 
Gallery during the fiscal year. Advice was given in the case of 233 
works of art brought to the Gallery for opinion, and 58 visits were 
made by members of the staff in connection with proffered works of art. 
Almost 1,000 research problems requiring reports were investigated 
in response to inquiries received by the Gallery. During the year, 
16 individual lectures were given by members of the curatorial staff, 
both at the Gallery and elsewhere. In addition Miss Elizabeth 
Mongan gave a seminar at Alverthorpe, Jenldntown, Pa., for Swarth- 



34 AisnsruAL report Smithsonian institution, 1949 

more College honor students; Charles Seymour, Jr., gave a course 
at Johns Hopkins University on Renaissance Art; and Charles M. 
Richards gave a survey course on art history under the auspices of 
the Department of Agriculture. Miss Mongan also made the 
arrangements for Arthur M. Hind's American lectm'e tour, in connec- 
tion with the publication of Part II of his "Early Italian Engraving," 
under Gallery auspices. Mr. Seymom- served on three and Miss 
Mongan on two art juries. 

Special installations were prepared for: the Michelangelo "David" 
lent to the National Gallery of Art through the courtesy of the 
Italian Government; 28 pieces of Egyptian sculpture lent to the 
Gallery by C. S. Gulbenkian placed on exhibition in January 1949; 
and eighteenth-century furniture and books also lent by Mr. Gulben- 
kian. The cataloging and filing of photographs in the George Martin 
Richter Archive continued to make progress, with the gradual 
enlargement of the collection. 

Further activities of the department are indicated under the 
heading of "Publications." 

RESTORATION AND REPAIR OF WORKS OF ART 

Necessary restoration and repair of works of art in the Gallery's 
collections were made by Stephen S. Pichetto, Consultant Restorer 
to the Gallery, until his death in January 1949. No successor to 
Mr. Pichetto has as yet been appointed, but necessary minor repairs 
on the works of art have been continued under the care of Mr. 
Pichetto's residual staff. All work was completed in the Restorer's 
studio in the Gallery, with the exception of the restoration of two 
paintings, work on which is being completed in the New York studio 
of S. S. Pichetto, Inc. 

publications 

During the year Mr. Cairns published two books, "The Limits 
of Art," Pantheon Books, Inc., and "Legal Philosophy from Plato 
to Hegel," Johns Hopkins Press. He also edited a volume entitled 
"Lectures in Criticism," Pantheon Books, Inc., and contributed an 
introduction to "Epicurus, My Master," by Max Radin, University 
of North Carolina Press. He also contributed articles and reviews 
to the Columbia Law Review, Human Events, Saturday Review 
of Literature, New York Herald Tribune, Baltimore Evening Sun, 
Law and Contemporary Problems, The Scientific Monthly, and to 
the volume El Actual Pensamiento Juridico de los Estados Unidos, 
Buenos Aires. 

A series of 12 articles on masterpieces in the Gallery, prefaced 
by one entitled "New Friends for Old blasters," is being published 
by John Walker in the Ladies Home Journal. An article by Mr. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 35 

Walker, "The Art of Duplicating Great Art," appeared in Vogue 
on August 15, 1948, and another, "American Masters in the National 
Gallery," in the National Geographic Magazine in September 1948. 
Mr, Walker also contributed two book reviews, the first reviewing 
Bernard Berenson's "Aesthetics and History in the Visual Arts" 
to the October 1948 Gazette des Beaux-Arts, and the second, entitled 
'The Philosophy of a Connoisseur," a review of Mr. Berenson's 
'Sketch for a Self -For trait," to the New York Times for April 24, 
1949. Charles Seymour, Jr., published two articles, "Note on the 
Relationship between an Illustration by Travies de Villers and 
Daumier's 'Le Fardeau'," in the Jom^nal of the Walters Gallery for 
1948, and in the Summer Bulletin of the Columbus Gallery of Fine 
Arts the text of the address given by him for the inauguration of a group 
of sculpture by Georg Ehrlich in the Columbus Gallery of Fine Arts. 
Printing of "Masterpieces of Sculp tm-e from the National Gallery 
of Art," a volume prepared by Mr. Seymour, was begun during the 
summer of 1949. Mrs. Fern R. Shapley has written two book reviews, 
a review of Bernard Berenson's "Aesthetics and History" which is 
to be published in the next number of the College Art Journal, and 
one on Evelyn Sandberg-Vavala's "Uffizi Studies" published in the 
January 1949 Gazette des Beaux-Ai'ts. Miss Elizabeth Mongan 
contributed six articles for the volume honoring Paul Sachs; an article 
for the Color Print Society on "Rockport," a colored lithograph 
by Stella Drabkin; descriptions of 27 illuminated miniatures to Pro- 
fessor Faye for the second edition of Seymour de Ricci's "Census 
of Manuscripts in America." An article on Rowlandson by David 
Keppel was published in the winter, 1949, number of The Art Quarterly. 
An article by James W. Lane entitled "Religious Art Exhibit" 
appeared in the Interracial Review, and one on "Contemporary 
Religious Sculpture Exhibition" in the Catholic University Bulletin; 
he contributed two book reviews on "Van Eyck's the Holy Lamb," 
by Leo Van Puyvelde, and "Robert Louis Stevenson," by David 
Daiches, to the Catholic World, and one on "American Landscape 
Painting," by Wolfgang Born, to the Magazine of Art. Charles M. 
Richards wrote a report on a code for intermuseum loans for the 
American Association of Museums. 

An illustrated catalog of the Gulbenkian Egyptian sculptm-e was 
issued for the opening of the exhibition, and Mr. Seymour prepared 
a pamphlet on the Michelangelo "David," which was placed on sale 
during its exhibition. The book of illustrations of the Mellon Collec- 
tion went to press in the late spring of 1949; work on the new National 
Gallery of Art catalog is at an advanced stage. 

The PubUcations Fund during the past fiscal year has continued to 
add new subjects to the supply of inexpensive color reproductions 



36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

offered to the public, including 11" x 14" color prints and color 
post cards. Five large collotype reproductions supplemented the 
already long list of subjects available. A silk-screen print of an 
anonymous fifteenth-century colored woodcut from the Rosenwald 
Collection was also published. 

The Gallery is continuing to meet the demand for illustrated 
catalogs of its various collections. The Mellon catalog is in process 
of publication, a third printing of the Kress catalog ordered, and a 
fifth edition of the Chester Dale catalog was published during the year. 

Two new publications were issued this year: an "Arts and Crafts 
Bibliography," by Erwin O. Christensen, and a catalog of the "Egyp- 
tian Sculpture from the Gulbenkian Collection." A group of engraved 
Christmas cards was added to the usual series of color and Rosenwald 
subjects. 

Final negotiations have been made for the printing in gravure of 
the book, "Masterpieces of Sculpture from the National Gallery of 
Art," and it will be available by October 1949; the publisher now 
has the final manuscript for "Made in America," by Mr. Christensen; 
the Gallery received a stock of "Popular Art in the United States," 
also by Mr. Christensen, which will go on sale on July 4, 1949; and 
"Pictures from America," by John Walker, will shortly be published. 

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM 

During the year approximately 15,000 persons attended the Gen- 
eral, Congressional, and Special Topic Tours, while over 20,000 
attended the Picture of the Week. More than 18,000 came to hear 
the lectures and other programs in the auditorium. At least two- 
thirds of this lecture audience were regular attendants at these 
Sunday afternoon lectures. Many of them brought out-of-town 
visitors, and stated that this lecture series was becoming one of the 
Capital's chief Sunday attractions. The motion picture, "The 
National Gallerj'- of Art," continues to be popular with clubs, educa- 
tional organizations, and similar groups. During the past 12 months, 
19 persons borrowed this film. 

The publication of the monthly Calendar of Events, announcing 
Gallery activities, including notices of exhibitions, lectures. Gallery 
talks, tours, and concerts was continued during the year by the 
Educational Department. About 3,900 of the Calendar of Events 
are mailed each month. 

LIBRARY 

A total of 283 books, 221 pamphlets, and 31 periodicals were given 
to the Gallery; 494 books, 18 pamphlets, and 282 periodicals were 
purchased, and 40 subscriptions to periodicals were purchased. 
Exchanges with other institutions included 47 books, 114 pamphlets, 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 37 

13 periodicals, and 420 bulletins. Of the 1,762 books borrowed and 
returned during the year, the Library of Congress lent 1,G76 books to 
the Gallery on the usual interlibrary loan basis, and the remaining 
86 books were borrowed from 25 public and university libraries. 

INDEX OF AMERICAN DESIGN 

During the year the Index of American Design continued to expand 
as the result of gifts and exchanges. Three hundred and thirty-six 
persons studied Index material at the Gallery; of this number, 301 
were new users and 25 revisited the collection for study purposes. 
The use of photographs of Index drawings was increased by about 
40 percent, with 1,796 photographs being sent out on loan, exchange, 
or purchase. Fifty exhibitions of original water-color renderings 
were circulated in 25 States. 

PRESIDENT Truman's inaugural reception 

On January 20, 1949, the President's Inaugural Reception was 
held in the National Gallery of Art. The Seventh Street ground 
floor and main floor lobbies were especially furnished and decorated 
for the occasion; the rotunda and the two garden courts were appro- 
priately decorated with flowers; under arrangements made by the 
White House staff, a platform was built in the West Sculpture Hall 
where the President addressed the guests who could not be received 
personally in the West Garden Court. Three sections of the Marine 
Band Orchestra played during the reception. The total number of 
guests was approximately 8,000. 

CUSTODY OF GERMAN PAINTINGS 

On April 6, 1949, the Gallery accepted custody of the 97 paintings 
from Berlin museums which had been on an exhibition torn- of the 
United States, part of the group of 202 German paintings stored in 
the Gallery building by the Department of the Army from December 
1945 to March 1948. After the last exhibition of this collection of 
paintings in Toledo, Ohio, the collection was brought to Washington 
and stored in the Gallery for about 2 weeks pending final shipping 
arrangements. On April 20, 1949, the collection was delivered to 
the Army for return to the American Zone in Germany. 

The exhibition of the Berlin paintings in 13 museums throughout 
the United States resulted in the collection of $303,605.35 thi-ough ad- 
mission fees and voluntary contributions for the relief of German 
children in the American Zone in Germany. These funds were de- 
posited with the Gallery and were later disbursed in accordance with 
instructions received from the Department of the Army. During the 
tour 1,307,001 persons viewed the paintings, in addition to 964,970 



38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 

who saw them during the time the paintings were on exhibition at the 
National Gallery of Art in Washington. 

CUSTODY OF GERMAN SILVER 

On January 7, 1949, the Gallery returned to the Department of the 
Army for transport to Germany the 44 sealed cases containing silver- 
ware and glassware and belonging to the Hohenzollern family. The 
cases had been stored in the Gallery since April 11, 1947. 

CUSTODY OF WHITE HOUSE FURNITURE 

On November 24, 1948, the Gallery accepted custody of certain 
items of paintings, sculpture, and furniture belonging to the White 
House for storage in the building until the repairs to the White House 
are completed. 

Shipments of these items started on December 3, 1948, and con- 
tinued for several days thereafter. At the present time there are 76 
works of art — paintings and sculpture — stored in the Gallery's storage 
rooms and 25 vanloads of furniture stored in the packing space on the 
main floor. 

The necessary arrangements for fire prevention, inspection, and 
fumigation have been estabUshed and are being carried out. 

NEW CONSTRUCTION 

During the past fiscal year, the Committee on the Building approved 
the construction in the southwest moat of a small workroom for the 
use of the gardening staff in maintaining and growing certain plants 
for the garden courts and landscaping. Later, when funds become 
available, it is planned to construct two small greenhouses adjacent 
to this workroom. 

The growth of the Gallery's collections of works of art has been so 
rapid that all available exhibition space is now being utilized. As a 
matter of fact there are already several paintings which cannot be ex- 
hibited because there is no space in the present galleries. For this 
reason the Committee on the Building recommended that, to take care 
of the most urgent needs, the unfinished spaces 61-66 and 68-70, on 
the main floor, be completed as soon as funds are available. These 
galleries will be used for new acquisitions of paintings in the American 
and British schools and will also make possible some rearrangement in 
galleries already finished so as to make available additional space 
therein. 

The Committee on the Building also recommended that the so-caUed 
copyists' room be finished to furnish ofiice space for the Educational 
Department, which is now operating in rather cramped quarters. 

Funds have been generously made available from private sources to 
complete this work, and contracts have been entered into with Eggers 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 39 

and Higgins, Architects, and Vermilya-Brown Company, General 
Contractors, for the completion of 12 galleries in these unfinished 
areas. The floor plan has been approved, and bids are now being taken 
from subcontractors. It is anticipated that actual construction will 
begin in August 1949 and that the work will be completed by May 1950. 

CARE AND MAINTENANCE OF THE BUILDING 

The usual routine work in connection with the care and maintenance 
of the building audits mechanical equipment was carried on throughout 
the year. 

The three older refrigeration compressors were completely dis- 
mantled and overhauled, including the purge compressors. Three 
chilled-water pumps, including the electric motors, were completely 
overhauled and reaUgned by the mechanical staff. Twelve supply 
fans were cleaned and repainted to protect them against corrosion. 
The structural steel base for the large 400-horsepower motor driving 
No. 2 Worthington refrigeration machine was strengthened in order 
that this large motor would remain in alignment. To correct serious 
leaks in two of these machines, the technical staff successfully made 
and installed the necessary parts. 

The cornice metal lining at the top of the exterior wall of the 
building developed leaks, and approximately 50 percent of the joints 
in the metal lining were cleaned and soldered. 

In connection with the Inaugural Reception, the technical staff 
installed floodlights on three sides of the building, assisted the person- 
nel of the U. S. Army Signal Corps in the installation of a loud-speaker 
system on the main floor, and installed extra electric lines and water 
lines for the use of the caterer. The maintenance staff erected exten- 
sive checking facilities for the proper care of wraps. 

Twelve new display cases were constructed by the staff for the 
Gulbenkian Exhibition. 

Care and improvement of the Gallery grounds and other miscella- 
neous work progressed satisfactorily. Potted plants, totaling 2,366, 
which were used for decoration in the two garden courts, were grown in 
the southwest moat. In addition, over 350 large pots of chrysanthe- 
mums were also grown in this moat area, and these plants provided 
the decoration for the two garden courts during the months of October 
and November. 

COMMITTEE OF EXPERT EXAMINERS 

During the year the United States Civil Service Commission's 
Committee of Expert Examiners, composed of staff members of the 
Gallery, aided in the drafting of standards for Civil Service positions in 
which a knowledge of the history of art is a basic requirement. The 

866591—50 4 



40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 49 

Committee also performed preliminary work in the preparation 
of the examination announcement for art positions which was dis- 
tributed by the Civil Service Commission with a closing date of 
April 19, 1949. From this examination registers of eligibles will be 
established for appointment to art positions in the Gallery and 
elsewhere in the Government. This will give the present incumbents, 
most of whom are serving indefinite war-time appointments, an 
opportunity to attain permanent status, and will also make available 
a greater number of qualified candidates, 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

Forty-six Sunday evening concerts were given during the fiscal 
year, all concerts being held in the East Garden Court. A Mozart 
Festival of six concerts was given in the autumn with the highest 
attendance rate for the season. The five Sunday evenings in May 
were devoted to the Gallery's annual American Music Festival. An 
estimated 50,000 persons attended these concerts. 

During the year the photographic laboratory of the Gallery made 
17,709 prints, 1,342 black-and-white slides, 1,005 color slides, 3,873 
negatives, in addition to infrared photographs, ultraviolet photographs, 
X-rays, and color separation negatives. 

A total of 3,500 copies of press releases, 128 special permits to copy 
paintings in the National Gallery of Art, and 117 special permits to 
photograph in the Gallery were issued during the year. 

OTHER GIFTS 

Gifts of books on art and related material were made to the Gallery 
library during the year by Paul Mellon and others. Gifts of money 
during the fiscal year 1949 were made by the Avalon Foundation and 
The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust, and a cash 
bequest was received from the Estate of the late William Nelson 
Cromwell. 

AUDIT OP PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY 

An audit of the private funds of the Gallery has been made for the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 1949, by Price Waterhouse & Co., public 
accountants, and the certificate of that company on its examination 
of the accounting records maintained for such funds will be forwarded 
to the Gallery. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Huntington Cairns, Secretary. 
The Secretary, 

Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 3 

REPORT ON THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi- 
ties of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended 
June 30, 1949. 

THE SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION 

The twenty-sixth annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commis- 
sion was held in the Regents' Room of the Smithsonian Building, on 
Tuesday, December 7, 1948, 

The members present were: Paul Manship, chairman; Alexander 
Wetmore, secretary (member, ex officio); George Hewitt Myers; 
George H. Edgell; Lloyd Goodrich; John Taylor Arms; Archibald G. 
Wenley, Gifford Beal, and Robert Woods Bliss, Thomas M. Beggs, 
Director of the National Collection of Fine Arts, and John E. Graf, 
Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, were also present. 

The Commission recommended the reelection of Archibald G. Wen- 
ley, David E. Finley, Eugene E. Speicher, and Paul Manship for the 
usual 4-year period. 

The following officers were reelected for the ensuing year: Paul Man- 
ship, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman; and Dr. Alexander 
Wetmore, secretary. 

The following were reelected members of the executive committee 
for the ensuing year: David E. Finley, chairman, Robert Woods Bliss, 
and Gilmore D. Clarke. Paul Manship, as chairman of the Commis- 
sion, and Dr. Alexander Wetmore, as secretary of the Commission, are 
ex officio members of the executive committee. 

The Secretary summarized the status of exhibition and storage of 
the art objects of the National Collection of Fine Arts which at present 
are housed in space intended for the natural history collections in the 
Natural History Building. A separate building for the art collections 
is included in the Smithsonian building program, but funds for the 
development of plans have not been made available. 

The following resolution, offered by Mr. Goodrich, was passed unan- 
imously : 

Resolved, That whereas the art collections in the custody of the National Collec- 
tion of Fine Arts are exhibited in an entirely inadequate manner, the Smithsonian 
Art Commission recommends that the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution 

41 



42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

take all action necessary to provide space and facilities necessary to the preserva- 
tion and proper exhibition of these art collections to the public. 

The formal meeting was adjourned at 11 :45 at which time the mem- 
bers assembled in the main hall of the Smithsonian Building to pass 
on the works of art which had been offered during the year. The fol- 
lowing action was taken: 

Accepted for the National Collection of Fine Arts 

Miniature, water color on ivory, Robert Broome, by an unknown artist, and a 
shell cameo. Gifts of Miss Helen Munroe. 

Painting, Tiger and Cub, ink and water color on paper, and scroll, ink on paper, 
by Mr. Whang, Jang Har. Gifts of the artist as a token of friendship and gratitude 
to the American people from the people of Korea through the Korean Commission 
in Washington. 

Miniature, water color on ivory, My Uncle Charles, by Albert Coifs. Gift of 
the artist. 

Oil, Portrait Group (Benjamin West, Frank W. and Henry T. C. Wilkin), by 
Frank W. Wilkin (1791-1842). Gift of Mrs. Mabel Wiles. 

Oil, Thomas Moran, by Howard Russell Butler, N. A. (1856-1934). Bequest 
of Miss Ruth Moran. A signed palette and brushes used by Thomas Moran, and 
a photogravure of the artist, were included in the bequest. 

Oil, A Reading, by Thomas W. Dewing, N. A. (1851-1938). Henry Ward 
Ranger bequest. 

Oil, Margery and Little Edmund, by Edmund C. Tarbell, N. A. (1862-1938). 
Henry Ward Ranger bequest. 

Accepted for the National Portrait Gallery 

Oil, George Washington Carver, by Betsy Graves Reyneau. Gift of the George 
Washington Carver Memorial Committee. 

Accepted for the Smithsonian Institution 

Water color on silk, Tiger, by Ih Dang (Mr. K im, Eun Ho). Gift of the artist 
through John R. Hodge, Lieutenant General, Un ited States Army, 

Oils, 44 portraits of World War II heroes, by Joseph Cummings Chase. Gift 
of the artist. Assigned to the Department of History February 17, 1949. 

DEPOSITS 

Oil, Portrait of Spencer FuUerton Baird, the second Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, by Henry Ulke (1821-1910). Purchased by the Smithsonian 
Institution and deposited August 6, 1948. 

Bronze, African Elephant Scenting Danger, by Eli Harvey. Accepted as a 
gift of the sculptor and deposited by the Smithsonian Institution December 9, 
1948. 

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND 

Two miniatures, water color on ivory, were acquired from the fund 
established through the bequest of the late Catherine Walden Myer, 
as follows: 

68. Henry A. Coit, by John Wood Dodge (1807-1893); from Edmund Bury, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 43 

69. Ebenezer Martin of Martin's Ferry, Ohio, attributed to Henry Inman 
(1801-1846); from Miss Alice L. Wood, Blowing Rock, N. C. 

LOANS ACCEPTED 

Tliree Nymphenburg figurines were lent by Miss Cornelia Morrison, 
Newton, N. C, on February 7, 1949. 

One miniature, water color on ivory, Portrait of Elsie Clough 
Street, by Gerald S. Haywood, was lent by Mrs. James Walter 
Rickey on February 15, 1949. 

One oil painting, Portrait of Sr. Benito Juarez, by Tom Lea, was 
lent by the State Department on February 18, 1949. 

Two oil paintings. Portrait of the Hon. Grizel Ross, by William 
Hogarth, and Portrait of Gen. Sii' Charles Ross, by George Romney, 
and one miniature, water color on ivory, Portrait of the 8th Baronet 
Sir Charles Ross, by E. C. Thomson, were lent by Lady Ross of 
Balnagown Castle, Ross-shire, Scotland, on April 4, 1949. 

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS 

A bronze bust of Abraham Lincoln, by Augustus Saint-Gaudens, 
lent by Mrs. Augustus Saint-Gaudens in 1912, was withdrawn August 
24, 1948, at the request of Homer Saint-Gaudens. 

Two oil paintings, Shoshone Falls, Idaho, and Spectres of the 
North, by Thomas Moran, lent by Miss Ruth B. Moran in 1923, were 
withdrawn October 6, 1948, by the executor of Miss Ad^oran's estate. 

An oil painting. The Nativity, by an unknown artist, lent by St, 
Paul's Church in 1945, was withdrawn February 9, 1949, by the owner. 

Nine miniatures painted by Mrs. E. D. Sparrow when she was 
Mary Hall, lent by the artist in 1929, were withdrawn April 25, 1949. 

LOANS TO OTHER MUSEUMS AND ORGANIZATIONS 

The original design for the painting in the Capitol Building, West- 
ward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way, by Emanuel Leutze, was 
lent to the Akron Art Institute August 17, 1948, to be included in the 
Freedom Train Exhibition at Akron, Ohio. (Returned October 5, 
1948.) 

An oil painting. Portrait of Admiral William Snowden Sims, by 
Irving Wiles, was lent to the Metropolitan Museum of Art for an 
exhibition held in conjunction with the United States Navy, entitled 
"Your Navy, Its Contribution to America from Colonial Days to 
World Leadership," held from October 25 through December 5, 1948. 
(Returned January 13, 1949.) 

An oil painting, Sunset, Navarro Ridge, California Coast, by Ralph 
Blakelock, was lent to The Brooklyn Museum, Brooklyn, N. Y., for an 
exhibition "The Coast and the Sea, A Survey of American Marine 



44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 49 

Painting," held from November 19, 1948, to January 16, 1949. 
(Retm-ned February 3, 1949.) 

Two oil paintings. Portrait of George Washington, attributed to 
William Winstanley, after Gilbert Stuart, and The Signing of the 
Treaty of Ghent, Christmas Eve, 1814, by Sir Amedee Forestier, 
were lent March 22, 1949, to the Department of State to be hung in 
the office of the Secretary of State. 

An oU paintLQg, Portrait of Andrew Jackson, by Rembrandt Peale, 
was lent to the Committee on Un-American Activities March 25, 
1949, to be hung in its committee room for an indefinite period. 

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND 

Since it is a provision of the Ranger bequest that the paintings pur- 
chased by the Council of the National Academy of Design from the 
fund provided by the Hemy Ward Ranger bequest, and assigned to 
American art institutions, may be claimed by the National Collection 
of Fine Arts during the 5-year period beginning 10 years after the 
death of the artist represented, seven paintings were recalled for action 
of the Smithsonian Art Commission at its meeting December 7, 1948. 

Two paintings, Usted earlier in this report, were accepted by the 
Commission to become permanent accessions. 

The following five paintings were returned to the institutions to 
which they were originally assigned, or reassigned, by the National 
Academy of Design as indicated. 

No. 3. Grey Day, by W. Granville-Smith, N. A. (1870-1938), assigned to the 
National Gallerj' of Art (now National Collection of Fine Arts). 

No. 48. The Prodigal Son, by Horatio N. Walker, N. A. (1858-1938), assigned 
to the Albright Art Gallery, Buffalo Fine Arts Academy, Delaware Park, Buffalo, 
N. Y. 

No. 56. Southaven Mill, by W. Granville-Smith, N. A., assigned to the Toledo 
Museum of Art, Toledo, Ohio. 

No. 63. Cypripedia, by Sergeant Kendall, N. A. (1869-1938), assigned to the 
California Palace of the Legion of Honor, San Francisco, Calif. 

No. 90. Summer, by W. L. Lathrop, N. A. (1859-1938), reassigned by the 
National Academy of Design to the Mary Washington College, University of 
Virginia, Fredericksburg, Va. 

The following paintings, purchased by the Council of the National 
Academy of Design in 1948, were assigned as follows: 

No. 120. Sunlight on the Waterfront, by Ferdinand E. Warren, N. A. 
(1899- ), to the Currier Gallery of Art, Manchester, N. H., May 13, 1949. 

No. 121. Village Green, by John Pike, N. A. (1911- ), to the Washington 
State Historical Society, Tacoma, Wash., March 15, 1949. 

No. 124. Lobstermen, by Andrew Winter, N. A. (1893- ), to the Mint 
Museum of Art, Inc., Charlotte, N. C, June 1, 1949. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 45 

THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS REFERENCE LIBRARY 

A total of 347 publications (219 volumes and 128 pamphlets) were 
accessioned, bringing the total National Collection of Fine Arts library 
accessions to 11,364. 

The most noteworthy gift this year was that of the Ferdinand Ferret 
Research Library of the Arts and their Affiliated Sciences, from Fer- 
dinand Ferret of Los Angeles, Calif. This library, a series of uniform 
portfolios, containing mounted reproductions of paintings and art 
objects, represents many years of work on the part of Mr. Ferret. 
The volumes on painters and sculptors are arranged by schools and 
alphabetically according to the names of the artists. 

PRESERVATION 

In addition to much necessary repair and renovation to the per- 
manent collections, portraits were cleaned, restored, and revarnished 
for the following departments: State Department — Secretaries of 
State John Hay and Elihu Foot, by unknown artists. Marine Corps, 
Department of the Navy — Generals Franldin Wharton and George 
Barnett, by L. H. Gebhard; George Elliott, by Richard N. Brooke; 
John A. Lejeune, by S. B. Baker; Archibald Henderson, by R. Le 
Grande Johnston, and John H. Russell, by Bjorn Egeli. United States 
Air Force — a minor correction was made to the uniform in the por- 
trait of Brig. Gen. R. E. Ramey. 

The portrait of Alvin C. York, by Joseph Cummings Chase, was 
cleaned for the Department of History, United States National 
Museum. 

INFORMATION SERVICE 

The requests for information of 1,422 visitors received special atten- 
tion, as did many similar requests by mail and phone; 332 art works 
were submitted for identification. 

The Director and Mr. Gardner, curator of ceramics, gave lectures 
on art topics during the year to a number of groups, including the 
District of Columbia Chapter of the American Association of Uni- 
versity Women, the art section of the Twentieth Century Club, a 
group of art students from the Washington Missionary College, 
Takoma Fark, Md., the American Association of Music and Fine 
Arts, and the District Chapter of the National League of American 
Fen Women. They also served as judges or as members of juries of 
selection and award for a number of exhibitions held in Washington. 

Fermission was given to four persons to copy art works in the 
collection. 



46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS 

In addition to the regularly scheduled temporary exhibitions listed 
below, the Community Chests of America and the Louisiana State 
Societj^ of Washington held special showings of paintings of timely 
interest in the lobby of the Natural History Building for short periods. 
The Federal Security Agency was assisted in a Memorial Day exhibi- 
tion of paintings by Leslie E. Lane under the sponsorship of the 
American Legion. 

August 7 through 29, 1948. — Exhibition of 94 portraits of Soldiers 
of Two "World Wars, by Joseph Cumniings Chase. 

Noiember 7 through 28, i^^S.— The Eleventh Metropolitan State 
Art Contest, held under the auspices of the District of Columbia 
Chapter, American Artist's Professional League assisted by the Entre 
Nous Club, consisting of 327 specimens of paintings, sculpture, prints, 
ceramics, and metalcraft. A catalog was privately printed. 

January 12 through 30, 1949. — Exhibition of Polish Alanual Arts, 
held under the patronage of His Excellency Jozef Winiewicz, Ambas- 
sador of Poland to the United States, and the auspices of The Ameri- 
can Federation of Arts, consisting of 131 pieces of tapestries, paintings 
on glass, and folk sculpture. A catalog was privately printed. 

February 6 through 27, 1949. — The Sixteenth Annual Exhibition of 
The Miniature Painters, Sculptors and Gravers Society of \\ ashington, 
D. C, consisting of 155 examples. A catalog was privately printed. 

A-pril 7 through 27, 1949. — The Twenty-fifth Annual Hoosier Salon 
held under the sponsorship of the Indiana State Society of Washing- 
ton, consisting of 196 paintings, prints, and sculpture. A catalog was 
privately printed. 

May 8 through SO, 1949. — The Fifty-third Annual Exhibition of the 
Washington Water Color Club, consisting of 135 paintings and prints. 
A catalog was privately printed. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Thomas M. Beggs, Director. 

Dr. A. Wetmore, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 4 

KEPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the twenty-ninth annual report 
on the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1949. 

THE COLLECTIONS 

Additions to the collections by purchase were as follows : 

BRONZE 

48.24. Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C, late). A quadruped; linear 

designs in countersunk relief; smooth gray-green patina with encrusta- 
tions of green; cracked in places, forelegs repaired. 0.118 x 0.204. 

48.25. Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C, late). A garment hook inlaid 

with silver and gold. 0.227 x 0.025. 

48.26. Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C, late). A garment hook inlaid 

with turquoise and gold; underside plated with silver. 0.212 x 0.017. 

49.4. Chinese, Northern Wei dynasty (A. D. 386-535). A figure standing on a 

lotus pedestal in a six-lobed dish; silvery-gray patina encrusted with 
malachite, azurite, and dirt adhesions; dish supported on three lugs. 
0.243 X 0.215. 

49.5. Chinese, Shang dynasty (1766-1122 B. C, late). A covered ceremonial 

vessel of the type hu decorated with casting in relief; smooth gray- 
green patina. (Illustrated.) 0.176 x 0.115. 

49.6. Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C, late). A garment hook with 

interlaced dragon design inlaid in gold on background of silver dots. 
0.123 X 0.060. 

GLASS 

48.14. Syrian (late 13th century). A beaker with fluted body and flaring lip; 
honey-colored glass decorated with colored enamels and gold. 0.295 x 
0.172. 

GOLD 

48.25. Syrian or Egyptian (10th- 11th century). A hinged armlet of hollow gold 
decorated with fine filigree work, kufic inscriptions, and settings for five 
stones (now missing). Width: 0.129. 



48.12. Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C, late). A flat ring of the type 

yuan carved with small whorl marks in low relief; pale greenish-gray 
nephrite, partly deteriorated. Diameter: 0.123. 

48.13. Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C, late). A garment hook deco- 

rated with incised linear patterns and carving in low relief; hook in form 
of animal head repaired; pale nephrite almost all deteriorated to cream 
color. 0.131x0.008. 

47 



48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 



LACQUER 

49.1. Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C, late). A shallow, oval ceremonial 

cup on a stand, wood covered with black lacquer with red designs out- 
side; black on red inside. 0.235 x 0.179. 

MANUSCRIPT 

48.9. Arabic, Egypt (14th-15th century). A leaf from a Koran; recto: illumi- 

nated with gold on blue and gold grounds, three white kufic inscriptions; 
verso: text in black naskhl in a decorative border. 0.332 x 0.245. 

49.2. Persian (16th century). A text of the Gulistan by Sa'dl written by 

Rajab b. Khair al-din . . . 153 folios, illuminated sarlawh, two 
Turkish miniatures; text in black nasta'llq with captions in blue, red, 
and gold; contemporary binding, new back and edges. 0.191 x 0.118. 

49.3. Persian (15th century). A text of Mihr and Mushtarl by 'Aij^ar written 

by Shaikh Murshid al-Katib in Shlraz, A. H. 882 (A. D. 1477); 223 
folios, illuminated 'unvan, three miniatures; text in black nasta'llq, 
chapter headings in gold on decorated ground; contemporary binding. 
0.201 x 0.122. 

MARBLE 

48.23. Chinese, Shang dynasty (1766-1122 B. C, late). An ornamental carving 
in high and low relief; slightly decomposed. 0.085 x 0.050. 

PAINTING 

48.8. Indian, Akbar period (1556-1605), Mughal. Noah's Ark; painted in 
colors and gold. 0.281 x 0.156. 

48.10. Chinese, Sung dynasty (960-1279, early). Portrait of Wang Huan; 

ink and color on silk; one inscription and two seals on painting. 0.393 
X 0.317. 

48.11. Chinese, Sung dynasty (960-1279, early). Portrait of Feng P'ing; ink 

and color on silk; one inscription and three seals on painting. (Illus- 
trated.) 0.399 X 0.327. 
48.15. Persian, Il-Khan period (14th century). Mongol. "Gushtasp killing 
the Dragon"; painted in colors and gold on paper; proto-nasia'Zig 
script, black for text and black and red for captions, fills upper three- 
quarters of page. 0.368 x 0.300. 

48.17. Turkish (mid-16th century). Chinoiserie: a lion, a ch'i-lin and a dragon 

amid floral sprays; ink, gold and slight color on paper. 0.175 x 0.285. 

48.18. Persian, Timurid period (first half, 15th century), Shiraz school. Timur's 

entry into Samarquand; leaf from a Zafar-nama painted in colors and 
gold; text in black naskhi, title in red. 0.259 x 0.132. 

48.19A. Indian (early 17th century) Mughal, school of Jahangir. A vulture, 
by Man^ur, in colors on paper on the recto of a leaf from an imperial 
album; verses and signature in nasta'llq amid floral rinceaux, wide 
border of gold foliage. (Illustrated.) 0.163 x 0.102. 

48.19B. Indian (early 17th century) Mughal, school of Jahangir. Jahangir 
standing on a globe shoots an arrow at the impaled head of his enemy 
Mahk 'Anbar, by Abu'l-Hasan (Nadir al-zaman); verso of the above 
leaf from an imperial album; gold and colors on paper, nasta'llq script. 
0.380 X 0.260. 

48.20. Indian (early 17th century) Mughal, school of Jahangir. Portrait of 
I'timad al-dawla by Balchand; ink and colors on paper; borders with 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 49 

verses in black nasta'liq and gold and polychrome floral designs; verso: 
poems and floral decoration. 0.381 x 0.259. 

48.21. Indian (early 17th century), Mughal, school of Jahanglr. A bee-eater, 

by Farrukh Beg, painted in colors on the verso of a leaf from an im- 
perial album; verses in nasta'liq and decorative borders. On the recto 
of this leaf, a painting of the same period and school shows a bowman, 
musician, and dervish, by Bichitr, in gold and colors, also with verses 
in nasta'liq and decorative borders. 0.384 x 0.263. 

48.22. Chinese, Ming dynasty (14th century). Landscape in the style of Wang 

MSng (d. 1385); ink on gray paper; two inscriptions and eight seals on 
painting. 0.855 x 0.397. 
48.28. Indian (early 17th century), Mughal, school of Jahanglr. Portrait of 
Jahangir, by Abu'l-Hasan (Nadir al-zaman) ; in colors and gold on 
paper; signature and three inscriptions. 0.388 x 0.257. 

STONE SCULPTURE 

48.16. Persian (dated A. H. 549, A. D. 1154-1155). A building inscription by 
Ahmad b. Muhammad b. Ahmad (Asid or Usaid), carved in a slab of 
alabasterlike stone in the form of a mihrab; covered with kufl and 
naskhl inscriptions. (Illustrated.) 0.925 x 0.676. 

The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of 
new accessions, of objects submitted for purchase, and to general re- 
search within the collections of Chinese, Japanese, Persian, Arabic, 
and Indian materials. Reports, oral or WTitten, were made upon 
2,563 objects and 372 photographs of objects submitted for examina- 
tion; and 369 Oriental language inscriptions were translated. Docent 
service and other lectures given by staff members are listed below. 

REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTIONS 

A total of 27 objects were cleaned, resurfaced, remounted, or re- 
paired as follows: 

American paintings cleaned and resurfaced 14 

Chinese paintings remounted 3 

Chinese pottery repaired 2 

Japanese paintings remounted 7 

Japanese pottery repaired 1 

The repair and restoration of the walls of the Peacock Room by 
James McNeill Whistler, mentioned in last year's report, were com- 
pleted on September 27 and the room was reopened to the public on 
October 4. It was closed again the first of the year and on January 
7, 1949, the work of repairing and restoring the ceiling was begun. 
This involves taking down the ceiling, lining each panel with canvas, 
treating it with moisture-proof wax, and mounting it on a heavy ply- 
wood backing. The painting on the wood is then cleaned with the 
utmost care, later repaint is removed, gilding and paint are renewed 
in areas from which they were gone altogether and the whole thing is 
resurfaced. The work is still in progress on a part-time basis by John 



50 AIsTNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

A. and Richard M. Finlayson of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, 
and the structural work is being done by the Gallery cabinet shop. 

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS 

Changes in exhibitions totaled 53, as follows: 

American paintings 25 

Peacock Room (temporarily closed) 1 

Chinese gilt bronze 2 

Chinese paintings 4 

Chinese pottery 5 

Japanese paintings 16 

This unusually small number of exhibition changes is accounted 
for by the lack of a painter in the Gallery. 

LIBRARY 

Dm-ing the year the following work was accomplished in the 
library: 

Accessions, including books, pamphlets, charts, rubbings, and study 
photographs, 753; cataloging of all kinds, including cards typed and 
filed, 4,448; binding, repairing, and mounting, 693. 

An inventory of the library holdings was completed, and statistics 
now show the number of books, pamphlets, and other items, rather 
than the number of titles. The periodicals, including museum publi- 
cations, were inventoried, revised, and alphabetically shelved in the 
periodical room. 

PUBLICATIONS 

The following new edition of a former title was pubhshed : Annotated 
OutUne of the History of Japanese Art, new issue, March 1949. 

Occasional Papers, vol, 1, No. 2: Paintings, Pastels, Drawings, 
Prints, and Copper Plates by and Attributed to American and Euro- 
pean Artists, together with a List of Original Whistleriana, in the 
Freer Gallery of Art, by Burns A. Stubbs, was pubUshed in August 
1948. 

REPRODUCTIONS 

During the year the photographic laboratory made 4,332 prints, 
713 glass negatives, 607 black-and-white sUdes and 269 color sHdes. 

ATTENDANCE 

The Gallery was open to the pubhc from 9:00 to 4:30 every day 
except Christmas Day. The total number of visitors to come in the 
main entrance was 74,846. The weekday total was 59,595, and 15,096 
visitors came on Sundays. The averages were: Weekdays, 198; Sun- 
days, 290. The highest monthly attendance was in August with 
8,300 and the lowest was in December with 2,622. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 51 

There were 1,724 visitors to the main ofEce during the year; the 
purpose of their visits was as follows: 

For general information 787 

To see staff members 91 

To read in the library 217 

To make sketches and tracings from library books 9 

To see buildings and installations 24 

To make photographs in court and sketches in exhibition galleries 74 

To examine, borrow, or purchase photographs and slides 333 

To submit objects for examination 378 

To see objects in storage 237 

Washington Mss 29 

Far Eastern paintings and textiles 48 

Near Eastern paintings and manuscripts 21 

Tibetan paintings 3 

American paintings 20 

Whistler prints 1 

Oriental pottery, jade, bronze, lacquer, and bamboo 96 

All sculpture 8 

Syrian and other glass 11 

SPECIAL VISITORS 

Two scholars made extended study visits to the Gallery during 
the year, as follows: 

Nov. 22, 1948- Jan. 26, 1949.. Mr. Shih-hsiang Wang, Curator of Paintings in 

the Palace Museum in Peiping, studied the 
construction and operation of the building as 
a whole and made a detailed study of the 
collection of Chinese paintings. 

Feb. 7-Mar. 4, 1949 Mr. Won-3'ong Kim, of the National Museum 

of Korea, studied the Gallery and the Far 
Eastern collections. 

DOCENT SERVICE AND OTHER STAFF ACTIVITIES 

By request 16 groups met in the exhibition galleries for instruction 
by staff members. Total attendance was 358. 

On invitation the follo"vving lectures were given outside the Gallery 
by staff members: 

1948 

Oct. 20 Mr. Pope lectured at the Denver Art 

Ptiuseum, Denver, Colo., on (1) "Pre- 
historic Pottery and Unglazed Wares of 
Shang, Chou and Han." (Illustrated.) 
Attendance, 150. 

Oct. 21 Mr. Pope lectured at Denver Art Museum, 

Denver, Colo., on (2) "Beginnings of 
Glaze and of Porcelain and their Develop- 
ment through the Ming Dynasty." (Illus- 
trated.) Attendance, 150. 



52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

1H8 

Oct. 22 Mr. Pope lectured at Denver Art Museum, 

Denver, Colo., on (3) "The Development 
of European Interest in Chinese Porcelain 
and the Final Refinements of Manu- 
facture at Ching-td Chen in the Ch'ing 
Dynasty." (Illustrated.) Attendance, 
150. 

Oct. 27 Mr. Pope lectured at Nelson Gallery of 

Art, Kansas City, Mo., on No. 3 (See 
Oct. 22 above). (Illustrated.) Attend- 
ance, 110. 

Oct. 28 Dr. Ettinghausen lectured before the Alex- 
andria Woman's Club, Alexandria, Va., 
on "Culture of the Near East." (Illus- 
trated.) Attendance, 80. 

Oct. 30 Mr. Pope lectured at City Art Museum, St. 

LouLs, Mo., on No. 3 (see Oct. 22 above). 
(Illustrated.) Attendance, 175. 

Nov. 4 Mr. Pope lectured at Kellogg Auditorium, 

Ann Arbor, Mich., on No. 3 (see Oct. 22 
above). (Illustrated.) Attendance, 175. 

Nov. 29 Mr. Pope lectured at Bradford Junior 

College, Bradford, Mass., on "Introduc- 
tion of Chinese Ceramics to Europe" to 
members of the faculty. (Illustrated.) 
Attendance, 25. 

191(9 

Jan. 6 Dr. Ettinghausen lectured at Arts Club of 

Washington, Washington, D. C, on 
"Biblical Subjects Seen through Persian 
Eyes." (Illustrated.) Attendance, 80, 

Jan. 27 Dr. Ettinghausen lectured at the Annual 

Meeting of the College Art Association, 
Oriental Section, in Baltimore, Md., on 
"A Near Eastern Motif in Far Eastern 
Garb." (Illustrated.) Attendance, 60. 

Feb. 12 Mr. Acker lectured at the Zen Institute of 

America, 124 East 65th Street, New York, 
N. Y., on "The Horyuji Wall Paintings 
Recently Destroyed by Fire." (Illus- 
trated by slides belonging to the Institute.) 
Attendance, 30. 

Feb. 14 Dr. Ettinghausen lectured at the Oriental 

Club of Princeton University, Princeton, 
N. J., on "Symbols and Religious Themes 
in Moslem Art." (Illustrated.) Attend- 
ance, 75. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 53 

Apr. 6__.^ Mr. Pope lectured at the Annual Meeting of 

the Far Eastern Association (Section on 
China: Art and Archaeology) on "Tech- 
nical Notes on Shang White Pottery." 
(Illustrated.) Attendance, 40. 

Members of the staff traveled outside of Washington for professional 
purposes as follows: 

19J^8 

July 6-7 Dr. Ettinghausen in Cincinnati, examined objects at 

Cincinnati Art Museum. 

Aug. 25-30 Mr. Stubbs in Chicago, attended convention of the Pho- 
tographers Association of America. 
1949 

Jan. 19-23 Mr. Pope in New York, examined objects belonging to 

museums and dealers. 

Jan. 27 Mr. Wenley, Mr. Pope, Dr. Ettinghausen, and Mr. Acker 

in Baltimore, attended the Oriental Section of the 
Annual Meeting of the College Art Association. Mr. 
Pope served as chairman of this section and Dr. Etting- 
hausen was among those reading papers. 

Jan. 28 Mr. Pope and Dr. Ettinghausen in Baltimore for second 

day of above meeting. 

Feb. 13-18 Mr. Wenley in New York, examined objects belonging to 

museums and dealers. 

Feb. 15-19 Dr. Ettinghausen in New York, examined objects belong- 
ing to museums and dealers. 

Mar. 31-Ai)r. 1 Mr. Wenley in Ann Arbor, conferred with officials of the 

University of Michigan in regard to cooperation with 
the University in its Oriental program. 

Apr. 5-8 Mr. Pope in New Haven, attended the joint Annual 

Meeting of the American Oriental Society and the Far 
Eastern Association; read a paper at one session of the 
FEA meeting. In Meriden, Conn., visited the Meriden 
Gravure Company to observe methods of collotype and 
offset printing. In New York, examined objects 
belonging to dealers. 

May 20-21 Mr. Pope in New York, attended preliminary dinner and 

organization meetings of the Far Eastern Ceramic 
Group and was elected first president of the Group. 
Examined objects belonging to museums, private 
collectors, and dealers. 

June 20 Dr. Ettinghausen in Ann Arbor, Mich., began teaching in 

University of Michigan summer session; one course on 
"Persian Art," one course on "Persian Painting." 



54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

HONORARY DUTIES 

Duiing the year, members of the staff undertook honorary duties 
outside the Institution as follows: 

Mr. Wenley: Appointed to the committee of expert examiners for the Smithsonian 
Institution by the Civil Service Commission. 
Appointed to serve on the nominating committee of the Far Eastern 

Association. 
Appointed as Honorary Curator of Oriental Art, Department of 

Fine Arts, University of Micliigan. 
Appointed to serve as a member of the visiting committee of 
Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Collection. 
Mr. Pope: Elected President of the Far Eastern Ceramic Group. 

Respectfully submitted. 

A. G. Wenley, Director, 
Dr. A. Wetmore, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



Secretary's Report, 1949 — Appcn lix 4 



PLATE 1 




+8. 19 A 




48.16 

RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART 



Secretary's Report, 1949. — Appendix 4 



PLATE 2 




4-8. U 




4r9.5 

Recent additions to the Collection of the Freer Gallery of Art 



APPENDIX 5 

REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the followmg Report on the field 
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of American 
Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1949, conducted in 
accordance with the Act of Congress of June 27, 1944, which provides 
"* * * for continuing ethnological researches among the Ameri- 
can Indians and the natives of Hawaii and the excavation and pres- 
ervation of archeologic remains. * * *" 

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES 

At the end of December Dr. M. W. Stirling, Director of the Bureau, 
left to continue the cooperative program of archeological work in 
Panamd of the National Geographic Society and the Smithsonian 
Institution. Excavations were conducted at Utive in the province of 
Panamd, at Barriles and Palo Santo in the province of Chiriqui, and 
at three sites midway between Santiago and Sond in the province of 
Veraguas. At Utive and Barriles heretofore undescribed ceramic 
cultures were encountered, while at the other sites much new informa- 
tion was obtained on the classic Chiriqui and Veraguas cultures. The 
expedition received splendid cooperation from Maj. Gen. Willis Hale, 
commanding general of the air forces of the Caribbean area, who, in 
addition to other assistance, allowed the use of two helicopters for 
reconnaissance work in the Utive-Chepo area. Dr. Stirling returned 
to Washington with the Panamanian collections in the middle of 
May. 

Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Associate Director of the Bureau 
and Director of the River Basin Surveys, devoted the greater part of 
his time during the fiscal year to the direction and administration of 
the River Basin Surveys. On November 4 and 5, Dr. Roberts 
attended the meetings of the American Philosophical Society at 
Philadelphia where he presented a paper on the River Basin Surveys 
program. From November 22 to 30, Dr. Roberts was at Lincoln, 
Nebr., inspecting the field headquarters for the Missouri Basin project. 
While at Lincoln he also took part in the Sixth Conference for Plains 
Archeology and presided over one of the symposia. During the year 
he also served as a member of the executive committee for the Divi- 

866591—50 5 55 



56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

sion of Anthi'opology and Psychology, National Research Council. 
Dr. Roberts' report of the work of the River Basin Surveys during 
the fiscal year appears in another section of this report. 

Dr. John P. Harrington, ethnologist, continued the revision of his 
grammar of the Maya language. Study of sources and the vast 
hterature on the subject shows that there were 10 linguistic stocks in 
southern Mexico and Central America that had Maya-style hiero- 
glyphic writing. The work also included revision of a previous paper 
on Maya hieroglyphs. 

A study incident to this Maya work was the determination of the 
origin of the word ''Maya." This word appears first in the letter written 
by Bartholomew Columbus in 1506 telHng of the fourth voyage of 
Columbus. The letter employs the spelling "Mayam" which is 
clearly derived from the native Maya name for Yucatan, Mayab. 

During the winter a paper was prepared on the names "Tiwa" and 
"Tewa," designations of two languages in New Mexico. Early in the 
spring Dr. Harrington prepared a series of six maps of America show- 
ing the meanings of State, province, and country names. 

On April 14 Dr. Harrington left Washington for Old Town, Maine, 
to pursue ethnological and linguistic studies on the Abnaki Indians. 
He was engaged in this project at the end of the fiscal year. 

Dr. Henry B. Collins left Washington in June for the Arctic, having 
been invited by the Canadian Government to conduct archeological 
excavations with the assistance of Colin Thacker of the National 
Museum of Canada at Frobisher Bay on Baffin Island, where Charles 
Francis Hall in 1868 had reported ancient Eskimo house ruins and 
where a large group of Eskimo now live. The Eskimo ruins were 
found — buried remains of semisubterranean houses made of stones, 
whale bones, and turf. Excavation showed that the site had been 
occupied successively by Eskimo of both the prehistoric Dorset and 
Thule cultures. Comparison with other prehistoric Eskimo sites 
indicated that the Dorset phase represented is one of the earliest of 
that culture known. The Thule phase, which followed the Dorset, is 
likewise early, showing close affinities with northern Alaska, its place 
of origin. In addition to the archeological v/ork, measm-ements were 
obtained and photographs taken of 80 adult Eskimo — 40 males and 
40 females — at Frobisher Bay. This was the first anthropometric 
study to be made of the present-day Baffin Island Eskimo. 

In Washington Dr. Collins continued as anthropological adviser for 
the Encyclopaedia Arctica, which Dr. Vilhjalmur Stefansson is pre- 
paring for the Office of Naval Research, Dr. Collins' term of office as 
Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Arctic Institute of North 
America terminated at the end of the calendar year 1948, but he con- 
tinued as chairman of the directing committee for the Institute's 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 57 

Bibliography of Arctic Literature and Roster of Arctic Specialists. 
In continuation of the archeological program begun in 1948 Dr. 
Collins left Washington in May to conduct excavations at Resolute 
Bay, Cornwallis Island, N. W. T., under the joint auspices of the 
Smithsonian Institution and the National Museum of Canada. 

From July 1 to September 10 Dr. Fen ton was engaged in field work 
among the Seneca Indians of western New York on a grant from the 
Viking Fund of New York City. Working at Quaker Bridge on Al- 
legany Indian Reservation, he obtained a life history of an aged Seneca 
named Chauncey Johnny John with whom Dr. Fenton has worked 
since 1933. Especially fine materials were collected on social organi- 
zation, kinship, and age grades. Twelve reels of recordings were 
made which included the entii-e ritual of the Seneca Dark Dance, the 
opening address and several long prayers belonging to the Green Corn 
Festival, the entire Women's Rite of Thanksgiving to the cultivated 
crops, and an origin legend for the False-face Society in Seneca and 
in English. 

The Fourth Conference on Iroquois Research, under the direction 
of Dr. Fenton, met at Red House, N. Y., October 8-10, to review out- 
standing accomplishments in Iroquoian studies in the fields of lin- 
guistics, ethnology, and archeology. The Proceedings of the Con- 
ference, edited b}?^ Dr. Fenton, were issued in mimeograph form by the 
Smithsonian Institution. 

The project of collecting materials for a political history of the Six 
Nations was reported in a general paper to the American Philosophical 
Society on November 4. The same research led to examining the 
Kirkland Papers in Hamilton College Library, and on December 1 
Dr. Fenton addressed the College on its founder: "Samuel Kii-kland: 
Observer, Negotiator, and Educator." A lecture was given to the 
Anthropology Club of Syracuse University, and manuscripts were 
examined in local libraries. Work continued in the manuscript col- 
lections of the New York Historical Society and at the New York 
Public Library. The Massachusetts Archives in the State House, 
the Essex Institute in Salem, and the Peabody Museum of Salem were 
visited in January. Three reels of the Pickering Papers were com- 
pleted and filed. Arrangements were made with Dr. C. M. Barbeau 
of the National Museum of Canada for obtaining microfilm of docu- 
ments in Canadian libraries for the American Philosophical Society 
Library. 

During the year Dr. Fenton served as a member of the Language 
Panel of the United States National Commission for UNESCO; he 
represented the Smithsonian at meetings of the Policy Board of the 
United States National Indian Institute, and in subsequent conferences 
at the State Department toward a Second Inter-American Confer- 



58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN rNSTITUTION, 194 9 

ence on Indian Life, for which he prepared a paper. He served as 
President of the Anthropological Society of Washiogton. 

Dr. Fenton published several papers on anthi'opological subjects in 
various journals during the year. 

The research activities of Dr. Gordon R. Willey, anthropologist, 
during the year were confined principally to study of data and mate- 
rials previously obtained in the field. They included the final prepa- 
ration of a monograph, "Archeology of the Florida Gulf Coast," a 
culmination of studies begun by the Bureau of American Ethnology 
as early as 1923, with Dr. Willey engaged on the project since 1940. 
The war and other duties interrupted the completion of the manuscript, 
but it is now in process of publication by the Smithsonian. Eight 
other manuscripts by Dr. Willey are in press or awaiting publication, 
and four additional manuscripts are in preparation: "Ancon-Supe: 
Formative Period Sites of Central Peru" (with J. M. Corbett and 
L. M. O'Neale) ; "Huari, an Important Site in the Central Peruvian 
Highlands" (with D. CoUier and J. H. Rowe); "Prehistoric Settle- 
ment Patterns in the Viru Valley, Peru," and "Archaeological Explora- 
tions in the Parita Zone, Panam^." 

Dr. Willey served in a consultative capacity for the period of final 
editing of volumes 5 and 6 of the Handbook of South American Indi- 
ans (Bureau Bulletin 143) and also assisted with certain administrative 
matters concerned with the Smithsonian River Basin Surveys. 

Dr. Willey participated in a series of round-table discussions under 
the leadership of Dr. A. L. Kroeber during the months October 
through February. These meetings, held at Columbia University, 
New York, were concerned with general discussions of anthropological 
method and theory. Throughout the je&r he served as assistant 
editor for the Handbook of Latin American Studies of the Library of 
Congress Hispanic Foundation. He also served as assistant editor of 
the journal American Antiquity, with reference to the South American 
area. 

From March through May Dr. Willey served as Smithsonian repre- 
sentative at several committee meetings of the State Department 
Committee for Scientific and Cultural Cooperation, and at an open 
meeting of the Caribbean Commission. 

SPECIAL RESEARCHES 

Miss Frances Densmore, collaborator of the Bureau, submitted to 
the Bureau a manuscript entitled "Musical Customs of the Indians of 
the Parana Delta and La Plata Littoral and the Gran Chaco." 

INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY 

The Institute of Social Anthropology was created in 1943 as an 
autonomous unit of the Biu-eau of American Ethnology to carry out 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 59 

cooperative training in anthropological teaching and research with 
the other American republics. During the past year it was financed 
by transfers from the Department of State totaling $97,900 from the 
appropriation "Cooperation with the American Republics, 1949." 
Long-range planning for the Institute became increasingly difficult 
during the year because of threatened budget reductions for the fiscal 
year of 1950. Otherwise, the Institute continued to function much 
as in previous years, and good work was done by all staff members. 
Principal activities were as follow: 

Washington office. — Dr. George M. Foster, Du-ector of the Institute 
of Social Anthropology, made a 3-weeks trip to Spain in November 
1948 to investigate the possibility of ethnographical field work in that 
country, with a view to throwing additional light on the development 
of the contemporary cultures of Hispanic America. In March 1949 
Dr. Foster made a second trip to Spain, serving as Smithsonian 
Institution delegate at the centennial celebration of the Royal 
Academy of Natural, Exact, and Physical Sciences of Madrid. Dr. 
Gordon R. Willey assumed direction of the Institute of Social Anthro- 
pology during Dr. Foster's absence. 

Upon the recommendation of the Director a grant-in-aid was ex- 
tended by the Department of State to bring Dr. Luis Duque G6mez, 
Director of the Institute Etnol6gico y Servicio de Arqueologia of 
Bogotd, Colombia, to the United States for a S-months period, Oc- 
tober 1948 to January 1949. An itinerary was arranged by Dr. 
Foster whereby Dr. Duque was able to visit the larger universities and 
antliropological centers in the United States both in the East and in 
the West. Also upon the recommendation of the Director, a like 
invitation was extended to Dr. Jose Cruxent, Director of the Museo de 
Ciencias Naturales in Caracas, Venezuela. Dr. Cruxent is expected 
to arrive in the United States in August 1949. 

Brazil. — Drs. Donald Pierson, sociologist, and Kalervo Oberg, social 
anthropologist, continued to give courses at the Escola Livre de 
Sociologia e Politica in Sao Paulo, Brazil. Dr. Pierson, assisted by 
students from the school, completed field work in the cahoclo com- 
munity of "A Vila" near Sao Paulo, and completed a manuscript 
describing this work. Dr. Pierson also served as official observer of 
the United States Government at the UNESCO Conference held in 
Montevideo, Uruguay, September 6-10, 1948, to consider ways and 
means of stimulating the development of science in Latin America. 
He was brought to the United States at the end of June 1949, for con- 
sultation on future plans for work in Brazil. Dr. Oberg spent July 
and part of August 1948 in field work among the Indians of the 
headwaters of the Xingu River. In June 1949 he left on a 3-months 
trip to the Paressi and Nambiquara groups, northwest of Cuiabd in 



60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Mato Grosso. On both of these trips he was accompanied by students 
from the Escola Livre. 

Colombia. — Dr. John H. Rowe retm-ned to the United States from 
Popay&,n, Colombia, in September to accept a permanent position at 
the University of California. Dr. Raymond E. Crist, professor of 
geography at the University of Maryland, was employed in February 
1949 on a temporary basis to replace Dr. Rowe, In the short time 
Dr. Crist has been in Popay^n he has given courses and lectures in the 
Universidad del Cauca, dealing with Iberian culture and its dissemina- 
tion in the New World, and with geographic methods and theories. 
He has made several short field trips to small communities near 
Popay^n, and has been host to the American Ambassador, Willard L. 
Beaulac, who, with his private party, flew from Bogota for the express 
purpose of becoming acquainted with the work of the Institute in 
Popaydn. 

Mexico. — Dr. Isabel KeUy, social anthropologist, continued to repre- 
sent the Institute at the Escuela Nacional de Antropologfa in Mexico 
City, giving anthropology courses and guiding independent research 
of students. A part of the spring of 1949 again was spent in the 
Totonac area, where final field notes on this group were taken, prepara- 
tory to writing a monograph describing the results of three seasons of 
work. Dr. Stanley Newman, linguist, resigned from the Institute 
in February 1949, to accept a position at the University of New 
Mexico. Up to this time be continued his teaching schedule at the 
Escuela. His research included investigations of the Otomi and 
Nahuatl Indian languages, and participation in the literacy campaign 
of the Mexican Government. A significant paper on the Otomi 
language was completed, and a major monograph on Nahuatl was 
undertaken. 

Peril. — Dr. Allan Holmberg resigned from the Institute in August 
1948 to accept a permanent position at Cornell University. He was 
immediately replaced by Dr. George Kubler, of Yale University, who 
arrived in Lima early in September. Dr. Kubler continued teaching 
projects in the Instituto de Estudios Etnol6gicos, and also gave a 
course in the University of San Marcos. He devoted much atten- 
tion to the social history of the colonial period in Peru, with particular 
emphasis on demography, and shifts in populations during this period. 
This work will to a considerable extent close the gap between the 
data of archeological studies in the Virii Valley in north Peru, made 
by Smithsonian and other scientists, and the contemporary studies 
made by Dr. Holmberg and teachers and students of the Instituto 
de Estudios Etnol6gicos, thus completing one of the longest sequences 
of culture history known from any part of the world. Dr. Kubler 
made a brief trip in March 1949 to Bogotd and Popaydn, to investigate 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 61 

documents in the Colombian capital dealing with demographic move- 
ments on the west coast of South America in colonial times, and to 
consult with Dr. Crist on Institute of Social Anthropology matters. 
In June 1949 he served as Adviser to the American Delegation at the 
Third Annual Interamerican Indian Congress, held in Cuzco. 

Publications. — Institute of Social Anthropology Publications Nos. 
8 and 9 appeared during the year and Nos. 10, 11, and 12 were in 
press. These are listed with the publications of the Bureau of Ameri- 
can Ethnology. 

RIVER BASIN SURVEYS 

The River Basin Surveys, organized in 1946 as a unit of the Bureau 
of American Ethnology to carry into effect a memorandum of under- 
standing between the Smithsonian Institution and the National 
Park Service providing for the salvage of archeological and paleon- 
tological materials that will be lost as a result of the nation-wide 
program for flood control, irrigation, hydroelectric, and navigation 
projects sponsored by the Federal Government, continued its opera- 
tions during the year. As in the past, the investigations were con- 
ducted in cooperation with the National Park Service and the Bureau 
of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior, the Corps of 
Engineers, Department of the Army, and a number of nongovern- 
mental local institutions. The work was financed by the transfer of 
$145,400 ($20,000 of which was appropriated in the 2d Deficiency 
Act and did not become available for actual use until the beginning 
of fiscal 1950) to the Smithsonian Institution by the National Park 
Service. The money comprising these funds was derived in part 
from the Bureau of Reclamation and in part from the National Park 
Service. 

Activities in the field consisted mainly of reconnaissance or surveys 
for the purpose of locating sites that will be involved in construction 
work or are so situated that eventually they will be inundated. There 
was a limited testing of sites to determine their nature and extent, 
where such was deemed essential, and at seven locations extended 
excavation or intensive testing was carried on. The surveys covered 
67 reservoir areas scattered throughout 8 river basins and 14 States. 
At the end of the year the total of the reservoir areas surveyed or 
where some digging has been done since the start of the program in 
July 1946 had reached 154 located in 21 States. During the course 
of the work 2,107 archeological sites have been recorded, and of that 
number 456 have been recommended for excavation or further testing. 
Thus far preliminary appraisal reports have been finished for all the 
reservoirs, and 97 have been mimeographed for distribution to the 
cooperating agencies. Where several reservoirs form a unit in a single 



62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN ESTSTITUTION, 1949 

drainage subbasin the information on all is included in a single report, 
so that the 97 mimeographed pamphlets contain information on some 
130 of the reservoir projects. In addition to the archeological papers, 
one comprehensive report on the paleontological problems in the 
Missouri Basin was also issued. More detailed technical reports 
completed for a number of projects have appeared in scientific journals 
or are awaiting publication. 

The distribution by States of all the reservoirs investigated, as of 
the close of the fiscal year, is as follows: California, 16; Colorado, 23; 
Georgia, 2; Idaho, 9; Illinois, 2; Iowa, 3; Kansas, 6; Minnesota, 1; 
Montana, 5; Nebraska, 16; New Mexico, 1; North Dakota, 13; 
Oklahoma, 5; Oregon, 12; South Dakota, 9; Tennessee, 1; Texas, 
10; Virginia, 1 ; Washington, 9; West Virginia, 2; Wyoming, 8. Exca- 
vations completed during the year were: Colorado, 1; Nebraska, 1; 
North Dakota, 1; Oklahoma, 1; Oregon, 1; Washington, 1. In a 
number of cases the digging was started in the previous fiscal year 
and continued over into fiscal 1949. Other States where excavations 
were made in prior years are: Kansas, 1; New Mexico, 1; Texas, 1; 
and Wyoming, 1. 

As has been the case since the start of the River Basin Surveys 
program, staff men in the field received full cooperation from repre- 
sentatives of the National Park Service, the Bureau of Reclamation, 
the Corps of Engineers, and various State agencies. Temporary 
ofiice and laboratory space was provided at some of the projects, 
transportation and guides were furnished at others, and in several 
instances labor and mechanical equipment made available by the 
construction agency materially increased excavation operations. 
Had it not been for this assistance it would not have been possible to 
accomplish all that was done during the year. The National Park 
Service was primarily responsible for obtaining the funds which sup- 
ported the progi-am and continued to serve as the liaison between the 
Smithsonian Institution and the other governmental agencies, both 
in Washington and tlu-ough its several regional offices. The untiring 
efforts of Park Service personnel played a large part in furthering the 
progress of the program as a whole. 

The main office in Washington had general direction and super- 
vision over the work in Oklahoma, Texas, Minnesota, North Dakota 
(in the drainage of the Red River of the North), Iowa, Illinois, Colo- 
rado (outside of the Missouri Basin), and California. In the Missouri 
Basin, direction of the program was from a field headquarters at Lin- 
coln, Nebr,, where aU the materials collected by the survey and exca- 
vation parties were also processed. Activities in the Columbia Basin 
were supervised from a field office located at Eugene, Oreg. 

Washington office. — Throughout the fiscal year the main head- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 63 

quarters of the River Basin Surveys continued under the direction of 
Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. Carl F. Miller, Joseph R. Caldwell, 
and Ralph S. Solecki, archeologists, were based on that office, although 
Caldwell and Solecki did not work full time for the Surveys. 

Richard P. Wheeler was appointed archeologist on the staff on 
August 27, and from that date until May 16 functioned under the 
direction of the Washington office, although all his work was done in 
the field. On May 16 he was transferred to the Missouri Basin 
and from then until the close of the year was based on the Lincoln 
headquarters. 

Mr. Miller spent most of the year in the ofiice preparing reports 
based upon material gathered in the field during the previous year, 
and assisting the Director in reviewing the hterature pertaining to 
archeological manifestations occurring in areas where additional reser- 
voir projects are proposed. His "Appraisal of the Archeological 
Resources of the Clark Hill Reservoir Area, South CaroUna and Geor- 
gia" was completed and mimeographed for distribution in December. 
Another article, *' Early Cultural Manifestations Exposed by the 
Archeological Siu-vey of the Buggs Island Reservoir in Southern 
Virginia and Northern North Carolina," was pubhshed in the Journal 
of the Washington Academy of Sciences, vol. 38, No. 2, December 

1948. A paper based on information obtained during the survey of 
the Clark Hill Reservoir, "The Lake Spring Site, Columbia County, 
Georgia," was to appear in American Antiquity, vol. 15, No. 1, July 

1949. Several others have been accepted for pubhcation elsewhere. 
Mr. Miller made two trips to Clarksville, Va., in the late winter and 
early spring, the first for the purpose of investigating unauthorized 
pot-hunting activities in the Buggs Island Reservoir area, and the 
second to speak before the Archeological Society of Virginia on the 
problems of the Buggs Island archeological program. He also went 
to Richmond, Va., where he spent 2 days at the Valentine Museum 
examining manuscripts and other documentary materials pertaining 
to early explorations and surveys in Virginia, northern North Carolina, 
and eastern West Virginia in an effort to obtain further data bearing 
on the aboriginal history of the Buggs Island area. 

In July and early August Mr. Caldwell collaborated with Mr. Miller 
m working over the materials collected during the Clark Hill Reservoir 
survey. During that period he prepared a paper, "The Rembert 
Mounds, Elbert County, Georgia," based on new information obtained 
at Clark Hill. Another article, "Palachacolas Town, Hampton 
County, South Carolina," was printed in the Journal of the Washington 
Academy of Sciences, vol. 38, No. 10, October 15, 1948. On August 
19 Mr. Caldwell joined Dr. Robert E. Bell, of the University of Okla- 
homa, at Wagoner, Okla., and began the excavation of a large mound 



64 AOTfUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

at the Norman Site in the Fort Gibson Reservoir basin. That work 
continued until September 22. Mr. Caldwell returned to Washington 
on September 25 and on October 3 was granted leave of absence to 
join an expedition of the Universities of Chicago and Pennsylvania in 
Iraq and Iran. He returned to duty on the staff of the River Basin 
Surveys June 26, 1949, and began work on materials from the Alla- 
toona Reservoir basin in Georgia. 

Ralph S. Solecki devoted the summer and fall months to the prepara- 
tion of reports on his work at the Bluestone and West Fork projects in 
West Virginia. The Bluestone paper was mimeographed and dis- 
tributed in December and that for the West Fork in March. Mr. 
Solecki also prepared a detailed article, "An Archeological Survey of 
Two River Basins in West Virginia," which was published in West 
Virginia History, vol. 10, Nos. 3 and 4. In December he was tempo- 
rarily transferred to the regular staff of the Bureau of American 
Ethnology and was sent to Natrium, W. Va., to excavate a mound on 
the property of the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. The latter organiza- 
tion planned to level the mound to make room for new buildings and 
in order that nothing of value might be destroyed made arrangements 
with the Bureau to have it done properly, providing the necessary 
labor for the project. Mr. Solecki returned to the River Basin Sur- 
veys on January 12. In following months he continued to work on 
the material from West Virginia and on May 8 was transferred to the 
Smithsonian Institution staff so that he could accompany a party of 
the United States Geological Survey to Alaska for an archeological 
reconnaissance along the upper Kukpowruk and Kokolik Rivers in 
northern Alaska. At the close of the fiscal year he reported having 
located some 50 late Eskimo sites. 

Californm. — Investigations in California were not as extensive as in 
previous years and were limited to three reservoir projects. In 
October David A. Frederickson and Albert Mohr, field assistants of 
the River Basin Surveys, working under the general supervision of 
Francis A. RiddeU, assistant archeologist of the California Archeologi- 
cal Survey, University of California, and in cooperation with the latter 
organization, examined the areas to be flooded by the Black Butte, 
Farmington, and New Melones Reservoirs, all Corps of Engineers 
projects. 

The Black Butte Dam is to be built in Stony Creek, and the basin 
it will flood lies in Glenn and Tehama Counties, a region formerly 
occupied by the Wintun. The survey located 26 sites in the area and 
it is believed that excavations in a number of them would provide a 
reasonably accurate and balanced picture of the material culture of the 
Indians who lived there. 

The Farmington Dam is planned for Littlejohn Creek, and the 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 65 

reservoir formed by it will inundate areas in both San Joaquin and 
Stanislaus Counties. It would seem that in aboriginal times that 
section was more suitable for occupation than it has been in recent 
years because 24 sites were found there. Most of them are of the 
surface variety, indicating seasonal occupation, but some have cultural 
deposits with artifacts, bone, and shell occurring in some abundance. 
All the artifacts are alike, both in types and material, and are of 
particular interest because they consist in the main of crude core tools, 
cores, and flake tools, with only a few blade fragments and no arrow- 
heads. The material from which they were made occurs in the local 
stream beds in the form of cobbles. Excavations in a number of the 
sites are recommended for the purpose of obtaining information both 
as to their probable position in the chronological sequence of the area 
and as to their relationships. 

The New Melones Reservoir will fill a deep and narrow valley 
formed by the Stanislaus River in Calaveras and Tuolumne Counties. 
The area is one in which there was considerable mining activity at 
one time, and there is an existing reservoir which has modified the 
surface of the ground to some degree. Consequently only four sites 
were noted, despite the fact that the Northern Miwok once inhabited 
the region, and no further archeological activities were recommended. 

Colorado. — Because of the physiographic character of the area in- 
cluded within the political boundaries of Colorado the numerous 
projects there occur within the limits of several drainage systems. 
Consequently some of the archeological investigations have been 
conducted as a part of the Missouri Basin program, while others 
have been carried on as separate units of the Surveys as a whole. 
Only the latter are discussed in this section of the report. 

At the start of the fiscal year Donald Eastman and Gary L. Yundt, 
field assistants, were continuing reconnaissance of the area involved 
in the Taylor Lake Enlargement of the Gunnison-Arkansas project. 
They completed this work on July 7, after having located only two 
sites that will be covered by the waters of the larger lake resulting 
from the construction of a new dam. The sites apparently were 
former camps and only surface material was present. The latter, 
however, is crude in character and suggests a much earlier cultural 
horizon than that of the late nomads. Neither of the sites showed 
sufficient depth to warrant excavation, and no further work is recom- 
mended for that project. From Taylor Lake, Eastman and Yundt 
proceeded to the Cimarron Damsite located on the Gunnison River 
just below the confluence of the latter and the Cimarron. The area 
to be flooded by this project had previously been surveyed in part 
by the Chipeta Chapter of the Colorado Archeological Society, 
Montrose, which made it possible for the Survey men to complete 



66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 

their work by July 17. All the sites located, eight in number, indi- 
cate that they were camping places, and the surface materials col- 
lected from them are typical of the late nomadic Indians of the 
region. Similar sites are abundant outside of the basin of the pro- 
posed reservoir, hence no further investigatioES are needed there. 
Eastman and Yundt returned to Gunnison, Colo., from the Cimarron 
project and, having completed their reports, resigned from the River 
Basin Surveys on July 23. During the course of their investigations 
they worked under the general direction and supervision of Dr. C. T. 
Hurst of Western State College, Gunnison, who had cooperated with 
the River Basin Surveys on a number of previous surveys. 

Arnold M. Withers, archeologist, completed reconnaissance of nine 
proposed reservoir areas in the Blue-South Platte project, which he 
had started toward the end of the previous year, and examined six of 
those in the Gunnison-Arkansas project east of the Rocky Mountains. 
All the proposed reservoirs of the Blue-South Platte project. Two 
Forks, Shawnee, Blue, Snake, Tenmile, Ruedi, Pando, Piney, and 
Empire, are located in the high mountain valleys of the Colorado 
Rockies at altitudes ranging from 8,000 to 10,000 feet above sea level. 
They will be situated in Douglas, Park, Summit, Eagle, Pitkin, and 
Clear Creek Counties. Only six definite archeological sites were 
found in the nine reservoir areas, although further surveys are recom- 
mended for the Snake and the upper part of the Two Forks, and they 
appear to have been temporary camps occupied by a people engaged 
in hunting and gathering wild food products. At none of them are 
the deposits of sufficient depth to warrant excavation. The materials 
collected from the surface suggest that the sites are prehistoric, al- 
though they have no great age, and that they probably are attributable 
to Ute Indians. 

The six proposed reservoirs of the Gunnison-Arkansas project, the 
Graneros, Cedarwood, Ben Butler, Pueblo, Higbee or Purgatoire, and 
Horse Creek, are in the broken country of the High Plains along the 
Arkansas or its tributaries in Pueblo, Huerfano, Otero, and Bent 
Counties, Colo. The rapid survey of the area by Withers produced 
a total of only 13 sites for the project. They consist of rock shelters 
and open camps. At a number of the latter, tipi rings were noted. 
Although the small number of sites indicates that the area was sparsely 
populated, the character of the materials collected from them suggests 
that a long period of time is represented. Testing is recommended 
for some of the rock shelters and two of the stone-circle sites, but none 
appears to be worthy of complete excavation. A more intensive in- 
vestigation of the Pueblo and Purgatoire reservoir basins is indicated 
if the projects are authorized and construction work is started. 
Withers completed his work and left the Surveys on August 14. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 67 

During the investigations he was provided with a base of operations 
by the University of Denver. 

Prehminary reconnaissance of the eight reservoirs included in the 
Colorado-Big Thompson project by the University of Colorado was 
completed in the autumn of 1947. In accordance with recommenda- 
tions made at that time, the River Basin Surveys arranged for a more 
intensive survey and the testing of some sites in the Granby Reservoir 
on the Colorado River in Grand County. That work was carried out 
during August and September by Robert F. Burgh, field assistant, 
who was on leave of absence from the University of Colorado Museum, 
aided by William Woodard and Byron W. Houseknecht, student 
assistants. Only four sites were located in the area to be flooded, and 
two of those showed only surface traces of stone chips and a few im- 
plements. Another consisted of stone circles, presumably tipi rings, 
but yielded no artifacts. The fourth was a camp site located on the 
west side of the basin on a terrace adjacent to Stillwater Creek. 
Trenching of the site produced a variety of cultural remains consisting 
of hearths, potsherds, stone projectile points, stone scrapers, manos, 
metate fragments, and animal bones. No traces of house remains 
were found, and the occurrence of fireplaces at varying depths below 
the surface suggests that there were repeated but casual occupations 
of the terrace during successive seasons without any permanent habi- 
tation. Potsherds from the site were of two kinds, cord-marked and 
corrugated. The cord-marked is from a cooldng ware of Woodland 
type, while the corrugated undoubtedly came from the Northern 
Periphery of the Southwest. The pottery indicates that the site 
probably dates between A. D. 900 and 1300. The bulk of the material 
obtained there shows that the affiliations were clearly with the pre- 
historic Plains cultures, particularly those responsible for the camp 
sites along the foothills in northeastern Colorado. 

Conclusions, based on the results of the work in that area, are that 
no further investigations are warranted in the Colorado-Big Thomp- 
son project unless construction operations accidentally uncover un- 
suspected remains. West of the Continental Divide there are no 
sites as good as the one examined in the Granby Reservoir, while east 
of it there are numerous examples outside the reservoir basins which 
not only appear to have the same cultural identity as those within 
them but to offer greater promise. 

Columbia Basin. — Work in the Columbia Basin was based on the 
field headquarters at Eugene, Oreg., where office and laboratory space 
was provided by the University of Oregon. Dr. Philip Drucker, on 
detail from the Bureau of American Ethnology, continued to direct 
the program until October 1 when he returned to Washington and his 
regular duties prior to being granted military leave beginning October 



68 ANNUAL REPORT SJVnTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

22. After Dr. Drucker's departure from Eugene, Homer Douglas 
Osborne, archeologist, was appointed acting field director and placed 
in charge of the office there. He continued in that capacity through- 
out the remainder of the year. 

From July to early September, two parties consisting of two men 
each, were engaged in the investigation of reservoir areas in the 
Columbia Basin. During that time they explored 15 reservoir basins, 
6 of which are Corps of Engineers projects, and 9 of which are projects 
of the Bureau of Reclamation. The Corps of Engineers projects in- 
clude the 4 navigational reservoirs on the lower Snake River in Wash- 
ington, Ice Harbor, Lower Monumental, Little Goose, and Lower 
Granite. In addition Lucky Peak Reservoir basin in Idaho was 
examined, and the results of the survey of Chief Joseph (Foster Creek) 
Reservoir in east-central Washington initiated some years ago by the 
University of Washington were checked and the survey was com- 
pleted. The work done in Bureau of Reclamation reservoirs involved 
the examination of sites in the Deschutes project, Benham Falls and 
Prineville Reservoirs, and checks of the proposed enlargement of 
Wickiup and Crane Prairie Reservoirs. In addition a series of small 
reservoirs in eastern Oregon and central Idaho were surveyed. They 
were: Mason, Ryan Creek, and Bully Creek in northeastern Oregon; 
and Lost Valley Enlargement and Horse Flat Reservoirs in Idaho. 
Within the boundaries of those 15 reservoir basins a total of 128 
archeological sites were found and recorded. 

Excavation projects were carried out in the McNary Reservoir 
area, Oregon-Washington, and in the O'Sullivan (Potholes) Reservoir, 
Washington. The work at McNary was a cooperative undertaking 
between the River Basin Surveys and the University of Oregon, while 
that at O'Sullivan was a joint venture between the Surveys and the 
University of Washington. 

Investigations at McNary were carried on from August 5 to Sep- 
tember 11 under the direction of Homer Douglas Osborne. The 
digging was done by students from various west coast universities. 
Extensive tests were made in two sites on Berrian Island, Wash., 
which had been designated as a source of aggregate for dam construc- 
tion, and at an important one on the Oregon side of the river. In 
addition to previously unknown information about local Indian vil- 
lage and house patterns, the excavations produced 48 burials and 
1,870 artifacts. The skeletal material provides one of the largest 
series thus far available for study and should thi-ow considerable light 
on the physical characteristics and relationships of the people. The 
artifacts will give a good cross section of the material culture prevail- 
ing at the time of first contact with European influence. 

The O'Sullivan project was well under way at the start of the fiscal 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 69 

year and continued until August 19. Richard D. Daugherty, arche- 
ologist, was in charge of the party, which consisted of students from 
the University of Washington, The scene of operations was a village 
site located on the shores of Moses Lake, an area which will be in- 
undated when the dam is completed. Three house-pit depressions and 
the terrain immediately surrounding them were carefully examined. 
Good data were obtained on the form and construction of the houses, 
and the series of artifacts recovered during the digging will aid in 
determining the cultural status of the people. The absence of all 
European objects indicates that the site antedates the period of 
exploration and early trading posts. The results at O'Sullivan, in 
general, indicate that more intensive work should be done there. 

Special mention should be made of the excellent cooperation on the 
part of other governmental agencies. The National Park Service, 
through the Region Four office at San Francisco and the Columbia 
Basin Recreational Survey office at Portland furnished the Eugene 
office with current information on reservoir priorities, construction 
schedules, and field maps. The Bureau of Reclamation, through the 
Region One office in Boise, Idaho, not only supplied maps of reservoir 
areas and information on their projects, but greatly facilitated the 
archeological investigations by placing vehicles at the disposal of the 
survey parties. The Corps of Engineers, through the office of the 
Division Engineer, and also the Portland and Seattle District oflices, 
provided maps and other essential information. In addition the 
Portland District office made a vehicle available for use at the McNary 
project, furnished a temporary headquarters, and provided assistance 
in the mapping of sites. 

Throughout the period of active work Dr. Drucker made numerous 
trips from the Eugene office to the various parties and the excavation 
projects. He also met with Dr. Robert F. Heizer, Director, California 
Archeological Surveys, and assisted in perfecting plans for the coopera- 
tive work to be carried on by that organization. After completing 
arrangements for maintaining the Eugene office during the winter 
months, he returned to Washington on October 1. 

At the start of the year George L. Coale, archeologist, and Francis A. 
Riddell, Harry S. Riddell, Jr., and Homer Douglas Osborne, field 
assistants, were engaged in the survey of the Benham Falls, Prineville, 
Wickiup, and Crane Prairie Reservoirs. That work was completed 
on July 11, and Coale and Osborne returned to Eugene to assist 
Dr. Drucker in making preparations for the excavations at the McNary 
Reservoir. The two Riddells proceeded to northeastern Oregon 
where they made a reconnaissance of the Mason Creek and Ryan 
Creek Reservoirs. The surveys there being finished on July 16, they 
moved to Chief Joseph (Foster Creek) where on July 26 they completed 



70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 

the investigations previously started by the University of Washington. 
Francis A. Riddell resigned from the Surveys on July 30. George L. 
Coale met Harry S. Riddell, Jr., at Pasco, Wash., on the 27th, and 
the two proceeded from there to Ice Harbor and Lower Monumental 
Reservoirs. After their reconnaissance of those two projects they 
went on to the Lucky Peak, Lost Valley, and Horse Creek Reservoirs 
in Idaho, and the Bully Creek Reservoir in Oregon. William W. Burd, 
who was appointed a field assistant on August 16, and Joel L. Shiner, 
who was promoted from the crew at McNary to field assistant, spent 
the period from August 18 to 30 examining the Little Goose and Lower 
Monumental Reservoirs for archeological remains. Burd returned to 
Eugene and resigned on August 31, while Shiner rejoined the party 
at the McNary excavations and continued with it until September 9 
when he resigned. After completing the field work at Moses Lake, 
Richard D. Daugherty proceeded to Seattle, Wash., where he processed 
and studied the materials obtained from the excavations and prepared 
a report on the results of the investigations. His appointment as 
archeologist terminated on September 16. 

As previously mentioned, Osborne spent the first few weeks of the 
year on survey duties and was then recalled to Eugene to aid in prepa- 
rations for the McNary project. He went with the party to that 
reservoir on August 5 and on August 16 was promoted toarc he ologist 
and placed in charge of the excavations. Upon his return to Eugene 
in September he was made Acting Field Director, and continued to 
function in that capacity throughout the remainder of the year. 
During the fall and winter months he wrote the prehminary appraisal 
reports for the 15 reservoirs surveyed during the summer, prepared 
a summary report and a longer, more detailed manuscript on the 
McNary excavations, and made compilations of data on historical 
references, ethnological descriptions, and trade goods to be used as 
ready sources for information on the Columbia Basin. During Febru- 
ary he made a survey of the Big Cliff Reservoir and checked the 
various bank-control projects of the Corps of Engineers along the 
Willamette River and its tributaries. On May 26 and 27 he partici- 
pated in a conference at Pendleton, Oreg., where representatives of 
the Corps of Engineers, the National Park Service, and the Bureau 
of Indian Affairs discussed the problem of the removal of Indian 
burials from areas that are to be flooded. Throughout the winter 
months Osborne was assisted in the laboratory by Lloyd Collins and 
Hiroto Zakoji, students of the University of Oregon. 

Illinois. — Archeological studies in Illinois consisted of the examina- 
tion of the records of previous surveys in the Illinois River Basin and 
the investigation of two reservoir areas where dams were under 
construction. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 71 

During February Richard P. Wheeler conferred with the District 
Engineer at Chicago about the flood-control program for the Illinois 
River Basin, discussed archeological problems involved with Dr. John 
C. McGregor, associate professor of anthropology at the University of 
Illinois, and with Dr. Kenneth G. Orr, assistant professor of anthro- 
pology at the University of Chicago. March 10 to 18, Wheeler 
checked the survey files of the Department of Anthropology and 
worked in the Harper Library, at the University of Chicago, Leaving 
Chicago he proceeded to Springfield, 111., where he conferred with 
Dr. Thorne Deuel, Director of the Illinois State Museum. From 
March 21 to 25 he made a reconnaissance of the Fondulac and Farm- 
dale Reservoir basins, the dams then being built, on Farm Creek, in 
Tazewell County, III. No archeological sites were found in those 
areas, and no further work was recommended. 

In April Wheeler prepared a preliminary report, "Archeological 
Resources of the Proposed or Considered Reservoirs in the Illinois 
River Basin, Central and Northern Illinois," which embodied a 
synopsis of present knowledge of the archeology of this region and 
provided a list of known sites (based on the site list prepared for the 
River Basin Surveys in September 1947 by Dr. J. C. McGregor) in 
10 of the 15 proposed reservoirs in the Illinois River Basin for which 
maps are available. 

On May 16 Wheeler was transferred to the Missouri Basin, and his 
activities from then until the end of the year are included in that 
portion of the report. 

Iowa. — Work in Iowa was confined for the most part to surveys of 
two reservoir basins and the area immediately adjacent to the dam 
site of a third where preliminary construction activities were already 
under way. 

Richard P. Wheeler spent the period December 6 to 10 at the Red 
Rock Reservoir project, on the Des Moines River, and December 13 
to 15 at the Rathbun Reservoir on the Chariton River. During the 
progress of the work he consulted with Dr. Charles R. Keyes, Director 
of the Archeological Survey of Iowa, about the character and extent 
of the archeological remains in the two areas. In his reports prepared 
at the conclusion of his field investigations, Wheeler records 15 mound 
and occupation sites in the Red Rock basin, 4 of which will be involved 
in the dam construction, and 6 in the Rathbun area. More intensive 
studies under more favorable field conditions were recommended for 
both reservoirs. 

Between January 24 and February 3, Wheeler made a preliminary 
reconnaissance of the Coralville Reservoir, on the Iowa River, in 
Johnson and Iowa Counties, Iowa. Eight mound sites and one 
occupation site were located. Ten other sites, recorded prior to the 

866591— 5C 



72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 

survey, could not be found because of the deep snow cover. Further 
work will be necessary before recommendations can be made for the 
salvage of archeological remains in that reservoir area. 

Missouri Basin. — The Missouri Basin project, as in previous years, 
continued under the general direction of Dr. Waldo R. Wedel and 
was based on the field headquarters at Lincoln, Nebr. During the 
fiscal year 12 new reservoir basins were surveyed for archeological 
remains ; two areas only briefly examined in former seasons were revis- 
ited and subjected to intensive reconnaissance; while comprehensive 
excavations were carried on at one location. In addition to those activ- 
ities and certain paleontological investigations, laboratory and office 
work were carried on throughout the year. 

As the fiscal year opened, three archeological units and one paleonto- 
logical unit were engaged in field work. The largest project was the 
excavation program at Medicine Creek, Nebr., under the field direction 
of M. F. Kivett, archeologist, with George Metcalf as assistant. The 
work was made possible tlu-ough an agreement with the Bureau of 
Reclamation under which the Biu-eau provided labor and power equip- 
ment while the River Basin Sui'veys provided the technical supervision 
and maintained the scientific records. This project terminated on 
August 20, having produced a large body of data and artifacts for 
several inadequately known prehistoric culture horizons. Aside from 
the scientific retm-ns of the operation, it is important to note that the 
applicabihty of power machinery to the excavation of aboriginal village 
sites under careful technical supervision was amply demonstrated. 
The findings add much new information to that previously obtained 
elsewhere in the Central Plains through the small-scale sampling of 
many sites. 

A second unit under J. T. Hughes, archeologist, with J. M. Shippee 
as assistant, was at work in Angostura Reservoir, South Dakota. In- 
tensive survey there added numerous sites to those recorded during 
prehminary reconnaissance in 1946 ; and also disclosed the presence of at 
least one site that may have an antiquity of several thousand years. 
Because of the extreme scarcity of data from this early period, and the 
usual difficulty of working such sites, it is imperative that further 
excavation be carried on there. From September 15 to 30 Hughes 
and Shippee carried on preliminary reconnaissance at the Edgemont 
and Keyhole Projects in Wyoming, and at the Pactola and Johnson 
Siding Reservoir basins in South Dakota. At Edgemont 28 sites were 
recorded, while 29 were noted at Keyhole. Only one was noted at 
Pactola and none at Johnson Siding. 

A third unit under Paul L. Cooper carried on excavations at the 
Heart Butte Reservoir basin. North Dakota, through the month of 
July, and then transferred its activities to the proposed lower Oahe 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 73 

Reservoir project on the Missouri River a few miles above Pierre, 
S. Dak. On the basis of findings by that unit, it appears unHkely 
that remains of any great importance to archeology will bo lost at 
Heart Butte. At Oahe, 61 sites were recorded between Pierre and 
the Cheyenne River, a distance of about 40 miles. They include some 
of the largest, best preserved, and most impressive Indian village re- 
mains in the Missom-i Basin. Most of them are vu'tually untouched 
by trained archeologists and, with one or two possible exceptions, none 
has been adequately tested by excavation. Five of the sites will be 
affected almost as soon as construction work begins on the dam site, 
the access roads, and the railroad classification yards. Hence, 
salvage operations will be necessary at an early date. Because of the 
abundance and variety of remains, comprehensive excavation has 
been recommended to begin soon and to be carried forward vigorously 
so that a representative sample of the materials to be affected by Oahe 
Reservoir may be saved. 

From November 9 to 24 Cooper and Shippee excavated a burial 
mound in the spillway area of Fort Randall Dam, South Dakota. The 
Corps of Engineers provided a bulldozer and operator as needed, and 
assisted in numerous other ways. Without that cooperation, the 
work there would not have been possible. The findings, although not 
spectacular, are important because burial mounds are extremely rare 
on that portion of the Missouri, and their temporal and cultural 
relationships to other archeological complexes of the region can be 
determined, if at all, only thi-ough controlled excavations by trained 
investigators. 

A paleontological unit under Dr. T, E. Wliite was in the field from 
July 1 to October 1. It worked at the Boysen Reservoir, Wyoming; 
in the Canyon Ferry Reservoir area on the Missouri River north of 
Townsend, Mont.; at the Angostura Reservoir, South Dakota; and at 
the Cedar Bluff Reservoir on the Smoky Hill River in Kansas. 

Limited field work was resumed in the spring. Richard P. Wheeler, 
archeologist, left Lincoln on May 27 for preliminary reconnaissance 
at several hitherto unvisited reservoir projects and for further survey 
of others previously examined in preliminary fashion. Projects 
visited by Wheeler prior to June 30 include Rocky Ford, Philip, Bixby, 
and Shadehill, in South Dakota; Cannonball and Dickinson, in North 
Dakota; Moorhead, in Wyoming-Montana, and Onion Flat in 
Wyoming. 

Among the particularly gratifying features of the year's field work 
were the results achieved through use of power machinery and the 
direct cooperation extended by the Bureau of Reclamation at Medicine 
Creek and by the Corps of Engineers at Fort Randall Reservoir. 
Such cooperative work, in terms of research accomplished, is the most 



74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

economical way of salvaging archeological remains on the scale needed. 
Application of the same procedures, including mechanized earth- 
moving operations, to other projects seems to be the only way of 
obtaining irreplaceable scientific data in the little time left for its 
recovery. 

In the laboratory 39 maps were drawn. Many of them were field 
maps, others were site and reservoir maps for use with published re- 
ports. Throughout the winter specimens were selected and photo- 
graphed as analysis for technical reports proceeded. Including field 
photographs, a total of 918 negatives and 374 color transparencies 
were processed; 61 lantern slides were added to the slide series; 918 
prints were made, cataloged, and filed; 1,008 prints were made for 
report illustrations and reference purposes; and 350 enlargements 
were made for publicity and reference use. 

All specimens collected during the field season, a total of 45,233, 
were cleaned, numbered, cataloged, and stored. The majority of 
them came from Medicine Creek, Angostura, and Oahe Reservoirs. 
Samples of bone, shell, and vegetal specimens from various sites were 
packed and sent to specialists elsewhere for identification. In addi- 
tion, soil samples from some of the sites were sent out for analysis, and 
wood and charcoal specimens were sent away for tree-ring studies. 

The skeleton of an adolescent covered with thousands of shell beads, 
sent to Lincoln in a plaster case from the Harlan County Reservoir, 
Nebraska, in 1946, was mounted permanently for exhibit purposes. 
Pottery restoration, principally of Medicine Creek material, continued 
throughout the spring months, 17 earthenware vessels having been 
restored by June 30. 

Information concerning over 129 sites was added to the site file, 
and 45 maps were indexed and added to the map reference file. 

On July 1, J. Joseph Bauxar, archeologist, was stationed at the 
Lincoln, Nebr., headquarters, continuing the ethnohistorical research 
project he had started the preceeding year. The material collected 
consisted of such information as is pertinent to the archeologists' 
problem of determining the ethnic affiliations of the archeological 
complexes in the Missouri River Basin. Some 30 tribes and subtribes 
are represented in the Tribal Culture File. On January 9, 1949, Mr. 
Bauxar was transferred to the Oklahoma project of the River Basin 
Surveys and proceeded to Norman for the purpose of analyzing 
materials from the Norman site in the Fort Gibson Reservoir. 

Wesley L. Bliss, archeologist, devoted the time from July 1 until 
January 8 in the preparation of a general article "Birdshead Cave, 
a Stratified Site in the Vv'ind River Basin, Wyoming," and a technical 
report on the same project. In late August he visited the sites in the 
Medicine Creek area being excavated by the State Museum of the 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 75 

University of Nebraska and in October accompanied a group from that 
institution on a trip to Signal Butte in western Nebraska for the 
purpose of reexamining the early sites at that location. On the basis 
of information obtained during the course of his work, he prepared 
a paper "Early and Late Lithic Horizons in the Plains" which was 
presented before the Sixth Conference for Plains Archeology at Lincoln 
in November. Mr. Bliss left the River Basin Surveys staff on 
January 8. 

In addition to the field work previously mentioned, Paul L. Cooper 
in September accompanied Dr. Waldo R.. Wedel, Dr. Gordon Baldwin 
of the National Park Service, and Dr. J. O. Brew and Frederick 
Johnson of the Committee for the Recovery of Archeological Remains, 
on an inspection trip to Missouri Basin archeological sites in Wyoming, 
Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Nebraska. Throughout 
the remainder of the year his activities were centered in the laboratory 
at Lincoln. Until March 24 he was in charge of the Lincoln head- 
quarters during such times as Dr. Wedel was in Washington, but from 
that date until June 30 devoted most of his attention to analyzing 
the data and specimens obtained during the field season and in the 
preparation of reports. He wrote a summary of the work done at two 
reservoirs in South Dakota, "Recent Investigations in Fort Randall 
and Oahe Reservoirs, South Dakota," which was published in Amer- 
ican Antiquity, vol. 14, No. 4, April 1949. 

Robert B. Cumming, Jr., archeologist, continued to plan and super- 
vise the laboratory procedures, as mentioned in an earlier paragraph, 
and from March 24 until June 30 was in charge of the Lincoln office 
when Dr. Wedel was not present at the laboratory. 

Following the summer field work Jack T. Hughes, archeologist, 
spent the remainder of the year in the laboratory studying the data 
and materials collected from the various reservoirs he had examined 
and writing reports on the results of his work. He prepared a 
memorandum on Cheyenne Basin archeology for the National Park 
Service and completed an article, "Investigations in Western South 
Dakota and Northeastern Wyoming," which was published in 
American Antiquity, vol. 14, No. 4, April 1949. He coUaborated 
with Dr. Theodore E. White in writing a manuscript "The Long Site, 
an Ancient Camp in Southwestern South Dakota." The latter is a 
preliminary account of the archeology and physiography of one of the 
most significant sites yet found in the Angostura Reservoir basin. 
Hughes also prepared a paper, "Archeology and Environment in the 
Western Great Plains," which he presented at the Sixth Conference 
for Plains Archeology held in Lincoln in November. In addition he 
wrote a paper, "An Experiment in Relative Dating of Archeological 
Remains by Stream Terraces," which he read before the Anthropology 



76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Section of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences in May. He wrote a 
memorandum on geological deposits and archeological remains in the 
Tiber Reservoir basin, on the Marias River in northern Montana, for 
the United States Geological Survey, and "A Note on Fireplaces" for 
the Plains Archeological Conference Newsletter. Earlier in the year 
he had prepared an article, "Naming Projectile Point Types," for 
the same journal. At the close of the year he was occupied with a 
report on the Nebraska State Historical Society's investigations at 
the Barn Butte site in western Nebraska and was continuing his work 
on the development of a correlation table dealing with early remains 
in the western United States. 

Upon the completion of the excavation project at the Medicine 
Creek Reservoir, Marvin F. Kivett, archeologist, returned to Lincoln 
on September 1 and began the preparation of a brief preliminary 
report for the use of H. E. Robinson, District Manager of the 
Bureau of Reclamation. Included in it was a tabulation of work 
completed at various sites in the Medicine Creek Reservoir basin. 
After that manuscript was finished Kivett wrote a summary account, 
"Archeological Investigations in Medicine Creek Reservoir, Nebras- 
ka," which was printed in American Antiquity, vol. 14, No. 4, April 
1949. He then turned his attention to completing a laboratory 
analysis of the more than 30,000 specimens collected at Medicine 
Creek and to a study of comparable materials gathered in the same 
area by parties from the Nebraska State Historical Society and placed 
at his disposal, with the accompanying data, for inclusion in the final 
technical report. In addition, Mr. Kivett wrote a technical paper on 
the prehistoric ossuary which he excavated at the Harlan County 
Reservoir in the fall of 1946, and another "Archeology and Climatic 
Implications in the Central Plains," which was presented before the 
Sixth Conference for Plains Archeology. Two brief articles, one con- 
cerning the use of power equipment in archeological work and the 
other dealing with pottery nomenclature, were printed in the Plains 
Archeological Conference Newsletter. 

One trip of 4 days was made by Kivett to the Medicine Creek 
project during October for the purpose of marking trees from which 
sections for dendrochronological studies were to be cut under the 
supervision of the Bureau of Reclamation. In May he made a 1-day 
trip to the Harlan County and Medicine Creek Reservoirs to point 
out to members of the Missouri Basin Inter-Agency Committee 
archeological work completed and that contemplated for those 
reservoirs. Mr. Kivett resigned from the River Basin Surveys on 
May 31 to accept an appointment as Assistant Director of the Museum 
of the Nebraska State Historical Society. 

George Metcalf, field and laboratory assistant, participated in the 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 77 

excavations at Medicine Creek and, after his return to the Lincoln 
headquarters on August 24, assisted in the cleaning and cataloging of 
the last consignment of specimens from the project. From September 
12 until October 20 he supervised and aided in the processing of some 
7,000 specimens recovered from Medicine Creek sites by the Nebraska 
State Historical Society. As a part of that task all suitable shell, 
bone, and vegetal material was listed and prepared for submission to 
specialists for identification. Throughout the winter and spring 
months he worked with Mr. Kivett in the analysis of the Medicine 
Creek materials and wrote sections on worked bone, shell, and pottery 
for inclusion in the final technical report. He also assisted in the 
selection of specimens and the arrangement of photographic plates 
for the final report. At the end of the fiscal year he was engaged in 
making an analysis of the house remains in the Medicine Creek area. 

J. M. Shippee, field and laboratory assistant, returned to Lincoln 
with the Hughes party on October 1 and from then until November 8 
supervised the dismantling of the laboratory and its reinstallation in 
new quarters. Mr. Sliippee then accompanied Mr. Cooper to the 
Fort Randall Reservoir, where he assisted in the excavation of a burial 
mound located on the site of the dam spillway. He returned to 
Lincoln in late November and spent the remainder of the year in the 
restoration of pottery and other specimens and in the cleaning and 
mounting, for exhibition purposes, of a juvenUe skeleton which had 
been removed intact from an ossuary at the Harlan County Reservoir. 
He prepared a paper, "Some Problems of the Nebo Hill Complex," 
which was read before the Anthi'opological Section of the Nebraska 
Academy of Sciences on May 7. At the close of the year he was 
preparing and assembling equipment for the various parties starting 
for the field. 

Richard P. Wlieeler, archeologist, was transferred to the Missouri 
Basin in May and on May 27 left Lincoln to make a series of prelim- 
inary surveys at reservoir projects in South Dakota, North Dakota, 
Montana, and Wyoming. By the end of the year he had visited eight 
reservoir areas. On June 30 he was at Fort Washakie, Wyo., where 
he obtained permission from the Business Council of the Shoshones 
and Arapahos to make preliminary surveys of the proposed Soral 
Creek and Raft Lake reservoir basins, which are located in the Wind 
River Indian Reservation, immediately after the start of the new year. 

Dr. Theodore E. Wliite, paleontologist, confined his activities, with 
one minor exception, to work on the Missouri Basin problems through- 
out the fiscal year. 

From July 1 to 12 the lower Eocene deposits in the Boysen Reservoir 
area on the Big Horn River north of Shoshoni, Fremont County, 
Wyo., were prospected for fossils. Five fossiliferous "pockets," which 



78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

will be inundated when the reservou* is flooded, were found. The 
results of the work there confirmed the conclusions of the members of 
the United States Geological Survey who had mapped the structure 
and stratigraphy of that area. 

From July 14 to August 19 the Oligocene and Miocene deposits in 
the Canyon Ferry Reservoir area on the Missouri River north of 
Townsend, Broadwater Countj'', Mont., were prospected for fossils. 
Material was obtained from three localities in the Oligocene and two 
in the Miocene. All those localities will be inundated. 

After the close of the work at Canyon Ferry, White's party pro- 
ceeded to the Angostura Reservoir on the Cheyenne River in Fall 
River County, S. Dak., to make a physiographic study of the area in 
connection with an early-man site. The period from August 21 to 
September 3 was spent in collecting data for that study. The party 
returned to Lincoln, Nebr., on September 4 in order to prepare a 
preliminary report on the results of the physiographic study. 

From September 23 to October 1 the Upper Cretaceous Carlile 
Shale in Cedar Bluff Reservoir on the Smoky Hill River south of 
Wakeeney, Trego County, Kans., was prospected for vertebrate fossils. 
Although a number of specimens were found, they were so badly 
disintegrated by the crystallization of gypsum and the weathering of 
marcasite that they were not worth collecting. 

About 70 specimens, representing 20 genera, were obtained in the 
Boysen Reservoir area. Although the specimens were for the most 
part rather fragmentary, they were sufficiently well preserved to estab- 
lish the age of those beds as belonging to the Lost Cabin faunal zone 
of the lower Eocene, a fact that had not previously been demonstrated. 
In the material obtained is the most nearly complete skull yet found of 
the primitive insectivore, Didelphodus. Although badly crushed and 
not impressive to look at, it adds a number of previously unknown 
details to the knowledge of the cranial morphology of that form. 
Also the skull and jaws of Didymictis, a primitive carnivore a little 
larger than a fox, was obtained in that area. Heretofore the form was 
known only from upper and lower dentitions. 

Nearly 125 specimens, principally insectivores, rodents, and small 
artiodactyls, were obtained in the Canyon Ferry Reservoir area. 
Most of the specimens were found in the Oligocene deposits which 
previously were very poorly known. The material obtained demon- 
strated that deposits of both lower and middle Oligocene age were 
present in that area. One of the Ohgocene insectivores belongs to a 
problematical family previously unknown in deposits later than the 
upper Eocene. Also, it is the best-preserved specimen yet found and 
adds many details of the skull and dentition to the knowledge of that 
group. The small Oligocene mammals of that area, when compared 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 79 

to those of the same age on the Plains, illustrate the principles of 
geographical variation quite as well as the living species. 

White's laboratory activities for the year fall into two periods. The 
first, from October 4 to November 5, was spent at the field office at 
Lincoln, Nebr., preparing supplementary reports on the reservoirs 
visited and in identifying the osteological material obtained in archeo- 
logical excavations. Also, during that period the first draft of the 
technical report on the physiographic studies in the Angostura area 
was prepared. The remaining time was spent in the division of 
vertebrate paleontology at the United States National Museum. In 
addition to the preparation of technical reports on the paleontological 
material obtained in the reservoir areas, six boxes of osteological 
material from the Missouri and Columbia Basins were identified. 

White completed two technical reports representing the results of 
field and laboratory activities. They are: "Preliminary Analysis of 
the Vertebrate Fossil Fauna of the Boysen Reservoir Area," and 
"Endocrine Glands and Evolution No. 2: The Appearance of Large 
Amounts of Cement on the Teeth of Horses." Both were submitted 
for publication. At the close of the year he had virtually finished 
two other papers: "A Preliminary Appraisal of the Physiographic 
History of Horsehead Creek in the Vicinity of 39FA65" (with Jack T. 
Hughes), and "Analysis of the Vertebrate Fossil Fauna of the 
Canyon Ferry Reservoir Area." 

Throughout the field season White enjoyed congenial relationships 
with members of other Government agencies and with members of 
educational institutions. Among those from whom material assistance 
was received are: Harry A. Tourtelot of the United States Geological 
Survey, J. LeRoy Kay of the Carnegie Museum, Mr. McQuiren, 
geologist for the Bureau of Reclamation at the Boysen project, and 
Roy Austin, Superintendent of Public Schools at Townsend, Mont. 
Also the work was materially expedited by the many forest rangers 
who placed the facilities of their stations at the convenience of the 
party. 

As in previous years, a number of student assistants were employed 
as members of the various field parties, Robert L. Hall and Warren 
L. Wittry were with the Cooper party from July 1 to September 4 
and August 14, respectively. Gordon F. McKenzie joined the same 
party on August 1 and remained with it until September 4. John C. 
Donohoe was with the White party July 1 to 31, while Ernest L. 
Lundelius, Jr., accompanied it from July 1 to September 4. Dorothy 
E. Eraser was with the Cooper party during the month of August in 
the capacity of a special consultant. Neil J. Isto joined the Wheeler 
party on June 2 and was in the field at the close of the year. 

Oklahoma. — Work in Oklahoma consisted of both surveys and 



80 AXNTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

excavation. At the beginning of the year David J. Wenner, Jr., 
field assistant, was making a reconnaissance of the area to be flooded 
by the Tenkiller Ferry Reservoir on the Illinois River in the eastern 
part of the State. That work was completed on July 27 and the 
party moved to the Canadian Reservoir project on the Canadian 
River. Reconnaissance of that area was finished on August 17, 
when attention was turned to the adjacent Onapa project on the 
North Canadian. The survey there was completed on September 3. 
Within the 3 basins, 104 sites were found, 38 in Tenkiller Ferry, 41 
in the Canadian, and 25 in Onapa. The work in Tenkiller Ferry 
demonstrated that what were presumed to be mounds, actually are 
natural knolls on flood plains and terraces, and all the sites present 
are village or camp remains. Those in the other two areas are also 
mainly village sites representing both historic and prehistoric cultures. 
In passing it should be stated that the Canadian and Onapa are 
two of three smaller alternate projects proposed to take the place of 
the larger Eufaula Reservoir. The third in the group, the Gaines, 
stiU remains to be surveyed. Should the single Eufaula project 
eventually be carried through instead of the three smaller ones, very 
little additional field work will be required to determine the archeologi- 
cal manifestations involved. It is known that there are a number of 
mounds that lie outside the boundaries of the smaller reservoirs but 
which would fall within the maximum pool of the Eufaula. Mr. 
Wenner was aided in his work by William Mayer-Oakes and Robert 
Shalkop, student assistants. 

The excavations were at the Norman site in the Fort Gibson 
Reservoir basin on the Grand (Neosho) River near Wagoner. Earlier 
work by the University of Oklahoma had shown that the extensive 
village and mound group located there belonged to a Spiro-type 
culture and raised the possibility that the flooding of the largest 
double mound, which had never been excavated, would represent the 
loss of as important information and material as had the destruction 
of the famous Spiro mounds in the adjacent county. When Dr. 
Robert E. Bell of the Department of Anthropology of the University 
of Oklahoma reached the site in July he found that nearly all the 
village area and all mounds, with the exception of the largest double 
unit, had been removed by the bulldozers of the construction con- 
tractor. Even the large double unit had been damaged. The 
western periphery had been cut away and the smaller mound had 
been cut down several feet. With the assistance of the Engineers 
Dr. Bell was able to stop the operations so that archeological work 
could be done. During July and the first 2 weeks in August the 
University of Oklahoma field session under Bell excavated portions 
of several house sites stiU surviving south of the larger mound. On 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 81 

August 17, under the sponsorship of the River Basin Surveys, he 
began excavatiou of the large double mound by cutting a trench 
across the saddle between the two parts of the unit. The southern 
face of the trench was then carried forward toward the larger mound. 
Joseph R. Caldwell joined Bell on August 19 and they decided that 
neither the available time nor funds would permit the customary 
method of cutting forward with a continuous vertical face. Accord- 
ingly, a 10-foot trench was driven through the north-south axis of 
the mound to reach its base and to obtain a complete profile. The 
work continued until September 22. Surprisingly, the mound 
yielded very few specimens. Potsherds and artifacts were scarce 
throughout its various levels. It was learned, however, that its 
main portion was composed of six superimposed platforms which 
probably had been the placements for public buildings, although no 
complete post-hole patterns were discovered. The summit of the 
fifth stage above the base had been divided into two nearly equal 
areas by a single row of posts, and the entire level gave evidence of a 
severe conflagration in prehistoric times. Four human burials were 
found in the top level, but they were in such an advanced stage of 
decomposition that little remained to indicate their character. A 
number of glass beads in the same level suggests a historic contact in 
the final days of occupation. The results of the digging indicated 
that no additional work was required at the Norman site. During 
the course of the investigations there, however, another site was 
located which appears to be an important one, and it was recommended 
that further efforts in the Fort Gibson area be concentrated there. 

Red River of the North Basin. — Between August 27 and October 
29, 1948, Richard P. Wlieeler, archeologist, investigated four Corps 
of Engineers reservoir areas in the Red River of the North Drainage 
Basin: the Homme Reservoir, under construction on the South Branch 
of the Park River, the proposed Pembina River and Tongue River 
Reservoirs, in northeastern North Dakota; and the proposed Orwell 
Reservoir, on the Ottertail River, in west-central Minnesota. In 
reports on those surveys, prepared at the Lincoln office of the River 
Basin Surveys between November 5 and 19 and issued at Washington, 
D. C, in December 1948, Wheeler noted the occurrence of sites in the 
vicinity of the Homme and Orwell Reservoirs but recorded the dis- 
covery of only one archeological site in the reservoir areas proper, 
an occupation site in the Pembina River Reservoir. The finding of 
bison bones in aU four of the reservoir areas indicates that the river 
valleys were formerly the habitat of bison and perhaps of other large 
game and were possibly visited by hunting bands in prehistoric and 
historic times. It was recommended that rechecks be made at the 
Homme Reservoir, following the clearing of timber and underbrush, 



82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 

and at the Pembina River and Orwell Reservoirs, at the time of the 
construction of the dams, in order to make sure that no archeological 
remains were overlooked. 

Texas. — The River Basin Surveys continued to operate throughout 
the year from the base and headquarters supplied by the Department 
of Anthropology at the University of Texas, Austin, Tex. Sur- 
veys were begun and carried to completion in five Corps of Engineers 
reservoirs. 

Robert L. Stephenson, archeologist, left Austin at the beginning of 
the fiscal year and went to Fort Worth where he conferred with the 
Engineer in Charge, Fort Worth Suboffice, Corps of Engineers, 
preparatory to starting surveys of four reservoir basins on the upper 
branches of the Trinity River. 

During July he completed investigations at the Benbrook Reservoir 
on the Clear Fork of the Trinity River in Tarrant County and at the 
Grapevine Reservoir on Denton Creek in Tarrant and Denton Coun- 
ties. No sites were found in the Benbrook basin and only 10, none 
of which require further investigation, were noted at Grapevine. In 
addition he made a 2-day reconnaissance in the areas of the Lavon 
Reservoir on the East Fork of the Trinity River and Garza-Little 
Elm Reservoir on the Elm Fork of the same stream. On the latter 
trip R. K. Harris, Rex Housewi-ight, and Lester Wilson, of the Dallas 
Ai'cheological Society, took him to sites that they had previously 
located in the two areas. 

On August 1, Mr. Stephenson accompanied Drs, Gustav A. Cooper 
and A. R. Loeblich, Jr., of the United States National Museum, and 
Robert Stark of Grapevine, Tex., to the vicinity of Bridgeport, 
Wise County, to collect invertebrate fossils. He also visited the 
Whitney Reservoir on the Brazos River, Hill County, and collected 
mollusks, needed to check previous identifications, from several archeo- 
logical sites. From there he went to the Texarkana Reservoir on the 
Sulphur River, Bowie County, for the purpose of gathering informa- 
tion regarding the dates of construction and of determining the neces- 
sary time and extent of a survey for that basin. During the month 
he also completed an intensive survey of the Garza-Little Elm basin 
where he noted 27 sites, 7 of which were recommended for further 
examination, and started investigations at the Lavon project. The 
latter continued until September 17 and during the progress of the 
work he made test excavations at two sites. The survey located 25 
sites, of which 8 have been recommended for more intensive investiga- 
tions. Both in the excavations and the survey he was greatly assisted 
by the members of the Dallas Archeological Society and on September 
10 spoke before a meeting of that organization. On September 18 he 
started a survey of the San Angelo Reservoir area on the North Concho 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 83 

River in Tom Greene County, which was finished on October 10. 
Only 13 small sites were located there, and as similar material is avail- 
able elsewhere no fm-ther work was recommended for the basin. 

Except for several short trips, Mr. Stephenson spent the remainder 
of the fiscal year at the headquarters in Austin analyzing the material 
collected and preparing reports on the summer's surveys. He went to 
Lincoln, Nebr., in November for the purpose of studying the field 
and laboratory methods being used by the Missouri Basin group and 
while there attended sessions of the Sixth Conference for Plains 
Archeology and was appointed to the Committee on Archeological 
Nomenclature. From January 2 to 7, he revisited the upper Trinity 
River area to investigate reports of additional material having been 
found there. Papers prepared by Stephenson during the months in 
the laboratory are: "Archeological Survey of McGee Bend Reservoir," 
which was published in volume 19 of the Bulletin of the Texas Archeo- 
logical and Paleontological Society; "Archeological Survey of the 
Lavon and Garza-Little Elm Reservoirs," to be published in volume 
20 of the same journal; "A Note on Some Large Pits in Certain Sites 
near Dallas, Texas," printed in American Antiquity, vol. 15, No. 1; 
a revision of his earlier report on the Whitney Reservoir which was 
mimeographed and distributed by the Washington office in April; 
and preliminary appraisals on the Benbrook, Grapevine, Garza-Little 
Elm, and San Angelo surveys. He also wrote a summary statement 
covering the results of the River Basin Surveys from their inception 
in 1947 to June 30, 1949, and prepared a summary and table of the 
culture sequences and their relationships in the Texas area as they 
had been worked out up to that date. 

Results of the year's investigations established a number of facts. 
In the survey of the Garza-Little Elm basin it was found that the 
remains include key sites for the determination of the cultural 
sequences in the area east of that known to have been inhabited by 
groups classified as the Henrietta Focus and west of the known 
Caddoan area. Similar sites have not been observed elsewhere. Very 
little is known of the cultural sequences involved in the area drained 
by the three forks of the Trinity River. The eight sites in the Lavon 
basin recommended for more intensive examination are believed to 
hold the answer to the problem of developments in the western border 
of the Caddo area. At least one new culture remains to be defined 
and described from the excavation of those sites. Furthermore, the 
material from them should shed much light on the interrelation 
between the cultures represented there and those to the east and west. 

Cooperating institutions. — Numerous State and local institutions 
cooperated with the River Basin Surveys throughout the year and 
made a definite contribution to the progress of the program. The 



84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Universities of Nebraska, Oklahoma, Oregon, and Texas provided 
space for field offices and laboratories for regular units of the Surveys, 
while the Universities of Denver, Colorado, and California, and 
Western State College of Colorado supplied temporary bases of 
operations for specific projects. The Universities of California, 
Oklahoma, Oregon, and Washington joined forces with the Surveys 
for some reconnaissance work and for the excavations at the Fort 
Gibson, McNary, and O 'Sullivan Reservoirs. In a number of cases 
responsibility for units in the survey and excavation program was 
assumed by State and local institutions. 

The Museum of Northern Arizona and the University of Arizona 
did some preliminary survey work, while the San Diego Museum of 
Man conducted surveys and did some digging in the area of the Davis 
Dam on the Colorado River between Arizona and Nevada. The Uni- 
versity of Arkansas engaged in both reconnaissance and excavations 
in the area of Bull Shoals Reservoir in that State. The California 
Archeological Survey of the University of California conducted ex- 
cavations at the Pino Flat and Isabella Reservoirs, while the Archeo- 
logical Surveys Association of Southern California carried on recon- 
naissance work in that part of the State. The Florida Park Service 
surveyed the section in northern Florida that will be affected by the 
Jim Woodruff Dam on the Apalachicola River near Chattahooche and 
did some digging in a number of sites. The University of Georgia 
continued its surveys along the Chattahooche and Flint Rivers and 
conducted excavations at one site in the Allatoona Reservoir on the 
Etowah River. In Illinois the University of Illinois, the University 
of Chicago, and the Illinois State Museum furnished information 
about the extent and character of sites in the basins of 15 reservoir 
projects proposed for the Illinois River drainage. The Indiana His- 
torical Bureau carried on surveys and did some excavating not only 
at proposed Federal projects, but at those under State construction 
as well. 

The Museum of Natural History of the University of Kansas made 
excavations at Kanopolis Reservoir in July and August of 1948 in sites 
where the rising waters of the reservoir were already encroaching upon 
the remains. The results of that work were reported on by Dr. 
Carlyle S. Smith in an article, "Archeological Investigations in Ells- 
worth and Rice Counties, Kansas," which appeared in American 
Antiquity, vol. 14, No. 4, April 1949. In June of 1949 the same 
institution was beginning investigations at the Glen Elder Reservoir 
with other work planned for the Woodston, Webster, and Cedar Bluff 
projects in the same region of the Solomon River drainage. In Ken- 
tucky the University continued its program of excavations at the 
Wolf Creek Reservoir on the Cumberland River and at the Dewey 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 85 

Reservoir on Johns Creek. The University of Missouri and the 
Missouri Archeological Society again cooperated in making surveys 
in a number of reservoirs and in excavating sites in the Missouri por- 
tion of the Bull Shoals Reservoir and in the Clearwater and Pomme 
de Terre basins on the Black and Pomme de Terre Rivers, respec- 
tively. At the end of the year Montana State University was 
starting field work at the Canyon Ferry Reservoir on the Missouri 
River near Townsend, Mont. 

The Laboratory of Anthropology of the University of Nebraska 
was excavating in sites at the Harlan County Reservoir on the Re- 
publican River in the southern part of the State at the start of the 
fiscal year and had returned to the same locaHty for further activities 
in June 1949. The work done during the summer of 1948 was de- 
scribed by Dr. John L. Champe, in a report, "White Cat Village," 
published in American Antiquity, vol. 14, No. 4, April 1949, The 
Nebraska State Historical Society excavated a number of sites in the 
Medicine Creek Reservoir area in the early months of the year and 
in June had a party digging in the Mullen Reservoir area on the 
Middle Loup River in the north-central part of the State. The Uni- 
versity of Nebraska State Museum continued its paleontological and 
archeological investigations in the Harlan County and Medicine 
Creek Reservoir areas. One site in the Medicine Creek basin that 
proved of particular interest because of its implications of consider- 
able antiquity was described in an article, "The Frontier Culture 
Complex, a Preliminary Report on a Prehistoric Hunter's Camp in 
Southwestern Nebraska," written by Preston Holder and Joyce Wike 
and printed in American Antiquity, vol. 14, No. 4, April 1949. 

The University of North Dakota and the North Dakota Historical 
Society cooperated in excavations at the Baldhill Reservoir in the 
eastern part of the State in the summer of 1948, and toward the close 
of the fiscal year were preparing for intensive survey work in the 
Garrison Reservoir on the Missouri River near Sanish, N. Dak. The 
results of the previous summer's work were discussed by Dr. Gordon 
W. Hewes in "Burial Mounds in the Baldhill Area, North Dakota," 
which appeared in the April 1949 issue of American Antiquity, vol. 
14, No. 4. The Ohio State Museum did some survey and excavation 
work. The University of Oklahoma, as previously mentioned, did 
some digging at the Fort Gibson Reservoir and made independent 
surveys in other areas. The University of Utah assumed responsi- 
bility for surveys at a number of projects in the southwestern corner 
of that State but at the close of the year had not yet started field 
work. In Wisconsin, Beloit College made surveys and did some 
digging in the Black River project. 



86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

The various cooperating organizations send progress and completed 
reports to the River Basin Surveys so that the results of their work 
may be coordinated with those for the over-all program. In this way 
the information obtained by them becomes a part of the general 
record of the River Basin Surveys. 

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS 

There were issued one Annual Report and two Publications of the 
Institute of Social Anthropology as Hsted below: 

Sixty-fifth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1947-1948. 
32 pp. 

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 8. Sierra Popoluca speech, by 
Mary L. Foster and George M. Foster. 45 pp. 

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 9. The Terena and the Caduveo 
of southern Mato Grosso, Brazil, by Kalervo Oberg. 72 pp., 24 pis., 4 maps, 
2 charts. 

The following publications were in press at the close of the fiscal 
year: 

Bulletin 143. Handbook of South American Indians. Julian H. Steward 
editor. Volume 5, The comparative ethnology of South American Indians. 
Volume 6, Physical anthropology, linguistics, and cultural geography of South 
American Indians. 

Miscellaneous publications. List of publications of the Bureau of American 
Ethnology, with index to authors and titles. Revised to July 30, 1949, 

Bulletin 144. The Northern and Central Nootkan tribes, by Philip Drucker. 

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 10. Nomads of the long bow: The 
Siriono of eastern Brazil, by Allan R. Holmberg. 

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 11. Quiroga: A Mexican MunicipiOj 
by Donald D. Brand. 

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 12. Cruz das Almas: A Brazilian 
village, by Donald Pierson. 

PubUcations distributed totaled 19,660, as compared with 25,037 for 
the fiscal year 1948. 

LIBRARY 

Accessions in the library totaled 112 volumes, bringing the total 
accession record as of June 30, 1949, to 34,719. 

ILLUSTRATIONS 

During the entire year the work of restoration on the valuable 
collection of old Indian photographs was continued. Approximately 
150 restorations were completed. 

The remainder of the time of the illustrator and of his assistant 
was spent on the regular work of preparation of illustrations and maps 
for Bureau publications. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 87 

ARCHIVES 

Kesearch workers and students continued to use the manuscript 
material and the archives both through personal visits for consulta- 
tion and by correspondence. A number of manuscripts on the various 
Iroquoian tribes were loaned to the Library of the American Philo- 
sophical Society, Philadelphia, for use of students and research workers 
in that field. The major task of carding the more important Indian 
vocabularies has been begun with Indian and English divisions for 
each. These vocabularies are being arranged so that they can be 
expanded as new material arrives. Many of the Iroquoian vocabu- 
laries collected by James Mooney, Erminnie Smith, and J. N. B. 
Hewitt, as well as a Natchez vocabulary collected by A. S. Gatchet, 
have been carded. 

Some 5,000 prints and negatives, including both black and v/hite 
and color, have been made during the year for various purposes. 
Considerable use was made during the fiscal year of the photographic 
collections as illustrations for both scientific and commercial pur- 
poses. The Walt Disney Studio and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer have 
consulted the photographic files for authentic material in making 
motion pictures deahng with Indian subjects. 



COLLECTIONS 



Ace. No. 



1 lot of fossils collected by Dr. Theodore E. White, Ernest L. Luudeliua, 

and John C. Donohoe, from 6 locations in the Boysen Reservoir area, 
Wyoming. River Basin Surveys. 

1 lot of fossils collected by Theodore E. White, Ernest L. Lundelius, 

and John C. Donohoe, from 5 localities within the Canyon Ferry 
Reservoir area, near Helena, Mont. River Basin Surveys. 

181, 218 1 lot of earthenware vessels and other artifacts collected by Dr. Gordon 

R. Willey in Viru Valley, Department of La Libertad, Peru. 

182, 450 24 hand-made silver brooches from the Grand River Indians at Cale- 

donia, Ontario, Canada. Bought by the Bureau from Ephraim 

Schuyler, Oneida, Wis. 
182, 928 1 tobacco pouch and pipe of White Calf, a former chief of the Blackfoot 

Indians. Bequeathed by Florence Merriam Bailey to the Bureau. 
182, 986 1 lot of potsherds collected from Pissaisec, an Algonquian village, near 

Leedstown, Va., by the late David I. Bushnell, Jr. 
179, 533 1 lot of archeological material collected at the Hodges site on Plaza 

Larga Creek, Quay County, N. Mex., in August 1947 by Herbert W. 

Dicks as a project of the River Basin Surveys. 

179, 773 Indian skeleton from Lake Spring site. Savannah River, Georgia. 

River Basin Surveys. 

180, 455 1 lot of stone artifacts and rejectage collected by Sheldon Judson at 

various sites in Clay County, N. Mex. 
8G6591— 50 7 



88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Ace. No. 

1 lot of stone artifacts and potsherds collected by Drs. M. W. Stirling 

and Gordon R. Willey from a prehistoric shell mound near Monagrillo, 
Herrera Province, Republic of Panamd, during the 1948 Smithsonian 
Institution-National Geographic Society Expedition to Panamd. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

During the year Miss Frances Densmore, Dr. John R. Swan ton, 
and Dr. Antonio J. Waring, Jr., continued as collaborators of the 
Bureau of American Ethnology. 

During the course of the year information was furnished by mem- 
bers of the Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning the 
American Indians of both continents, past and present. Various 
specimens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on them fur- 
nished for their owners. 

Respectfully submitted. 

M. W. Stirling, Director. 

Dr. A. Wetmore, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 6 
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE 



Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activ- 
ities of the International Exchange Service for the fiscal year ended 
June 30, 1949. 

The Smithsonian Institution is the official United States agency for 
the exchange with other nations of governmental, scientific, and lit- 
erary publications. The International Exchange Service, initiated 
by the Smithsonian Institution in the early years of its existence for 
the interchange of scientific publications between learned societies 
and individuals in the United States and those of foreign countries, 
serves as a means of developing and executing in part the broad and 
comprehensive object, "the diffusion of knowledge." It was later 
designated by the United States Government as the agency for the 
transmission of oflScial documents to selected depositories throughout 
the world, and it continues to execute the exchanges pursuant to 
conventions, treaties, and other international agreements. 

The number of packages received for transmission during the year 
was 840,125, an increase over the previous year of 80,006. The weight 
of these packages was 796,700 pounds, a decrease of 15,489 pounds. 
The average weight of the individual package is approximately 15 
ounces, as compared with the average of the previous year of 1 pound, 
1 ounce — an indication that the various institutions have almost 
completed shipment of the material that was held during the war. 
The material received from both foreign and domestic sources for 
shipment is classified as shown in the following table: 



Classification 


Packages 


Weight 




Number 
396,696 


Number 


Pounds 
169,644 


Pounds 


Publications received in return (or parliamentary docu- 
ments 


10,019 


17, 123 




194,080 


185, 669 




Publications received in return for departmental docu- 
ments 


4,784 


12, 037 


Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent 


206,887 


346, 632 




Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications re- 
ceived from abroad for distribution in the United 
States 


28,659 


65, 695 










Total 


796, 663 


43, 462 


701. 845 


94,855 






Grand total 


840, 125 


796, 700 













90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

The packages are forwarded either by mail direct to the addresses 
or by freight to the exchange bureaus of foreign countries. The 
number of boxes shipped to the foreign exchange bureaus was 3,296, 
an increase of 189 over the previous year. Of the boxes shipped 650 
were for depositories of full sets of United States Government docu- 
ments furnished in exchange for the oflBcial pubhcations of foreign 
governments for deposit in the Library of Congress. The number of 
packages forwarded by mail was 155,402. 

In spite of the fact that considerable savings in transportation 
continued to be effected by exporting from Baltimore rather than 
New York, and in spite of the advantage gained through special 
arrangements for shipments to Germany, the allotment for trans- 
portation was practically exhausted by the end of May 1949. There- 
fore, it was necessary to curtail shipments sharply during the last 
month of the fiscal year, and this resulted in a backlog of approxi- 
mately 146,000 pounds. 

Consignments are now forwarded to all countries except Rumania, 
and efforts are continued to effect exchanges with that country. 

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OP GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS 

The number of sets of United States ofiicial publications received 
by the Exchange Service to be sent abroad in return for the official 
pubhcations sent by foreign governments for deposit in the Library 
of Congress is 90 (58 full and 38 partial sets). The Government Book 
Depot, Rangoon, has been added to the list of full depositories, 

DEPOSITORIES OF FITLL SETS 

Argentina: Direcci6n de Investigaciones, Archive, Biblioteca y Legislaci6n Ex- 

tranjero, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriories y Culto, Buenos Aires. 
Australia: Commonwealth Parliament and National I.ibrary, Canberra. 

Nbvi^ South Wales: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney. 

Queensland: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane. 

South Australia: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide. 

Tasmania: Parliamentary Library, Hobart. 

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne. 

Western Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth. 
Austria: Administrative Library, Federal Chancellery, Vienna.' 
Belgium: Bibliothdque Royale, Bruxelles. 
Brazil: Instituto Nagional do Livro, Rio de Janeiro. 
Bulgaria: Bulgarian Bibliographical Institute, Sofia. 
Burma: Government Book Depot, Rangoon.* 
Canada: Library of Parliament, Ottawa. 

Manitoba: Provincial Library, Winnipeg. 

Ontahio: Legislative Library. Toronto. 

Quebec: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec. 

I Changed from National Library of Austria. 
•Added during year. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 91 

Chile: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago. 

China: Ministry of Education, National Library, Nanking, China.' 

Peiping: National Library of Peiping. 
Colombia: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota. 

Costa Rica: Oficina de Dep6sito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San Jos5. 
Cuba: Ministerio de Estado, Canje Internacional, Habana. 
Czechoslovakia: BibliothSque de I'Assembl^e Nationale, Prague. 
Denmark: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen. 
Egypt: Bureau des Publications, MinistSre des Finances, Cairo. 
Finland: Parliamentary Library, Helsinki. 
France: Biblioth^oue Nationale, Paris. 
Germany: Otfentliche Wissenschaftliche Bibliothek, Berlin. 

American Institut, Berlin.* * 
Gbbat Britain: 

England: British Museum, London. 

London: London Schooi of Economics and Political Science. (Depository 
of the London County Council.) 
Hi3NGap.y: Library of Parliament, Budapest. 
India: National Library, Calcutta. 
Ireland: National Library of Ireland, Dublin. 
Italy: Miuisterio della Pub'.ica Istruxione, Rome. 
Japan: National Diet Library, Tokyo.* 
Mexico: Secretarfa de Relaciones Exteriores, Departamento de Informaci6n para 

el Extranjero, Mexico, D. F. 
Netherlands: Royal Library, The Hague. 
New Zealand: General Assembly Library, Wellington. 
Northern Ireland: H. M. Stationery Office, Belfast. 
Norway: Utenriksdepartmentets Bibliothek, Oslo." 

Peru: Secci6n de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex- 
teriores, Lima. 
Philippines: Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila.^ 
Poland: Biblioth^que Nationale, Warsaw. 
Portugal: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon. 
Rumania: Academia RomSnS, Bucharest.' 

Spain: Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Avenida Calvo Sotelo 20, Madrid. 
Sweden: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm. 
Switzerland: Bibliothfique Centrale F^d^rale, Berne. 

Turkey: Department of Printing and Engraving, Ministry of Education, Istanbul. 
Union of South Africa: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal. 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics: All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow 115. 

Ukraine: Ukranian Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries, 
Kiev.' 
United Nations: Library of the United Nations, Geneva, Switzerland. 
Uruguay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo. 
Venezuela: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas. 
Yugoslavia: Ministfire de I'Education, Belgrade. 

' Suspended. 

• Held for disposition by Library of Congress. 

• Changed from National Library of Japan. 

• Changed from Universitets-Bibliothek. 
' Changed from National Library. 

^ Suspended. 



92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

DEPOSITOEIES OP PARTIAL BETS 

Afghanistan: Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul. 

Bolivia: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz. 

Bbazil: 

MiNAS Geraes: Directoria Geral de Estatistica em Minas, Bello Horizonte. 
British Guiana: Government Secretary's Office, Georgetown, Demerara. 
Canada: 

Alberta: Provincial Library, Edmonton. 

British Columbia: Provincial Library, Victoria. 

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton. 

Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax. 

Saskatchewan: Legislative Library, Regina. 
Cetlon: Department of Information, Government of Ceylon, Colombo.' 
Dominican Republic: Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Cuidad 

Trujillo. 
Ecuador: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito. 
Greece: National Library, Athens. 
Guatemala: Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala. 
Haiti: BibliothSque Nationale, Port-au-Prince. 
Honduras: 

Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa. 

Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa. 
Iceland: National Library, Reykjavik. 
India: 

Bihar and Orissa: Revenue Department, Patna. 

Bombay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Depart- 
ment, Bombay. 

United Provinces of Agra and Oudh: University of Allahabad, Allahabad. 

West Bengal: Library, West Bengal Legislature, Assembly House, Calcutta. 
Iran: Imperial Ministry of Education, Tehran. 
Iraq: Public Library, Baghdad. 
Jamaica: Colonial Secretary, Kingston. 
Liberia: Department of State, Monrovia. 

Malaya: Federal Secretariat, Federation of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur.'* 
Malta: Minister for the Treasury, Valleta. 
Newfoundland: Department of Home Affairs, St. John's. 
Nicaragua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua. 
Pakistan: Chief Secretary to the Government of Punjab, Lahore. 
Panama: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama. 

Paraguay: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores Secci6n Biblioteca, Asunci6n. 
Salvador: 

Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador. 

Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador. 
Siam: National Library, Bangkok. 

Singapore: Chief Secretary, Government Offices, Singapore."" 
Vatican City: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy. 

• Changed from Chief Secretary's Office, Record Department of the Library. 
" Added during year. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 93 

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL 

There are now being sent abroad 81 copies of the Federal Register 
and 75 copies of the Congressional Record. This is an increase of 8 
copies of the Federal Register and 9 of the Congressional Record over 
the preceding year. The countries to which these journals are 
being forwarded are given in the following list: 

dkpositobies of congressional record and federal register 

Argentina: 

Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires. 

Biblioteca del Poder Judicial, Mendoza." 

Cdmara de Diputados. Oficina de Inforraacion Parliamentaria, Buenos Aires. 

Bcletfn Oficial de la Republica Argentina, Ministerio de Justica e Instruccidn 
Publica, Buenos Aires. 
Australia: 

Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra. 

New South Wales: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney. 

Queensland: Chief Secretary's Office, Brisbane. 

Western Australia: Library of Parliament of Western Australia. 
Brazil: 

Biblioteca da Camera dos Deputados, Rio de Janeiro." 

Imprensa Nacional, Rio de Janeiro." 

Amazonas: Archivo, Biblioteca e Imprensa Publica, Mandos. 

Bahia: Governador do Estado da Bahia, Sao Salvador. 

Espirito Santo: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria. 

Rio Grande do Sul: Imprensa Oficial do Estado, Porto Alegre. 

Sergipe: Biblioteca Publica do Estado de Sergipe, Aracajii. 

Sao Paulo: Imprensa Oficial do Estado, Sao Paulo. 
British Honduras: Colonial Secretary, Belize. 
Canada: 

Library of Parliament, Ottawa. 

Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa. 
Cuba: 

Biblioteca del CapitoHo, Habana. 

Biblioteca Publica Panamericana, Habana." 

House of Representatives, Habana. •■• 
Egypt: Ministry of Foreign Afifairs, Egyptian Government, Cairo.** 
El Salvador: Library, National Assembly, San Salvador. 
France: 

Bibliothlque Assemblee Nationale, Paris. i' 

Bibliothfeque, Cons^il de la Republique. 

Publiques de I'lcstitute de Droit Compare, University de Paris, Paris." 

Service de la Documentation Etrang^re, Assemblee Nationale, Paris.'* "* 

'• Federal Register only. 

" Changed from Biblioteca do Congresso Nacional. 

" Congressional Record only. 

i< Added during year. 

» Changed from BibliothSque, Chambre des D6put€s. 



94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Germany: Der Bayrische Landtag, Munich." " 
Great Britain: 

House of Commons Librar}'', London." " 

Printed Library of the Foreign Office, London. 
Greece: Library, Greek Parliament, Athens. 
Guatemala: Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala. 
Haitt: Bibliothfique Nationale, Port-au-Prince. 
Honduras: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa. 
India: 

Civil Secretariat Library, Lucknow, United Provinces." 

Legislative Assembly Library, Lucknow, United Provinces. 

Legislative Department, Simla. 
Indonesia: Provisional Parliament of East-Indonesia, Macassar, Celebes." 
Ireland: Dail Eireann, Dublin. 
Italy: 

Biblioteca Camera dei Deputati, Rome." 

Biblioteca del Senato della RepubUca, Rome." 

European Office, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 
Rome." " 

International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, Rome.** 
Mexico: 

Direcci6n General de Informaci6n, Secretarfa de Gobernaci6n, Mexico, D. F. 

Biblioteca Benjamin Frankhn, Mexico, D. F, 

Aguascalientes: Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes. 

Campeche: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche. 

Chiapas: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez. 

Chihuahua: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua. 

Coahuila: Peri6dico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno, 
Saltillo. 

Colima: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima. 

DuRANGo: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango. 

Guanajuato: Secretarfa General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato. 

Guerrero: Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo. 

Jalisco: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara. 

Lower California: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali. 

Mexico: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca. 

Michoacan: Secretarfa General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacdn, 
Morelia. 

Morelos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca. 

Natarit: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic. 

NuEVO Le6n: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey. 

Oaxaca: Peri6dico Oficial, Palacia de Gobierno, Oaxaca. 

Puebla: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla. 

QuEKi^TARo: Secretarfa General de Gobierno, Secci6n de Archivo, Quer^taro. 

San Luis PoTosf: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosf. 

Sinaloa: Gobernador del Estado, de Sinaloa, Culiaciin. 

Sonora: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo. 

Tabasco: Secretarfa de Gobierno, Sessi6n 3a, Ramo de Prensa, Villahermosa. 

w Congressional Record only. 
" Added during year. 
" Federal Register only. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 95 

Mexico — Continued 

Tamaulipas: Secretarfa General de Gobierno, Victoria. 

Tlaxcala: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala. 

Veracruz: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departmento de Gober- 
naci6n y Justicia, Jalapa. 

YucatXn: Gobernador del Estado de Yucatdn, M6rida. 
Netherlands: Koninklijke Bibliotheek, The Hague." 2" 
New Zealand: General Assembly Library, Wellington. 
Norwat: Library of the Norwegian Parliament, Oslo.*' 
Peru: Cdmara de Diputados, Lima. 
Poland: Ministry of Justice, Warsaw.*" 
Spain: Diputacion de Navarra, San Sebastian. 
Switzerland: BibhothSque, Bureau International du Travail, Geneva.*" 

Library, United Nations, Geneva." 
Union of South Africa: 

Cape of Good Hope: Library of Parliament, Cape Town. 

Transvaal: State Library, Pretoria. 
Uruguay: Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo. 

Venezuela: Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas. 

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES 

Exchanges are sent to all countries except Rumania. The countries 

listed are those to which shipments are forwarded by freight. To 

other countries not appearing on the Hst, packages are forwarded by 

mail. 

list of agencies 

Austria: Austrian National Library, Vienna. 

Belgium: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothfique Royale de Belgique, 

Bruxelles. 
China: Bureau of International Exchange, National Central Library, Nanking. 
Czechoslovakia: Bureau des fichanges Internationaux, Bibliothfeque de I'Assem- 

bl6e Nationale, Prague 1-100. 
Denmark: Institut des fichanges Internationaux, Biblioth&que Royale, Copen- 
hagen K. 
Egypt: Government Press, Publications OflBce, Bulaq, Cairo. 
Finland: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, KasHmgatan 24, 

Helsinki. 
France: Service des fichanges Internationaux, BlbliothSque Nationale, 58 Rue 

de Richelieu, Paris. 
Germany: Offentliche Wissenschaftliche Bibliothek, Berlin."" 

German Central Committee for Distribution of Cultural Materials, 
Stuttgart." " 
Great Britain and Ireland: Wheldon & Wesley, 83/84 Berwick Street, London, 

W. 1. 
Hungary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenciektere 5, Budapest, IV. 
India: Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay. 
Italy: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero della Publica Istruxione, 

Rome. 

»• Added during year. 

*• FeJeral Register only. 

1 Distribution under supervision of Department of the Army. 

** For all sectors of Berlin and Russian Zone. 

" For American, British, and French Zones. 



96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Japan: International Exchange Service, National Library of Japan, Uyeno Park, 
Tokyo" 

Netherlands: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal 
Library, The Hague. 

New South Wales: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney. 

New Zealand: General Assembly Library, Wellington. 

Norway: Service Norv^gien des fichanges Internationaux, Bibliothfique de 
rUniversit^ Royale, Oslo. 

Palestine: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem.** 

Philippines: Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila. 

Poland: Service Polonais des fichanges Internationaux, Biblioth^que Nationale, 
Warsaw. 

Portugal: Secgao de Trocas Internacionais, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon. 

Queensland: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre- 
tary's Office, Brisbane. 

Rumania: Minist^re de la Propagande^ Nationale, Service des fichanges Inter- 
nationaux, Bucharest." 

South Australia: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern- 
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide. 

Spain: Junta de Intercambio y Adquisici6n de Libros y Revistas para Biblote- 
cas Publicas, Ministerio de Educaci6n Nacional, Avenida Calvo Sotelo 20, 
Madrid. 

Sweden: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm. 

Switzerland: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothfeque Centrale 
F^ddrale, Palais F6d6rale, Berne. 

Tasmania: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart. 

Turkey: Ministry of Education, Department of Printing and Engraving, 
Istanbul. 

Union of South Africa: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape Town, 
Cape of Good Hope. 

Union of Soviet Socialist Republics: International Book Exchange Depart- 
ment, Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries, Moscow, 66. 

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne. 

Western Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth. 

Yugoslavia: Section des ^changes Internationaux, Ministdre des Affaires 
fitrangferes, Belgrade. 

Respectfully submitted. 

D. G. Williams, Chief. 
Dr. A. Wetmore, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 

•♦ Distribution under supervision of Department of the Army. 
•• Shipments suspended. 



APPENDIX 7 
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera- 
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June 
30, 1949. 

The improved economic conditions were reflected in satisfactory 
developments at the Zoo during the year. The animal collection was 
gradually improved by obtaining rare or otherwise desirable animals 
to fill available cages, and personnel recruitment and training pro- 
gressed satisfactorily, although it was not possible to fill all vacancies. 
With increased man power and more materials available, progress 
wsis made in taking care of the most needed repairs, and minor im- 
provements were completed. 

As of June 30, 1949, there were 3,724 specimens in the collection, an 
increase of 927 over the previous year. These represented 755 species, 
an increase of 65. Not only was the collection increased in size, but 
the quality was improved by the addition of animals that are not well 
known, thereby adding to its educational value. 

The National Zoological Park renders a variety of services to the 
American public. Besides the animal exhibits and the providing of an 
attractive recreation area, valuable opportunities are offered for 
students of biology, particularly vertebrate zoology, as well as for 
artists, photographers, writers, and research workers — utilizing 
methods of research that do not endanger the welfare of the animals 
or of the public. Other direct services are answering in person, by 
phone, mail, and telegraph, questions regarding animals, their care 
and transportation; the furnishing of information to other zoos and 
private and public agencies regarding structures for keeping and 
housing animals; and cooperation with other agencies of the Federal, 
State, and municipal governments in research work. 

THE EXHIBITS 

Animals for the collection are acquired by gift, deposit, purchase, 
exchange, bu'ths and hatchings, and are removed by return of speci- 
mens on deposit, exchange, or death. Although depositors are at 
liberty to remove the specimens that they place in the Zoo, many 
leave the specimens for the rest of then- lives. 

97 



98 ANNTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

As in any colony of living things, there is a steady turn-over, so 
that the exhibits are constantly changing. Thus, the inventory list 
of specimens in the collection on June 30 of each year does not show all 
the kinds of animals that were exhibited during the year; sometimes 
creatures of outstanding interest at the time they were shown are no 
longer in the collection at the time the list is prepared. 

ACCESSIONS 

A great many interesting shipments have been received from abroad. 
The Navy Medical Research Unit No. 3 sent through Lt. Robert E. 
Kuntz a large collection of Egyptian reptiles, including a number of 
species that the Zoo has never had before. The Institute of Scientific 
Research, Madagascar, sent by air a group of leopard chameleons, 
some Zonosaurus lizards, and two Dumeril's boas. The San Diego 
Zoological Society presented a beautiful specimen of the spectacled 
bear. The Army Medical Research Center Laboratory in Malaya 
sent through Maj. Robert Traub an interesting collection, including 
two striking bamboo rats and eight different species of tree rats, none 
of which had been exhibited heretofore. From the Zoological Society 
of London was received an extensive shipment, including 4 Chinese 
water deer, a kusimanse, some rare birds, and 2 of the rare Meller's 
chameleons. 

Dr. Guillermo Mann of the University of Santiago, Santiago, Chile, 
sent specimens of Gay's frog and the unusual Bibron's "toad" frog, 
as well as three abrocomas, a rodent seldom seen in captivity. Pat 
Putnam sent from the Belgian Congo chameleons and francolins. 
Capt. John Miller of Panagra Airlines, Peril, shipped to the Zoo its 
first pair of the rare pigmy marmosets, smallest of all the monkeys. 

Among the outstanding receipts through purchases or exchanges 
were an African two-horned rhinoceros, a pair of wombats, a king 
cormorant, a trio of kelp geese, orang-utans and chimpanzees. The 
latter are to replace the stock that some years ago was destroyed by 
an epidemic. 

William T. Miller, after resigning from the Army, spent some time 
in Panamd and sent several shipments includmg a pigmy anteater 
and a great rufous motmot. Dr. A. Reventlow of the Zoological 
Garden at Copenhagen, Denmark, presented to the Zoo its first pair 
of whooper swans. From the Zoo in Rotterdam, Holland, were 
received a king cobra and some ruffs. In an air shipment from 
Australia came reptiles of more than a dozen species, including the 
carpet pj^thon, diamond python, and a number of rare lizards and 
turtles. 



' SECRETARY'S REPORT 99 

DEPOSITORS AND DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS 
(Deposits are marked*) 

Aiken, Jesse E,, Chevy Chase, Md., opossum (young in pouch). 

Allen, Miss Joyce, Washington, D. C, sparrow hawk. 

Animal Rescue League, Washington, D. C, muskrat. 

Army Medical Research, Washington, D, C, slow loris. 

Arutsaw, Pvt. V. C, and Harp, Pvt. W. W., Washington, D. C, woodchuck 

Ayars, James W., Silver Spring, Md., parrot. 

Balster, Joseph, Washington, D. C, festive parrot. 

Barbour, Charles, Sunnj'brook, Md., fence lizard. 

Barker, J. M., Moyock, N. C, timber rattlesnake. 

Beck, L. v., Bethesda, Md., 2 zebra finches. 

Bernstein, Edward, Washington, D. C, white-throated capuchin,* 

Bittenbender, J. C, Arlington, Va., flying squirrel. 

Bitting, Maurice, Cheverly, Md., raccoon. 

Boswell, Mrs. May, Washington, D. C, green heron. 

Bowen, Mrs. Raymond J., Washington, D. C, mouse. 

Bratter, Miss J., Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 

Brodess, Miss D., Washington, D. C, ring-necked dove. 

Brommer, K. M., Minneapolis, Minn., ferret. 

Burford, Captain, Falls Church, Va., opossum. 

Burke, Mrs. J. O., Washington, D. C, domestic white rabbit. 

Butler, H. M., Washington, D. C, alligator. 

Carrick, W. E., Capitol Heights, Md., skunk. 

Carroll, Robert, Arlington, Va., black widow spider. 

Carter, H. E., Alexandria, Va., ruby-throated humming bird. 

Catskill Game Farm, Inc., Catskill, N. Y., pigtail macaque monkey. 

Celia, Dominick, Bethesda, Md., sparrow hawk. 

Chamberlin, Donald, Kenwood, Md., sparrow hawk* and screech owl.* 

Claxen, Charles W., Chevy Chase, Md., 7 golden hamsters. 

Clift, Miss Annie M., Bethesda, Md., Pekin duck. 

Collins, John F., Washington, D. C, 4 Pekin ducks. 

Colvin, Master E., Washington, D. C, red fox. 

Cook, Harry, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

Cool, Leon D., and Gascoyne, Rodney, Washington, D. C, whistling swan.* 

Coolidge, Belle, Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 

Cooper, John, Washington, D. C, 2 raccoons. 

Coppel, Miss Marcia, Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 

Corrigan, Miss Myrtle, Washington, D. C, painted bunting. 

Corver, H. O., Washington, D. C, opossum, 

Cunningham, J. Francis, Arlington, Va., 2 flying squirrels. 

Dale, Mr. and Mrs. Martin B,, Arlington, Va., 3 grass parakeets (albino). 

Davis, L. W., Arlington, Va., 2 eastern skunks. 

Davis, Malcolm, Washington, D. C, American crow and 2 black vultures. 

Davis, Thomas M,, Philadelphia, Pa., 3 Ameiva lizards, 8 blue honeycreepers, 

18 yellow atelopus. 
Decatur, Miss Edna, Washington, D. C, brown thrasher. 
Dent, W. W., Washington, D. C, ground hog. 
Denton, J. O., Alexandria, Va., skunk. 

Messrs. DePrato, Fiedler, and Davis, Washington, D, C, snapping turtle. 
Detmer, J., Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 



100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Donovan, Daniel J., Washington, D. C, yellow-naped parrot. 

Douglas, F., Washington, D. C, raccoon. 

Douglas. Floyd G., (address unknown), American badger. 

Dour, John, Abington, Va., hog-nosed snake. 

DuBuy, Dr. H. G., Berwyn, Md., common goat. 

Dudley, Dr. A., Bethesda, Md., 5 opossums. 

Duetermann, Capt. W. V., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck, 

Dumming, Bill, Chevy Chase, Md., snapping turtle. 

Eleazec, J. M., Clemson, S. C, black vulture. 

Ellwanger, Mrs. Chas., Vienna, Va., screech owl. 

Ennes, Richard, Washington, D. C, 2 great horned owls.* 

Esfandiary, Mr., Washington, D. C, 6 white mice. 

Evans, Jim, (address unknown), hog-nosed snake and mole snake. 

Finely, Dr. H. E., Washington, D. C, bullfrog. 

Finnegan, Hugh L., Silver Spring, Md., 11 opossums. 

Flick, Carlton R., Mt, Rainier, Md., 5 opossums. 

Ford, Clifford, Shady Side, Md., spider monkey. 

Franciscan Monastery, Washington, D. C, bleeding-heart dove. 

Freret, Mrs. J. P., Alexandria, Va., flying squirrel. 

Friday, David L., Bethesda, Md., eastern gray squirrel. 

Gatti, Mrs. S. A., Washington, D. C, 2 grass parakeets, 2 Java sparrows, 9 
canaries. 

Gilbert, Paul, Washington, D. C, double yellow-headed parrot. 

Golden, Helen, Sarasota, Fla., Indian rock python.* 

Goldwyn, Ronald J., Alexandria, Va., 2 Pekin ducks. 

Griffin, D. A., Washington, D. C, barn owl. 

Guy, R. L., Arlington, Va., 2 Pekin ducks. 

Haas, Mrs. F., Washington, D. C, canary. 

Hager, Lester H., Arlington, Va., Florida gallinule. 

Haggerty, Miss Irene, Washington D. C, eastern robin. 

Handley, Charles, Washington, D, C, 2 gray foxes. 

Harriman, D., Washington, D. C, domestic rabbit. 

Harris, Van T., Ann Arbor, Mich., least weasel. 

Harwall, Master Michael, ArUngton, Va., barred owl. 

Henderson, Genevieve, Chevy Chase, Md., horned lizard. 

Henshaw, Bill, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

Heslep, C, Silver Spring, Md., eastern robin. 

Hickman, Jean H., Washington, D. C, 4 eastern gray squirrels. 

Hoffman, Dr. Paul, Washington D. C, 2 opossums. 

Hogan, Mrs. Henry, Washington, D. C, eastern robin. 

Holmes, Mrs. G., Washington, D. C, northern raven. 

Householder, Vic. H., Phoenix, Ariz., 4 western green toads, collared peccary. 

Howard, Dr. Walter E., O'Neals, Calif., 4 digger-pine pocket mice, 2 San Joaquin 
pocket mice, 7 California harvest mice, 16 Gambel white-footed mice, 12 
California meadow mice. 

Ingham, Rex, Ruffin, N. C, yellow-naped parrot,* red-blue-and-yellow macaw,* 
yellow-and-blue macaw,* Mexican green macaw.* 

Ingles, Lloyd G., Fresno State College, Fresno, Calif., mountain beaver, golden- 
mantle ground squirrel, San Joaquin kangaroo rat, 3 lodgepole-pine chipmunks, 
California white-footed mouse, San Joaquin antelope ground squirrel, Heerman 
kangaroo rat, California pocket mouse, Tejon pocket mouse, Merriam's kan- 
garoo rat, 3 small-faced kangaroo rats, southwestern white-footed mjouse, 4 
pack rats (mother and 3 babies). 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 101 

Institut de Recherche Scientifique, Madagascar, 7 leopard chameleons, 2 Du- 
meril's boas, 3 lizards. 

Jackson, William, Washington, D. C, barn owl. 

James, Clayton, Landover, Md., purple gallinule, 10 West Indian mourning 
doves,* button quail,* spotted salamander. 

James, Cloyd, Purcellville, Va., 2 barn owls. 

Jenkins, R. S., Bueuavista, Va., gray fox, skunk, Geoffroy's marmoset. 

Johnson, Duane, W., Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 

Johnson, F. R., Eustis, Fla., coral snake, eastern diamond-backed rattlesnake. 

Johnson, L., Washington, D. C, rhino beetle. 

Jones, J. M., Silver Spring, Md., 45 white mice. 

Keegan, Capt. Hugh L., Manila, P. I., monitor, reticulated python, 3 river 
snakes, 2 akamatahs, 4 Habu vipers. 

King, Charles E., Washington Grove, Md., barn owl. 

Komsa, John, Washington, D. C, raccoon. 

Koon, E. S., Asheville, N. C, alligator. 

Krouse, Mrs. A. F., Washington, D. C, eastern robin. 

Kuntz, Lt. R. E., Cairo, Egypt, 4 Roger's whipsnakes, 7 sand vipers, 11 Egyp- 
tian colubers, 4 dassas, javeline boa, 2 desert warals, Egyptian leaf-nosed snake, 
"Fish of the Sand," 3 dabbs (or dhabs), mucronate sand lizard, 3 "Father of 
Eyes" (cat-eyed snakes), 3 horned vipers, 3 gharibas, 4 aekams, 5 Egyptian 
cobras, 3 pale agamas, chameleon, gecko or white "bore," 4 Egyptian 
spiny mice, 6 pyramid gerbills, 7 Egyptian sand lizards, Egyptian snails, 16 
Egyptian skinks, "Father of Stripes." 

LaGarde, B. L., Frederick, Md., 2 garter snakes, copperhead snake. 

Lane, Dick and Elaine, Washington, D. C, domestic rabbit. 

Lee, Emmett L., Alexandria, Va., 2 barred owls. 

Leonard, Diane Ruth, Washington, D, C, hog-nosed snake. 

Linkins, Mrs. C. S., Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 

Lionheart, Mrs. Louis, Washington, D. C, eastern gray squirrel. 

Lipscomb, Mrs. Thomas, Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 

Lohren, Harold, black muskrat. 

Low, S. H., Gaithersburg, Md., alligator. 

Lucas, C. S., East Riverdale, Md., Pekin duck. 

Lyons, James N., Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 

MacCracken, E., Washington, D. C, red fox. 

Mann. Dr. Guillermo, Santiago, Chile, 3 abrocomas, 3 Gay's frogs, 53 Bibron'a 
"toad" frogs. 

Marshall, Master Fred, Washington, D. C, snapping turtle. 

Marshall, L. M., Washington, D. C, woodchuck or ground hog. 

McBride, Gordon W., Chevy Chase, Md., domestic rabbit.* 

McDermott, Mrs. Jack C, Washington, D. C, yellow-headed parrot.* 

McDonald, Master Earling, Takoma Park, Md., raccoon. 

Meems Bros. & Ward, Oceanside, L. L, cheetah.* 

Meininger, J. L., Chevy Chase, Md., Pekin duck. 

Meininger, Paul, Bethesda, Md., 2 Pekin ducks. 

Miller, Capt. John, Lima, Peru, 2 Pygmy marmosets. 

Mills, John, Washington, D. C, 10 common newts. 

Mills, L. W., Chevy Chase, Md., opossum. 

Moats, Mr. and Mrs. Edwin R., Hillside, Md., 4 pileated woodpeckers. 

Moebs, Noel, Chevy Chase, Md., barred owl. 

Monahan, Edward P., Trinidad, B. W. L, boa constrictor. 

Moulton, Gladys, Washington, D. C, Cumberland terrapin.* 



102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

National Capitol Park Service, Washington, D. C, copperhead snake, pilot snake. 
Naval Research Medical Center, Bethesda, Md., Javan macaque,* 16 East 

African elephant shrews.* 
Nicoson, Keith S., Arlington, Va., skunk. 
O'Donnell's Grill, Washington, D. C, alligator. 
O'Neill, C. A., Washington, D. C, cockatiel. 
O'Neill, Chas. F., Washington, D. C, 2 Pekin ducks. 
Ord, Edward, Washington, D. C, 2 angel fish. 

Ormsby, A. I., Sydney, Australia, 6 black snakes, 6 black-bellied snakes. 
Parker, McRea, Leesburg, Va., pilot snake. 
Parko, Kendrick, Arlington, Va., timber rattlesnake. 
Parsons, Master Tom, Washington, D. C, snapping turtle. 
Paugh, Mrs. B., Bristol, Va., opossum. 
Peterson, E. G., Arlington, Va., American common crow. 
Philadelphia Zoological Society, Philadelphia, Pa., ocellated turkey,* mallard 

duck (gift). 
Phillips, Chester, and McComb, Robert, Washington, D. C, barred owl. 
Preston, J. E., Washington, D. C, lesser white-nosed guenon.* 
Putnam, Pat, Belgian Congo, chameleons and francolins. 

Randel, Capt. Hugh W., Canal Zone, 3 GaMpagos iguanas, Galdpagos tortoise. 
Reed, R. W., Washington, D. C, cardinal. 
Reegan, T. V., Washington, D. C, eastern gray squirrel.* 
Rivere, Dr. Luis Howell, Havana, Cuba, hutia. 
Robey, J. C, Washington, D. C, golden hamster. 
Robinson, George A., McPherson, Kans., coyote. 
Rosenberg, Louis, Washington, D. C, Virginia rail. 
Rottmund, F. G., Silver Spring, Md., pied-billed grebe. 
Rusch, James L., Washington, D. C, rhesus monkey.* 
Ryder, Mrs. Stephen, Silver Spring, Md., 3 Pekin ducks. 
San Diego Zoological Society, San Diego, Calif., spectacled bear. 
Santos, Mrs. J., Washington, D. C, skunk. 
Schneider, Mrs. T. F., Dragoon, Ariz., gila monster. 
Sharpe, C. J., Takoma Park, Md., Pekin duck. 
Shaw, Harry L., Baltimore, Md., Hamadryas baboon.* 
Sherwood, Harry, Washington, D. C, domestic rabbit. 
Sloan, J. L., Salt Lake City, Utah, 2 ring-billed gulls, 2 badgers. 
Smith, Master Dorsey, Clifton, Va., skunk. 
Snyder, E. T., Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 
Snyder, Dr. T. E., Beltsville, Md., snapping turtle. 
Souder, Harry N., Washington, D. C, brown capuchin. 
Spliden, Ronald, Landover, Md., pied-billed grebe. 
Springer, Paul, Laurel, Md., gray-cheeked thrush. 

Stanley, Misses Jeanne and Mary Ann, Washington, D. C, 2 Pekin ducks. 
Steelman, S/Sgt. Carl T., Boiling Field, D. C, woodchuck or ground hog. 
Steger, Mrs. Mary E., Falls Church, Va., 2 grass parakeets. 
Stevenson, Mrs. Elva Myers, Washington, D. C, rhesus monkey.* 
Stinnett, Bob, Cameron, Mont., cinnamon bear. 
Stogdhill, Howard, Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 
Stomn, Mrs., Arlington, Va., American crow.* 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 103 

Strates, J. E., Shows, Inc., Alexandria, Va., lion. 

Sturgell, David A., Berwyn, Md., skunk. 

Sunday, Richard, Arlington, Va., eastern chipmunk. 

Surles, George L., Washington, D. C, Philippine macaque. 

Swope, Miss Alice C, Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 

Tolman, Ruel P., Washington, D. C, flying squirrel. 

Townsend, Mrs. Thomas, Washington, D. C, 2 domestic rabbits. 

Traub, Maj. Robert, Army Medical Center, Malaya, 2 bamboo rats, 2 slow loris, 

Malayan cat, 2 Callosciurus nigroviridis, 2 gray tree rats, 2 large spiny-backed 

tree rats, 2 Edward's tree rats, 2 Muller's tree rats, 2 rajah tree rats, 2 pencil- 
tailed tree rats, Bower's tree rat. Whitehead's tree rat. 
TrefEch's Bird and Animal Co., Inc., New York, N. Y., 3 great gray kangaroos.* 
U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Patuxent, Md. (through Arnold Nelson), 4 

bobwhites, 9 opossums. 
U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Washington, D. C. (through Leon Cool, Jr.), 

2 whistling swans, whistling swan.* 
U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Willows, Calif, (through Vernon Ekedahl), 

10 cackling geese. 
U. S. Naval Hospital, Bethesda, Md., Poland-China hog. 
U. S. Public Health Service, Bethesda, Md. (through Dr. H. W. Stunkard), 

golden baboon. 
Vevers, Mr. and Mrs. G., London, England, 2 dormice. 
Wagner, Mrs. Henry S., Front Royal, Va., 22 canaries. 

West, Master David, and Manfuso, Master Bob, Chevy Chase, Md., opossum. 
White, Miss Becky, Washington, D. C, opossum. 
White, Miss Inez, Washington, D. C, Muscovy duck. 
Whitehead, Mrs. Virginia, Washington, D. C, 2 Pekin ducks. 
Widham, Mrs. Spencer, Silver Spring, Md., ring-necked pheasant. 
Williamson, A. A., Washington, D. C, 6 white cloud mountain fish, 6 zebra 

fish, 6 head-and-tail-light fish, rio tetra, 2 black tetra. South American catfish. 
Williamson, F. S. L., San Diego, Calif., California king snake, 2 glossy snakes, 

5 red rattlers, 2 rosy boas, 3 gopher snakes, 2 alligator lizards. Pacific rattler, 

striped racer. 
Wilson, Mrs. Arnold, Washington, D. C, 2 grass parakeets. 
Woolls, Wm. P., Alexandria, Va., Pekin duck. 

Wright, Jack, and Davis, Harvey, Arlington, Va., red-bellied terrapin. 
Young, C. N., Silver Spring, Md., raccoon. 
Ziese, A., Washington, D. C, domestic rabbit. 
Zoological Society of London, London, England, 4 Chinese water deer, 1 kusi- 

manse, 2 dormice, 6 jackdaws, 2 European jays, 2 purple touracous, 1 plover, 

and 2 Meller's chameleons. 

BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS 

MAMMALS 
Scientific name Common name Number 

Ammotragus lervia Aoudad 4 

Aohis irivirgahis Owl or night monkey 1 

Aleles geoffroyi vellerosus Spider monkey 1 

Axix axis Axis deer 2 

Bibos gaurus Gaur 1 

Bos iaurus English Park cattle 1 

Bos taurus West Highland cattle 1 

866591—50 8 



104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Scientific namt Common name Number 

Bubalus huhalis Water buflFalo 

Camelus bactrianus Bactrian camel 

Capromys pilorides Hutia 

Cephalophua nigrifrons Black-fronted duiker 

Cercopithecus aethiopn sabaeus Green guenon 

Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus X C. a. Hybrid green guenon X ver- 

pygerythrus vet guenon 

Chinchilla chinchilla Chinchilla 

Choeropsis liberiensis Pigmy hippopotamus 

Cyclopes didactylus Pigmy or silky anteater 

Dama dama Brown fallow deer 2 

Dama dama White fallow deer 5 

Felis concoloT X F. c. patagonica Hybrid North American X 

South American puma 2 

Felis tigris __ Tiger (Bengal) 5 

Giraffa camelopardalis Nubian giraffe 

Hippopotamus amphibius Hippopotamus 

Hydropotes inermis Chinese water deer 

Lama glama guanico Guanaco 

Lama pacos Alpaca 

Lemur macacao Acoumba lemur 

Odocoileus virginianus Virginia deer 

Oncifelis geoffroyi GeofTroy's cat 

Ovis europaea Mouflon 

Phloeomys cumingi Slender-tailed cloud rat 2 

Raltus canus Tree rat 3 

Syncerus caffer African buffalo 1 

Thalarctos maritimus X Vrsus middendorffi,. _ Hybrid bear 2 

BIRDS 

Agriocharis ocellata Ocellated turkey 5 

Anas platyrhynchos Mallard duck 12 

Branta canadensis Canada goose 12 

Cairina moschata Muscovy duck 5 

Fulica americana American coot 10 

Gallus gallus Red jungle fowl 1 

Gennaeus leucomelanus Nepal pheasant 6 

Larus novaehollandiae Silver gull 4 

Pavo cristatus Peafowl 1 

Taeniopygia castanotis Zebra finch 6 

REPTILES 

Crotalus adamanteus Eastern diamond-backed rat- 
tlesnake 5 

Epicrates cenchris Rainbow boa 18 

Natrix, sp _. Water snakes 8 

Tiliqua nigrolutea Black-barred skink 5 

Tiliqua scincoides Blue-tongued skink 3 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 105 

FEEDING THE ANIMALS 

To feed such a collection of animals with their varied requirements 
presents a considerable problem. At the beginning of the war, prices 
for many of the green types of food had gone so high that the use of 
such material was almost prohibitive, although it is essential for the 
well-being of many of the animals. Therefore the Zoo inaugurated a 
system of obtaining from nearby grocery stores the outer leaves of 
lettuce, cabbage, cauliflower, and other material that would normally 
go into the refuse. This material is picked up daily and is sorted to 
make certain that it is in suitable condition. The animals have 
thrived, the cost for such green food has been held to a minimum, and 
it was thus possible to keep out of competition for human food when 
such material was scarce. The arrangement has been so satisfactory 
that it is being continued. 

During the war the United States Marshal's office made arrange- 
ments to turn over to the Zoo food that had been condemned in the 
courts as unsuitable for human consumption. That office has con- 
tinued to send considerable quantities and many different kinds of 
such food. The Zoo also frequently receives offers from private 
individuals or business houses of food that they wish to dispose of 
without having to go through the court procedure of condemnation. 
Thus diversified food was received for the animals, which greatly 
aided in keeping down the cost of feeding. 

MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMENTS 

In the lion house many of the old cages were extensively repaired, 
and a portion of the steam conduit under the building was repaired 
and improved. Concrete floors were laid in the outside cages at the 
monkey house, and 6-inch concrete slabs were laid between the 
sidewalk and the cages around the stone cat houses. A sidewalk was 
buUt from the small-mammal house to the walk between the reptile 
house and the antelope building. 

By clearing and surfacing additional land, the capacity of the bus- 
parking area was increased from 20 to 40 busses. The capacity of the 
automobile-parking area also was increased from 650 to 750 auto- 
mobiles. 

For the third successive year the fight by chemical means against 
poison ivy continued, and very little of this plant pest remains in 
areas commonly frequented by the public. Increased efforts have 
been directed toward improving the appearance of the grounds, 
caring for the lawns, planting trees and shrubs, and carrying on other 
gardening work. As a whole, satisfactory progress has been made in 
returning to normal maintenance. 



106 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 



VISITORS 

The total attendance was 3,346,050, an increase of 305,510 over the 
previous year. This was the largest attendance in the history of the 
Zoo and is probably due in part to the continued high employment in 
the Washington area, increase in travel accompanying the general 
economic prosperity, and the frequency with which we were able to 
announce the addition of interesting specimens to the collection. 
The variation in attendance on the different days of the week which 
was so extreme before the war has been much less noticeable since the 
war. Formerly early days of the week had relatively low attendance, 
with an increasing number of visitors the latter portion of the week 
and with very large crowds on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays. 
There is also a considerable increase in attendance in the earlier hours 
of the day. 

ESTIMATED NUMBEE OP VISITORS FOR FISCAL TEAR 1949 



February 167, 700 

March 245, 300 

April 375,500 

May 410,600 

June 299, 900 



July (1948) 424, 000 

August 468, 000 

September. 339, 000 

October 230, 300 

November 109, 400 

December 49, 450 

January (1949) 167,000 Total 3,346,050 

Groups came to the Zoo from schools in 25 States, some as far away 
as Maine, Florida, Texas, and California. One group of 33 persons 
came from Havana, Cuba. 



NUMBER OF GROUPS FROM SCHOOLS 



Alabama 

California 

Connecticut 

Delaware 

District of Columbia 

Florida 

Georgia 

Illinois 

Indiana-- 

Kentucky... 

Maine 

Maryland 

Massachusetts 

Michigan 

Minnesota.. 



Number 
of groups 



7 
1 
8 
7 
132 
6 
48 
1 

12 
9 
12 
625 
7 
16 
2 



Number 
In groups 



197 
158 
497 
385 
7,822 
672 
1,819 

21 
451 
291 
775 
28,859 
374 
674 

76 



Mississippi 

New Jersey 

New York 

North Carolina 

Ohio 

Pennsylvania 

South Carolina 

Tennessee 

Virginia. 

West Virginia 

Total (States) 
Havana, Cuba 

Total 



Number 
of groups 



2 
23 
95 

154 
47 

245 
39 
33 

362 
50 



1,843 
1 



Number 
In groups 



35 
1,374 
5,582 
5,320 
1,647 

12, 261 
1,119 
1,453 

19,312 
2,425 



93, 599 
33 



1, 844 93, 632 



About 2 p. m. each day the cars then parked in the Zoo are counted 
by the Zoo police and listed according to the State, Territory, or 
country from which they came. This is, of course, not a census of 
the cars coming to the Zoo, but is valuable in showing the percentage 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 107 

of attendance, by States, of people in private automobiles. The 
tabulation for the fiscal year 1949 is as follows: 

Percent 



Washington, D. C 26. 9 

Maryland 2(5. 4 

Virginia 20. 5 

Pennsylvania 4. 4 

New York 2. 5 

North Carolina , 2.0 



Percent 

Ohio „ 1. 7 

West Virginia 1, 4 

New Jersey 1. 3 

Massachusetts .9 

Florida .9 

California . 8 



The cars that made up the remaining 10.30 percent came from 
every one of the remaining States, as well as from Alaska, Bahamas, 
Canada, Canal Zone, Chile, Cuba, Guam, Hawaii, Honduras, Italy, 
Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Newfoundland, Poland, Puerto Rico, 
Sweden, Trieste, Trinidad, and Virgin Islands. 

It is well known that District of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia 
cars bring to the Zoo many people from other parts of the United 
States and of the world, but no figures are available on which to base 
percentages. 

FINANCES 

The regular appropriation provided in the District of Columbia 
appropriation act was $492,600, and there was a supplemental appro- 
priation in the second deficiency bill of $36,248 to provide for the 
increased salaries of $330 per annum authorized by Congress. Of 
the total of $528,848 which was available, about $11,474 will remain 
unexpended, subject to minor changes in final bills. This saving 
was mainly from salaries because of the impossibility of filHng posi- 
tions promptly. 

The stone restaurant building, which was constructed in the park 
in 1940 under an allotment of $90,000, is under a 3-year lease obtained 
by competitive bidding at $10,212 per annum. This money is de- 
posited in the general fund of the United States Treasury. The 
concessionaire serves meals and light refreshments, and sells novelties. 

NEEDS OF THE ZOO 

The chief need of the Zoo is for the replacement of antiquated 
structures that have long since ceased to be suitable for the purpose. 
The more m-gently needed buildings are: (1) A new administration 
building to replace the 144-year-old historic landmark now in use for 
an office building for the Zoo, but which is neither suitably located nor 
well adapted for the purpose. This building is in an excellent loca- 
tion for a public recreational structure, and coidd probably be rehabiU- 
tated and used for recreational purposes, perhaps as a children's 



108 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 



museum, and thus maintained as a historic building. The new 
office building should be better located both from the standpoint of 
accessibiUty to the public and convenience for the administration of 
the Zoo. (2) A new building to house antelopes and other medium- 
size hoofed animals that require a heated building. 



STATUS OF THE COLLECTION 



Class 



Mammals... 

Birds 

Reptiles 

Amphibians. 
Fish 



Species 



235 
346 
121 
22 
24 



Individ- 
uals 



786 
1,911 
509 
164 
226 



Class 



Crustaceans. 
Arachnids... 

Insects 

Mollusks 



Total. 



Species 



755 



Individ- 
uals 



2 

3 

100 

23 



3,724 



SUMMARY 

Animals on hand July 1, 1948 2, 797 

Accessions during the year 1, 751 



Total number of animals in collection during the year 4, 548 

Removals for various reasons such as death, exchanges, return of animals 

on deposit, etc 824 



In collection on June 30, 1949 3, 724 

Respectfully submitted. 

W. M. Mann, Director, 
Dr. A. Wetmore, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 8 
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera- 
tions of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended 
June 30, 1949: 

The Observatory includes two research divisions: (1) the Division 
of Astrophysical Research, concerned chiefly with solar radiation 
problems, and (2) the Division of Radiation and Organisms, con- 
cerned with the biological effects of radiation. 

During the year a new room adjoining the Director's office was 
built for the administrative assistant and for the files of the Obeerva- 
tory. The resulting consolidation of needed information nsar at 
hand has materially improved the efficiency of operation. 

Considerable progress can be reported concerning the new revised 
editions of the Smithsonian Meteorological Tables and the Smith- 
sonian Physical Tables, mentioned in last year's report. R. J. List, 
editor of the Meteorological Tables revision, had practically completed 
his manuscript at the end of the fiscal year. The difficult task of 
revising the Physical Tables, the last revision of which had been issued 
in 1934, was begun in September 1948 under the direction of Dr. 
W. E. Forsythe. An office in Cleveland, Ohio, and an assistant were 
furnished to Dr. Forsythe. At the close of the fiscal year he reports 
that approximately one-half of the tables for the new edition have 
been completed. 

(1) DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH 

Previous to 1946 the Observatory had for many years maintained 
three high-altitude field stations for solar-constant observations. In 
1946 the Tyrone station, which for 7 years had been operated on 
Burro Mountain (altitude 8,000 ft.) in southwestern New Mexico, 
was abandoned because skies there had progressively deteriorated, 
mainly the result of increasing mining and smelting operations in that 
general region. As a temporary measure, to aid in certain studies 
referred to below under contract with the Quartermaster Corps, the 
Tyrone station equipment was transferred to and installed at Miami, 
Fla. Since then much effort has been spent to find the most suitable 
location for a third high-altitude field station to replace the aban- 
doned Tyrone site. In last year's report we mentioned that after 

109 



110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

careful investigation three promising sites had been chosen for further 
study and that in May 1948 a recording Eppley pyrheliometer was 
installed at each of these sites, namely, (1) Torre6n, Coahuila, Mex- 
ico; (2) Alountain Pass, near Clark Mountain, California; and (3) 
Pohakuola, Hawaii. The three pyrheliometers were operated for a 
period of 1 year, ending June 1949, The resulting records indicate 
the uniformity and the quality of the sky for each day during the 
period. It is clear from the records that the best skies prevailed 
at the Clark Mountain location. The second-best site was Poha- 
kuola. This spot, 6,500 feet above sea level on the Island of Hawaii, 
yielded some records of unusually clear and uniform skies, but such 
skies were not the rule. At Clark Mountain, during the period 
June 8 to March 31, there were 171 days with skies sufficiently good 
for satisfactory observations, while at Table Mountain, Calif., during 
the same period actual observations were made on 135 days. From 
studies of these records and other sources, it appears that the Clark 
Mountain region is in general considerably drier and more free of 
haze and clouds than any other high-altitude location at present 
known in the northern hemisphere. 

In view of this, estimates were obtained of the cost of establishing 
a field station at an altitude of 6,500 feet on the south slope of Clark 
Mountain. Owing to the prevailing high prices for building materials 
and labor, the estimates proved to be in excess of available funds. 
It is hoped that sufficient funds may become available, but pending 
this the Observatory plans immediately to enlarge its facilities at 
Table Mountain sufficiently so that it will be possible to proceed 
without delay with the special experimental problems mentioned in 
last year's report. 

Work at Washington. — W. H. Hoover, Chief of the Division, in 
addition to supervision of the work in progress, prepared data and 
tables which will help to simplify the computations in the field. In 
the past, to obtain the air mass (or length of path of the solar beam 
in the atmosphere) it has been necessary to plot carefully a series 
of theodolite readings against time, to read off desired altitude values, 
and finally to enter an air-mass-altitude table. With the aid of 
Hoover's data, the observer, by reading the theodolite at specified 
intervals, may enter the tables directly to determine the air mass. 
This eliminates the tedious curve-plotting process. 

A new instrument, designed by Dr. John W. Evans, of the High 
Altitude Observatory of Harvard University, and described by him 
in the Journal of the Optical Society of America, December 1948, was 
kindly lent to the Astrophysical Observatory by Dr. Menzel of Har- 
vard University to test and to determine its adaptability to Smith- 
sonian work. The instrument is a photometer especially designed 



SECRETARY'S REPORT HI 

for determining the brightness of the sky immediately surrounding 
the sun. Excellent results have been obtained with it at the Harvard 
Station at Climax, Colo. It is of considerable interest to compare its 
readings with simultaneous readings of the Smithsonian pyranometer 
which also measures the brightness of the sky in a zone around the 
sun. In preparation for comparison tests a rigid mounting has been 
prepared for the instrument with slow-motion adjustment in altitude 
and azimuth. 

During the fiscal year, two silver-disk pyrhehometers, Nos. 80 and 
81, were built, calibrated and sold at cost, one to the Hebrew Institute 
of Technology, Haifa, Palestine, and the other to the Dublin Institute 
for Advanced Learning. In addition two modified Angstrom pyrhehom- 
eters and one special instrument for the spectroscopic determination 
of atmospheric water vapor have been prepared for the Belgium 
Meteorological Institute. These were nearly completed at the end 
of the year. 

Dr. C. G. Abbot, research associate of the Observatory, continued 
his studies of the dependence of weather upon solar changes. This 
work has been published in Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 
vol. Ill, Nos. 5, 6, and 7. Dr. Arctowski's studies of solar and terres- 
trial atmospheres were retarded by illness, but his work was resumed 
before the close of the year. 

Work in the field. — Daily observations of the solar constant were 
in progress throughout the year, as far as skies permitted, both at 
Montezuma, Chile, and at Table Mountain, Calif. The skies during 
the year were apparently normal at Table Mountain, but at Monte- 
zuma the observers noted an unusual number of days with light cirrus 
clouds. 

Early in the year Mr. Hoover carried the Observatory's substandard 
silver-disk pyrheliometer S. I. No. 5 to Miami for direct comparisons 
with the pyrhehometers at that station. In February 1949, in the 
course of changing the personnel at Montezuma, Chile, substandard 
S. I. No. 5 v/as carried to Montezuma by the new Montezuma ob- 
server, and brought back in April by the retiring observer, after inter- 
comparisons had been made in ChUe. The previous year S. I. No. 5 
had been carried to Table Mountain by the director for similar inter- 
comparisons. Thus there are now very recent direct comparisons 
between all field pyrhehometers and substandard S. I. No. 5, which 
in turn was carefully compared in 1947 with the absolute water-flow 
standard. These many intercomparisons show no material changes 
in constants. They satisfactorily confirm the adopted scale of pyr- 
heliometry. A revision of Dr. Abbot's paper of 1922 on "The Silver- 
disk Pyrheliometer" is in preparation, summarizing the constants of 
all silver-disk pyrhehometers, and describing certain changes which 



112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

have been adopted in recent years, both in the instrument itself and 
in the method of use. 

In June 1945 special radiation measurements were started at Camp 
Lee, Va., under contract with the Office of the Quartermaster General, 
in connection with their long-range study of the causes for the deteri- 
oration of tents and tent materials. This contract has been renewed 
each year since then, and the work has now extended to include similar 
radiation measurements at Miami, Fla., a wet, sea-level station, and 
at Montezuma, Chile, a dry, high-altitude station. The Observatory 
completed the Camp Lee measurements January 1, 1948, and since 
then they have been continued by the Quartermaster Board at Camp 
Lee, with the Observatory acting in an advisory capacity, and giving 
assistance when difficulties arise. The measurements at Miami, 
begun in December 1947, have continued throughout the present 
fiscal year. Similar radiation measurements and textile exposures 
were begun at Montezuma, Chile, in December 1948, and will continue 
approximately 2 years. Five reports to the Office of the Quarter- 
master General were made during the year summarizing^the data 
obtained at Miami and at Montezuma. 

In January 1949, the Director visited the Miami field station, to 
inspect the work in progress. While there he obtained special holo- 
graphs showing the absorption effects of known quantities of water 
vapor in the atmosphere. Measurements of these holographs con- 
firmed the correctness of precipitable water curves which Mr. Fowle 
had determined in earlier work at Washington and which have since 
been used many times in our solar-constant program. This work is 
discussed in Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, vol. Ill, No. 12, 
soon to be issued. 

(2) DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS 
(Report prepared by Dr. R. B. Withrow) 

The work of the Division for the past year has been concerned 
chiefly with reorganizing and reequipping the laboratories. New 
office space has been established in conjunction with the basement 
laboratories. These offices have been furnished with desks and cases 
and will accommodate a maximum of nine individuals. 

Most of the laboratories have been repainted and are being re- 
equipped with modern lighting facilities. The laboratory furniture 
has been reconditioned and new metal furniture ordered to supplement 
that already available. 

Five rooms are being converted into constant-condition rooms for 
biological experimentation with equipment for controlling the tem- 
perature, humidity, radiation, and nutritional environment. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 113 

Four chemistry laboratories will be available, including a general 
laboratory, a balance room, a dark room held at room temperatm-e 
for pigment analyses, and an insulated and air-conditioned dark room 
controlled at 0° C. or above for protein and enzyme analyses. 

In addition, a photographic laboratory, a room for X-ray facilities, 
a cytology laboratory, an electronics laboratory, and two general 
laboratories are being set up, all of which are being designed with 
new plumbing to supply gas, compressed air, and water, and with 
new electrical power outlets. 

The Research Corporation has very generously made a gi'ant to the 
Division for reequipping the laboratories with modern experimental 
facilities and for work on the mechanism of visible radiation on growth 
processes in plants. The Division also has been assigned a contract 
by the Chemical Corps, Department of the Army, providing funds for 
personnel and equipment for research on the effect of growth regula- 
tors on metabolic activities of plant tissues. 

Respectfully submitted. 

L. B. Aldrich, Director. 

Dr. A. Wetmore, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 9 
EEPORT ON THE NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera- 
tions of the National Air Museum for the fiscal year ended June 30, 
1949. 

INTRODUCTION 

This year, the first full year of the National Air Museum as a 
bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, was one of many activities. 
In addition to normal museum operations, the bureau was concerned 
especially with the return from England of the Wright Brothers' 
renowned aeroplane, the Kitty Hawk; with the acquisition and man- 
agement of a field storage facility; with the accession of the U. S. Air 
Force aircraft collection; and with the basic study and planning for 
a site and building for the aeronautical collections. 

Early in 1948 the Institution was informed that the late Dr. Orville 
Wright had expressed the desire to present the Kitty Kawk to the 
United States National Museum and that the executors of Dr. Wright's 
estate would institute the necessary legal action to bring this about. 
Prior to the receipt of this news the Smithsonian had effected the 
administrative transfer of all aeronautical museum activities and ex- 
perienced personnel from the National Museum to the newly estab- 
lished National Air Museum. Therefore, in order to have the expert 
assistance of the Air Museum staff, the Secretary, through the 
Director of the National Museum, delegated to the National Air 
Museum the responsibility for the reception, exhibition, and preserva- 
tion of the Wright plane. The details are indicated under Curatorial 
Activities presented later in this report. 

Negotiations begun last year with the U. S. Air Force to acquire a 
storage depot for the Air Museum were successfully consummated on 
November 1, 1948. On that date the bureau was granted occupancy 
of 267,475 square feet of floor space within building T-6 of the former 
Douglas Aircraft plant at Chicago Orchard Airport, Park Ridge, 111., 
and installed a field organization to operate the facility. On the same 
date the Museum assumed tentative custody (pending inventory) of 
the large aircraft collection stored in this building by the Air Force 
and on May 1, 1949, upon completion of the inventory, assumed full 
responsibility for its preservation. 
114 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 115 

Along with these several extra activities the bureau continued, with 
the Office of Design and Construction of the Public Buildings Ad- 
ministration, the further study of sites and a building for the Museum. 
This was done in accordance with the recommendation of the Advisory 
Board. The result of the study is recorded later in this report. 

No changes were made during the year in the departmental organi- 
zation of the bureau except the occasional employment of temporary 
clerical help. This was especially necessary in connection with the 
reception and exhibition of the Wright Brothers' aeroplane. The 
bureau found it difficult, on the other hand, to fill several positions 
available at its field storage facility because of the higher wage scale 
prevailing in the Chicago area for comparable work. As a result, 
the work program planned for this field organization was not fully 
carried out. In all other respects the bureau completed the year in 
good condition. 

ADVISORY BOARD 

In April of this year the Board experienced a change in membership 
as a result of the retirement of its U. S. Air Force representative, 
Maj. Gen. E. M. Powers. General Powers had served on the Board 
since its inception late in 1946, having been designated to the office 
by General Spaatz. His wise counsel during the formative days of 
the establishment of the National Air Museum was most helpful. To 
succeed him on the Board, Gen. H. H. Vandenberg, Chief of Staff, 
Department of the Air Force, designated Maj. Gen. Grandison 
Gardner who met with the Board for the first time at its sLxth meeting 
in June 1949. 

During the year three meetings of the Advisory Board were held 
in Washington, on August 26, 1948, December 20, 1948, and June 29, 
1949. Deliberations in these meetings were directed principally to- 
ward the advancement of the Air Museum's major projects, namely, 
the acquisition of a building site and a suitable museum building in 
the Washington area. 

As directed by the Board at its August 1948 meeting, the study of 
a suitable museum building was continued this year in cooperation 
with the Public Buildings Administration. 

STORAGE OF MUSEUM MATERIAL 

In accordance with a resolution adopted by the Advisory Board 
last year, the bureau completed negotiations on November 1, 1948, 
to take over the storage operations of that portion of one of the former 
Douglas Aircraft buildings (T-6) at the Chicago Orchard Airport, 
Park Ridge, 111., containing the collection of aeronautical museum 
material stored there by the United States Air Force for the National 



116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Air Museum. Some additional floor space within this building, ad- 
jacent to that containing the Air Force collection, together with two 
two-floor structures erected therein and suitable for office use, was 
acquired at the same time. 

Immediately following this transaction the bureau installed a field 
organization to operate the facility, consisting of an associate curator 
in charge, an aircraft technician, and a guard force to patrol the area 
24 hours a day. Until February 1, 1949, the military personnel of the 
Air Materiel Command of the U. S. Air Force, which had been 
detailed to care for the Air Force collection, remained on duty to assist 
the bureau's organization in readying itself to assume its responsibil- 
ities. With this accomplished, three programs of work were initiated: 
(1) The rearrangement by classes of the aeronautical materials packed 
in boxes and crates; (2) the cleaning and seaUng of all openings of 
assembled aircraft and rust-proofing of component parts; and (3) 
the inspection and inventory of all items composing the collection 
preparatory to its transfer from the Air Force to the Air Museum. 

On May 1, 1949, the inventory was completed and the transfer was 
effected of 1,366 aeronautical objects including 97 aircraft to the Air 
Museum. The preservation work was in progress at the end of the 
year. 

While these activities were in progress the bureau took steps to 
provide the maximum protection of the materials in storage. In 
addition to the acquisition of hand fire extinguishers installed in fixed 
positions over the area and of larger extinguishers mounted on hand 
trucks, an intercommunicating system was selected and a contract 
let for its installation at 12 stations distributed strategically over the 
Museum's storage area. This will enable a guard on patrol to com- 
municate quicldy with the administration office in any emergency. 
The bureau also designed and contracted for the construction and 
erection of a high wire fence to enclose the major part of the area. 
These projects were in progress at the end of the year. 

PLANNING 

MUSEUM SITE AND BUILDING 

During the year the bureau continued the investigation of sites and 
a building for the Air Museum. For this purpose it had the valuable 
cooperation of the Federal Works Agency, Public Buildings Adminis- 
tration, Office of Design and Construction, through an arrangement 
involving the transfer of funds. 

Planning and designing a museum building for aircraft and aviation 
collections involves factors not usually encountered in museum struc- 
tures. For example, although the history of practical aviation spans 
a comparatively short period of years, the steps in its development 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 117 

are many. Therefore, there must be imposed Hmitations of selection 
of materials of both historical and technological significance not only 
to avoid incomprehensive public displays but also impractical housing 
requirements. The aeronautical collections will include material 
both of small and uncommonly great dimensions and weight. Ex- 
perience indicates that approximately 30 percent of the total available 
floor area of a technical museum structure is required for its mainte- 
nance and operations services and that for the safety of the visiting 
public ample passageways must be established in all exhibition areas. 
It can be readily understood that these requii-ements necessitate a 
compromise between the ideal and a realistic aviation museum buiding. 
Both the Advisory Board and the bureau's staff gave careful atten- 
tion during the year to factors such as these which brought about a 
number of changes in the plans originally developed last year. 

CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES 

The curator, Paul E. Garber, reports on the year's work as follows; 

At the beginning of the fiscal year the staff was moved into new and 
improved quarters which provided more facilities for the expanding 
personnel. Office and shop equipment were acquired, an efficient 
procedure for handling correspondence was adopted, and added space 
was allocated to the library, the reference files, and the photographic 
files. The constant efforts of the staff in the maintenance of the 
exhibits are reflected in the improvement of individual displays, but 
the extreme overcrowding in the present Aircraft Building and the 
Aeronautical HaU assigned to the bureau in the Arts and Industries 
Building has approached the danger point to both visitors and speci- 
mens. As a result, the addition of large exhibits has been brought to a 
standstill. Happily, the facility at Park Ridge, 111., provides for the 
storage of material which might otherwise be lost to the Museum. 
Only by the acquisition of a permanent building for the Museum in 
the Washington area can this situation be corrected. 

EXHIBITION 

The outstanding accomplishment of the year was the receipt of the 
Wright Brothers' aeroplane of 1903 and its exhibition and preparation 
for the presentation ceremony on December 17, 1948, the forty-fifth 
anniversary of its historic flight. The curator was assigned the 
pleasant duty of representing the Smithsonian in meeting Dr. Herman 
Shaw, Director of the Science Museum, London, and of accepting 
from him at Halifax, Nova Scotia, custody of the aeroplane. This 
was effected on November 12, and foUowing the transfer of the aero- 
plane from the S. S. Mauretania to the Navy Carrier U. S. S. Patau, 
the curator accompanied the plane to Bayonne, N. J., saw to its re- 
loading on a Navy truck and accompanied the truck convoy to the 



118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

National Museum. There the Spirit of St Louis had been moved so 
that the two noted aircraft could share the same North HaU of the 
Arts and Industries Building and, with the assistance of photographs 
and drawings provided by M, J. B. Davy of the Science Museum, the 
Kitty Hawk was assembled. Some details of the engine and trans- 
mission were installed from sketches and photographs furnished by 
Charles Taylor, the mechanic who assisted the Wrights in the original 
construction of the plane and engine. The aeroplane was suspended 
in the front of the haU with cables and splices donated by the Jacoel 
Equipment Co. At the ceremony of presentation, the "Early Bii'ds," 
the association of pioneer pilots, many of whom had been trained by 
the Wrights, were among the honored guests. A number of them have 
since augmented the Kitty Hawk exhibit by donations of their own 
records and relics. Acknowledgments are also made to the Air Force 
Technical Museum and to S. Dunham, Dayton, Ohio, for photographs 
and drawings for addition to the Museum's reference and exhibition 
material on the Wrights. At the close of the fiscal year progress is 
being made on an auxiliary exhibition case to be placed under the 
Kitty Hawk in which the story of the Wright Brothers will be told in 
detail. 

As the National Air Museum progresses, its purposes and services 
have become better known, and very helpful cooperation has been 
received in the matter of accessions. The following examples are 
outstanding. The presentation of Alford Williams' renowned Gulf- 
hawk-^ October 11, followed an impressive flight-demonstration of the 
remarkable acrobatic combination of pilot and plane. The Gulf Oil 
Company formally presented the airplane at the National Airport and 
soon after. Major Williams' technician, Frank Tye, who had main- 
tained the plane in splendid condition throughout its 12 years of stren- 
uous flying, assembled it in the Aeronautical Hall. The Department 
of the Navy, Bureau of Aeronautics, repaired and transferred a Jap- 
anese Baka Bomb to the Museum and provided, as auxiliary material, 
examples of both jet and rocket engines used in these "suicide planes." 
The collection of scale models which reviews the evolution of aircraft 
used in Naval service was improved by 10 recent types received from 
manufacturers who produced the original planes for the Navy. The 
Department of the Navy assisted also in the special anniversary cele- 
bration held in the Au'craft Building to commemorate the thirtieth 
anniversary of the first trans-Atlantic aircraft flight made by the 
NC-4. An illustrated description of this Curtiss-built flying boat, 
the hull of which is in the Museum, was prepared by the staff and 
printed by courtesy of the Curtiss-Wright Corporation. Speakers 
included Vice Adm. John D. PricCj U. S. N., and Capt. Holden C. 
Richardson, U. S. N., Ret. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 119 

The first Koadable Autogyi-o, transferred from the Civil Aeronautics 
Administration, was reconditioned by them for museum purposes. 
In the previous report, the services of the Air Force were acknowledged 
in moving the Army Curtiss Kacer from the Aircraft Building to the 
Aeronautical Hall — a move made necessary by restricted space. This 
year, the plane was equipped with the original floats with which Lt. 
(now General) James Doolittle won the Schneider Trophy Race in 
1925. The bracing wires for this restoration were kindly provided 
by the MacWhyte Company, Kenosha, Wis. Valuable assistance 
was received this year from the Air Force in unloading and mounting 
four large engines donated by the Wright Aeronautical Corporation, 
in covering with Plexiglas the sides of the DeHavilland-4 and Gen. 
William Mitchell's Spad-16, and in replacing the windows in the first 
nonstop transcontinental airplane, the T-2. 

The exhibit which illustrates the accomplishments of John Joseph 
Montgomery of California, a renowned pioneer of gliding whose first 
glides were made in 1883, received additions thi'ough the cooperation 
of the Montgomery family, the San Diego Junior Chamber of Com- 
merce, and the biographer, Winsor Josselyn Through the generosity 
of the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company, the wheels on the Voisin 
bomber of World War I were equipped with tires. In the auxiliary 
exhibit which accompanies the Flagplane of the First World Flight, 
the group of portrait sculptures were renovated by its sculptor, Joseph 
A. Atchison, and the stereopticon story of this flight was reactivated. 
A special exhibition of model aircraft as flown by hobby enthusiasts 
was prepared in August 1948 during the period of the national show 
and contest. Improvements were made in the display of Col. Charles 
Lindbergh's accessories and fhght clothing. Extensive cleaning, 
rearranging, labeling, and repairing have brought the exhibits to a 
condition believed to be as presentable as the crowded conditions and 
work program permit. 

Special exhibitions arranged by the staff and involving the use of 
Museum material away from the bureau included a group of cases 
set up by Boiling Field for the Air Force anniversary on September 18, 
containing engines, models, and relics of the military air arm ; and the 
loan of the original Liberty engine and models of historic Air Force 
planes for the technical exhibit and air show held at Andrews Field, 
Maryland, February 15. 

STORAGE 

Among the numerous aircraft installed this year in the Museum's 
storage facility at Park Ridge, lU., was the Swoose, flown there under 
its own power. This historic B-17-D bomber had served throughout 
World War II from Bataan to the defeat of Japan. Completing its 
military career as the command plane of Gen. George H. Brett, the 

86G591— 50 9 



120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 

Swoose was acquirod by the city of Los Angeles as a war memorial. 
In 1948 the city, tlirough Mayor Fletcher Bowron, presented the plane 
to the National Air Museum, and with the cooperation of Grover 
Loening and Maj. Gen. E. M. Powers of the Advisory Board, arrange- 
ments were made for the reconditioning of the plane by the Air Force. 
In due time this was accomplished under the direction of the Swoose's 
wartime flight engineer. Captain Boone, and in April 1949, with its 
wartime pilot, Col. Frank Kurtz, at the controls, the plane was flown 
to the Chicago Orchard Airport and delivered there to the Museum's 
storage facility. The Air Force cooperated not only in this spectacular 
delivery but also in the tremendous project of transferring its huge 
collection of trophy aircraft and accessories to Museum custody. 
The screening, cataloging, and arrangement of this stored collection 
at Park Ridge was under way as the year closed. 

The historic and trophy aircraft and engines which are being 
assembled for the Museum by the Department of the Navy are 
stored at Norfolk, Va. During the year the curator inspected this 
facility, checking the condition of the NC-4's wings and other parts, 
the Japanese "Emily," the German Dornier 335 which had recently 
been moved there, and the service types which are in "canned" con- 
tainers. All were in good condition. 

Acknowledgments are made to Eastern Air Lines for earmarking 
one of its first DC-3's for the collection, to the Civil Aeronautics 
Administration for reserving its famous Boeing 247-D for the Mu- 
seum, and to the Martin Aircraft Company for the gift of a half-scale 
flight prototj'^pe of the PBM "Mariner." These will be stored tem- 
porarily by the donors. 

INFORMATIONAL SERVICES 

Interest in the Museum is widespread, and its services to the 
industry, Government departments, students, research workers, his- 
torians, authors, craftsmen, and the air fraternity in general are daily 
becoming more in demand as reflected in the numbers of inquiries 
and requests received by letter, personal visit, and telephone. Radio 
programs in which the Museum participated included. Information 
Please, We The People, and the Air Force Plour. The curator told 
the story of the Swoose over the radio both in Los Angeles and Omaha, 
and television programs illustrated the Kitty Hawk, GulJhawk-2, the 
NC~4, and the Museum's model collection. 

The Bureau of Ordnance, Department of the Navy, borrowed a 
number of the Museum's scale models to be used as patterns for re- 
search problems; the Interior Department was assisted with aero- 
nautical details in some of its museum dioramas; the Public Schools 
of the District of Columbia received help in conducting their aero- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 121 

nautical courses; and Pan American Airways was loaned photographs 
of Santos-Dumont's airships for use in its publicity displays on Brazil. 
The historic sections of the Aircraft Year Book were compiled ^vith 
help of the Museum staff; Bettman Archive received identification on 
a group of unlabeled photographs of airplanes; the Prewitt Aircraft 
Company used the Museum's reference files during their search for 
details of rotary aircraft; and the United States Chamber of Com- 
merce and the Vallejo, Calif., museum, received assistance in display- 
ing exhibits. 

Another edition of the Handbook of the National Aircraft Collection 
was issued, embodying changes vv^hich bring it up to date. This is 
the eighth printing of 10,000 since the first issue in 1928. During the 
year the curator lectured on technical and historical aspects of flight 
and the progress of the National Air Museum to the Aero Club of 
Washington, the Ah" Transport Association, the "99ers" association 
of women flyers, the Washington Association of Building Superin- 
tendents, the Civitan Club, several local fraternal and church groups, 
and served as judge of scale-model craftsmanship at the National 
Capital Air Show, and at a kite contest held by local units of the 
Boy Scouts. 

In conducting its informational services the staff acknowledges the 
help given by members of the "Early Birds," collectors of aeronautical 
photographs and clipping scrapbooks, pilots, manufacturers, airmen, 
and m.any others who donated reference material to the Museum's data 
files and library. These helpful source data are assembled and readily 
available for serious study. 

SURVEY 

The survey over the Nation of aeronautical materials of technical 
and historical significance was continued during the year. Much of 
the work was conducted by staff correspondence. Frequently, how- 
ever, it became necessary to undertake direct investigation and study 
of suggested material and consultations with those acquainted with 
the material. It was in this connection, primarily, that the following 
visits away from Washington were made by the staff: 

Middletown, Pa., Olmsted Air Force Base, July 23, by associate curator Robert 
C. StrobeH, to examine a group of Japanese trophy airplanes which had been 
evaluated and tested. 

Buffalo, N. Y., Airport, August 31, by associate curator Stephen L. Beers, to in- 
spect two Curtiss engines used in early Naval aircraft and two French engines 
of World War I. 

Roosevelt Field, Long Island, N. Y., and East Orange, N. J., October 11-16, by 
the curator, to examine a group of historic American, English, and French 
airplanea and to determine the availability of a Benoist airplane of 1912. 

Halifax, Nova Scotia, November 9-22, by the curator, to obtain the Wright 
Brothers' aeroplane of 1903. 



122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 

Los Angeles, Calif., Inglewood Field, and March Field. January 19-29, by the 

curator, to receive, recondition, and test hop the Boeing B-17-D bomber 

Swoose. 
Aberdeen and Baltimore, Md., March 15, by Mr, Beers, to inspect aircraft and 

obtain a scale model of the Martin bomber, type MB-1 of 1918. 
Jackson Center, Ohio, May 28, by Mr. Strobell, to arrange receipt and shipment 

of Benoist airplane. 
Langley Field, Va., May 23-25, by the curator and Mr. Beers, to attend the 

National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics conference and inspect 

material of museum significance. 
Miami, Fla., June 15-18, by Mr. Beers, to attend Eastern Airlines conference and 

inspect equipment and aircraft made available to the Museum. 

Numerous trips were made by staff members between the base and 
field units in connection with management of the storage area and 
procurement and placement of accessions. 

ACCESSIONS 

New accessions totaled 122 objects from 40 sources. The majority 
of these were solicited by the Museum and involved considerable prior 
research by the staff to determine the significance and need of each 
object in the over-all picture of the history and development of aero- 
nautics. In addition, each accession required staft' attention in a 
variable amount in arranging for the procurement and shipment of the 
object and in incorporating it into the aeronautical collection. 

Except where otherwise indicated the accessions received this year 
and listed below were entered in the Museum's records as gifts or 
transfers : 

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM ACCESSIONS DURING THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED 

JUNE 30, 1949 

Abel, A. H. (See under Port of Oakland, Board of Port Commissioners.) 

Abrams, Talbert (See under Abrams Instrument Corp.). 

Abrams Instrument Corp., Lansing, Mich: (Through Talbert Abrams) The 

Explorer, single pusher monoplane with empennage extended on twin booms; 

believed to be the first American aircraft designed primarily for aerial mapping 

and survey work (N. A. M. 629, loan). 
Aeronca Aircraft Corp., Middletown, Ohio: (Through John A. Lawler) First 

production Aeronca sport plane, 1929 (N. A. M. 647, loan). 
Aeroproducts Division, General Motors Corp., Dayton, Ohio: (Through 

W. F. Stover) Four Aeromatic propeller assembly displays illustrating types, 

mechanisms, and production steps (N. A. M. 651). 
Alihan, Dr. Milla (See under Kollsman Instrument Division, Square D Co.), 
Allen, William B., Jr. (See under U. S. Post Office Department.) 
Bastow, J. G., Oakland, Calif,: American flag insignia of the First Aero Squadron, 

World War I, cut from the fuselage fabric of a Salmson airplane (N. A. M. 625). 
Beck, Thomas H. (See under Crowell-Collier Publishing Co.) 
BiBiCHKOW, William. (See under Comet Model Airplane and Supply Co.) 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 123 

Bradley, R. F., San Francisco, Calif.: A framed black-and-white photograph of 
an early air meet and a souvenir log book of the first round-trip, trans- Pacific 
Pan American Airways passenger flight, 1936 (N. A. M. 636) 

Briskin, Irving. (See under Columbia Pictures Corp.) 

Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y.: (Through Dr. D, G. 
Lock ward) A 160-hp. Curtiss V-X aircraft engine used to power a Curtiss R-2 
Army reconnaissance plane of 1916 (N. A. M. 631). 

CiiALLiNOR, G. R. (See under Kansas City, Mo., Chamber of Commerce.) 

Chance Vought Aircraft, Div. of United Aircraft Corp., Stratford, Conn.: 
(Through John J. Hospcrs) Two l:16-scale airplane models, U. S. Navy, 
World War II: F4U-4 and 0S2U-1 (N. A. M. 630). 

Cob, Don, Williamsville, N, Y.: Two aircraft engines, rotary, French, World 
War I: a Clerget 9B and a Gnome "Monosoupape" (N. A. M. 655). 

Collins, C. S. (See under Pan American-Grace Airways, Inc.) 

Columbia Pictures Corp., Hollywood, Calif.: (Through Irving Briskin) Two 
scale models of Prof. John J. Montgomery's gliders reproduced for the motion 
picture "Gallant Journey." These show the Santa Clara of 1905 and the 
Evergreen of 1911 (N. A. M. 626). 

Comet Model Airplane and Supply Co., Chicago, 111.: (Through William 
Bibichkow) Wind tunnel stated by donor to be the first practical mass-produced 
type; for personal and classroom use; throat 14" x 22"; embodies the principles 
of full-scale designs; accessories are included (N. A. M. 643). 

Crowell-Collier Publishing Co., New York, N. Y.: (Through Thomas H. 
Beck) Original water-color painting by Melbourne Brindle depicting the first 
flight of the Wright Brothers' aeroplane at Kitty Hawk, N. C, December 17, 
1903 (N. A. M. 654). 

DeHart, Dana C, San Francisco, Calif.: A major portion of a cabane strut from 
the Curtiss "R" which was one of the first two planes to carry scheduled air 
mail from New York to Chicago via Cleveland, September 5 to 17, 1918 
(N. A. M. 628). 

Dietz, Gould (deceased), Omaha, Nebr.: Two wooden propellers: a "Paragon" 
1911, used on the Army's first airship, and a "Flottorp" of early 1920 type 
inscribed with famous autographs (N. A. M. 644). 

Doolittle, Gen. J. H., New York, N. Y.: A jagged fragment, found in China, 
from the right-engine nacelle of a North American B-25 "Mitchell" bomber 
which took part in the Tokyo raid of April 18, 1942 (N. A. M. 604). 

Douglas Aircraft Co., Inc., Santa Monica, Calif.: A l:16-size scale model of 
the Douglas SBD Navy carrier-based dive bomber which saw extensive service 
in World War II (N. A. M. 620). 

Frank, John P. (See under North Carolina Granite Corp.) 

Frederick, D. S. (See under Rohm and Haas Co.) 

Fries, Leonard, London, England: A large display poster printed from the 
original painted by the donor, advertising the International Aviation Tourna- 
ment held at Belmont Park, L. I., October 22 to 30, 1910 (N. A. M. 648). 

Gilchrist, Mrs. Guy, Dutch Flat, Calif.: The starter's flag used in the Oakland- 
Honolulu Dole Race, 1927. Given in memory of her brother, Maj. Edward 
Howard (N. A. M. 653). 

Goodwin, Claire V. (See under Port of Oakland, Board of Port Commissioners.) 

Grumman, L. R. (See under Grumman Aircraft Engineering Co.) 

Grumman Aircraft Engineering Co., Bethpage, L. I., N. Y.: (Through L. R. 
Grumman) Four l:16-size scale models of Grumman aircraft, U. S. Navy, 
World War II: an F3F biplane fighter, an F4F "Wildcat," a TBM "Avenger" 
torpedo bomber, and an F7F "Tigercat" (N. A, M. 634). 



124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Gulf Oil Corp., Pittsburgh, Pa.: The Oulfhawk-2 airplane which was flown by 
Maj. Alford Williams for 12 years. It illustrates the last of the Navy's biplane 
fighters, an F3F (N. A. M. 652). 
Heffernan, Capt. J. B. (See under National Military Establishment, Depart- 
ment of the Navy.) 
HosPERS, John J. (See under Chance Vought Aircraft, Div. of United Aircraft 

Corp.) 
HuBBELL, Charles H., Cleveland, Ohio: Twelve color prints of current-design 
private aircraft as painted by the donor for the 1949 calendar of Thompson 
Products, Inc. (N. A. M. 642). 
Kansas City, Mo., Chamber of Commerce: (Through G. R. Chalhnor) A 
pressed-coal briquette, carried on Berlin Airlift, 1949; part of the one-millionth 
ton. It was mined in the Ruhr; flown from Frankfurt to Berlin and thence to 
Kansas City, Mo., as a feature of a ceremony acclaiming the Airlift (N. A. M, 
645). 
Kartveli, a. (See under Republic Aviation Corp.) 

Kollsman Instrument Division, Square D Co., P31mhurst, N. Y.: (Through 
Dr. Milla Alihan) A machmeter; an instrument used to record speed in Mach 
Number, which expresses the speed of the aircraft in relation to the speed of 
sound (N. A. M. 649). 
Lawler, John A. (See under Aeronca Aircraft Corp.) 
LocKWARD, Dr. D. G. (See under Brookl3'n Polytechnic Institute.) 
Mehrhof, Kenneth C. (See under Wright Aeronautical Corp.) 
National Military Establishment: 

Department of the Air Force. From Air Force Technical Museum, Wright- 
Patterson A. F. Base, Dayton, Ohio: Five 1: 72-size, black plastic World War 
II aircraft recognition models: a C-47 two-engine transport, a PB2Y four- 
engine flying boat, a PBM-3 two-engine flying boat, an SB2U single-engine 
Navy dive bomber, and a TBD single-engine torpedo bomber (N. A. M. 633), 
Department of the Navy, Washington, D. C. From Office of the Deputy Chief 
of Naval Operations (Air) : (Through Vice Adm. John D. Price) A plaque, 
replica of one installed at Lisbon, Portugal, in 1946, commemorating the first 
trans- Atlantic flight by the NC-4, May 1919 (N. A. M. 646). From Office 
of Public Information, Bureau of Aeronautics: A Navy summer-weight flying 
suit and helmet, World War II type, worn by Col. Marion E. Carl, U. S. M. C, 
when he flew the Douglas D-558 Skystreak to a world's speed record of 
650 m. p. h. on August 25, 1947 (N. A. M. 637). From Office of Public Rela- 
tions: (Through Capt. J. B, Heffernan, U. S. N., Ret., Curator for Navy 
Department) Scale models of three planes used by the Navy in World War II: 
XPB2Y experimental version of Consolidated "Coronado" used for bombing 
and transport; XPBM experimental version of Martin "Mariner" used for 
patrol-bombing and antisubmarine service; and TBD Douglas "Devastator" 
carrier-based torpedo plane (N. A. M. 635, loan). 
Nevin, Robert S., Baltimore, Md. : A l:24-size scale model of the Martin MB-1 

twin-engined Army bomber of 1918, made by lender (N. A. M. 621, loan). 
North Carolina Granite Corp., Mount Airy, N. C. : (Through John P. 
Frank) Architects' model of the Wright Brothers Memorial on the summit of 
Kill Devil Hill, Kitty Hawk, N. C. (N. A. M. 638). 
Pan American-Grace Airways, Inc., New York, N. Y.: (Through C. S. Collins) 
The Fairchild FC-2 five-passenger cabin monoplane with which the scheduled 
commercial operations of Panagra System in South America were inaugurated 
September 1928 (N. A. M. 650). 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 125 

Perry, Kenneth M., Washington, D. C: A German Air Force garrison cap of 
the World War II period (N. A. M. 622). 

Port of Oakland, Board of Port Cojjmissioners, Oakland, Calif.: (Through 
A. H. Abel) The "Diamond" airplane, identified by donors as the first airplane 
constructed in California (1910), and the Kemp engine used to power it; a 
"Wiscman-Cooke" airplane constructed by Fred Wiseman and flown by him in 
what was probably the first cross-country air-mail flight in America, Petaluma 
to Santa Rosa, Calif., February 17, 1911. This plane was also flown by Weldon 
Cooke (N. A. M. 639). (Through Claire V. Goodwin) A pilots' control wheel 
from the cockpit of Sir Charles Kingsford-Smith's Southern Cross airplane, first 
to fly from the United States to Australia, May 31-June 9, 1928; and a facsimile 
of the log kept by the copilot, Charles Ulm, on that flight (N. A. M. 640). 

Price, Vice Adm. John D. (See under National Military Establishment, De- 
partment of the Navy.) 

Republic Aviation Corp., Farmingdale, L. I., N. Y. : (Through A. Kartveli) 
three 1:16 scale models: Republic P-47-N "Thunderbolt" Air Force single-seat 
fighter. Republic F-84 "Thunderjet" Air Force single-seat fighter. Republic 
RC-3 "Seabee" all-metal, four-place amphibian personal plane; and a 1:48 
scale model: Republic XF-12 "Rainbow" Air Force four-engine, long-range, 
high-altitude photo-reconnaissance plane (N. A. M. 641). 

Rohm and Haas Co., Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through D. S. Frederick) Four ex- 
amples of Plexiglas forms used in construction of aircraft: a P-47 bubble canopy, 
an astradome, a Crocker- Wheeler nose section for B-26 aircraft, and a Sikorsky 
Helicopter nose (N. A. M. 627). 

Spratt, George, Deep River, Conn.: A Curtiss V-8 air-cooled aircraft engine 
of about 1907, used by the donor's father in experiments with movable-wing 
aircraft (N. A. M. 624). 

Stover, W. F. (See under Aeroproducts Division, General Motors Corp.) 

U. S. Post Office Department, Washington, D. C. : (Through William B. Allen, 
Jr.) The pouch used to carry air mail on a flight commemorating the thirtieth 
anniversary of air mail; a flight was made between New York and Washington, 
D. C, in an Air Force P-80 jet aircraft (N. A. M. 619). 

Vilas, Jack, Chicago, lU.: HuU of the Curtiss Flying Boat in which the donor 
made the first flight across Lake Michigan on July 1, 1913 (N. A. M. 632). 

Walker, Maj. Thomas L., Glen Echo, Md.: Japanese equipment. World War 
II: an Hitachi aircraft engine from a "Cypress" biplane primary trainer, a 
cutaway supercharger and fuel metering device produced by Mitsubishi, and 
a group of five instruments also manufactured by Mitsubishi (N. A. M, 600). 

Weems, Capt. P. V. H., Annapolis, Md.: A collection of plotters illustrating 
many forms used to solve navigation problems involving position, direction, 
and distance (N. A. M. 656). 

Wright, Orville, Estate of, Dayton, Ohio: The original Wright Brothers' 
aeroplane of 1903 (in custody for the U. S. National Museum) (U. S. N. M. 
181390). 

Wright Aeronautical Corp., Wood-Ridge, N. J.: (Through Kenneth C. 
Mehrhof) Four radial aircraft engines: Curtiss "Challenger," Wright "Cyclone" 
18BA, Wright "Cyclone" 14A, and Wright "Cyclone" 9GB (N. A. M. 623). 
Respectfully submitted. Carl W. Mitman, 

Assistant to the Secretary for the National Air Museum. 

Dr. A. Wetmore, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 10 
REPORT ON THE CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA 

Sir: It gives me pleasure to present herewith the annual report of 
the Canal Zone Biological Area for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1949. 

IMPROVEMENTS MADE 

A new building, halfway up to the laboratory level and near the 
generators, was completed. The ground floor will be used largely 
for the woodworking machinery and carpenter shop, the upper part 
as living quarters for the warden-caretaker. The old cottage just 
below the large laboratory building, formerly occupied by the warden- 
caretaker, has been converted into a very desirable two-room lab- 
oratory unit. The forest is close by, making the building exception- 
ally suitable for observation and study of mammals and other forms. 

Work on the 14,000-gallon concrete gravity-flow water tank was 
halted by heavy rains which made it impossible to use the truck and 
large concrete mixer. However, the excavation is made and the 
gravel and reinforcement u'on are at the site; 2 or 3 weeks of dry 
weather will permit completion of the tank. 

During the year, from allocated funds, the launch Snook was 
purchased from The Panama Canal. This is a very sturdy, well- 
built boat 40 feet long, with an 11 -foot beam — large enough to ac- 
commodate 40 passengers. It is in very good condition and will 
serve even for towing. 

New generators were installed during the year, providing a depend- 
able source of electricity for continuous use. 

Eight steel herbarium cases, needed for many years, have been 
received and the herbarium specimens transferred to them. These 
specimens are now in excellent condition. Eight steel storage cabinets 
were also received, providing dustproof storage for much of the 
laboratory equipment, 

SCIENTISTS AND THEIR STUDIES 

Twenty-nine scientists came to the laboratory during the year. 
Although many of them stayed only a short time, their acquaintance 
with the island and its facilities will no doubt bring others to the 
laboratory in the near future. The contribution of these scientists 
has added materially to our knowledge of life under tropical conditions. 
126 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 127 

Dr. Franz Schrader and Dr. Sally Hughes Schrader returned to 
continue their cytological studies. 

Dr. Frank A. Hartman and Robert Albertin, of the Department 
of Physiology of the Ohio State University, spent some time on the 
island, and used the laboratory as their base for excursions up the 
Chagres River Basin and into the Volcan region of Chiriqui Province. 
They studied in great detail the anatomy of the adi-enals in sloths 
and the coati-mundi whUe on the island. The adrenals of more 
than 600 vertebrates were collected during expeditions in the Republic 
of Panama. Field studies were made of selected cases, and the rest 
of the material was taken to the island for further treatment in prep- 
aration for cytological examination later at their University labora- 
tory. The skins of the birds obtained by them were donated to the 
United States National Museum. The hearts of a number of the 
vertebrates were sent to Dr. Struthers, of the University of Syracuse, 
for anatomical study of the coronaries and other blood vessels. 

Dr. Hartman plans to return for a much more extensive survey, 
especially in relation to the effects of the male hormone, particularly 
in the sloth. The use of the island as a base for excursions to other 
nearby regions emphasizes one of the unique features of the Canal 
Zone Biological Area. 

Dr. Per F. Scholander and Dr. Vladimir Walters, of the Arctic 
Research Laboratory at Point Barrow, Alaska, spent considerable 
time on the island studying the metabolic reactions to temperature 
in various animals and plants m order to obtain a tropical counterpart 
for the work done on Arctic forms in Alaska. A deep-freeze was 
used in some of their work, and the analysis of the tropical mammals 
and bu'ds in cold gave just the information needed to interpret 
properly the findings in the Arctic. The work on the island with 
the deep-freeze proved of basic importance for formulating a theory 
on the relation between insulation and metabolism. 

R. Joseph Kovval, in charge of the laboratory of the Bureau of 
Entomology and Plant Quarantine at Gulfport, Miss., returned in 
order to reexamine and evaluate the special series of termite-resistance 
tests initiated by him 5 years ago, including the very valuable series 
of soil poisons. He was assisted by Russell E. Fontaine, in charge 
of the insect- and pest- control work of the United States Army in 
the Caribbean area. 

Dr. Walter Clark, in charge of the Research Laboratory of Eastman 
Kodak, who had come to inaugurate the large air-conditioned labora- 
tory in the outskirts of Panama City, accompanied by Dr. Cleve C. 
Soper, in charge of Eastman Kodak's tropical research work here, 
spent several weeks on the island in connection with their corrosion 
and deterioration studies. As in past years. Dr. Clark took thousands 



128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 

of feet of splendid motion pictures of the animal life. The work of 
the Eastman Kodak Company on the island, and in Panama City, 
is yielding most valuable data on corrosion and deterioration, as 
well as a better understanding of the influence of the Tropics on 
color film. 

E. P. Killip, head curator of the department of botany. United 
States National Museum, spent a short time on the island, collecting 
material for the herbarium. He went over most of the laboratory's 
herbarium specimens and later will send such additional sheets as 
may be needed to augment or supplement the collection. 

Dr. Charles C. Adams, pioneer ecologist of the Americas, was 
another visitor who came to the Tropics for first-hand knowledge. 
He stressed the value of the island for ecologists, both plant and 
animal, in providing an intimate acquaintance with jungle life. 

Dr. and Mrs. H. N. Moldenke, of the New York Botanical Garden, 
visited the island after their return from the Second Pan American 
Botanical Congress held in Tucuman, Argentina. Dr. Moldenke's 
chief interest was the Verbenaceae, and he very kindly rechecked the 
laboratory's material in tliis family. 

Dr. Marshall Stone, of the University of Chicago, again revisited 
the island for a short time. 

Phil W. Longenecker, student at Colorado College, spent the month 
of July on the island. He made a Hst of 98 species of birds that he 
positively identified, with copious notes on their habits. His 
studies also included observations on a number of the mammals. 
In his report he states that he did not find it necessary to go far into 
the forest, as there was so much to see within a mile of the laboratory. 

Dr. Eugene Eisenmann, of New York City, visited the island again 
this year to continue his ornithological studies. Dr. Eisenmann is 
an authority on the birds of this region. He will prepare a list, 
brought up to date, of the birds observed on the island. 

Oliver E. Mosser, of Smithtown Branch, N. Y., came for a few 
days, specifically to make certain important observations of army 
ants for Dr. Schnelrla. In addition he studied birds and mammals. 

Frank W. Hunnewell and his sister Louise revisited the island and 
stayed several weeks, following up his botanical studies. They 
showed the same deep interest in the island that they had displayed 
ever since Dr. Barbo'ir was actively connected with its direction. 

It is a pleasure to record again a short visit by Dr. and Mrs. 
Matthew W. Stirling and Richard Stewart, who were in Panama on 
archeological reconnaissance on behalf of the National Geographic 
Society and the Smithsonian Institution. Motion pictures were 
taken by Mr. Stewart to complete the reel covering the island. 

Dr. Wetmore, Secretary of the Smithsonian, revisited the island, 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 129 

at which time conferences were held with the writer on island matters, 
plans for the future, improvements that would be desirable. W. M. 
Perrygo, of the National Museum, accompanied him as assistant. 

John E. Graf, Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 
spent 2 weeks on the island in June and July, examining the laboratory 
facilities and discussing its operations. 

A. C. Langlois, of the Bahamas, whose deep interest in palms and 
horticulture in general are well known, was a welcome visitor for a 
few days, during which brief time he was able to observe the palms as 
they grow in their natural habitat. 

W. E. Lundy, secretary-treasurer of The Panama Canal Natural 
History Society, a keen student of nature, spent a week on the island, 
and as on earher visits prepared a detailed report of the mammals, 
birds, reptiles, and other forms that he saw. These yearly lists from 
Mr. Lundy form a very valuable record. 

Miss E. Thomas and Miss Marie Weir, local naturalists of note, 
again revisited the island for a few profitable days. 

The Avi-itcr continued his special research problems, particularly 
the long-term termite-resistance tests, and fruit-fly populations. The 
large Berlese funnel has been kept in operation, and it is of interest 
to note the great number of species of mites, pseudoscorpions, and 
ants, particularly some of the very rare genera, that have been 
collected in this manner. 

An interesting development from work done at Barro Colorado 
Island that should be mentioned here, since it has not previously 
been noted, is the availability of a phonograph record of jungle sounds 
by day and by night, familiar and friendly to those who know them, 
mysterious and sometimes fearful to the uninitiated. The work is 
that of Dr. Arthur A. Allen and Dr. Paul Kellogg of Cornell University 
who, during the war, made a long series of recordings in the jungle 
for training use with American troops assigned to outpost duty. A 
considerable part of the work was done on Barro Colorado Island, 
though it is only recently that the material has been released and 
prepared in form available to the public. The voices of howler 
monkeys, birds, and amphibians, reproduced faithfully by painstaking 
techniques, carry fully the ordinary sounds heard during the 24 hours 
about the Island. 

MORE URGENT NEEDS 

One of the most urgent needs is the fireproofing of certain structures 
by the use of concrete posts and concrete blocks, wliich could be 
accomphshed gradually. These buildings are the Barbour and Chap- 
man houses, the kitchen and its adjacent storerooms, and the main 
laboratory building. 



130 



ANTOTAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 



Even more urgent is a new laboratory and storage building, which 
will require a small addition to the clearing back of our present 
laboratory site. This structure should be built with concrete posts 
and sills, and concrete-block sides, and should have at least six rooms. 
Provision should be made for the periodical use of heat in order to 
reduce the grov/th of molds. This building would provide separate 
rooms for the library, for scientific records, for storage of cameras 
and other delicate apparatus, for the herbarium, for laboratory glass- 
ware, and for chemicals. The entire building should be well ventilated, 
but in addition glass windows should be provided so that when 
necessary these can be tightly closed and heat used. High humidity, 
the subsequent rapid growth of fungus, and the need of protection 
from termites are problems of the first order in the Tropics. 

Other urgent needs are steel storage cabinets, metal bookcases 
with closing glass fronts, metal card-index cabinets for the species 
index and the Ubrary index, and sectional steel letter files. 

Table 1. — Annual rainfall, Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone 

Total Station 

Year inchet average 

1937 124. 13 110. 12 

1938 117.09 110.62 

1939 115.47 110.94 

1940 86.51 109.43 

1941 91.82 108.41 

1942 111.10 108.55 

1943 120.29 109.20 

1944 111.96 109.30 

1945 120.42 109.84 

1946 87.38 108.81 

1947 77.92 107.49 

1948 83.16 106.43 

Table 2. — Comparison of 1947 and 1948 rainfall, Barro Colorado Island, Canal 

Zone (inches) 





Total 


Stalion 


Year 


inches 


average 


1925 


104.37 




1926 


118. 22 


113.56 


1927 


116.36 


114. 68 


1928 


101.52 


111. 35 


1929 


87.84 


106. 56 


1930 


76.57 


101. 51 


1931 


123.30 


104. 69 


1932 


113.52 


105. 70 


1933 


101. 73 


105. 32 


1934 


122. 42 


107. 04 


1935 


143.42 


110. 35 


1936 


93.88 


108. 98 



Month 


Total 


Station 
average 


Years of 
record 


Excess or 
deficiency 


Accumu- 
lated ex- 


1947 


1948 


cess or de- 
ficiency 




0.40 
2.14 
0.64 
3.09 
4.82 

12.00 
7.63 

11.76 
9.53 

13.17 
7.25 
5.63 


1.84 

0.19 

0.17 

2.92 

10.80 

6.32 

11.45 

10.49 

6.72 

10.74 

20.33 

1.22 


1.84 
1.22 
1.36 
2.81 
10.85 
11.10 
11.61 
12.44 
10.27 
13.07 
18.84 
11.02 


23 
23 
23 
24 
24 
24 
24 
24 
24 
24 
24 
24 






February 


-1.03 
-1.19 
+0.11 
-0.05 
-4.78 
-0.16 
-1.98 
-3.55 
-2.33 
+1.49 
-9.80 


-1.03 


March .-. 


-2.22 


April - -- - 


-2.11 


May -- 


-2.16 


June - . 


-6.94 


July 


-7.10 


August 


—9.08 


September 


-12. a3 


October -. 


-14.96 


November 


-13.47 
-23.27 






Year . 


77.92 


83.16 


106. 43 






-23.27 










Dry .... 


6.17 

71.75 


5.12 

78.04 


7.23 
99.20 






-fi.36 


Wet -- 






—17.01 











SECRETARY'S REPORT 131 

FISCAL REPORT 

During the fiscal year 1949, $12,256.05 m trust funds was available. 
Of this amount $11,118.90 was spent, leaving on hand only $1,137.15 
with which to face the new fiscal year. In addition to this, $1,122.30 
is still on deposit, representing local collections. 

During the year only $1,243.00 was collected as fees from scientists, 
as compared to $1,907.75 last year. This decline is very lai-gely due 
to the high cost of transportation to the Isthmus, which keeps many 
from coming. Despite the higher cost of food and other items, the 
laboratory has not increased its per diem charge to scientists. Those 
from institutions that sustain table subscriptions still receive a discount 
of 25 percent. 

The following institutions continued their support to the laboratory 
through the payment of table subscriptions: 

Smithsonian Institution $500. 00 

American Museum of Natural History 300. 00 

Eastman Kodak Company 1, 000. 00 

New York Zoological Society 300. 00 

University of Chicago 300. 00 

Ohio State University 300. 00 

The Forest Products Laboratory, United States Department of 
Agriculture, contributed $25.00 a month as service fees for facilities 
furnished. 

It is most gratifying to record donations from Dr. Eugene Eisen- 
mann, Dr. Oliver P. Pearson, Mrs. Dorothy Edgerton, Miss Louise 
Hunnowell, Mr. Frank W. Hunnewell, and the Botanical Society of 
Washington. 

The sum of $5,000 was made available by the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion from appropriated funds, and of this amount $4,997.53 was used 
for permanent improvements. The Institution also contributed $3,000 
from its private funds, in addition to its table fees. 

Respectfully submitted. 

James Zetek, Resident Manager. 

Dr. Alexander Wetmore, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 11 
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities 
of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1949: 

All the continents and most of the countries of the world were 
represented among the 57,671 publications received by the library 
during the year. These books, pampUets, and serials were pre- 
dominantly scientific and technical in character and touched aU the 
special and related fields of interests of the Smithsonian Institution 
and its branches. The International Exchange Service transmitted 
5,082 of them, and the rest came by mail or by other means of dehvery. 

Acquisitions by purchase included 1,792 volumes, three collections 
of pamphlets on special subjects, and subscriptions for 279 periodicals. 

Gifts of 7,287 publications came from many different donors. 
The hbrary owes a lasting debt of gratitude to these friends of the 
Institution, at home and abroad, for their generous contributions 
of books and papers, many of which the hbrary would not otherwise 
have been able to acquire. Not yet statistically recorded in the 
hbrary is the important gift of the large Ferdinand Perret Research 
Library of the Ai-ts and their Affihated Sciences, presented by Mr. 
Perret to the National Collection of Fine Arts. 

The library's principal strength and the backbone of its usefulness 
lies in the large collections of pubUcations, chiefly serials, issued by 
the research institutions, scientific societies, universities, academies, 
museums, and observatories all over the world, which the Smith- 
sonian Institution receives in exchange for its own publications. 
These are the primary sources of the records of progress in science 
and technology, in the arts and industries. Ready access to them is 
indispensable to the work of the Institution. The larger number 
of the 17,713 periodical entries recorded during the year were these 
exchange publications, and many monographic works received in 
exchange were separately cataloged. There were 338 new exchanges 
arranged, and 7,008 volumes and parts needed to fill gaps in serial 
sets, or for special purposes, were obtained in response to 726 special 
requests made to the issuing agencies. 
132 



SECKETARY'S REPORT 133 

A grand total of 17,771 publications were sent to the Library of 
Congress. Of these, 1,978 volumes and 4,582 periodical parts were 
recorded as permanent additions to the great Smithsonian Deposit 
there. The others were foreign and domestic dissertations, docu- 
ments, and miscellaneous publications of little immediate importance 
to the work of the Institution. 

The Army Medical Library selected for transfer 859 publications 
no longer needed here in the sectional library of the division of 
medicine. Also sent to the Army Medical Library were 1,068 
currently received medical dissertations and 1,927 other publications 
on medical subjects. A total of 1,532 publications were distributed, 
according to subject, among other hbraries of the Government. 

The cataloging of currently received publications was kept up 
without serious time lags and with no additions to the large "back- 
log" of many years standing. Records of 6,884 volumes were added 
to catalogs and shclflists, and 31,184 cards were filed. Work on the 
correlation of the central periodical entry records with those of the 
central catalog was begun, and 389 entries were checked, corrected, 
and unified. This is important work which will have far-reaching 
results in shortening the time of record keeping and in giving prompter 
service to readers. 

Funds allotted for binding permitted 1,060 volumes to be prepared 
and sent to the Government Printing Office, but again were not 
sufficient to keep up with the number of volumes of serial publications 
completed during the year, so the "backlog" of binding continued to 
grow. A total of 1,026 books and pamphlets were repaired in the 
Museum library, but there is always much more of such work to be 
done than one assistant can handle, and here too there is regrettable 
arrearage. 

Increasingly heavy demands upon reading and reference services 
of the library, especially from outside the Institution, were noticed 
throughout all the branches. Every year many visiting scientists 
and other scholars not only from our own but from other countries of 
the world make more or less extensive use of the library's resources, 
while letters and telephone requests for information pom* in daily. 
Interlibrary loans of 2,619 publications to 89 different libraries were 
made, an increase of 732 over last year. The principal borrowers 
were other scientific libraries of the Government in Washington, and 
research institutions, museums, and universities elsewhere. 

Three positions were vacant during the entire year, and the 
Museum library had no messenger after the end of January. The 



134 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 



redistribution of work assignments necessary to meet the emergencies 
of the situation could only be made at the expense of neglecting or 
postponing all but the most immediately demanding of the library's 
responsibilities. While every ejffort was made to see that services to 
the scientific staff suffered as little as possible, some irritating delays 
and inconveniences were unavoidable, most noticeably from the 
lack of adequate messenger service. 

There was a heartening improvement in one branch of the service, 
made possible by the promotion of an acquisitions assistant to fill the 
much needed new position of assistant librarian in charge of the 
Astrophysical Observatory library. The position from which the 
promotion was made, however, is one of those still unfilled. 

Even more serious than the vacancy of library positions is the 
housing of the library. For many years the shelves have been so 
badly overcrowded that the shelving of each year's acquisitions has 
been a matter of makeshift contrivance. To relieve the congestion 
double shelving — that is, two rows of books shelved one behind the 
other on a single shelf — has become a common practice, especially in 
the Natural History building. Whole sections of books in relatively 
less frequent use have had to be shifted to inconvenient locations in 
the attic stacks of the Arts and Industries building where dust and 
dryness are particularly bad. The generally poor arrangements of 
the library's quarters in all the buildings, too, and the lack of any 
well-equipped space for a centralized collection of the indispensable 
reference books needed in common by all the bureaus of the Institution 
are handicaps to the kind of library service that should be expected 
in the Smithsonian Institution. Until some practical means can be 
found to remedy these and many related bad housing conditions, 
progressive deterioration of books and library service alike is 
inevitable. 

Summarized Statistics 

Accessions 



Volumes 



Total 
recorded 
volumes 
June 30, 

1949 



Astrophysical Observatory (including Radiation and Organisms) 

Bureau of American Ethnology 

National Air Museum... 

National Collection of Fine Arts 

National Museum 

National Zoological Park 

Smithsonian Deposit at the Library of Congress 

Smithsonian Office 

Total 



486 

112 

23 

347 

2,775 

13 

1,978 

466 



6,200 



13, 073 

34, 719 

40 

11, 791 

243, 666 

4,193 

580, 651 

33,073 



921,206 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 135 

Neither incomplete volumes of periodicals nor separates and 
reprints from periodicals are included in these figures. 

Exchanges 
New exchanges arranged 338 

104 of these were assigned to the Smithsonian Deposit in the Library of 
Congress. 
Specially requested publications received 7, 008 

923 of these were obtained to fill gaps in the Smithsonian Deposit seta. 

Cataloging 

Volumes and pamphlets cataloged 6, 884 

Cards added to catalogs and shelflists 31, 184 

Periodicals 
Periodical parts entered 17, 713 

Of these, 4,582 were sent to the Smithsonian Deposit at the Library of 
Congress. 

Circulation 

Loans of books and periodicals 11, 689 

This figure does not include the intramural circulation of books and periodi- 
cals filed in 31 sectional libraries, of wliich no count la kept. 

Binding 

Volumes sent to the bindery 1, 060 

Volumes repaired in the Museum 1,026 

Respectfully submitted. 

Leila F. Clark, Librarian. 
Dr. A. Wetmore, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



866591—50 10 



APPENDIX 12 
REPORT ON PUBLICATIONS 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publica- 
tions of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during the year 
ended June 30, 1949. 

The Institution published during the year 14 papers and title pages 
and tables of contents for 2 volumes in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous 
Collections, 1 Annual Report of the Board of Regents and pamphlet 
copies of 18 articles in the Report appendix, 1 Annual Report of the 
Secretary, and a new edition of 1 special publication, and a reprint of 
another. 

The United States National Museum issued 1 Annual Report, 25 
Proceedings papers, 3 Bulletins, and 2 papers in the Bulletin series. 
Contributions from the United States National Herbarium. 

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued 1 Annual Report and 2 
Publications of the Institute of Social Anthropology. 

The Freer Gallery of Art issued 1 publication in its Occasional 
Papers series. 

Of the pubUcations there were distributed 267,491 copies, which 
included 15 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Contributions to 
Knowledge, 27,438 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Miscel- 
laneous Collections, 26,302 volumes and separates of Smithsonian 
Annual Reports, 3,696 War Background Studies, 6,361 Smithsonian 
special publications, 38 reports of the Harriman Alaska Expedition, 
66,459 volumes and separates of National Museum publications, 
12,787 pubHcations of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 6,873 
Publications of the Institute of Social Anthropology, 10 catalogs of 
the National Collection of Fine Arts, 603 volumes and pamphlets of 
the Freer Gallery of Art, 38 Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, 
1,389 Reports of the American Historical Association, and 5,014 mis- 
cellaneous publications not printed by the Smithsonian Institution 
(mostly Survival Manuals.) 

In addition, 87,715 Guide Books, 22,573 natural history and art post 
cards, 162 sets of Noi^th American Wild Flowers, and 18 Pitcher Plants 
volumes were distributed. 

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS 

In this series there were issued title page and table of contents of 
volume 107, 7 papers and title page and table of contents of volume 
110, and 7 papers in volume 111, as follows: 
136 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 137 

VOLUME 107 
Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3949.) Sept. 3, 1948. 

VOLUME 110 

No. 7. Gustavus Sohon's portraits of Flathead and Fend d'Oreille Indians, 
1854, by John C. Ewers. 68 pp., 22 pis. (Publ. 3941.) Nov. 26, 1948. 

No. 8. The behavior of barometric pressure during and after solar particle 
invasions and solar ultraviolet invasions, by B. Duell and G. Duell. 34 pp., 21 
figs. (Publ. 3942.) Aug. 5, 1948. 

No. 9. A new genus and five new species of American fishes, by Samuel F, 
Hildebrand. 15 pp., 6 figs. (Publ. 3943.) July 28, 1948. 

No. 10. The feeding organs of Arachnida, including mites and ticks, by R. E. 
Snodgrass. 93 pp., 29 figs. (Publ. 3944.) Aug. 18, 1948. 

No. 11. The Smithsonian standard pyrheliometry, by C. G. Abbot. 4 pp. 
(Publ. 3945.) Aug. 5, 1948. 

No. 12. The Drum Mountains, Utah, meteorite, by E. P. Henderson and S. 
H. Perry. 7 pp., 5 pis. (Publ. 3946.) Sept. 3, 1948. 

No. 13. Contributions to the anthropology of the Soviet Union, by Ilenrj'^ Field. 
244 pp., 5 pis. (Publ. 3947.) Dec. 22, 1948. 

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3984.) May 12, 1949. 

VOLUME 111 

No. 1. Mirandolle's forest falcon, by Herbert Friedmann. 4 pp., 2 pis. (Publ. 
3948.) Sept. 22, 1948. 

No. 2. Prehistory and the Missouri VaSJey development program. Summary 
report on the Missouri lUver Basin Areheological Survey iu 1947, by Waldo R. 
Wedel. 52 pp., 8 pis. rPubl. 3950.) Nov. 23, 1948. 

No. 3. Further nev,- Cambrian belleropLont gastropods, by J. Brookes Knight. 
6 pp., 1 pi. (Publ. 3961.) Dec. 24, 1918. 

No. 4 Type matejkl of the species of clerid beetles described by Charles 
Schaeffer, by Edward A. Chapin. 12 pp. (Publ. 3077.) Apr. 5, 1949. 

No. 5. 1948-1948 report on the 27.0074-day cycle in Washington precipitation^ 
by C. G. Abbot. 2 pp. (Publ. 3980.) Mar. 8, 1949. 

No. 6. A prediction of Washington temperature 1948 (made January 1948), 
by C. G. Abbot. 6 pp., 1 fig. (Pub!. 3982.) Mar. 8, 1949. 

No. 7. Montezuma solar-constant values and their periodic variations, by 
C. G. Abbot. 13 pp., 3 figs. (Pub!. 3981.) Apr. 19, 1949. 

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORT 

Report for 191^7 . — The complete volume of the Annual Report of the 
Board of Regents for 1947 v/as received from the Public Printer 
December 15, 1948: 

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smitlisoniao Institution showing 
the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year ended 
June 30, 1947. ix + 471 pp., 65 pis., 67 ligs. (Pub!. 3921.) 



138 AisnsruAL report Smithsonian institution, 1949 

The general appendix contained the following papers (Pubis. 3922- 
3939): 

Large sunspota, by Seth B. Nicholson. 

Atomic euergy, by A. E, Johns. 

Telegraphy — pony express to beam radio, by George C. Hillis. 

Plutonium and other transuranium elements, by Glenn T. Seaborg. 

The use of isotopes as tracers, by A. H. W. Aten, Jr., and F. A. Heyn. 

Silicones — a new continent In the world of chemistry, by S. L. Bass. 

New products of the petroleum industry, by Hugh W. Field. 

The tsunami of April 1, 1946, in the Hawaiian Islands, by G. A. Macdonald, 

F. P. Shepard, and E. C. Cox. 
Drowned ancient islands of the Pacific baain, by H. H. Hess. 
The biology of Bikini Atoll, with special reference to the fishes, by Leonard P. 

Schulta. 
Tho sensca of bats, by Brian Vesey-Fitz Gerald 
Mollusks and medicine in World War 11, by R. Tucker Abbott. 
Some remarks on the influence of insects on human welfare, by Carl D. Duncan. 
Mosquito control t«sts from the Arctic to the Tropics, by H. H. Stage. 
The primary centers of civilization, by John R. Swanton. 
The Ryukyu people: A cultural appraisal, by Marshall T. Newman and Ransom 

L. Eng. 
Puzzle in Panama, by Waldo G. Bowman. 
Comparison of propeller and reaction-propelled airplane performaaces, by Benson 

Hamlin and F. Spenceley. 

Report Jor 1948. — The Report of the Secretary, which included the 
financial report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents, 
and which will form part of the Annual Report of the Board of Regents 
to Congress, was issued January 13, 1949: 

Report of tho Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and financial report of 
the executive committee of the Board of Regents for the year ended June 30, 1948. 
ix+158 pp., 4 pis., 1 chart. (Publ. 3952.) 1948. 

The Report volume for 1948, containing the general appendix, was 
in press at the close of the year. 

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS 

National Aircraft Collection, by Paul Edward Garber. Eiglith edition 44 
pp., illus. (Publ. 3979.) May 2, 1919. 

The following special publication was reprinted: 

Brief Guide to tho Smithsonian Institution. Seventh edition. 80 pp., illus. 
Dec. 13, 1948. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during 
the year under the immediate direction of the editor, Paul H. Oehser. 
There were issued 1 Annual Report, 25 Proceedings papers, 3 Bulletins, 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 139 

and 2 separate papers in the Bulletin series, Contributions from the 
United States National Aluseum. 

REPORT 

Report on the progress and condition of the United States National Museum 
for the year ended June 30, 1948. iii + 127 pp. Jan. 25, 1949. 

proceedings: volume 98 

No. 3222. A potential snail host of Oriental schistosomiasis in North America 
(Pomatiopsis lapidaria), by R. Tucker Abbott. Pp. 57-68, pis. 3, 4, figs. 10, 11. 
July 2, 1948. 

No. 3224. The serphoid Ilymenoptera of the family Roproniidae, by Henry 
Townes. Pp. 85-89, fig. 12. July 8, 1948. 

No. 3225. Parasitic wasps of the genus Trimorus in North America, by Robert 
M. Fouts. Pp. 91-148, figs. 13-15. Aug. 19, 1948. 

No. 3226. New pemphilidine wasps from southern Nigeria, by V. S. L. Pate. 
Pp. 149-162, fig. IG. Oct. 19, 1948. 

No. 3227. The butterflies of the Admiralty Islands, by Warren Herbert Wag- 
ner, Jr., and David F. Grether. Pp. 163-186, pis. 11-13. Dec. 7, 1948. 

No. 3228. Flies of the family Stratiomyidae of the Solomon Islands, by Mau- 
rice T. James. Pp. 187-213. Nov. 9, 1948. 

No. 3229. Cyprinodont fishes of the genus Fundulus in the West Indies, with 
description of a new subspecies from Cuba, by Luis Ren6 Rivas. Pp. 215-222, 
pi. 14. Oct. 19, 1948. 

No. 3230. A new crayfish of the genus Camharus from Texas, with notes on 
the distribution of Camharvs fodiens (Cottle), by Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. Pp. 
223-231, fig. 17. Nov. 16, 1948. 

No. 3231. Report on the Pycnogonida collected by the Albatross in Japanese 
waters in 1900 and 1906, by Joel W. Hedgpeth. Pp. 233-321, figs. 18-51. Mar. 
14, 1949. 

No. 3232. Mammals of northern Colombia. Preliminary report No. 4: 
Monkeys (Primates), with taxonomic revisions of some forms, by Philip Hersh- 
kovitz. Pp. 323-427, pis. 15-17, figs. 52-59. May 10, 1949. 

No. 3233. Bees from Central America, principally Honduras, by T. D. A. 
Cockerell. Pp. 429-490. May 25, 1949. 

No. 3234. A generic revision of the treehoppers of the tribe Ceresini in America 
north of Mexico, based on a study of the male genitalia, by John S. Caldwell. 
Pp. 491-521, pis. 18-23. May 10, 1949. 

VOLUME 99 

No. 3235. A further contribution to the ichthyology of Venezuela, by Leonard 
P. Schultz. Pp. 1-211, pis. 1-3, figs. 1-20. May 10, 1949. 

No. 3236. The weevils of the genus Tachygonus in the United States National 
Museum, with descriptions of new species, by Oscar Monte. Pp. 213-227, figs. 
21-32. May 25, 1949. 

No. 3237. The species of ichneumon-flies of the genus Cardiochiles occurring 
in America north of Mexico, by Ying-Tou Mao. Pp. 229-266, pis. 4-5. Mar. 
21, 1949. 



140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

No. 3238. A revision of the mites of the family Cheyletidae in the United 
States National Museum, by Edward W. Baker. Pp. 267-320, pis. 6-17. Apr. 
14, 1949. 

No. 3239. A new species of copepod of the genus CoTycaeus from the North 
American coast, by Mildred Stratton Wilson. Pp. 321-326, pi. 18. June 10, 
1949. 

No. 3240. New buprestid beetles from Mexico, Central and South America, 
and the West Indies, by W. S. Fisher. Pp. 327-351. Apr. 26, 1949. 

No. 3241. The Pima County (Arizona) meteorite, by E. P. Henderson and 
Stuart H. Perry. Pp. 353-355," pis. 19, 20. Apr. 27, 1949. 

No. 3242. The Linwood (Nebraska) meteorite, by E. P. Henderson and Stuart 
H. Perry. Pp. 357-360, pis. 21-24. Apr. 27, 1949. 

No. 3243. The Nearctic species of the family Stephanidae (Hymenoptera), 
by Henry Townes. Pp. 361-370, pi. 25. June 10, 1949. 

No. 3244. Nine new xystodesmid millipeds from Virginia and West Virginia, 
with records of established species, by Richard L. Hoffman. Pp. 371-389, pis. 
26, 27. June 14, 1949. 

No. 3245. A review of the copepod genus Paranthessius Glaus, by Paul L. 
lUg. Pp. 391-428, figs. 33-37. May 10, 1949. 

No. 3246. Mammals of northern Colombia. Preliminary report No. 5: Bats 
(Cliiroptera), by Philip Hershkovitz. Pp. 429-4.54, fig. 38. May 10, 1949, 

No. 3247. New species and records of staphylinid beetles from Formosa, 
Japan, and South China, by Malcolm Cameron. Pp. 455-477. June 14, 1949. 

BULLETINS 

No. 100, vol. 14, pt. 3. Report on the Echinoidea collected by the United States 
Fisheries steamer Albatross during the Philippine Expedition, 1907-1910. Part 3: 
The Echinoneidae, Echinolampadidae, Clypeastridae, Arachiioididae, Laganidae, 
Fibulariidae, Urechinidae, Echinocorythidae, Palaeostomatidae, Micrasteridae, 
Palaeopneustidae, Hemiastoridae, and Spatangidae, by Theodor Mortensen. 
Pp. i-iii, 93-140. Oct. 29, 1949. 

No. 195. Life histories of North American nuthatches, wrens, thrashers, and 
their allies. Order Passer if or mes, by Arthur Cleveland Bent. Pp. i-xi, 1-475, 
90 pis. July 7, 1948. 

No. 196. lAfe histories of North American thrushes, kinglets, and their allies. 
Order Passeriformes, by Arthur Cleveland Bent. Pp. i-viii, 1-454, 51 pis. June 
28, 1949. 

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL HERBARIUM 

VOLUME 29 

Part 5. A revision of Macrocarpaea, a Neotropical genus of shrubby gentians, 
by Joseph Ewan. Pp. i-vii, 209-249, pis. 1-5. Aug. 23, 1948. 

Part 6. New grasses from Honduras, Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Bolivia, 
and Brazil, by Jason R. Swallen. Pp. i-iii, 251-276. Feb. 18, 1949. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

The editorial work of the Bureau continued under the immediate 
direction of the editor, M. Helen Palmer. Daring the year the follow- 
ing publications were issued: 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 141 

REPORT 

Sixty-fifth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1947-1948. 
32 pp. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY 

No. 8. Sierra Popoluca speech, by Mary L. Foster and George M. Foster. 
45 pp. 

No. 9. The Terena and the Caduveo of southern Mato Grosso, Brazil, by 
Kalervo Oberg. 72 pp., 24 pis., 4 maps, 2 cliarts. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART 

OCCASIONAL papers: volume 1 

No. 2. Paintings, pastels, drawings, prints, and copper plates by and attributed 
to American and European artists, together with a list of original Whistleriana, 
in the Freer Galley of Art, by Burns A. Stubbs. 152 pp., 20 pis. (Publ. 3905.) 
Aug. G, 1948. 

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION 

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are trans- 
mitted by the Association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided by the act 
of incorporation of the Association. The following report volumes 
were issued this year: 
Annual Report of the American Historical Association for 1943. Vol. 2, Writings 

on American History, 1939 and 1940. 
Annual Report of the American Historical Association for 1945: 

Vol. 2, Spain in the Mississippi Valley, 17(55-1794. Pt. 1, The Revolu- 
tionary period, 17G5-178I. 
Vol. 3, Spain in the Mississippi Valley, 17G5-1794. Pt. 2, Postwar decade, 
1782-1791. 
Annual Report of the American Historical Association for 1947. Vol. 1, Pro- 
ceedings. 

The following were in press at the close of the fiscal year; Annual 
Report of the American Historical Association for 1945. Vol. 4, 
Spain in the Mississippi Valley, 1765-1794. Pt. 3, Problems of frontier 
defense, 1792-1794 ; Annual Report of the American Historical Associa- 
tion for 1948. Vol. 1, Proceedings. 

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE 
AMERICAN REVOLUTION 

The manuscript of the Fifty-iirst Annual Report of the National 
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to 
Congress, in accordance with law, February 9, 1949. 



142 ANNTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

APPROPRIATION FOR PRINTING AND BINDING 

The congressional appropriation for printing and binding for the past 
year was entirely obligated at the close of the year. The appropria- 
tion for the coming fiscal year ending June 30, 1950, totals $103,000, 
allotted as follows: 

General administration (Annual Report of the Board of Regents; 

Annual Report of the Secretary) $18, 500 

National Museum 36, 200 

Bureau of American Ethnology 21, 500 

National Air Museum 3,000 

Service division (Annual Report of the American Historical Associa- 
tion ; blank forms ; binding ; Museum print shop) 23, 800 

103, 000 
Respectfully submitted. 

W. P. True, Chiej, Editorial Division. 
Dr. A. Wetmore, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF 
THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSON- 
IAN INSTITUTION 



FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1949 

To the Board of Regents oj the Smithsonian Institution: 

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report 
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together 
with a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Govern- 
ment bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution. 

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND 

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s 6d — 
$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the 
claim, freights, insurance, etc., together with payment into the fund 
of the sum of £5,015, which had been withheld during the lifetime of 
Madame de la Batut, brought the fund to the amount of $550,000. 

Since the original bequest, the Institution has received gifts from 
various sources, the income from which may be used for the general 
work of the Institution. These, including the original bequest, plus 
savings, are listed below, together with the income for the present 
year. 

ENDOWMENT FUNDS 

(Income for unrestricted use of the Institution) 

Partly deposited in United States Treasury at 6 percent and partly invested in 

stocks, bonds, etc. 



Investment 



Income pres- 
ent year 



Parent fimd (original Smithson bequest, plus accumulated savings) 

Subsequent bequests, gifts, etc., partly deposited in the U. S. Treasury 
and partly invested in the consolidated fund: 

Avery, Robert S., and Lydia, bequest fund -.- 

Endowment fund.- 

Habel, Dr. S., bequest fund 

Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline, bequest fund 

Hamilton, James, bequest fund 

Henry, Caroline, bequtst fund .- 

Hodgkins, Thomas Q., (general) gift 

Porter, Henry Klrlfe, memorial fund 

Rhees, William Jones, bequest fund 

Sanford, George H., memorial fund_ 

Witherspoon, Thomas A., memorial fund 

Special fund, stoclc in reorganized closed banks 

Total-- 

Grand total - -.. 



$728, 878. 50 



$43, 710. 56 



64,072.23 


2, 527. 82 


337, 608. 80 


14, 220. 74 


500.00 


30.00 


4,080.11 


171.87 


2, 909. 54 


167. 20 


1. 226. 97 


61.70 


146, 418. 02 


8,241.27 


290, 547. 80 


12,238.39 


1,069.05 


55.65 


2,00.3.12 


104.04 


130,922.14 


5, 514. 70 


2, 280. 00 


160.00 


073, 638. 68 


43,483.64 



I, 702, 517. 18 



87, 194. 10 



143 



144 



ANNUAL REPORT SAOTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 



The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the income 
of each being restricted to specific use. These, plus accretions to date, 
are listed below, together with income for the present year. 



Investment 


income pres- 
ent year 


$102, 949. 49 


$4,270.13 


40,573.48 


1,709.05 


50,827.58 

24, 426. 07 

1,014.26 


2, 140. 95 

1, 028. 88 

42.73 


38,801.89 


1, 634. 41 


9, 305. 19 


391. 95 


28,669.00 


1. 203. 39 


514. 66 


21.68 


6, 667. 55 


280. 85 


1.600.81 


67.44 


100.000.00 


6,000.00 


18,657.75 
19,418.98 


785. 91 
817.96 


550. 87 
10,001.67 


23.20 
421. 29 


19,230.71 


810. 04 


10, 143. 51 


427. 27 


7, 519. 99 


316. 76 


114,451.10 


5, 478. 83 


10, 790. 25 


454. 51 


30, 203. 63 


1, 506. 88 


122, 439. 01 


5,157.39 


95,202.00 
34, 364. 54 
18, 192. 99 


4, 008. 09 

1, 447. 51 

760. 33 


381.670.84 

46, 599. 70 

9C2. 30 


18,717.37 

3,716.66 

40.53 


1, 345, 776. 78 


63,694.59 



Abbott, William L., fund, for investigations in biology 

Arthur, James, fund, for investigations and study of the sun and lecture on 
same _ 

Bacon, \ irginia Purdy, fund, for traveling scholarship to investigate fauna of 
countries other than the United States- 

Baird, Lucy H., fund, for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird... -.. 

Barstow, Frederick D., fund, for purchase of animals for Zoological Park 

Canfleld Collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfield collection of 
minerals.. 

Casoy, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection, and promo- 
tion of researches relating to Coleoptera, 

Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of Isaac Lea col- 
lection of gems and moUu.sks 

Eickemeycr, Florence Brevoort, fund, for preservation and exhibition of the 
photographic collection of Rudolph Eickemoyer, Jr 

Hillyer, Virgil, fund, for increase and care of Virgil Hillyer collection of light- 
ing objects - 

Hitchcock, Dr. Albert S., library fund, for caro of Hitchcock Agrostological 
Library - .__ __ 

Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact Icnowledge in 
regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air_ 

HrdliCka, Ales and Marie, fund, to further researches in physical anthro- 
pology and publication in coimection therewith 

Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove 

Long, Annette and Edith C, fund, for upkeep and preservation of Long col- 
lection of embroideries, laces, etc 

Maxwell, Mary E., fund, for care, etc., of Maxwell collection 

Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchases of flrst-class works of art for the 
use and benefit of tlie National Collection of Fine Arts. _ . . 

Strong, Julia D., bequest fund, for benefit of the National Collection of Fine 
Arts.- .._ __ 

Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane Pell collec- 
tion 

Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund, for general use of the institution when 
principal amounts to $250,000- _ 

Rathbun, Richard, memorial fund, for use of division of U. S. National 
Museum containing Crustacea 

Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology, in memory of Asher 
Tunis 

Roebling Collection fund, for care, Improvement, and increase of iioebiing 
collection of minerals 

Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics and chemis- 
try .._ 

Smithsonian employees' retirement fund 

Springer, Frank, fund, for care, etc., of Springer collection and library 

Walcott, Charles T>. and Mary Vaux, research fund, for the development of 
geological and paleontological studies and publishing results thereof 

Younger, Helen Walcott, fund, held in trust 

Zerbee, Frances Brinckl6, fund, for endowment of aquaria 

Total 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 145 

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND 

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave to 
the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects of 
art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by Whistler, 
Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave funds for the 
construction of a building to house the collection, and finally in his 
will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and securities to 
the estimated value of $1,958,591.42, as an endowment fund for the 
operation of the Gallery. 

The above fund of Mr. Freer was almost entirely represented by 
20,465 shares of stock in Parke, Davis & Co. As this stock advanced 
in value, much of it was sold and the proceeds reinvested so that the 
fund now amounts to $6,092,775.69 in a selected list of securities 
classified later, 

SUMMARY OF ENDOWMENTS 

Invested endowment for general purposes $1, 702, 517. 18 

Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer En- 
dowment 1,345,776. 78 

Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment.. 3, 048, 293. 96 
Freer invested endowment for specific purposes 6, 092, 775. 69 

Total invested endowment for all purposes 9, 141, 069. 65 

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS 

Deposited in the U. S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as auth- 
orized in the U, S. Revised Statutes, sec. 5591 $1, 000, 000. 00 

Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or market value 
at date acquired) : 

Bonds $683, 834. 86 

Stocks 1,245,283. 78 

Real estate and first-mortgage notes 62, 790. 83 

Uninvested capital 56, 384. 49 

2, 048, 293. 96 

Total investments other than Freer endowment 3, 048, 293. 96 

Investment of Freer endowment (cost or market value at date 
acquired) : 

Bonds $2,925,452.84 

Stocks 3, 133,881. 17 

Uninvested capital. 33, 441. 68 

6, 092, 775. 69 

Total investments 9, 141, 069. 65 



146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN mSTITUTION, 1949 

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING FISCAL 

YEAR 1949 » 

Cash balance on hand June 30, 1948 $563, 847. 37 

Receipts other than Freer endowment: 

Income from investments $156, 219. 10 

Gifts and contributions 48, 14-3. 71 

Sales of publications 33, 281. 09 

Miscellaneous 11, 566. 10 

Total receipts other than Freer endowment 249, 210. 00 

Receipts from Freer endowment: 

Income from investments $282, 265. 48 

Total receipts from Freer endowment 282, 265. 48 

Total 1,095,322.85 

Disbursements other than Freer endowment: 

Administration $43, 422. 75 

Publications 45, 618. 12 

Library 3,977. 10 

Buildings — care, repairs, alterations 136. 00 

Custodian fees, etc 3, 293. 15 

Miscellaneous 3, 822. 77 

Researches 127, 412. 84 

Smithsonian Retirement System 3, 608. 28 

Purchases of securities (net) 4, 508. 63 

Total disbursements other than Freer endowment 235, 799. 64 

Disbursements from Freer endowment: 

Salaries $83, 480. 37 

Purchases for collections 125, 050. 00 

Custodian fees, etc 10, 858. 00 

Miscellaneous 26, 594. 80 

Purchases of securities (net) 80,631. 18 

Total disbursements from Freer endowment 326, 614. 35 

Investment of current funds in U. S. Bonds 2, 578. 13 

Total disbursements 564,992. 12 

Cash balance June 30, 1949 530, 330. 73 

Total 1,09.5,322.85 

• This statement does not include Qovemment appropriations under the administrative charge of the 
Institution. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 147 

ASSETS 



Cash: 

United States Treasury cur- 
rent account $360, 201. 95 

In banks and on hand 170, 128. 78 



530, 330. 73 



Less uninvested endowment 

funds 89,826. 17 



$440, 504. 56 

Travel and other advances 11, 585. 42 

Cash invested (U. S. Treasury notes) 502, 815. 37 



$954, 90.5. 35 



Investments — at book value: 
Endowment funds: 

Freer Gallery of Art: 

Stocks and bonds.. $6, 059, 334. 01 
Uninvested capital. 33, 441. 68 



Investments at book value other than Freer: 

Stocks and bonds $1, 929, 118. 64 

Real estate and mort- 
gage notes 62, 790. 83 

Uninvested capital 56,384 49 

Special deposit in U. S. 
Treasury. Interest at 
6 percent 1,000,000.00 



6, 092, 775. 69 



3, 048, 293. 96 



UNEXPENDED FUNDS AND ENDOWMENTS 



9, 141, 069. 65 
10, 095, 975. 00 



Unexpended funds: 

Income from Freer Gallery of Art endowment 393, 411. 62 

Income from other endowments: 

Restricted $187, 425. 28 

General 85, 599. 74 

273, 025. 02 

Gifts and grants 288, 468. 71 

954, 905. 35 
Endowment funds: 

Freer Gallery of Art $6, 092, 775. 69 

Other: 

Restricted $1, 345, 776. 78 

General 1, 702, 517. 18 

3, 048, 293. 96 

9, 141, 069. 65 

10, 095, 975. 00 



148 AJsnsruAL report Smithsonian institution, 1949 

The practice of maintaining savings accounts in several of the 
Washington banks and trust companies has been continued during 
the past year, and interest on these deposits amounted to $824.74. 

In many instances, deposits are made in banks for convenience in 
collection of checks, etc., and later such funds are withdrawn and 
deposited in the United States Treasury. 

Disbursement of funds is made by check signed by the Secretary 
of the Institution and drawn on the United States Treasury. 

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the 
Institution. 

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts from the following: 

American Philosophical Society, for Iroquois research. 

W. W. Corcoran, for B. F. Starr. 

Eickemeyer Estate, for preservation, etc., of Rudolph Eickemeyer photographic 

collection. 
E. P. Killip, for use of Department of Botany. 
National Academy of Sciences, for study of flora of Okinawa. 
National Geographic Society, expedition to western Panamd. 
Research Corporation. 
John A. Roebling, additional contribution for researches in radiation. 

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the 
Government bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smith- 
sonian Institution for the fiscal year 1949: 

Salaries and expenses $2, 259, 000. 00 

National Zoological Park 528, 848. 00 

In addition, funds were transferred from other Departments of the 
Government for expenditure under direction of the Smithsonian 
Institution as follows: 

Cooperation with the American Republics (transfer from the State 

Department) -- $97, 900. 00 

Working Fund, transferred from the National Park Service, 
Interior Department, for archeological investigations in River 
Basins throughout the United States $118,500.00 

The Institution also administers a trust fund for partial support 
of the Canal Zone Biological Area, located on Barro Colorado Island 
in the Canal Zone. 

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds foUows: 

September 14, 1949. 
To THE Board op Rkgents, 
Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington 25, D. C. 
We have examined the accounts of the Smithsonian Institution relative to its 
private endowment funds and gifts (but excluding the National Gallery of Art 
and other departments, bureaus, or operations administered by the Institution 
under Federal appropriations) for the year ended June 30, 1949. Our examina- 
tion was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 149 

accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing 
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. 

The Institution maintains its accounts on a cash basis and does not accrue 
income and expenses. Land, buildings, furniture, equipment, works of art, 
living and other specimens and certain sundry property arc not included in the 
accounts of the Institution. 

In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly the 
position of the private funds and the cash and investments thereof of the Smith- 
sonian Institution at June 30, 1949 (excluding the National Gallery of Art and 
other departments, bureaus or operations administered by the Institution under 
Federal appropriations) and the cash receipts and disbursements for the year 
then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied 
on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year. 

Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Robert V. Fleming, 
Vannevar Bush, 
Clarence Cannon, 

Executive Committee. 



GENEBAL APPENDIX 

TO THE 

SMITHSONIAN EEPORT FOE 1949 



151 



866591—60 11 



ADVERTISEMENT 

The object of the General Appendix to the Annual Report of the 
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis- 
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by 
collaborators of the Institution ; and memoirs of a general character 
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous 
correspondents of the Institution. 

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the amiual 
report required of them by law with memoii^s illustrating the more 
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological 
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations 
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this 
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such papers 
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress. 

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum- 
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by 
well-known private publishing firms, the Secretary had a series of 
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the 
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology, 
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and 
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether 
satisfactorily, down to an dincluding the year 1888. 

In the report of 1889, a return was made to the earlier method of 
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original) 
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus- 
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1949. 
152 



THE FOKMATION OF STARS 



By Lyman Spitzer, Jr. 
Princeton University Observatory 



[With 2 plates] 



If research in astronomy had stopped in 1913, our knowledge of 
stellar evolution today would be in a satisfactory state. At that time 
astronomers had a plausible theory of a star's life cycle. Emstein's 
theory of relativity, advanced only a few years before, showed that 
mass and energy were interchangeable. It was therefore natural for 
astronomers to assume that stars were formed as large massive bodies 
which through successive century after century continued to radiate 
away matter. Ultimately most of the matter in a star, according to 
this picture, would be radiated away as light and heat. In this way 
all the stars, despite their large differences in mass, formed part of 
the same evolutionary sequence. 

Unfortunately, this sunple, sweeping, and satisfying picture became 
discredited by additional information, both astronomical and physi- 
cal. On the astronomical side, evidence began to accumulate that 
the universe has not lasted long enough for most stars to radiate 
away much of their matter. The expansion of the universe, the 
presence of uranium on the earth, the existence of certain relatively 
transitory clusters of stars, all indicate that something happened 
about 3 billion years ago. If the universe was not created then, it 
was certainly very extensively reorganized; some sort of cosmic ex- 
plosion apparently took place at that time. Since the sun, a fairly 
typical star, would require many hundreds of billions of years to 
radiate an appreciable fraction of its mass, its total mass has ob- 
viously not changed appreciably within this last few billion years. 

On the physical side, nuclear physicists have learned a great deal 
about the specific processes by which matter can be converted into 
energy. The only known process of importance which can liberate 
energy inside a star is the combination of four hydrogen atoms to 
form a helium atom. Calculations carried out by the nuclear phys- 
icist. Prof. Hans Bethe, show that in the stars this process occurs 
through the catalytic action of carbon and nitrogen nuclei. Since 

• Reprinted by permission from Physics Today, vol. 1, No. 5, September 1948. 

153 



154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

four hydrogen atoms weigh 0.7 percent more than one helium atom, 
the additional mass is released as energy and can be radiated by the 
star. Even if a star is originally all hydrogen, the total mass radiated 
can evidently not exceed a very small fraction of the mass of the star. 
As a result of these findings we now know that the universe has 
apparently not lasted long enough in its present form for stars to 
radiate much of their mass, and in any case there seems to be no 
physical process by which a star could radiate away most of its mat- 
ter even if there were time enough. We are forced to conclude that 
the present variety of stars in the sky is the result of the original 
method of star formation rather than of any evolutionary process. 
And the formation of stars in general is still a closed book, since the 
explosion of the universe a few billion years ago has so far defied 
any attempts at detailed analysis. It is even possible that the basic 
laws of nature may have been quite different at that time. Thus 
our research in the direction of general stellar evolution reminds one 
of Browning's philosopher, who had 

. . . written three books on the soul, 
Proving absurd all written hitherto 
And putting us to ignorance again. 

SUPERGIANT STARS 

While the origin of the universe is still beyond our understanding, 
some progress has been made in explaining the origin of a certain class 
of stars, which may have been created relatively recently. A super- 
giant star is one which radiates light and heat some ten thousand 
times as strongly as our own sun. There are not many of these stars, 
but in a galaxy of many biUions of lesser stars they stand out in the 
same way that a searchlight stands out from a swarm of fireflies. 
These stars are burning their candle at both ends and they cannot 
last very long, astronomically speaking. Within a mere hundred 
million years, such a star must burn all its hydrogen into helium. 
There is no known way in which a star can remain dark for a long 
period of time and then suddenly start shining. We conclude that 
these supergiant stars have formed within the last hundred million 
years — less than a tenth of the age of the universe. 

Of course, it is possible that nuclear physicists have overlooked 
some important process by which a star can radiate a much larger 
fraction of its mass than the hydrogen-into-helium process liberates. 
This does not seem very likely, since the energies with which the atoms 
hit each other inside a star average only a few thousand electron volts — 
a small fraction of the energies developed in such atom-busting devices 
as the cyclotron and synchrotron — and since the nuclear reactions 
produced at low energies have been fairly well explored in the lab- 
oratory. 



FORMATION OF STARS — SPITZER 155 

If it is assumed that these stars have in fact been formed within 
the last hundred million years, the mechanism for this formation is a 
problem which astronomers may hope to investigate with some hope 
of success. Within this interval, conditions in the universe have 
apparently not changed very much and an examination of the universe 
about us may actually indicate how supergiant stars have formed in 
the past, and may even be forming at the present time. 

CLOUDS— THE CLUE 

The clouds of matter which float about between the stars are an 
obvious source of material for star formation. Recent investigations 
show that these clouds are in fact so closely associated with supergiant 
stars that a physical connection between them seems very likely. 

In brief, the observations indicate that supergiant stars are found 
only in those aggregations of stars where interstellar clouds of matter 
are also present. More specifically, observations of stellar galaxies, 
each one a million or so light-years away and each, like our own 
galaxy, containing many billions of stars, show that supergiant stars 
are found only in spiral galaxies. These spiral systems, like the 
huge galaxy in which our sun is located, are flattened, disk-shaped 
systems some hundred thousand light-years in diameter, each one 
rotating about an axis perpendicular to the plane of its disk. A 
typical spiral galaxy is shown in plate 1, figure 2. The characteristic 
feature of these systems, after which they are named, is the presence 
of a pair of arms which apparently come out of the central nucleus and 
wind around the system. 

In the elliptical galaxies — which are not rotating so rapidly, are 
not so flattened, and show no spiral structure — no supergiant stars 
are found. In fact, long-exposure plates at the Mount Wilson Ob- 
servatory have shown that the stars in these systems have a sharp 
upper limit on their brightness ; no star greater than the critical bright- 
ness can be found, while below this critical brightness myriads of 
stars appear on the photographic plate. This result is in marked 
contrast to the observed brightness of the stars in spiral galaxies, 
where there are always one or two brightest supergiant stars, a number 
of less bright supergiants, and a gradually increasing number of 
fainter and fainter stars. This sharp upper limit on the brightness 
of stars in elliptical galaxies is just what one would expect if no new 
stars had been formed since the beginning of the universe, and if 
the brightest ones had burned up all their fuel and gone out. 

Detailed examination of galaxies also indicates that clouds of matter 
between the stars are found only in spiral systems. In elliptical 
galaxies the vast stretches between the stars are very nearly empty, 
but in flattened spiral galaxies like our own there is about as much 



156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

matter between the stars as there is inside the stars. This association 
between obscuring clouds and supergiant stars is strengthened by the 
fact that in the closest galaxy, the great nebula in Andromeda, super- 
giant stars are observed to occur in exactly those regions where the 
obscuring clouds are most prominent. Thus the observational evi- 
dence indicating a physical connection between clouds and super- 
giant stars is very strong. 

Before we can accept the hypothesis that supergiant stars have in 
fact formed from these clouds we must investigate whether or not 
there is some process which could cause interstellar matter to condense 
into stars. In this way we are led to consider the physical nature of 
the stuff between the stars, and the forces which operate on it. Thirty- 
five years ago the very existence of interstellar matter was not fully 
realized but recently extensive information on this topic has been 

obtained. 

ATOMS IN SPACE 

The dominant constituents of interstellar matter are believed to be 
individual atoms. These atoms absorb or emit light of particular 
wave lengths, which can be measured accurately by use of the spectro- 
scope. In some regions, where the gas is at a high temperature, 
bright emission lines of hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen are observed. 
Measurements of the intensities of these lines show that the density 
of the interstellar gas is about one hydrogen atom in each cubic 
centimeter, with other elements present as slight impurities. The 
interstellar medium is a much better vacuum than is ever obtained in 
a terrestrial laboratory. If a fly were to breathe a single breath 
into a vacuum chamber as big as the Empire State Building, the re- 
sulting density of the air would still be much greater than the density 
of the interstellar gas. 

In other regions of space the interstellar gas is cool, and no emission 
lines are produced. Instead, the atoms absorb the light from distant 
stars, producing absorption lines at particular wave lengths. The 
absorption lines of the abundant gases, hydrogen, helium, nitrogen, 
oxygen, etc., when these are cool, lie far out in the ultraviolet, where 
they cannot be detected. Interstellar absorption lines of sodium, 
calcium, titanium, and iron lie within the observable spectrum and 
have been observed in the spectra of bright stars a few thousand 
light-years away. These lines are very sharp, and can usually be 
distinguished from the lines produced by the atoms in a stellar at- 
mosphere, where the high temperature and pressure give wide lines. 

Recent work has been concerned with the detailed distribution of 
interstellar gas. Measurement of the strongest absorption lines, with 
the most powerful spectrographs available at the 100 inch telescope of 



FORMATION OF STARS — SPITZER 157 

the Mount Wilson Observatory, shows that a single line is frequently- 
made up of several components. Each separate component is pro- 
duced by absorption in a single cloud of gas, the different components 
being separated in wave length by the difference in Doppler effect 
produced by the different cloud velocities. These clouds, each one 
about 20 light-years across, are moving through space at speeds of 
some 10 or 20 miles a second. A more detailed understanding of the 
nature of these clouds is desirable before one can discuss in detail how 
interstellar matter can form new stars. Further work along these 
lines is now in progress, 

SOLID PARTICLES 

In addition to the separate atoms drifting about in space, small 
solid particles, or grains, are also present. Each grain is about one 
hundred-thousandth of an inch in diameter; 10,000 placed end to 
end would make a line about as long as a period on this page. Since 
the size of these grains is just about equal to the wave length of visible 
light, these particles are of the size which is most effective in absorbing 
and scattering light waves. These particles are responsible for the 
general obscuration produced by the clouds shown in plate 2. Par- 
ticles of smaller size are presumably also present, but these do not 
produce such a noticeable effect, and can therefore not be detected. 

The properties of these particles have been determined from accu- 
rate measurements of the obscuration which they produce in light of 
different wave lengths. This obscuration is greater for blue light 
than for red light, which proves that the particles cannot be much 
larger in size than the wave length of light. On the other hand, the 
obscuration varies inversely only as the first power of the wave length, 
instead of as the fourth power which is observed for scattering by the 
molecules of the atmosphere. From this one can conclude that the 
grains are not very much smaller in size than the wave length of light. 
In this way a particle size of about the wave length of light has been 
determined. From the fact that the grains seem to scatter more 
than they absorb it seems likely that they are dielectric rather than 
metallic in composition. If, as seems likely, these grains were pro- 
duced by the sticking together of individual atoms, the enormous 
abundance of hydrogen relative to other elements would be expected 
to produce solid hydrogen compounds, in particular, ordinary ice. 
However, impurities of all other elements would also be present. 

Studies of the distribution of these grains have indicated that the 
clouds in which these grains are concentrated are apparently identical 
with the gaseous clouds already described. Thus whatever pushes 
atoms into clouds also pushes the grains together. 



158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

FORCES IN INTERSTELLAR SPACE 

To discuss in detail how stuff in space can condense to form new 
stars we must determine the physical conditions of matter in space. 
In particular, we must combine the observational evidence described 
above with our knowledge of basic physical principles to investigate 
the different forces that are at work on the different particles. Only 
in this way can we predict how the interstellar medium will behave 
under various widely different conditions. 

In the immense vacuum between the stars, an interstellar particle 
spends most of its time moving in a straight line without interruption. 
Occasionally, one of two things may happen to it: an encounter with 
another interstellar particle, or an encounter with a light wave, or 
photon. The information which physicists have obtained on such 
processes is not so complete as astronomers would like, but is sufficient 
for an approximate evaluation of the effects which these various col- 
lisions will produce. 

The collisions of the interstellar atoms and grains with each other 
help determine the temperature of matter in space. In most cases, 
the collisions are elastic and the kinetic energy of the different par- 
ticles is exchanged back and forth; as a result, the distribution of 
velocities corresponds to that in thermal equilibrium at some particular 
temperature. Photoemission of energetic electrons from hydrogen 
atoms and grains, on absorption of photons, tends to keep the tem- 
perature high, but inelastic collisions between atoms and grains tend 
to give a low temperature. Near a very hot and very bright star the 
gas will be heated up to about 10,000° K., but in other regions a tem- 
perature of about 100° K. seems likely. This difference of tempera- 
ture between different regions is believed to produce cosmic currents, 
or winds, in the same way as the winds on earth are produced. 

In some cases the interstellar particles stick to each other on col- 
lision. Thus atoms stick together to form molecules, molecules stick 
together to form larger molecules, and grains grow by slow accretion. 
This process was analyzed during the war by a number of Dutch as- 
tronomers, who were able to show that the interstellar grains have 
probably been formed by this evolutionary process within the last 
few billion years. More accurate physical information on collisions 
between particles at low energies is required to make this theory 
more quantitative. 

Collisions between grains and photons are important in star build- 
ing. It is well known that light exerts pressure. Since starlight in a 
galaxy comes from all directions in the galactic plane, a single grain 
will be knocked this way or that by photon collisions, without any net 
motion resulting. However, when several grains are present, the 
shadow of each one on the other unbalances the radiative force, and 



FORMATION OF STARS — SPITZER 159 

photons striking from the opposite sides push the grains toward each 
other. As a result, there is an effective force of attraction between 
grains which is several thousand times as great as the gravitational 
force between them. 

STAR FORMATION 

The farther we go away from observational data the more uncertain 
our theories become. The mechanism of star formation, which is the 
ultimate objective of much of the work described above, is still in a 
rather speculative state. However, putting all the above information 
together does provide a reasonable preliminary picture for the process 
by which stars can be formed from interstellar matter. 

The process may be assumed to start with an interstellar gas, 
formed at the same time as the rest of the universe. The first step 
in the process is then the slow condensation of interstellar particles 
from the gas. After these particles have reached a certain size, the 
radiative attraction between them forces them together and they drift 
toward each other, forming an obscuring cloud in a time of about 10 
million years. In a cloud, where the density of grains is high, the 
temperature tends to be low. In the surrounding region the high 
temperature produces high pressure, and the low-temperature, low- 
pressure cloud therefore becomes compressed. In this way the density 
of gas within a cloud will be increased, corresponding to the observed 
result that a cloud of grains is also a cloud of gas. 

Currents produced by differences of temperature and also by the 
general rotation of the galaxy will tend to tear some of these clouds to 
pieces. On the other hand, the forces of condensation will pull them 
together and some clouds may be expected to go on contracting. The 
radiative force becomes ineffective when the clouds become so opaque 
that light does not penetrate into them very far. At this point 
gravitation takes over and tends to produce a further contraction. 
In this stage a cloud has a diameter of a light-year or less. Small 
opaque clouds of this type, called globules, have been known for some 
time, and are shown in plate 1, figure 1. 

One of the chief problems concerns the angular momentum of this 
prestellar globule, or protostar. According to Newton's laws of 
motion, the angular momentum, which is proportional to the product 
of the radius and the rotational velocity, remains constant; as the 
radius decreases the rotational speed increases. Since the radius of a 
typical cloud is some 10 million times the radius of a supergiant star, 
this increase in rotational speed can be quite impressive. Unless 
some way can be found to dispose of the angular momentum, a proto- 
star would hurl itself to pieces by centrifugal force. The possibility 
that turbulent motions in the gas may carry the angular momentum 



160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

away has been explored by several German astronomers. However, 
the turbulent velocities involved would exceed the velocity of sound 
in the interstellar gas, and physical information about this type of 
turbulence is virtually nonexistent. In this country the possibility 
has been advanced that a galactic magnetic field might produce 
electrical eddy currents in a rotating protostar, which would then 
damp out the angular momentum. 

An interesting variant of this star-building picture has been pro- 
posed by Dr. Fred Wliipple, one of the astronomers who has con- 
tributed most to this theory of star building. He suggests that a 
condensing cloud may have produced our solar system. In view of 
the widespread general interest in the formation of the solar system, 
such a bold extrapolation of these theoretical concepts back to con- 
ditions several billion years ago is naturally of much significance. 

It is evident that the picture of star formation which has been 
described here is still in a formative stage. The work in progress is 
being carried out cooperatively by a number of astronomers all over 
the world. Perhaps when the 200-inch telescope probes further into 
the secrets of space, and when further progress in experimental and 
theoretical physics increases our understanding of the processes at 
work between the stars, we may then outline with more assurance the 
detailed steps by which supergiant stars may be forming almost 
before our very eyes. 



Smithsonian Report, 1949.— Spitzer 



Plate 1 




1. The Compact Opaque Globule May Be a Protostar, Contracting to 

Form a New star 




2. A Typical Spiral Galaxy 



Both supergiaiit stars and interstellar clouds of obscuring matter are found only 
in these huge, flattened, rotating systems. (Yerkes Observatory photo- 
graph.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1949.— Spitzer 



Plate 2 




OBSCURING CLOUDS IN THE MILKY WAY ARE MANY LIGHT YEARS ACROSS. AND 
ARE COMPOSED OF ATOMS AND TINY SOLID PARTICLES 

(Yerkes Observatory photograph.) 



THE ORIGIN OF THE EARTH ' 



By Thornton Page 
Yerkes Observatory 



[With 11 plates] 



With all the spectacular success of recent scientific research, it is 
perhaps refreshing to examine a field so characterized by failure as this 
one. Although many speculations have been described as "theories," 
there exists today no real theory of the origin of the earth in the sense 
of a complete logical structure linking together the vast quantity of 
pertinent observations collected during the last century. 

The most obvious approach to the problem is to study the visible 
surface of the earth for clues to its origin. This has been done in 
detail by geologists, gcodesists, geophysicists, and geochemists, but it 
is perhaps not surprising that what they find has more to do with the 
earth than with its origin. It has been the astronomer, studying the 
relation of the earth to its surroundings, and the physicist, studying 
the behavior of matter, who have made the greatest progress in the 
study of the earth's origin. 

Early speculation on the subject was simple and direct because there 
were fewer observations to explain. The assumption of a divine crea- 
tion of things as they are was generally accepted until the end of the 
sixteenth century. Then the revolution in scientific thinking, started 
by Galileo, turned men from assumptions of a catastrophic origin to a 
belief in natural development, understandable in terms of what can 
be seen and measured today. As the astronomical picture became 
clearer, it appeared that the earth is a relatively small, nearly spherical 
body moving around the sun together with the other planets, all under 
the influence of the sun's gravitational attraction. It was soon 
recognized as scarcely due to chance that aU the known planets and 
their satellites are moving and rotating in the same direction, their 
orbits nearly circular, and in nearly the same plane. Therefore, in 
1755, the great German philosopher-scientist, Immanuel Kant, specu- 
lated that the planets and the sun were formed from a single large 
rotating gaseous cloud, or nebula, which had condensed into smaller 
rotating parts, these further condensing into rotating planets with 

' Reprinted by permission from Ptiysics Today, vol I, No. 6, October 1948. 

161 



162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

their satellites, all moving in the same direction round the nucleus of 
the nebula which became the sun. Kant's hypothesis explained nearly 
all of the available observational data within the framework of physics 
as it was developed at the time. 

Later on, about 1800, the French mathematician, Laplace, inde- 
pendently proposed a modified form of the Kant hypothesis which, 
even though it was not given much weight by its author, soon became 
widely accepted as the concept upon which much of geology was 
founded. Laplace went further than Kant in explaining how the 
primordial nebula condensed into planets. He assumed that in the 
beginning the nebula was hot and spinning slowly, that the gas con- 
tracted as it cooled and therefore increased its spin in accordance with 
the law of conservation of angular momentum. As the spin increased, 
he reasoned, rings of gas would be thrown off by centrifugal action and 
each ring would condense into a planet. It is now recognized that no 
such condensation of hot gas at the rim of a spinning nebula would take 
place, but Laplace's speculation was important in that he introduced 
two new factors: the idea that the earth condensed from hot gases, and 
the consideration of angular momentum in the solar system. 

Not until 1895 was the Laplace hypothesis seriously challenged. 
By that date geology had come into its own as a science, and T.C. 
Chamberlin, an American geologist, considered the geological evi- 
dence incompatible with the concept of a hot gaseous sphere cooling to 
become the present earth. Instead, he proposed the planetesimal 
hypothesis, in which the earth and other planets were built by accretion 
of cold particles (the planetesimals) which were moving around the 
sun under its gravitational attraction. Together with an astronomer, 
F. R. Moulton, he suggested that such planetesimals might have 
resulted from a near-collision between another star and our sun. The 
planetesimal hypothesis introduced two new concepts: that the earth 
was built by accretion of cold solid material, and that another star 
was involved in forming the solar system. The near-collision pre- 
sumably being a rare event, this represented a return, in part, to the 
old concept of a catastrophic origin. 

During the last 50 years, most of the thinking on this problem has 
been divided between the two widely divergent hypotheses of Laplace 
and Chamberlin. Did the earth start hotter or colder than at present? 
Has it condensed and contracted, or grown by accretion? Was its 
origin a commonplace occurrence in a nebula (many of which can be 
seen in the sky), or due to a highly unusual near-collision between 
stars? Whatever drawbacks these incomplete speculations may have 
had, they have provided definite concepts on the basis of which further 
research has been and yet remains to bo done. 



ORIGIN OF THE EARTH — PAGE 163 

THE RECORD IN THE ROCKS 

In geology it is assumed that we can explain past developments on 
the basis of processes taking place today, and this assumption has been 
remarkably successful in tracing geological history to form a consistent 
pattern. The surface features of the earth can be explained as the 
expected result of erosion, of glacier action, of volcanism, and of move- 
ments of the crust itself, all of which are observed in action now. This 
reasoning might be expected to lead, step by step, to the origin of the 
earth. 

The sequence of events in earth history is best summarized by the 
geologic column, a schematic pile of all the rock strata which have been 
classified, in the order of their formation. After fitting together rocks 
from all over the world, there are left only four major gaps in the 
record, when erosion in practically all parts of the earth now above 
sea level must have eliminated the rock deposits of millions of years. 
With these four exceptions, the geologic column, fitted together from 
the results of a century of world-wide geologic prospecting, gives al- 
most as complete and consistent a picture of earth history as if the 
entries had been made in a diary. It lacks only the number of years 
intervening between the various geologic eras. 

The dates were supplied when the absolute ages of rocks were esti- 
mated from their radioactivity, first in 1905 by Boltwood, an American 
physicist. He measured the relative amounts of lead and helium in 
uranium deposits. The uranium ore crystallized when the molten 
magma solidified, and the radioactive uranium has since been dis- 
integrating at a constant but very slow rate to form lead and helium 
which, in favorable cases, have both remained sealed in the igneous 
rock with the uranium. The process of radioactive decay has been 
thoroughly studied in the laboratory by many physicists, including the 
Curies and Rutherford (who suggested Boltwood's research), and the 
rate of disintegration accurately measured. 

Dating various igneous rocks in the geologic column showed first 
how very long was the record; the oldest igneous rocks yet dated 
crystallized about 3 billion years ago. Moreover, there are even older 
sedimentary rocks through which the molten magma had pushed to 
form these oldest known igneous rocks; hence the earth must have had 
surface conditions about 3 billion years ago not radically different 
from those today. There must have been water and an atmosphere 
operating to erode rocks and form sand and mud beds. Fossils in 
somewhat younger rocks indicate that early forms of life existed at 
least 1 billion years ago when conditions must have been very like 
those today. 



164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

But the geologic column fails to yield the one feature which might 
provide conclusive evidence on the earth's origin. No rocks yet 
examined have the appearance of an original crust; they are all either 
old sediments or solidified magma which pushed up through sediments. 

TEMPERATURE AS A CLUE 

Trying another tack, we might expect that the earth's thermal 
history could be traced back to determine its temperature at birth. 
In deep mines and wells the temperature increases 1° C. for each 125 
feet below the surface. Knowing how rocks conduct heat, we find 
that 10 million million calories of heat are flowing out from the earth's 
interior each second. If the earth were solid granite, all 7,000 billion 

CRUST {30 miles thick) DENSITY 3 



720-mile layer DENSITY 4 



1050-mile layer DENSITY 5 to 6 



CENTRAL CORE DENSITY 10 to 13 




Figure 1. — Density stratification in the earth. Seismologists, using earthquake 
waves as a sounding device, have discovered these layers within the earth. 
They may indicate that the earth was once molten; or they may result from 
chemical compaction and plastic flow within the earth. 

billion tons of it, this escaping heat, would cool it about 1° C. in 3 
million years. From this measured rate of cooling is it possible to 
determine whether the earth was originally molten? 

One must be careful in such estimates; not all of this heat comes 
from cooling the earth, since the radioactive disintegration so useful 
in determining the age of rocks is also releasing energy. In fact if 
the measured radioactivity is constant with depth, the outer crust of 
the earth only 12 miles thick would provide all the 10 million million 
calories leaving the earth's interior. If the radioactive material goes 
deeper than 12 miles, the earth must, wiUy-nilly, be heating up! 
So the heat now leaving the earth does not give a clue to its original 
temperature, although it does point to another approach. Since it is 
improbable that the earth is heating up rapidly, the radioactive 
material probably is not distributed uniformly throughout the earth 
but is concentrated in surface layers. 



ORIGIN OF THE EARTH — PAGE 165 

Such a stratification within the earth might have a bearing on the 
original conditions. For instance, if the earth were once molten, we 
might expect heavier materials to sink to the center and lighter ones 
to come to the surface. A variety of measurements do prove that 
the earth is much more dense at the core than at the surface, and this 
central condensation was long used to support the concept of an 
originally molten globe. In fact, the central core itself was generally 
believed still to be molten. But a few years ago, observations of 
faint earthquake waves which could only have passed through the 
core if it were solid, disputed the point. 

It is now generally accepted that the earth's interior is stratified in 
three distinct layers on a central core which is four times as dense as 
the surface rocks, and although probably as solid throughout as 
surface rocks, it yields to plastic flow over long intervals of time. 
(The molten lava of volcanoes is only in local pools liquefied by a 
temporary release of pressure.) Recent work by geochemists shows 
that at least some of the stratification is due to chemical compaction, 
the tremendous pressures favoring the formation of heavier chemical 
compounds in the interior. There is no satisfactory explanation of 
the dense core, which must be a material radically different from 
surface rock. But its existence can no longer be used with certainty 
to argue that the earth was once molten. 

CHEMICAL CLUES 

Geochemical studies give a somewhat better clue to the earth's 
temperature at birth. Harrison Brown at Chicago has recently shown 
that all the elements which exist mainly in gaseous form — hydrogen, 
helium, neon, argon, krypton, xenon — occur in the earth, its seas and 
atmosphere, to a very much smaller extent than expected from studies 
of the abundances of elements, both from theory and from observations 
of the sun and stars. 

The low abundance of hydrogen and helium is easy to understand : 
at temperatures of 500 to 600 degrees Centigrade they would escape 
from the gravitational attraction of the earth in a few hundred million 
years because of the high velocities and small masses of their molecules. 
But the heavier atoms, krypton and xenon, could have escaped in 
quantity only if the material of the earth were at one time in much 
smaller pieces, with correspondingly smaller gravitational attraction, 
or if the earth had for some time a temperature of 10,000 to 30,000° C. 
Now this is hotter than most stars, and quite impossible for the earth 
to maintain, so we deduce that early in its history the material of the 
earth was in separate, small pieces. Since oxygen, nitrogen, and 
water-vapor molecules are all lighter than krypton (and would there- 
fore escape if krypton did), it appears that the earth's atmosphere and 



166 AirorUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

oceans must have been formed from the decomposition of heavier 
compounds after the earth achieved its present size. 

To summarize the best geological evidence: the earth is at least 3 
billion years old and its surface conditions of temperature and atmos- 
phere have not changed materially in I billion years and not radically 
in 3 billion years. Its stratified layers from density about 3 at the 
surface to density about 13 at the center could result from plastic 
flow and chemical compaction whether or not the earth were originally 
molten. Finally, the earth lost most of its gases early in life, probably 
because it was at one time in pieces of too small mass to hold on to 
light gas molecules. 

SHOOTING STARS 

An important bridge between geology and astronomy is provided 
by the meteors. Millions of these small chunks of rock and iron 
collide with the earth each day, most of them burning up high in the 
atmosphere. Some of the larger, slower-moving ones reach the 
ground ; there the few collected are the only material from outside the 
earth available for detailed study. Are they a few remaining planetes- 
imals — or are they visitors from outside the solar system? 

Measures of meteor speeds by Whipple at Harvard have established 
that they are at least members of the solar system. If they came from 
outside they would be moving much faster than observed. Radio- 
activity measurements (as in dating rocks, but corrected for the effects 
of cosmic rays which form extra helium) show that the meteors are 
between 2 and 3 billion years old, in startling agreement with the 
earth's age. Their high iron and nickel content has supported the 
assumption that the earth's core is nickel-iron (so that earth and 
meteors would have the same over-all composition) . 

Furthermore, Harrison Brown's recent studies of the chemical 
compounds present in meterorites show that they were probably at 
one time under the high pressures and temperatures of a planet's 
interior. It would seem that, far from being planetesimals, the 
meteors are the remains of a fair-sized planet which was formed at 
the same time as the earth, and which broke up in some large-scale 
interplanetary collision at a later date. 

THE GAMUT OF SPECULATION 

The astronomer, in his approach to the problem of the earth's 
origin, started by recognizing a certain order and regularity among 
the planets, their satellites, and the smaller asteroids, all moving about 
the sun. The emphasis is shifted from the origin of the earth, as one 
of the planets, to the origin of the solar system as a whole. The latest 
trend goes even further in linking the origin of the solar system with 




0^ 






o 


o 


o 




o3 


^4 




a; 


>, 


T3 


^ 


G 






^ 


03 


O 


G 


Lh 




bD 




to 




-i-i 




_o 





o 
O 




e3 a 



c 


i«! 


_o 


V 






'-3 

o3 


-a 


+^ 


CB 


"> 


2 


c3 


"^ 



tc.ti 




s? ^ 




> ? 




O > 








:S oj 




^^ 




o^ 


;;2 


^ q; 


O 


(- ^ 


Cfi 


o3 ■" 


o 


Oh fe 


r^ 




' — ' 


_>, 


o 








^ 


3 




_bC 


'cc 




r/J 




i^ 


O 


>r 




(^ 


o 








^ 




03 


-/3 


3 


> 

O 


OJ 


"C 




0) 




JH 

o 
3 
m 


fi 






Ch 


o 




03 




m 


-kJ 




<u 


C/2 






<- 


'^-^ 


+3 




oo 

G O 
•r> CO 

^ OJ 



T3 


a1 






c3 


+3 


:f^ 


^ 


bO 










,-_ 


C 


^ 






x: 


•^ 


o 






yj 


^ 


cc 


is 



br 


■$■ 




n 






^ 


r^ 


o 








Oi 


""• 


XI 


a> 


H 





CO J3 

fl CO 
O « 
m 03 



83 . 

O-03 -X 
CO — ' 2 



^ CO '^ 

S CO 1^ 

:3 ^ 

rT O 

3 -^ CO 

S bCO) 

a> o (h 

^ 2 eS 



Smithsonian Report, 1949. — Page 



P) ATE 10 




WEIZSACKER— 1 945 



Vortices formed in the equatorial plane of a nebula of gas and dust rotating about 
the sun, according to Weizsacker. Accretion is expected to take place along 
the heavy concentric circles to form planets and satellite systems with direct 
rotation and revolution. 



Smithsonian Report, 1949. — Page 



PLATE 1 1 




Messier 81 



A great spiral nebula in the constellation Ursa Major, about 2 million light-years 
away and 200 million times as bright (intrinsically) as the sun. 



ORIGIN OF THE EARTH — PAGE 



167 



the early history or origin of our galaxy 
of stars and even of the whole universe. 

The solar system regularities noted by 
Kant clearly indicate that the planets 
had a common origin; ever since Kant's 
time it has been the fond hope of cos- 
mogonists to establish the exact nature 
of that origin from further studies of the 
over-all pattern of the solar system. The 
first clue of this sort to be noted was 
the spacing of the planets; they are not 
at irregular distances from the sun, but 
spaced approximately in geometric pro- 
gression — that is, the distances can be 
calculated roughly from a formula called 
Bode's law after its discoverer. Since 
the planets continue to move in the same 
orbits year after year, this spacing must 
have been established during their for- 
mation. 

A second possible clue to the origin lies 
in the progression of planet sizes — from 
the smallest, Mercury, which is nearest 
the sun, increasing through Venus, Earth, 
and Mars to Jupiter, the largest, then 
decreasing through Saturn, Uranus, and 
Neptune to Pluto, a small planet, and 
most distant from the sun. 

Further clues will be noted as we fol- 
low, now, the twentieth-century history 
of speculation on the birth of the solar 
system, from Chamberlin to Weizsacker 
and Whipple. Each of these theore- 
ticians has started either from the Kant 
nebular hypothesis, or from the Chamber- 
lin two-star hypothesis, and tried to 
show by more or less exact reasoning that 
the presently observed solar system 
would have resulted naturally. Cham- 
berlin and Moulton in 1900 guessed that 
the close approach of another star to our 
sun would raise great eruptions on the 
sun, that hot solar material would con- 

866501—50 12 



EDGE OF THE 50M 



O EARTH 



Figure 2. — Scale of planet 
sizes. 



168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

dense into small planetesimals moving around the sun and that 
these planetesimals would later stick together to form the planets 
by accretion. 

In 1917 the English astronomers Jeans and Jeffreys made more 
exact calculations and concluded that the eruptions would not have 
taken place; rather, the intruding star would have to sidewipe the 
sun, peeling off a long filament of solar material which would then 
condense into the planets. They pointed out that this filament would 
be thicker in the middle than at the ends, thereby accounting for the 
progression of planetary sizes. 

The Jeans-Jeffreys hypothesis seemed satisfactory until 1930, when 
Nolke in Germany and Russell at Princeton pointed out another clue: 
the angular momentum of the planets. Just as a spinning top would 
keep on spinning forever if there were no friction, so the planets must 
have maintained constant angular momentum in their orbits around 
the sun, since nothing analogous to friction is known in the solar 
system. If the planets were formed from material pulled out of the 
sun, this law of conservation of angular momentum requires that the 
original planetary material must have started moving around the 
sun with the same angular momentum the planets have today. 
Russell showed mathematically that a grazing collision with another 
star could not start the filament of planetary material off with any- 
where near enough angular momentum. 

In an effort to patch things up, one of Russell's students, Lyttleton, 
analyzed mathematically the case of a collision between three stars, 
and found that it was just possible to produce a filament of material 
moving with sufficient angular momentum about one of them. An 
English astronomer, Hoyle, showed it was also possible if one of two 
close stars blew up, as a somewhat asymmetrical nova, propelling 
itself away and leaving some planetary material moving around the 
other star. 

But these mathematical exercises and the whole sequence of specula- 
tions based on the two-star hypothesis were brought sharply to a close 
in 1939 when Spitzer, another of Russell's students, calculated that 
the material pulled out of the sun, or any other star, could not con- 
dense into planets or planetesimals anyway — it would expand with 
explosive violence to form a tenuous gaseous nebula! 

BACK TO THE NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS 

Long before Spitzer had showed that the two-star hypothesis would 
lead to a nebula, other scientists had been working away on the 
nebular hypothesis, trying to find some means by which material 
near the sun would form a group of planets all moving in the same 
direction in nearly circular orbits and in nearly the same plane. In 



ORIGIN OF THE EARTH — PAGE 169 

1914;^a Norwegian physicist, Birkeland, calculated that electrically 
charged particles shot out of the sun would spiral out in the sun's 
magnetic field to definite circular orbits at distances depending on 
the ratio between the electric charge and the mass of the particles. 
This promising lead was followed further in 1930 by a Dutch mete- 
orologist, Berlage, who assumed the particles were charged atoms. 
More recently, in 1942, the Swedish physicist, Alfven, was able to 
predict by similar reasoning that rings of gas with sufficient angular 
momentum would be formed around the sun as the sun moved thi'ough 
a nebula, but both he and Berlage have avoided the embarrassing 
problem of how this gas could condense to form planets. 

Lastly in the sequence of nebular speculations, a German physicist, 
Weizsacker, has recently investigated in detail the motion of a large 
cloud of dust and gas in rotation about a massive central body like 
the sun. From this return to the ungarnished Kant hypothesis he 
was able to show that, while most of the gas would escape into outer 
space, the planets could bo formed by the accretion of the dust par- 
ticles over a period of a hundred million years — a short time compared 
to the age of the earth. The spacing of the planetary orbits Weiz- 
sacker explains in this manner: The inner parts of the rotating nebula 
would be pulled around more rapidly by the sun's gravitational 
attraction than the outer parts. Like stirring a bowl of soup near 
the center, this would set up eddies, and at the boundaries of the 
eddies the dust would coagulate most rapidly. These boundaries, 
Weizsacker calculated, would be spaced approximately in a geometric 
progression from the sun just as the planets are observed to be. 

The Weizsacker hypothesis accounts for more of the observational 
data than any of the previous speculations, but because it is so recent 
a number of its consequences have not been explored and some of 
the estimates may need revision. 

One of the interesting consequences is that the formation of planets 
should be an extremely common occurrence. Possibly in the process 
of formation of every star the conditions would be correct to form 
planets. Thus we might expect billions, if not hundreds of billions 
of planets in our galaxy, the strong likelihood that life has developed 
on a million or more of these, the high probability that there are other 
civilizations of mankind, and even the possibility that men on other 
planets are writing articles on the origins of their solar systems! 

THE ORIGIN OF STARS 

But where did the original gas and dust come from? How was it 
started in rotation? One reason the Weizsacker hypothesis has 
received so much attention is that a separate line of research on the 
origin of the stars has provided answers to these questions. The 
argument hinges on the energy necessary to keep the stars shining. 



170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

The closest star — our sun — is radiating energy at such a stupendous 
rate that no ordinary energy generator could keep it going for the 3 
billion years we know it has been shining on the earth. However, it 
is now known that atomic energy provides the sun's light and heat 
by a process in which four atoms of hydrogen are converted into one 
atom of heUum and the excess mass changed into radiant energy. The 
details of this process, which can only proceed at the high temperature 
and pressure of a star's interior, were established by Hans Bethe at 
Cornell in 1938. But there are many hot stars thousands of times 
brighter than the sun (if viewed from the same distance), and a 
simple calculation shows that they would use up all their atomic 
energy in a mere 10 million years. Where did these hot bright stars 
come from if they can last only one three-hundredth as long as the 
earth has been in existence? 

A possible answer was provided only last year (1947) by Lyman 
Spitzer at Yale, and Bart Bok at Harvard. Spitzer showed theoreti- 
cally that diffuse gas and dust which is observed between the stars 
could, under some circumstances, be compressed by the pressure of 
radiation from all the other stars, to condense into a new star. Bok 
observed in the Milky Way certain small dark knots of such inter- 
stellar material, which may well be stars in the process of formation. 
Here is the process of growth by accretion on a much larger scale. 
This theory is well enough established that Whipple at Harvard has 
recently proposed that the planets coagulated in the manner postu- 
lated by Kant and by Weizsacker during the formation of the sun 

itself. 

GALAXIES 

As we are pushed farther and farther in explaining the origin of our 
planet, new sources of evidence come into the problem. The next 
evidence comes from a study of the large groups of stars called galaxies. 

Passing from the solar system to the stars is no larger a jump — and 
no smaller — than from the earth to the solar system. Our galaxy 
includes all the visible stars and is a correspondingly large system, 
outside of which the telescope shows many other galaxies. These are 
believed to be very like our own galaxy — a disk-shaped conglomera- 
tion with a mass, determined from its rotation, of about 200 billion 
star masses. There are about 100 billion stars in a galaxy, the rest 
of the material being spread between the stars in the form of gas and 
dust. 

The outside galaxies, often called "spiral nebulae," are being 
studied by Hubble at the Mount Wilson Observatory in California, 
and by other astronomers with large telescopes. As Hubble looks 
farther and farther out into space (by taking longer photographic 
exposures with larger and larger telescopes), he finds more and more 



ORIGIN OF THE EARTH — PAGE 171 

spiral nebulae, apparently without limit. In 1925 Hubble and Huma- 
son found from the redness of their light that the more distant spirals 
are receding from us more rapidly than the closer ones, and that the 
speed of their retreat is in direct proportion to their distance from us. 
At jBrst sight this appears to leave our galaxy (with our sun and earth) 
in a central and somewhat unpopular position, with the rest of the 
universe running away. But a little thought shows that our view of 
the universe is the same as the view from any one of the other galaxies ; 
each would see the rest receding from him with velocities proportional 
to their distances from him. 

XY zOtA B c 0. 



Figure 3. — Upper, our view of some spiral nebulae. The arrows indicate veloc- 
ities. Note that spiral B, which is twice as far from us as spiral A, is receding 
twice as fast. C, three times as far, is receding three times as fast, and so on. 
Lower, the view of an observer on spiral B, considering himself to be at rest. 
It is the principle of relativity that he has just as much right as we do to con- 
sider himself at rest. He gets the same view as we do; all the spirals are 
receding from B with velocity proportional to distance. 

Tracing the motions back in time (there is no evidence that the 

spirals are accelerating or decelerating) shows that all the spiral 

nebulae would have been near our galaxy between 2 and 3 billion 

years ago. The coincidence of this with the age of the earth and the 

age of the meteorites is too marked to need further comment — the 

whole universe seems to have started with a bang about 3 billion years 

ago! 

THE BEGINNING OF TIME 

This curious evidence that the spiral nebulae were all close to — if 
not entangled with — our galaxy 3 billion years ago, means that the 
formation of the solar system at that time probably took place under 
conditions somewhat different from those of today. To be sure of the 
reasoning, we must examine the conditions of 3 billion years ago more 
carefully; it was this reexamination which led, in 1945, to the most 
bizarre suggestion of all in this field already rich in speculation. It 
was put forward by the English biologist, J. B. S. Haldane, and is 
based on a new theory — or philosophy — of relativity proposed in 1932 
by the English mathematician, E. A. Milne. First we shall speak of 
Milne and his brand of relativity. 

To make the reasoning clear we must start with Einstein's earlier 
relativity theory which links space and time in such a way that if 
one observer is moving at constant velocity past another his 
measurements of distances and time intervals will differ from those 



172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

of the first observer, although the relation of time and distance is 
such that they both observe the same laws of physics. Einstein 
formulated his relativity on the philosophy that it is simply impos- 
sible to tell which observer is "at rest." Complicated as it sounds, 
this scheme has been developed to form a logically complete theory 
in terms of mathematical transformations. Milne extended the 
established principles of relativity in his "cosmological principle," 
which is, in effect, an assumption that the view of the whole universe 
from one spiral nebula must be the same as the view from any other. 
Moreover, he has redefined distance measurements in terms of the 
travel time of light signals, as in radar ranging, thus reducing both 
time and distance measurements to readings of clocks, in principle. 







Figure 4. — Milne's picture of the universe. If all measurements are made in 
atomic time, on Milne's theory, the universe started expanding from a point 
3 billion atomic years ago. As we see it now the spiral nebulae shown in the 
left diagram are all moving away from us and (if we could see far enough) 
would be much more numerous near the "edge." At this edge the velocity of 
recession is equal to the velocity of light, so we can never hope to see the edge 
itself. On the other hand, if clock time is used for all our measurements, the 
universe is static and the spiral nebulae, as shown on the right above, are 
uniformly distributed on to infinity. The more distant nebulae are redder be- 
cause we see them as they were many years ago with "slow" atoms. The 
"edge" of this picture comes when this reddening gets so extreme that galaxies 
are no longer visible. 

Milne then raises the disturbing question: How are we sure that 
our clocks are reading constant intervals of time? In fact, the slow- 
ing down of the earth's rotation (which is normally our "master 
clock") has been measured as one-thousandth of a second per century 
by comparison with the planets, and we have no philosophically 
sound assurance that the planets keep "perfect time." 

The cosmological principle leads mathematically to two kinds ot 
time, one of which is speeding up relative to the other. Milne has 
shown that pendulum clocks, the earth, and the planets keep "dy- 



ORIGIN OF THE EARTH — PAGE 173 

namic" or clock time, while vibrating atoms and radioactive decay 
have constant period only in "kinematic" or atomic time. There is 
no pliilosophical reason for choosing one kind as the "correct" time; 
if we used a pendulum clock to time atoms we would find, after a very 
long interval, that the atoms are gradually speeding up in their 
vibration, if we used an atomic clock we would similarly find that the 
planets are slowing down in their orbits. 

If this is correct — and no one has yet proved it otherwise — the 
age of the earth is 3 billion atomic years as determined from radioactive 
decay, but it is many more clock years, since in the past the clock 
year was shorter than the atomic year. (They are equal at present — 
by definition.) 

The coincidence between the age of the earth and the time of reces- 
sion of the spiral nebulae Milne explains as a result of the difference 
in these two kinds of time. Since the light we observe from a spiral 
100 million light-years away left there 100 million years ago, we are 
seeing the atoms there ticking off the units of atomic time in use 100 
million years ago. Compared to our present atoms, these early 
atoms ran slow; as a result, the light they emitted is redder than the 
light emitted now by similar atoms on the earth. 

From this effect and his cosmological principle, Milne calculates 
that in the past infinite number of clock years there were 3 billion 
atomic years. The origin of the earth, and the time when all the 
spirals were close to our galaxy, both of them 3 billion atomic years 
ago, therefore occurred at the beginning of time (since one could hardly 
expect more than infinite time on the clock scale). 

Now for Haldane's suggestion, which he calls "A Quantum Theory 
of the Origin of the Solar System." It is based, as its name implies, 
on the well-established quantum theory of radiation, and on a mathe- 
matical result of Milne's theory: that the universe, as measured in 
atomic time, has expanded with the velocity of light, starting from a 
point of zero radius 3 billion atomic years ago. 

Since the universe started from zero radius, Ilaldane was able to 
pick an early enough instant, just a fraction of a second after the start 
of atomic time, when the whole universe was but a fraction of an inch 
in diameter— much smaller than the wave length of visible light — 
smaller, by far, than the wave length of X-rays or gamma rays. 
(These fractions are too small to write out easily; the first requires 
72 zeros after the decimal point, the second, 62!) The wave lengths 
of radiation in existence in this small universe could scarcely have 
been bigger than the universe itself, Haldane reasoned, therefore the 
only radiation in existence was of these incredibly short wave lengths. 
But the basic principle of the quantum theory is that radiant energy 
comes only in packets, or "quanta," inversely proportional to the 
wave length in size. So, at this early instant aU radiation was in 



174 ANNtJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

giant quanta of very small waves. And the energy of one of these 
giant quanta can easily be calculated as sufficient to knock one or 
more planets out of the sun. The even smaller waves at a somewhat 
earlier instant would have been in quanta with sufficient energy to 
tear apart stars, and even earlier, to tear apart the galaxies from some 
primordial globe of matter. 

The details of this remarkable suggestion have been carried no 
farther, but Haldane's investigation points up one important general 
fact: whether or not Milne's new relativity is accepted, conditions 
at the time of the origin of the solar system were probably consider- 
ably different from those today. If Milne's cosmology is accepted, 
the relationship between radiation and matter was most radically 
different. It may seem that this last and most fantastic speculation — 
which can neither be completely explained nor fully evaluated here — 
contradicts our former conclusion that the solar system was formed 
from a rotating nebula of gas and dust. However, the condensation 
of the planets and the distribution of angular momentum (which 
have been so difficult to explain in all previous theories) may follow 
from further mathematical investigation of the first second of atomic 
time. In fact, if the details can be worked out rigorously, Haldane's 
suggestion may lead to confirmation of Milne's cosmology, which is 
as yet lacking. 

In an echo of the introductory remarks it scarcely needs to be 
emphasized that we have no complete theory of the origin of the 
earth. The reader may be impressed with the diverse investigations 
involved and with the promise of the latest speculations; or he may 
notice the infinite regression implicit in any question of origins: if 
the planets were formed from dust or planetesimals, whence came the 
dust or planetesimals? if the dust and planetesimals came from a 
primordial nebula, whence came the primordial nebula? if the primor- 
dial nebula was formed by the absorption of a giant quantum by a 
fragment of matter, whence came the original matter and radiation 
in the universe? and so on, ad infinitum (clock time). 



THE 200-INCH HALE TELESCOPE AND SOME 
PROBLEMS IT MAY SOLVE ' 



By Edwin Hubble 
Mount Wilson Observatory 



[With 10 plates] 



In 1609 Galileo turned his telescopes toward the sky. His favor- 
ite — it was the fifth, finished within 6 months of the first trial — was 
about 5 feet long and had a lens about 2 inches in diameter. It 
magnified nearly 30 times and its light-gathering power was equal to 
about 80 human eyes. He called it "Old Discoverer/' and with it he 
saw mountains on the moon, phases of Venus, four moons of Jupiter, 
and stars innumerable beyond the limit of the unaided eye. 

It was then that the explorations of space began — the explorations 
that have swept outward in wave after wave as telescopes developed, 
until in our time we study a region of space so vast that it may be a 
fair sample of the univeree itself. Today there is nearing completion 
a new telescope, far more powerful than any previously made, and it 
is proper to consider its significance both as an engineering achieve- 
ment, and as an instrument for further explorations. With this end 
in view, I propose to discuss briefly the development of telescopes in 
general, the 200-inch in particular, and some of the problems it may 
help us to solve. 

Galileo's optic tubes with single-lens objectives grew rapidly into 
telescopes from 20 to 25 feet long with lenses 2 to 3 inches in diameter. 
There the development stopped, for practical purposes, because of 
the engineering difficulties with still longer tubes. 

The longer focal lengths were considered desirable in order to over- 
come color difficulties. With a single lens, each different color was 
brought to a focus at a different distance from the lens. Hence the 
image, when focused for any particular color, was blurred by the out- 
of-focus images in other colors. The long telescopes represented an 
attempt to spread out the images of different colors over so long a 
distance that one color could be focused with minimum interference 

• Alexander F. Morrison lecture, delivered in Pasadena, Calif., April 8, 1947. Reprinted by permission, 
with slight alterations, from Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, vol. 59, No. 349, August 
1947. 

175 



176 ANNUAL REPORT SJMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

from the otliers. Telescopes 100, 150, and even 200 feet long were 
actually constructed, with lenses from 3 to 6 inches in diameter. 
These monstrous instruments, however, were too unwieldy for use, 
and the real work during the first century and a half after Galileo's 
time was done with the smaller telescopes. 

Finally, in the middle of the eighteenth century, the color problem 
was solved by replacing the single-lens objective with a compound 
objective, each of whose separate components, made of different kinds 
of glass, canceled out most of the color effects of the other. These 
color-free (achromatic) lenses gave much better images and permitted 
the use of relatively short tubes for a lens of a given diameter. Tele- 
scopes immediately entered a new period of growth which culminated 
in the 40-inch lens, with a focal length of 63 feet, at the Yerkes 
Observatory in Wisconsin. The 40-inch was finished in 1892, and 
since that time developments have concerned lenses for special pur- 
poses rather than for greater light-gathering power. For technical 
reasons, it seems unlikely that larger lenses will be made in the 
foreseeable future. 

This greatest of all lenses had been ordered originally by a group of 
enthusiasts here in southern California in connection with a plan for 
a "University System." The project did not fully materialize, and 
the unfinished telescope was bought and completed by the University 
of Chicago. 

The very large telescopes of recent times, in which light-gathering 
power is the most important consideration, are all reflectors, not 
refractors. The light is funneled to a focus, not by refraction through 
a convex lens but by reflection from a concave mirror. These tele- 
scopes are free from color effects because all colors are reflected in 
the same way. 

The first reflector was made by Isaac Newton in 1672, in a deliberate 
effort to avoid the color troubles of single-lens refractors. His fii'st 
model had a burnished metal mirror, about an inch in diameter, 
figured to a concave spherical surface, and mounted at the bottom 
of a tube about 6 inches long. The image, which would lie in the 
middle of the upper end of the tube, was thrown to the side by a small 
plane mirror set at 45° to the axis, just below the focus. Newton 
presented the toy to the Royal Society, where it may still be seen, 
sitting on a volume of his famous Prmcipia. 

Although Newton's reflector avoided the color problem, it suffered 
another defect, known as spherical aberration, arising from the 
spherical sm-face of the main mirror. It was not imtil 50 years later 
when Hadley, in 1722, found a method of parabolizing concave mirrors, 
that the development of reflectors finally got under way. About 90 
years ago metal mirrors were replaced by glass, silvered on the front 
surfaces. In our time aluminum has been substituted for silver, 



200-INCH HALE TELESCOPE — HUBBLE 177 

low-expansion glasses have been developed, methods of parabolizing 
have been perfected, and engineering problems of constructing 
telescopes have been solved as they arose. 

The 40-inch refractor was installed at Yerkes under the direction 
of George E. Hale. He clearly saw that, regardless of the success 
of this telescope, the quest for still greater light-gathering power 
depended upon mirrors rather than lenses. Refractors were pref- 
erable for certain types of work (including, for instance, visual 
resolution of double stars, precise measurement of position, wide- 
angle photography, etc.), but for light-gathering power, with all that 
it implies, the future lay with the reflector. Because the reflections 
are from the front surfaces, transparency and absolute homogeneity 
of the glass are not demanded; the mirror may be supported from the 
back and sides, instead of from the rims alone as in the case of lenses, 
and, of course, there are no color effects. 

Hale took the lead in America in encouraging the development of 
large reflectors. A 24-inch of unusual perfection was made by G. W. 
Ritchey and installed at Yerkes. It proved so successful that plans 
for a 60-inch were immediately set in motion. When Hale left 
Yerkes to establish the Mount Wilson Observatory, he was able to 
transfer Ritchey and the unfinished 60-inch muTor to Pasadena, where 
the telescope was completed in 1908. The work of the 60-inch on 
Mount Wilson so fully justified the faith in larger reflectors that plans 
for a ncv/ one were immediately made, this time for a 100-inch mirror. 
This reflector, completed during the first World War, marked an 
important epoch in the history of astronomy. It is still the greatest 
telescope in operation. Four large reflectors with mirrors from 60 
to 84 inches have since been completed (two in Canada and two in the 
United States), and others, including a 120-inch for Lick Observatory, 
are in process of planning or construction. 

The 100-inch opened up new fields of investigation of the very first 
importance, and furnished glimpses of even richer fields beyond. If 
more light-gathering power were available, these more distant fields 
could be explored. In the face of this challenge the possibility of 
larger telescopes was the favorite topic of conversation among astron- 
omers at Mount Wilson, and presumably at other places as well. 
We talked of 200 inches, or 300, and even dreamed of still more light. 
One of the group, F. G. Pease, drew tentative designs for a 300-inch, 
and demonstrated that the engineering features were not impossible. 

Again Hale took the lead. Through his efforts funds were secured 
in 1928 in the form of a gift from the International Education Board 
to the California Institute of Technology for the establishment of an 
astronomical observatory and laboratory. An Observatory Council, 
with Hale as chairman, and with the greatest experts in the country 
as advisers, administered the details of the project. When Hale 



178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

dropped out, Max Mason took over the chairmanship. It was decided 
that a 200-inch reflector was as bold a step beyond the 100-inch as 
could be justified in view of the unknown problems, both optical and 
engineering, that might be encountered. Laboratories and shops 
were erected on the California Institute campus, a site for the ob 
servatory was found on Mount Palomar, a disk of pyrex glass was 
achieved by the Corning Glass Company, and the project proceeded 
steadily until it was interrupted by the war. Work was resumed soon 
after VJ-day, and the telescope has since been completed. 

The proper fields for the 200-inch are determined primarily by its 
immense light-gathering power. Because adequate consideration of 
all the possible applications would require more time than is now 
available, I propose to limit the following discussion to three typical 
problems. These problems are, first, the existence of canals on Mars; 
second, the relative abundance of the chemical elements in stars; and, 
third, the large-scale structure of the universe. Each problem 
represents a particular aspect of light-gathering power, namely, 
resolution, dispersion, and depth penetration. 

As a brief introduction, let mo comment on the telescope itself. 
The mirror intercepts a beam of light 200 inches or 17^ feet in 
diameter — in other words, it gathers as much light as a million human 
eyes, or four 100-inch reflectors. It funnels this light to an image at 
the primary focus, SSK feet in front of the muTor. There an image 
of the sky is formed such as you may see on the ground glass of a 
camera. This image may be examined visually with a microscope, 
recorded on a photographic plate, analyzed with a spectrograph, or 
studied by other techniques. Actually, most of the work will consist 
of direct photography or spectrum analysis. By using long time 
exposures, it is possible to photograph stars or nebulae several times 
fainter than can be seen in the eyepiece. For this reason, the 200- 
inch is best described as a huge camera. 

Now let us consider some typical problems for the 200-inch. I shall 
start with a problem concerning a member of the solar system. The 
telescope will not be turned on the sun because of temperature effects — 
in some ways it would act as a burning glass. Nor does it offer any 
unique advantages for the study of the moon. In that field it will 
serve merely to improve data of a kind that can be got nearly as well 
with several other telescopes. In the field of planetary photography, 
however, the opportunities are unique because, for the first time, it 
may be possible to photograph all that the eye can see with a telescope 
of moderate size. An immediate application is to the highly contro- 
versial question of canals on Mars. 

The canals are described as very fine, dark lines running along great 
circles, sometimes doubled, and often converging or crossing at spots 
called "oases." Such fine, hairlike patterns, superposed on the back- 



200-INCH HALE TELESCOPE — ^HOBBLE 179 

ground of large, well-known markings, have been recorded by various 
trained visual observers, using telescopes of all sizes from 6 inches up- 
ward, during the whole of the past 70 years since Schiaparelli first 
reported them. The canal systems, if real, would almost necessarily 
imply the existence now or in the past of intelligent beings on Mars. 

But other trained observers, again using telescopes of all sizes, 
report no trace of canals. E. E. Barnard, perhaps the greatest of the 
American visual observers, studied the planet over many years with 
the then largest telescopes in the world, including the 36-inch refractor 
at Lick, the 40-inch at Yerkes, and the 60-inch reflector at Mount 
Wilson, and, although he saw an immense amount of detail, he found 
no canals. 

The two groups of observers flatly contradict each other, and since 
the observations are personal impressions neither group can demon- 
strate the validity of its assertions. Evidently the controversy must 
be resolved by photography. Once photographs are available on which 
the canals should appear if they are real features of the planet, the 
question will be settled beyond reasonable doubt. The test has not 
been possible as yet because existing equipment, although closely ap- 
proaching the required standards, does not fulfdl them. The 200- 
inch, however, should meet all the necessary conditions and settle the 
question. 

The problem is as follows: Mars is a small object. The image at 
the primary focus of the 100-inch is less than Ke inch at the most 
favorable oppositions, and less than % inch at the long Cassegrain 
focus. In order to get an image large enough to serve as a critical 
test of fine markings (i. e., to make the resolution of the photographic 
plate comparable with the optical resolution of the telescope) it is 
necessary to use an enlarging lens. Thus the total light collected by 
the telescope is spread over a much larger, and correspondingly fainter, 
image. Furthermore, because of the atmosphere on Mars, it is neces- 
sary to photogi'aph the surface markings thi'ough deep orange or red 
filters, still further reducing the effective brightness of the unage. 
The reduction is so great that photographs with existing telescopes 
require time exposures instead of snapshots. The exposures may be 
only a second (or even a fraction of a second, with the 100-inch) but 
they are long enough to permit the dancing or shimmering of the 
image to smear out the finest detail. 

You doubtless realize that a telescope magnifies the twinkling of 
stars along with everything else. Critical observations are restricted 
to periods of maximum steadiness (good seeing, as it is called), and 
even then, the shimmer is appreciable under high magnification. The 
eye can "hold" an image under these conditions, but photography 
with time exposures is helpless. The shimmer smears out the fine 
details. It is for this reason that, in the case of fine markings such 



180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1919 

as the canals on Mars are said to be, the eye can see more than the 
photographic plate can record. 

However, the 200-inch will collect so much light that, for the fii-st 
time, it will be possible to photograph enlarged images through filters 
with snapshots. These exposures will be short enough to catch a 
dancing image at the end of a flicker — when it is momentarily at rest 
as it reverses direction. If many exposures are snapped on a movie 
fihn, a certain percentage of them may be expected to record what the 
eye can see (at least with telescopes of moderate sizes). 

There is much more to the story, but it is too technical for the 
present discussion. But it can be said with some confidence that the 
200-inch may settle the long-standing controversy concerning the 
canals on Mars. 

The second problem I have selected for discussion involves spectrum 
analysis. You know, of course, that light reaches us as a jumble of 
waves of all dift'erent wave lengths, each representing a different color. 
It is possible, with prisms or gratings, to spread the colors out into 
an ordered sequence or spectrum, running from the long waves of the red 
to the short waves of the violet, and beyond in either dii-ection. Such 
spectra of stars and nebulae show phenomena of profound significance 
at certain particular wave lengths. Spectrum analysis involves the 
isolation and study of these particular regions. 

Your radio ofters an analogy. With the tuning dial you run along 
the spectrum of radio waves and isolate a particular wave length in 
order to hear a particular station which is broadcastmg on that wave 
length. 

If there were no tuning device, and you heard all programs at once 
with a nonselective receiver, the result would be bedlam. The step 
from such a nightmare to the clear reception of messages from indi- 
vidual stations suggests the nature of the step in astronomy from the 
study of integrated light to spectrum analysis. 

Light from stars and nebulae originates in atoms. There are as 
many kinds of atoms as there are chemical elements, and the atoms 
may have various stable states. Each stable state of each kind of 
atom represents a set of broadcasting stations, sending messages 
concerning the nature of the atoms and the physical conditions under 
which they exist. By tuning in and reading these messages, it is pos- 
sible to identify chemical elements, to determine temperatures, pres- 
sures, and other physical attributes, and even to measure motion in 
the line of sight (radial velocity) . 

But in order to read the messages clearly it is necessary to achieve 
precise tuning — that is, to spread out the spectrum on the maximum 
possible scale. It is here that the great light-gathering power of the 
200-inch offers new possibilities. 



200-INCH HALE TELESCOPE — HUBBLE 181 

The length over which a spectrum can be spread, and still remain 
bright enough to be photographed, depends upon the brightness of 
the object. The sun has been spread out over a spectrum about 50 
feet long from red to violet; the brightest stars, over about 3 feet, 
and the faintest naked-eye stars over about 1 foot. The shortest 
spectra giving useful information are about one-tenth of an inch long, 
and have been obtained from stars and nebulae about a hundred 
thousand times fainter than the faintest naked-eye stars. With the 
200-inch, all the stellar and nebular spectra can be lengthened about 
four times, and consequently the analysis can be carried out much 
more precisely than was hitherto possible. 

One new field, now faintly glimpsed, can be explored rather fully. 
The important data are the relative abundances of the different chem- 
ical elements in different kinds of stars. These data are derived from 
the comparative study of the different stations (or lines) due to differ- 
ent chemical elements in a spectrum, and require the longest practical 
spectra (the highest possible dispersion) for adequate analysis. 

There is reason to believe that more than 99 percent of the atoms 
in the universe are hydrogen. Even by weight, hydrogen, with the 
simplest and lightest of all atoms, probably contributes a large frac- 
tion of the total matter in the universe. There are insistent sugges- 
tions that the relative abundance of hydrogen varies considerably 
from star to star. There is also some reason to suppose that the rela- 
tive abundance of other elements does not vary widely in the stars, 
although the physical conditions of the stars do vary widely (from 
giants to dwarfs, from hot blue stars to cool red stars). The supposi- 
tion rests mainly on negative evidence and requires further study 
with powerful instruments. 

It is believed that the 200-inch alone can adequately explore this 
field, now dimly outlined with existing telescopes. What is now sug- 
gested by analysis of three or four of the very brightest stars can be 
critically tested in these objects, and the study can be extended in a 
comparable way over a large sample collection of stars in general. 
We cannot predict the final results of the exploration. They may 
represent the next major chapter in the development of our knowledge 
of the universe, or they may prove to be relatively trivial. But the 
unexplored field looms as a challenge, and the challenge will be met. 

The data are immensely important because they bear directly on 
two very fundamental problems, namely, the source of stellar energy 
and the origin of chemical elements. 

Geologists, studying the history of the earth's surface, assure us 
that the sun has been pouring out energy at a fairly constant rate 
over the last several hundred million years at least. Possible sources 
for the unfailing supply were not only unknown but were unimagined, 



182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

until the modern science of nuclear physics was developed. Now ex- 
planations may be sought over a wide range of nuclear reactions giv- 
ing various lifetimes to stars up to the limit set by Einstein's famous 
formula, 

energy = mass X (velocity of light)^ 

For instance, if the whole of the sun's mass were transformed directly 
into energy, the sun could radiate at the present rate for a million 
million years. But, if nuclear reactions supplied the energy, the 
possible lifetime (with the present rate of radiation) would be reduced 
according to the particular reaction involved. 

The nuclear reactions, in general, produce the transmutation of 
elements — the old dream of the alchemists. The most plausible of 
the current theories concerning the source of the sun's energy, pro- 
posed by H. Bethe, is based on the carbon cycle in which, because of 
the presence of carbon at temperatures found in the sun, hydrogen 
nuclei may combine to form helium, releasing energy in the process. 
One test of the theory is furnished by a comparison of the relative 
abundance of the different isotopes of carbon actually observed in the 
sun with the relative abundances involved in the carbon cycle. 

In a vaguely analogous way, it is possible to speculate on the build- 
ing up of all elements from the primitive hydrogen atoms, and these 
speculations may be guided by the observed relative abundances of 
elements in stars of widely different physical characteristics. 

Thus the data on abundances, derived from large-scale spectra, 
bear directly on all theories concerning the source of stellar energy, 
the origin of chemical elements, the past history of the universe, and 
its future evolution. 

The third unique field of investigation for the 200-inch is cos- 
mology — the structure and behavior of the universe as a whole. As- 
tronomers hope that the observable region of space — the region that 
can be observed with telescopes — is a fair sample of the universe, and 
they attempt to infer the nature of the universe from the observed 
characteristics of the sample. The 200-inch, because of its great 
light-gathering power, should penetrate into space about twice as far 
as the 100-inch, and consequently will perm.it us to explore a volume 
of space about eight times that now available. The probability that 
the observable region may be a fair sample of the universe will thus 
be greatly increased. 

It was the 100-inch that opened this new field and prepared the 
way for the new telescope. The picture developed rather suddenly 
during the 1920's. The sun with its family of planets seems isolated 
and lonely in space, but we know that it is merely one of the stars — 
one of several thousand million stars which, together, form the stellar 
system. This system is a swarm of stars which drifts through space 



Smithsonian Report. 1949.- Hubble 



Plate 1 




Dome of the 200-inch Telescope on Palomar Mountain 



Smithsonian Report. 1949. — Hubble 



Plate 2 




200-INCH Hale Telescope 



Meeting of the American Astronomical Society and the A.stronomical Society 
of the Pacific on July 1, 1948. 



Smithsonian Report. 1949— Hubble 



Plate 3 




Mars 
Upper: Photograph with 100-inch reflector, September 2, 1924. 
Lower: Drawing tiy Pettit with 20-inch reflector, July 12, 1939. These typical 
pictures iUustrate the fact that as y.et photography does not furnish an objective 
test of the existence of "canals" on Mars. 



Smithsonian Report, 1949.— Hubble 



Plate 4 




EXTRAGALACTIC NEBULAE 

These nebulae are examples of the stellar systems which serve as landmarks in 
the exploration of the universe. The group above (JNGU dl85, ^18/, 6UK), 
3193) is at a distance of about 8 million light-years and appears to be recedmg 
from us at the rate of about 850 miles per second. 



S-nithsonian Report, 1949.— Hubble 



Plate 5 




NGC 2261 

The first photograph made with the 200-inch Hale telescope. 



Smithsonian Report, 1949.— Hubble 



Plate 7 




Messier 87 (NGC 4486) 



Smithsonian Report, 1949.— Hubble 



Plate 




NGC 5204 



Smithsonian Report. 1949.— Hubble 



PLATE 9 




NGC 3359 



Smithsonian Report. 1949.— Hubble 




MESSIER 3 (NGC 5272) 



2 00-INCH HALE TELESCOPE — HUBBLE 183 

as a swarm of bees drifts through the air. From our position some- 
where within the system, we look out through the swarm of stars, 
past the boundaries, into the universe beyond. 

Those outer regions are empty for the most part — vast stretches 
of empty space. But here and there, scattered at immense intervals, 
we find other stellar systems comparable with our own. They are so 
remote that individual stars can be seen only in a few of the nearest 
systems. In general they appear as faint patches of light, resembling 
tiny clouds, and have long been called by the Latin word for clouds — 
that is, "nebulae." 

We now know that these nebulae are huge stellar systems averaging 
about a hundred million times as bright as the sun. They are the 
true inhabitants of space — vast beacons that serve as landmarks for 
the exploration of the universe. We see a few that appear large and 
bright. These are the nearer nebulae. Then we find them smaller 
and fainter in constantly increasing numbers, and we know we are 
reaching out into space farther and ever farther, until, with the faintest 
nebulae that can be detected with the largest telescope, we have 
reached the frontiers of the observable region. 

This region has been explored with the 100-inch out to distances so 
remote that light, speeding at 186,000 miles per second, requires 500 
million years to make the journey. Thus the observable region at 
present is a sphere, centered on the observer, with a radius of about 
500 million light-years. Throughout this sphere about a hundred 
million nebulae are scattered, each a stellar system comparable to 
our own system of the Milky Way. 

The study of this observable region as a sample of the universe has 
led to the recognition of two large-scale features. The first feature 
is homogeneity. The nebulae are scattered singly, in groups, and 
even in great clusters, but when very large volumes of space are com- 
pared, their contents are found to be quite similar. On the grand 
scale, the observable region appears to be very much the same, in all 
directions and at all distances. 

The second characteristic is the fact that light waves from distant 
nebulae seem to grow longer in proportion to the distance they have 
traveled. It is as though the stations on your radio dial were all 
shifted toward the longer wave lengths in proportion to the distances 
of the stations. In the nebular spectra the stations (or lines) are 
shifted toward the red, and these red-shifts vary directly with dis- 
tance — an approximately linear relation. 

The red-shifts are most easily interpreted as evidence of motion in 
the line of sight away from the earth — as evidence that the nebulae 
in all directions are rushing away from us, and that the farther away 
they are, the faster they are receding. This interpretation lends itself 
directly to theories of an expanding universe. The interpretation is 

866591—50— — 13 



184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

not universally accepted, but even the most cautious of us admit that 
red-shifts are evidence either of an expanding universe or of some 
hitherto unknown principle of nature. 

The two observed characteristics of the observable region, namely, 
the approximately uniform distribution and the approximately linear 
law of red-shifts, must be satisfied by any theory of the universe. 
They are the only observational results on the grand scale that can 
be used as tests. They serve to eliminate many theories formerly 
developed on insufiicicnt data, but several modern theories survive 
the tests. These latter theories all permit the observed features in 
a limited region near the observer but they predict that departures 
from the simple approximate laws of distribution and of red-shifts 
will be found when the measures are extended to greater distances. 
These departures differ from theory to theory, and, if the measures 
can be extended to the necessary distance, will distinguish the correct 
theory from the false. 

Thus the most important observational problems in cosmology may 
be described as the small, second-order effects of great distances. 
The nebulae appear to be distributed in a roughly uniform manner 
and the red-shifts appear to be roughly proportional to distance, out 
to the limits of the 100-inch. The next step is to determine these 
features more precisely over the limited range of the 100-inch and 
approximately out to far greater distances. 

Attempts have been made to attain the necessary precision with 
the 100-inch, and the results appear to be significant. If they are 
valid, it seems likely that red-shifts may not be due to an expanding 
universe, and much of the current speculation on the structure of the 
universe may require re-examination. The significant data, however, 
were necessarily obtained at the very limit of a single instrument, 
and there were no possible means of checking the results by inde- 
pendent evidence. Therefore the results must be accepted for the 
present as suggestive rather than definitive. 

The problem is essentially one for the 200-inch. This new telescope 
will penetrate into space out to a thousand million hght-years, and 
the second-order effects of great distance will be so conspicuous that 
they cannot be missed. 

As a particular and final example, let me mention the effects of 
increasing red-shifts on apparent brightness. It is well loiown that 
a rapidly receding light appears fainter than a similar, but stationary, 
light at the same momentary distance. The reason is that the stream 
of light-quanta from the moving light is thinned out by the recession 
so that fewer quanta per second reach the observer. Since brightness 
is measured by the rate of arrival of quanta, the receding light appears 
abnormally faint. 



2 0-INCH HALE TELESCOPE — HUBBLE 185 

Actually the dimming factor (the reduction of apparent brightness) 
is a simple fraction represented by velocity of recession divided by 
the velocity of light. Recession at one one-hundredth the velocity 
of light reduces the apparent brightness by 1 percent; at one-tenth 
the velocity of light, by 10 percent, and so on. Thus the effects of 
recession would be negligible until velocities of several hundred miles 
per second were reached. The effects would be appreciable at a 
few thousand miles per second, and conspicuous at several tens of 
thousands of miles per second. 

If red-shifts are evidence of actual recession, the dimming factors 
should become appreciable near the limits of measurement with the 
100-inch and should be conspicuous near the limit of the 200-inch. 
At the very limits of direct photographs with the 200-inch, the factor 
should approach the order of 40 to 50 percent, and should be unmis- 
takable. 

We may predict with confidence that the 200-inch will tell us 
whether the red-shifts must be accepted as evidence of a rapidly 
expanding universe, or attributed to some new principle of nature. 
Whatever the answer may be, the result will be welcomed as another 
major contribution to the exploration of the universe. 

I have mentioned the three specific problems of canals on A-Iars, 
relative abundance of chemical elements in stars, and the nature of 
the red-shift, because they illustrate the unique powers of the 200- 
inch telescope in three aspects, namely, resolution, dispersion, and 
space penetration. 

Because these problems are of first importance, and can be solved, 
they, together with others of a similar kind, will be included in the 
initial research programs. The solutions of these problems alone 
will fully justify the construction of the telescope. 

But such a program is merely a logical beginning — the first carefully 
considered stage in the exploration of vast unknown regions of the 
universe. As the darkness is pushed back, greater problems will 
doubtless emerge which we cannot now foresee. 

FIRST PHOTOGRAPHS WITH THE 200-INCH HALE TELESCOPE « 

The first photographs with the 200-inch Hale reflector on Palomar, 
made under normal observing conditions, confirm the most optimistic 
predictions of its designers. Such a statement, as usual, requires some 
explanation. The photographs were made as routine tests to record 
progress in the tedious program of adjustments. Seeing was never 
better than "average," the aluminum coat was dusty and grimy, and 
the mirror showed a turned-up edge. These handicaps, of course, 

» A later article by Dr. Hubble from the Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, vol. 61, 
No. 360, June 1949. 



186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

will be eliminated or avoided in time, but during the tests they caused 
some loss of light and appreciable loss of definition. Nevertheless, 
the test plates record stars and nebulae fully 1.5 magnitudes fainter 
than the extreme limit of the 100-inch reflector on Mount Wilson. 
The faintest star images, on the better plates, were, however, a little 
more than 1 inch in diameter, and, at the threshold, it was sometimes 
diflficult to distinguish with certainty between stars and nebulae. 

Thus the 200-inch has registered already the ftdl gain in light- 
gathering power corresponding to the size of the main mirror. The 
slight additional gain that may be expected with a clean, sensibly 
perfect mirror surface will be accounted for by the absence of a 
Newtonian flat and by the very transparent sky over Palomar. 

The greatest improvement in the future will be in definition, as 
indicated by the size of faint star images. Definition is very sensitive 
to the seeing, and, while the test plates approached the definition 
to be expected under average conditions, they indicated that the 
mirror is not yet in shape to operate at maximum efficiency on the 
rare nights of fine seeing. The trouble arises from the turned-up 
edge and can be eliminated by the retouching now in progress. The 
improved definition will be significant, particularly for distinguishing 
nebulae from stars at the threshold of long exposures. In the higher 
latitudes, the telescope records many more nebulae than stars. 

The turned-up edge was well known from Hartman tests, and its 
effects could be predicted with some confidence. The photographs 
were made primarily to confirm and record these effects. However, 
the fu"st plates were so impressive that a set of full exposures was 
made to serve as a record of performance before the mirror was 
removed for retouching. About 60 photographs were assembled over 
the 3 months from January 26 to April 28, as opportunities arose 
during the normal program of adjustments. Of this number, perhaps 
half a dozen represent full exposures under average seeing conditions, 
and a like number show good performance with reduced apertures or 
with a Ross correcting lens for enlarging the usable field. Selections 
from the files are illustrated in plates 5 to 10, and comments on them 
are given below. The full aperture (200-inch) and Eastman 103a-O 
emulsions were used in all exposures except those to which special 
references are made in the comments. The scale of the original 
negatives is about 1 mm=12". 

Plate 5, NGC2261; R.A. = 6'^36'P6, Decl.= +8°47' (1950); Jan. 26, 
1949; 15 min. exposure, poor seeing; enlarged 3KX. 

This plate shows the first of the photographs with the Hale tele- 
scope. It is recorded as PH-l-H (i. e., Palomar, Hale, No. 1, followed 
by the initial of the observer). It was made under poor conditions 
as a preliminary test of the mechanical operations and procedures 
involved in direct photography at the prime focus. The trial was 



2 00-INCH HALE TELESCOPE — ^HUBBLE 187 

successful, except for the large size of the star images produced by 
the poor seeing. The exposure was made on January 26, 1949, about 
10 p. m., after waiting more than a week for a break in the weather. 

The object, NGC2261, is a well-known, variable galactic nebula — a 
comet-shaped mass with the variable star, K, Monocerotis, at the apex. 

Plate 6, S.A. 57; R.A. = 13''6'P3, Decl.= +29°37' (1950); Jan. 27, 
1949; 60 min. exposure, seeing average; enlarged 7%X ; center is 2!5 N. 
and 3:4 W. of BD + 30°2371. This selected area contains one of the 
most reliable magnitude sequences available for faint stars extending 
to the 21st magnitude. Exposures of 1 minute registered stars to 
about 19.7, and of 3 minutes, to about 20.7. Exposures of 5 or 6 
minutes reached the extreme limits of the 100-inch, beyond the end 
of the sequence. From these data it is estimated that the 60-minute 
exposures permitted by the dark sky above Palomar reached at least 
1.5 magnitude beyond the 100-inch. 

The threshold of the plate is dominated by nebulae rather than by 
stars, and this fact emphasizes the tremendous range of the telescope. 
Some of the faintest nebulae recorded are presumably at about twice 
the distance reached with the 100-inch or, in round numbers, at about 
1,000 million light-years. This figure, of course, refers to average 
nebulae. Individual images on the photograph may represent dwarf 
nebulae at lesser distances or giant nebulae, even more remote. 

Plate 7, Messier 87 (NGC4486); E.A.-=12''28'P3, Decl.= + 12°42' 
(1950) ; Apr. 27, 1949; exposure 45 min., seeing average; enlarged 8X. 

The object is one of the brightest members of the Virgo cluster of 
nebulae, whose distance is of the order of 7.5 million light-years. It 
is classified as a peculiar elliptical nebula (EOp). The photograph 
shows the nebula, presumably a globular mass of type II stars (i. e., 
stars similar to those in globular star clusters), surrounded by an 
extensive, tenuous atmosphere of supergiant stars. This phenomenon 
was suggested by the best photographs made with the 100-inch on 
Mount Wilson, but is conspicuous on the 200-inch plate. 

Plate 8, NGC5204; R.A. = 13'^28'pO, Decl.= +58°38' (1950); Jan. 
31, 1949; exposure 30 min., seeing average; enlarged 4X. 

The object is a dwarf, late-type spiral in Ursa Major, at an esti- 
mated distance of less than 3 million light-years. The plate is in- 
cluded to show the ability of the telescope to resolve the neighboring 
stellar systems so that the brighter stars can be studied individually. 

Photographs of several of the larger spirals, such as M 81, NGC2403, 
etc., have been made, but the coma-free field of the telescope at fuU 
aperture is so small (about 5 minutes of arc in diameter) that the 
plates are not suitable for reproduction on a scale sufficient to show 
the resolution to advantage. 

Plate 9, NGC3359; R.A. = 10H394, Decl. = H-63°20' (1950); Apr. 
27, 1949; exposure 45 min., seeing average; enlarged 3X. 



188 ANTSIUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

This late-type barrel spiral is an isolated stellar system or, possibly, 
an outrider of the Ursa Major cloud of bright nebulae, and its distance 
is of the order of 5 million light-years. The plate is included to illus- 
trate the resolution of fairly distant nebulae, and the opportunities 
now available for the study of the very brightest stars in stellar 
systems. 

Plate 10, Messier 3 (NGC5272); E.A. = 13'^39'P5, Decl. = +28°38' 
(1950); Apr. 21, 1949; exposure 3 min., made with an aperture of 160 
inches, and a Ross correcting lens; seeing average; enlarged 8X. 

This plate, of a well-known globular star cluster, is included to 
illustrate the use of a Ross correcting lens, placed a few inches in 
front of the plate, to enlarge the coma-free field of the telescope. 
The lens performed well with the 160-inch aperture but, with the 
full 200-inch, it exaggerated the effects of the turned-up edge of the 
main mirror. The provisional mounting of the lens did not permit 
the use of a guiding eyepiece, so the plate shows the successful per- 
formance of the tracking mechanism of the telescope during an 
unguided exposure of 3 minutes. The usable field with this correcting 
lens is more than 15 minutes of arc in diameter. 



THE DETERMINATION OF PRECISE TIME 



By Sik Harold Spencer Jones 
Astronomer Royal of Great Britain 



Of the three fundamental physical units, there is an essential 
distinction between the unit of time and the units of mass and length. 
The units of mass and length are represented by material standards 
to which any mass or length can be related, either directly or indirectly. 
But the unit of time cannot be represented by any material standard. 
For practical purposes time can be thought of in the Newtonian sense 
as something which flows uniformly. The passage of time can be 
marked by a clock, and any simple natural phenomenon which obeys 
one definite law without perturbation might be used to mark off equal 
intervals of time and therefore to serve as a clock. The rotation of 
the earth provides us with a natural clock. We shall see later that it 
is not a perfect clock, but that it is sufficiently uniform for almost aU 
practical purposes; it has, moreover, the great advantage of never 
stopping. 

We can therefore define the unit of time as the period of rotation 
of the earth. Some reference object must be selected against which 
to measure the rotation. For the purposes of everyday life, time 
must be related to the sun, whose rising and setting gives the alterna- 
tion of daytime and nighttime. The day defined by the rotation of 
the earth with respect to the sun is called the true solar day; it is the 
interval between two consecutive transits of the sun across the 
meridian of any place. With this unit, true solar time is obtained 
by dividing the true solar day into 24 hours and calling the instant of 
meridian passage of the sun 12 hours. The time given by a sundial 
is true solar time. For practical purposes, however, true solar time 
is not convenient; because the motion of the sun across the heavens 
is not uniform, the length of the solar day varies in length throughout 
the year. For civil purposes, therefore, a mean solar day is used, 
whose length is equal to the average length of the true solar days 
throughout the year. The time based on the mean solar day as unit 
is called mean solar time. The relationship between mean solar time 
and true solar time at some particular instant is defined by means of 

« Sixteenth Arthur lecture, given under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution April 14, 1949. 

189 



190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

a convention, into the details of which I need not enter. The extreme 
differences between mean and true solar times range from 16K minutes 
about November 3, when true noon precedes mean moon, to 14^ 
minutes about February 12, when true noon follows mean moon. 

Astronomers, however, find it more convenient to determine time 
by the observation of the stars. There are many stars but only one 
sun and, moreover, the time of transit of a star can be determined more 
accurately than the time of transit of the sun. The sidereal day is 
defined by the rotation of the earth relative to the stars. It is about 
4 minutes shorter than the solar day. If we imagine the sun and a 
star to be on the meridian of some particular place at the same instant, 
then after the lapse of one sidereal day the star will again be on the 
meridian; but, because of the orbital motion of the earth round the 
sun, the earth will have to turn a little more in order to bring the sun 
onto the meridian. In the course of a year the earth completes its 
orbit around the sun and there must consequently be exactly one more 
sidereal day in the year than mean solar days. 

If the relative positions of a number of stars in the equatorial region 
of the sky have been accurately determined, we can think of them as 
equivalent to the graduations on the face of a clock. As the earth 
rotates, a telescope, fixed so as to be able to move only in the meridian, 
will sweep across these stars in turn, each at a definite specific instant 
of sidereal time. By observing the transit of stars whose positions 
are known, the sidereal times at the instants of meridian transit are 
therefore determined. The beginning of the sidereal day or, in other 
words. Oh. of sidereal time, is defined by the transit of the point in 
the sky at which the ecliptic crosses the equator from south to north; 
this point is called the vernal equinox or the First Point of Aries. 

By defining the commencement of the sidereal day in this manner, 
we are provided with a means for converting from sidereal time to 
mean solar time, which is required for the purposes of everyday life. 
But it has one inconvenience. The First Point of Aries is not fixed 
relative to the stars. It has a slow retrograde motion, due to the 
precessional motion of the earth's axis, and superposed on this uniform 
motion is a slow to-and-fro drift, caused by the nutational or nodding 
motion of the axis. The nutation depends upon the relative positions 
and distances of the sun and moon from the earth. The principal 
term in the nutation has a period of about 18 years and a semi- 
amplitude of about 1 second of time. There is also a 6-monthly term 
amounting to 0.08 second and a number of short-period terms 
amounting to 0.020 second, of which the principal term has a period 
of 2 weeks. The precision of modern clocks is such that these small 
terms cannot be neglected. The true sidereal day, measured relative 
to the true position of the First Point of Aries, is therefore not abso- 
lutely uniform in length, and it is necessary to introduce the con- 



DETERMINATION OF PRECISE TIME — SPENCER JONES 191 

ception of mean sidereal time, measured relative to the mean position 
of the First Point of Aries. Actual observation of the stars provides 
the astronomer with true sidereal time, which he then has to correct 
for the nutation to obtain mean or uniform sidereal time. 

The determinations of time by astronomical observations are used 
to control the performance of a standard clock, determining its error 
at a specific instant and]the rate of increase or decrease of that error, 
the clock then being used to obtain the time at other instants. This 
usually involves extrapolation to some time subsequent to the latest 
observation. For such extrapolation to be accurate, the time de- 
terminations must not be affected by serious errors and the standard 
clock must be of high precision. The determination of precise time 
therefore involves two problems, the determination with high ac- 
curacy of the time at specific instants and the development of time- 
keepers of very high precision. 

The sidereal time of the transit of a star across the meridian is 
equal to the right ascension of the star. Sidereal time can therefore 
be determined by observing the times of meridian transit of stars of 
known right ascension. The conventional method of making the 
observations has been to use a transit instrument. This consists of a 
telescope, mounted on an axis at each end of which is a cylindrical 
pivot. The pivots rest in fixed bearings, adjusted so that the common 
axis of the pivots is as nearly as possible horizontal and pointing in an 
east-west direction. If the axis of the pivots were exactly horizontal 
and in the east-west direction and if the optical and mechanical axes 
of the telescope coincided, the axis of the telescope would be in the 
meridian plane, whatever direction the telescope was pointing to. 
This ideal condition is never achieved and there are always small 
errors of level, of azimuth, and of collimation. These adjustments 
are liable to continual change; there are slow seasonal changes, as- 
sociated with changes of temperature and possibly also with sub- 
surface moisture; there are also more rapid changes, which are cor- 
related with changes of chcumambient temperature and with the 
direction of the wind. To control these changes frequent observa- 
tions of level, of azimuth, and of collimation are essential, which take 
up a disproportionate amount of the observing time. The error of 
collimation can, however, be eliminated if the telescope is reversed 
in its bearings in the middle of each transit, half the transit being 
observed before reversal and the other half after reversal. It is not 
possible to reverse large transit instruments sufficiently quickly and 
it has accordingly become customary to use small transit instruments, 
which can be rapidly reversed, for the determination of time; as it 
is the brighter stars which are observed, a large aperture is not needed. 

There are other factors which have also to be taken into considera- 
tion. The pivots will never be absolutely cylindrical; their figures 



192 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

have to be determined with great accuracy and appropriate corrections 
made to the observations. Flexure of the axis can cause troublesome 
systematic errors. If the horizontal axis is not equally stiff in all 
directions, its flexure will vary according to the direction in which the 
telescope is pointed. If the two halves are not equally stiff, the 
telescope wiU be twisted from the meridian by a variable amount. 
Personal equations between different observers are somewhat trouble- 
some, though they do not exceed a few hundredths of a second when 
the so-called impersonal micrometer is used. Before its introduction, 
the method of observing was for the observer to press a hand-tapper 
at the instant the star crossed each of a number of vertical spider 
wires in the focal plane of the telescope; by so doing, he closed an 
electric circuit which sent a current to a recording chronograph, which 
recorded not only the signals from the telescope but also time signals, 
every second or alternate seconds, from the clock. The instants 
of the star crossing the wires could then be read off at leisure after the 
observations had been completed. With this method of observing, 
the times determined by different observers could differ by as much as 
half a second. The reason is easy to see; one observer might wait until 
he saw the star actually bisected by the wire before he pressed the 
tapper, with the result that, because of the time required for the mes- 
sage to travel from his brain to his eye and to be converted into 
muscular action, his signal would inevitably be late; another observer 
would, as it were, shoot the flying bird, gauging the rate of motion of 
the star so that his tap is made as nearly as possible at the instant at 
which the star is actually bisected. The personal equations can be 
determined by what are called personal equation machines; the 
transit of an artificial star is observed, the times at which the star is at 
certain positions during the transit being compared with the observed 
times. Although an observer will unconsciously form a fixed habit 
in observing so that his personal equation remains substantially 
constant, small variations, depending upon the physical condition of 
the observer, do occur. 

The method of observing now almost universally employed is to 
have a single movable wire in the micrometer eyepiece instead of 
a number of fixed wires. The wire can be traveled along by the 
observer, who adjusts its speed so as to keep the star continually 
bisected by the wire. As the wire moves along, contacts are auto- 
matically made in certain positions, sending signals which are re- 
corded on the chronograph. In order to relieve the observer of some 
of the strain of maintaining a uniform motion of the wire, it is now 
common to drive the wire mechanically at the speed appropriate to the 
motion of the star, using an electric motor with some form of con- 
tinuously variable gearing. With this method of observing, the 
personal equations of different observers are very small, usually not 



DETERMINATION OF PRECISE TIME — SPENCER JONES 193 

more than two or three hundredths of a second; it is for this reason 
that this form of micrometer is called the "impersonal" micrometer. 
Small though these residual personal equations are, they remain 
remarkably constant and can be determined by personal equation 
machines. They seem to arise from two causes: there is "bisection 
error," an observer systematically bisecting an image to the right or 
to the left of its center; this error changes sign at the zenith with 
instruments in which the observer changes the direction in which he 
faces, according to whether he is observing a north or a south star; 
there is also "following error," an observer systematically setting the 
wire in front of or behind the center of a moving image. This error 
does not change sign at the zenith. 

If the pivots are not exactly cyhndrical, the telescope will be 
twisted out of the meridian by an amount varying with its position. 
The figures of the pivots must therefore be determined with great 
accuracy and appropriate corrections applied to the observed times of 
transit. The figures of the pivots must be determined at intervals, 
as they may change slowly in the course of use through wear. Other 
variable errors can be introduced through slight mechanical imperfec- 
tions in the telescope; if there is the slightest play in the eyepiece 
micrometer or in the objective, errors will be introduced which will 
vary with the position of the telescope. 

When all the possible sources of error which can affect observations 
with a transit instrument are borne in mind, it is rather surprising 
that the observations are as accurate as they are. The probable error 
of a single time determination is usually about two-hundredths of a 
second. This was quite accurate enough before the era of clocks of 
high precision and before there were any practical requirements for 
very precise time. The scatter of the observations is, however, incon- 
veniently large for the adequate control of the performance of the 
modern quartz-crystal clock. For these reasons the conventional 
transit instrument is likely to be gradually replaced for the purpose 
of time determination by some other type of instrument. Several 
modifications of the transit instrument have been considered which 
eliminate or minimize some of its disadvantages. The most accurate 
results are given, however, by an entirely different instrument known 
as the photographic zenith tube. It consists of a fixed vertical telescope 
pointing to the zenith, which has a mercm-y horizon at the bottom of 
its tube, whose purpose is to reflect the light from a star to a focus in 
the plane of the second principal point of the objective. The funda- 
mental principle of the instrument was due to Sir George Airy, who 
first used it for the reflex zenith tube at Greenwich: when the light is 
brought to a focus accurately in the plane of the second principal 
point of the objective, the results are unaffected by tilt of the telescope. 
The troublesome error of level is therefore immaterial, while any error 



194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

of azimuth does not affect observations made in the zenith. The 
telescope is constructed so that the objective and the plate holder can 
be rotated through 180°, the observations being made photographically 
in order to eliminate personal equations and to give greater accuracy. 
Suppose two exposures are given on a star at times which are sym- 
metrical about the time of meridian transit, the objective and the 
photographic plate being rotated through 180° between them. The 
two images will lie on a line exactly parallel to the meridian. If, 
however, the two times of exposure are not exactly symmetrical, the 
images will be slightly staggered; by measuring the staggering and 
knowing the clock times of the two exposures, the clock time of 
meridian transit can be inferred. 

In practice an exposure of finite length is required to give a 
measurable image on the plate. During this exposure the plate holder 
is traveled along at the speed appropriate to the motion of the star, 
signals being sent to the chronograph at certain definite positions of 
the plate holder. After reversal the plate carriage retraces its path, 
and signals are sent during the course of the second exposure at the 
same positions. 

With this design of instrument, collimation error does not enter, 
there are no pivot errors to be considered, and the various sources of 
error inherent in a movable instrument are avoided. At the Naval 
Observatory, Washington, a photographic zenith tube, designed and 
used by F. E. Ross originally for the determination of the variations 
of latitude, has been used for some years for the determination of time. 
An instrument on the same general principle, but differing materially 
in details of design, is in an advanced stage of construction for the 
Royal Greenwich Observatory. The errors of time determination 
should not exceed 2 or 3 milliseconds, which will permit a tight control 
of the performance of the observatory clocks. 

For the purpose of time determination it is necessary to assume 
positions for the stars which are observed. These positions will have 
random errors, whose effects can be reduced by observing sufficient 
stars. But they may also be affected by systematic errors; if, for 
instance, the errors vary with right ascension they will introduce a 
spurious systematic variation in the derived clock error through the 
year. For the purpose of time determinations and in order that the 
times determined at different observatories can be directly compared, 
there is an international agreement to use the positions of the stars 
given in the fundamental star catalog known as the FK3. These 
are bright stars, whereas with the photographic zenith tube, inasmuch 
as observations are restricted to a narrow belt at the zenith, it is 
necessary to use fainter stars. Their positions must therefore be 
determined by transit circle observations and tied on to the FK3 
system. The photographic observations will in course of time provide 



DETERMINATION OF PRECISE TIME — SPENCER JONES 195 

some measure of control over the periodic errors in right ascension of 
the FK3 system itself. 

Until about 25 years ago, pendulum clocks of the regulator type 
were used as the standard clocks in observatories. A considerable 
improvement in precision was brought about by the invention of the 
free-pendulum clock. In an ordinary pendulum clock the timekeeping 
is impahed by the variable friction involved in driving a train of 
wheels to move the hands and record the actual time on a dial. An 
appreciably higher accuracy is to be expected if the pendulum is 
allowed to swing freely, except when it receives periodically impulses 
to maintain its swing, and is thereby relieved from all extraneous 
work. To achieve this had been the aim of horologists for many 
years, but although many attempts were made it was not really 
successfully accomplished until the invention by W. H. Shortt of his 
free-pendulum clock. The master pendulum is enclosed in an airtight 
case, in which the air pressure is reduced to about 1 inch of mercury 
and which is maintained at constant temperature and swings freely, 
except for small impulses, given at half-minute intervals, to main- 
tain the amplitude at a nearly constant value. The slave clock 
is a normal synchronome electric clock, which is adjusted when swing- 
ing as an independent clock to lose about 6 seconds a day. The 
synchi'onizing action required from the master free pendulum is there- 
fore a one-way action — always an accelerating action. The slave 
pendulum itself releases electrically the impulsing lever of the free 
pendulum, which falls when the free pendulum is at the midpoint of 
its swing. The impulse arm falls on the top of a small pivoted wheel, 
mounted on the free pendulum; this being a dead point, and the 
impulse not commencing to be given until the pendulum swings 
outward from the central position, the amount of the impulse does 
not depend upon any shght variation in the synchronization between 
the two pendulums which may occur. 

The synchronization of the slave pendulum is effected by means of a 
light flexible spring carried on it. The impulse arm of the free 
pendulum, after it has fallen clear of the pendulum, actuates a device 
which closes an electric circuit and sends a current through a small 
electromagnet adjacent to the slave pendulum. If the slave clock has 
dropped sufficiently behind the master, the armature of this electro- 
magnet will, when the electromagnet is excited, engage the bent end of 
the light spring on the slave pendulum. The end of the spring is then 
held fixed and, as the pendulum swings, the spring is flexed and the 
pendulum is accelerated; if, on the other hand, the slave pendulum is 
closely in phase with the master, the end of the spring passes under 
the armature before the electromagnet is excited, and nothing happens. 
The length and strength of the spring are so adjusted that when the 
synchronizing action occurs the slave pendulum is accelerated by 



196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

^40 second. As the natural losing rate of the slave clock, 6 seconds 
a day, is equivalent to Kso second per minute, the synchronizer, which 
is actuated each half minute, should hit and miss alternately. For 
this reason it is called the "hit-and-miss" synchronizer. 

The first experimental Shortt free-pendulum clock was installed at 
the Edinburgh Observatory in 1921. It at once proved to be such an 
improvement upon previous pendulum clocks that two were installed 
at the Greenwich Observatory in 1923 and others in subsequent years. 
It was the excellent performance given by these clocks that made it 
necessary for astronomers for the first time to introduce the conception 
of mean sidereal time. Previously true sidereal time had been uni- 
versally used, as clocks were not good enough to be able to show up the 
small effects due to the short-period terms in nutation. The free- 
pendulum type of clock is capable of an accuracy of about one- 
hundredth of a second a day. Detailed investigation of their 
performance has shown, however, that such clocks are liable to 
frequent small erratic changes of rate, of the order of about 3 milli- 
seconds a day. Small though such changes are, they cause, by 
integration, an irregular wandering of the clock. For sending out 
time signals, it is always necessary to extrapolate beyond the latest 
time determination; these erratic changes of rate restrict the accuracy 
with which the error of the clock can be extrapolated. It can, on 
occasion, happen that 2 weeks or more may elapse without any check 
on the performance of the clock being possible and the transmitted 
time signals may consequently be appreciably in error. Moreover, 
because of the errors of observation, there is a natural scatter in the 
derived errors of the clock. In interpolating between the observed 
errors there is no means of distinguishing between scatter due to errors 
of observation and scatter due to the irregular wandering of the clock. 
It is possible, of course, to attempt to reduce the effects of the 
wandering by using the mean of several clocks. Nevertheless, very 
high accuracy cannot be obtained, because residual effects due to the 
irregularities are always present. 

A new standard of accuracy has been provided in recent years by 
the use of an oscillating quartz crystal, developed originally to serve 
as a precision standard of frequency. The quartz clock is based upon 
the piezoelectric property of quartz. If a plate of quartz is com- 
pressed, the two opposite faces become electrically charged, one 
positively and the other negatively. Conversely, if two opposite 
faces are given positive and negative charges respectively, the piece 
of quartz experiences a mechanical contraction or expansion. By 
rapidly alternating the electric charges, the quartz can be maintained 
in mechanical vibration. In the quartz clock an oscillating electrical 
circuit is used, the dimensions of the crystal being adjusted so that its 



DETERMINATION OF PRECISE TIME — SPENCER JONES 197 

natural resonance frequency is equal to the frequency of the oscillating 
circuit. Under these conditions a strong vibration is set up and the 
quartz crystal takes control and locks the frequency of the oscillating 
electrical circuit to its own resonance frequency. Quartz is a very 
stable substance and, provided it is maintained at a very uniform 
temperature and the drive circuit is properly designed, the frequency 
remains constant to a high degree of accuracy. It is usual for the 
crystal to be cut to give a frequency of 100,000 cycles a mean time 
second, the dimensions of the quartz then being conveniently small. 
This frequency is divided down in steps electronically, either by the 
use of multivibrators or by frequency subdivision until an output 
with a frequency of 1,000 cycles a second is obtained. The output 
of this frequency is used to drive a phonic motor, from which time 
signals can be obtained at any desired intervals. 

Such clocks have many advantages over pendulum clocks. They 
have proved to have very high short-period stability. Their erratic 
changes of rate are less than half a millisecond a day, and the clocks 
themselves can be relied upon to about 1 millisecond a day. For 
extrapolating between scattered time determinations they are there- 
fore much superior to pendulum clocks. They have, moreover, the 
advantage of the great flexibility inherent in dealing with 100,000 
vibrations a second instead of only a single one. Electronic methods 
can be used for quickly and accurately determining the relative errors 
and rates of the clocks. For such purposes at Greenwich, decimal 
counter chronometers are used. This device consists of a scale-of-ten 
counter, and is actuated by the 100,000-cycle output per second from 
one of the quartz crystals. When it is switched on, it will start 
counting these vibrations, recording the count on five decade dials, 
reading, respectively, tenths, hundredths, thousandths, ten- 
thousandths, and hundred-thousandths of a second. To compare 
two quartz clocks, a seconds signal from the phonic motor driven by 
the one clock is used to start the count and a signal from the second 
clock to stop it. The time difference between the two clocks, accurate 
to a hundred-thousandth of a second, is thus obtained in a fraction of a 
second. As a check, the second clock can be used to start the count 
and the first clock to stop it. The difference in frequency of the two 
clocks is obtained by feeding the 100,000 c. p. s. outputs from the two 
clocks into a comparator, so that they beat against one another, and 
timing the beats. It is possible to obtain an accuracy of one part in 
10^° in the measurement of the frequency difference. 

At Greenwich, the clocks are used in groups of three, one phonic 
motor being provided for each group of three clocks. One of the 
clocks is selected to drive the phonic motor, but regular comparisons 
are made between each pair of clocks in the group. Automatic beat 



198 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

counters record the integrated time difference between each pair, 
A-B, B-C, C-A, the third comparison providing a check on the 
other two. 

A further convenience of the quartz clocks is that it is not necessary 
to maintain separate mean-time and sidereal-time clocks as it is 
with pendulum clocks. By means of suitable gearing, it is possible 
to take sidereal seconds direct from the phonic motor which gives 
also mean time seconds. The ratio of the mean time second to the 
sidereal time second is 1.002 737 909 293. This ratio can be closely 
represented by a gearing of 119/114 multipled by 317/330, which is 
only 4 parts in 10® small. These sidereal second signals are used for 
recording on the chronograph during the time determinations. When 
the rate of the clock relative to these signals has been derived it is a 
simple matter to infer its rate relative to true mean time seconds. 
The small error in the conversion from mean time to sidereal time is, 
of course, eliminated. 

For short-period prediction quartz clocks leave little to be desired. 
They have not as yet, however, reached the stage at which long-period 
prediction has the accuracy that is desirable. The difficulty arises 
from a slow drift in frequency to which they are all liable. The crystal, 
after cutting, appears to go through a slow ageing process; the drift 
in frequency is rather rapid at first, but progressively diminishes 
though it sems never to cease altogether. If for any reason the crystal 
should stop, through a tube or resistor giving out, it will not, when 
restarted, follow along its previous ageing curve; a new ageing cycle 
sets in. Any small disturbance, such as a slight temperature change, 
can alter the frequency drift somewhat. The effect of the frequency 
drift on the error of the clock increases with the square of the time 
so that, even though the drift may be quite small, its effects will 
become important with lapse of time. With the present scatter in 
the actual time determinations, several months' observations are 
needed to give a sufficiently accurate derivation of the frequency 
drift, but there is always the uncertainty whether during this period 
some small disturbance may not have caused the rate of drift to change 
slightly. 

Moreover there are extraneous effects which can complicate the 
determination. During a period of several months, there will be a 
wide range in the right ascensions of the stars which are used for the 
time determinations. If there are periodic errors in the fundamental 
system of star places, a spurious factor will have entered into the 
determination of the frequency drift. The motions of the earth's 
poles cause further complications. The poles have an irregular mo- 
tion, which is roughly circular, but with a variable radius. The 
extreme departures of the true poles from their mean positions are 
about 30 feet. The movement of the pole along the meridian causes 



DETERMINATION OF PRECISE TIME — SPENCER JONES 199 

a variation in latitude, which can be observed v/ith a zenith tele- 
scope. The movement in the perpendicular direction causes a dis- 
placement of the meridian. The motion of the pole has two main 
components, with periods of a year and of about 14 months respec- 
tively. As a consequence of this motion, it would be found that if we 
had a perfect clock, with no rate at all, and observations which were 
entirely free from error, the clock would appear to have a slightly 
variable rate. This apparent variation of rate will affect the deter- 
mination of the frequency drift and give a spurious value. 

It is not possible at an observatory to measure the component of 
the polar motion at right angles to the meridian. At Greenwich 
an approximate compensation for the motion is made through the 
cooperation of the Naval Observatory, Washington, which sends 
regularly to Greenwich the observed movement of the pole along the 
meridian of Washington. If Washington were 90° in longitude west 
of Greenwich, the displacement along the meridian of Washington 
would also be the displacement at right angles to the meridian of 
Greenwich. But the longitude of Washington is only 77° west of 
Greenwich. However, the use of the Washington latitude-variation 
data does enable the greater part of the polar-motion effect to be elim- 
inated from the Greenwich clock curves and it has been noticeable 
that the inferred performance of the clocks has thereby been improved. 

The development of an atomic or molecular clock, in which the 
frequency of some selected atomic or molecular vibration will be 
subdivided to give a frequency closely equal to that of an oscillating 
quartz crystal and used to lock the vibrations of the crystal, is 
already foreshadowed by the work in progress at the National Bureau 
of Standards, Washington, in the development of an ammonia clock, 
in which the frequency of one particular mode of vibration of the 
ammonia molecule is used as the control. This work is as yet in its 
early stages and has not gone beyond the point of showing that the 
control of a quartz crystal in the way suggested is practicable. When 
the clock has been developed to the stage at which the accurate con- 
trol of a precision quartz clock becomes possible, the crystal will be 
prevented from drifting in frequency. The clock error curve over a 
long period of time should then be represented by a straight line. 
Departures from a straight line could be attributed to periodic errors 
in the star places, to the polar motion, or to irregularities in the 
rate of rotation of the earth itself. Much more accurate long-term 
prediction would become possible, with a considerable gain in the 
accuracy of timekeeping. 

It has been well established that the length of the day is subject 
to small fluctuations. It has long been known that there are discord- 
ances between the observed and the tabular positions of the moon 
which are not attributable to imperfections in the theory of the 

866591—50 14 



200 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

motion of the moon. In the development of the theory, the gravita- 
tional effects which have been neglected are far too small to amount 
to anything like the discordances which are observed. In more 
recent years it has been proved that there are similar fluctuations in 
the motions of Mercury, Venus, and the sun; but for these bodies 
the effects are much smaller than for the moon because their mean 
motions are much less rapid. It was the comparative smallness of 
the effects for these bodies which made their detection difficult. So 
there are, in effect, four clocks which agree together and one clock, 
our earth, which differs from the other four. The natural conclusion 
is that it is the earth which is at fault and that the length of the day, 
which has been adopted as the unit of time and assumed to be invar- 
iable, is actually subject to small variations. 

The changes in the length of the day are found, from the analysis 
of the observational data, to be of two different kinds. There is a 
slow progressive increase in length, of the order of 1 millisecond in 
the length of the day in the course of a century. This progressive 
increase is caused by tidal friction, more particularly in the shallow 
sea; it acts as a brake on the earth. Though so small in amount, the 
effect on the mean longitudes of the moon and the planets increases 
with the square of the time and is large enough to make the position 
of the moon 20 centuries ago, if computed from its present motion in 
longitude, very considerably in error. The effect was actually first 
detected in 1679 by Halley from the early observations of eclipses. 
Superposed on the progressive increase of length there are also irregular 
changes, the day sometimes increasing in length and sometimes de- 
creasing; these changes cannot be attributed to tidal friction, because 
frictional effects can cause only a slo^ving down and never a speeding 
up in the earth's rotation. These changes are due to changes in the 
earth's moment of inertia and could be accounted for quantitatively 
if the earth expanded or contracted slightly by 4 or 5 inches. 

There is one essential difference between the two phenomena. 
A change in the moment of inertia of the earth is something that con- 
cerns the earth alone. The apparent displacements of all the other 
bodies are strictly proportional to their mean motions. But tidal 
friction is something that concerns the earth and the moon jointly; 
the total angular momentum of the earth-moon system is conserved, 
but there is interaction between the earth and the moon. The appar- 
ent displacements of Mercury, Venus, and the sun will again be 
proportional to their mean motions but the same will not hold for 
the moon; its displacement wiU not have the same ratio to its mean 
motion. It is this difference in the case of the moon which makes it 
possible to separate the two effects of tidal friction and of change 
of the moment of inertia of the earth. 



DETERMINATION OF PRECISE TIME — SPENCER JONES 201 

Though the changes in the length of the day have been fully estab- 
lished by these observations, the data are not sufficiently accurate to 
decide whether the changes occur suddenly or whether they are spread 
over a few days, a few weeks, a few months, or even over a year or two. 
If they occur rather suddenly, they could be detected with ease by 
quartz clocks in their present stage of development; if spread over a 
few months, the larger changes could be detected, but changes of 
smaller amount would be likely to escape detection. Since a few 
years ago, when quartz clocks were adopted at Greenwich as the 
basis for the time service, a close watch has been kept for any evidence 
of a change in the earth's rotation. Once or twice small changes 
have been suspected but there has always been some factor which 
has made a definite conclusion impossible — perhaps one of the clocks 
has changed its rate or has stopped at the crucial time, or there has 
been some uncertainty in the determination of frequency drift. The 
evidence provided by the observations of occultations of stars by 
the moon is that there has been no major change in the earth's rate 
of rotation since about 1918. There may possibly have been small 
changes, but no definite conclusions are as yet possible. 

It is not inconceivable that there may be small annual variations 
in the rate of rotation of the earth. There are seasonal displacements 
of matter over the earth's surface; there is, for instance, a high-pressure 
region over Siberia at one season of the year and a low-pressure region 
at another season, entailing the displacement of large atmospheric 
masses, with corresponding change in the moment of inertia. Such 
effects would be tangled up with effects due to periodic errors in star 
places and with the effects of the polar motion. Much more is likely 
to be learned about these matters when the atomic clock has reached 
a further stage of development, so that the frequency drift of the 
quartz crystal can be eliminated. Observations with photographic 
zenith telescopes should gradually smooth out any residual periodic 
errors in star places, while the information they provide about the 
variation of latitude will furnish basic data which can be used subse- 
quently to separate polar motion effects from small variations in the 
earth's rotation. It may prove, however, that the earth itself is 
rather like a pendulum clock in its behavior and that its rate of rota- 
tion is liable to frequent and small irregular changes, so that we can 
at present merely observe their integrated effect. 

The question may arise in the near future how the unit of time 
should be defined. Clocks are now at a stage when their stability 
for short periods is of a higher accuracy than the earth's rotation 
itself. The earth, however, has the advantage over any clock that 
it has no liability to a stoppage. It may be possible to develop 
atomic clocks to a stage at which they can be run for several years 



202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

without stopping and to maintain accurate time; with a battery of 
such clocks, all controlled by the same atomic vibration, it would be 
possible to bridge over the stoppage of any single clock and thereby 
to maintain an accurate standard of time more or less indefinitely. 
There will be definite objections to using as the fundamental unit of 
time a unit that is known to be variable. A new unit should be 
absolutely invariable. A clock based fundamentally upon a length 
which is controlled by an atomic wave length, and upon the velocity 
of light, for instance, seems theoretically ideal. 

Note added in proof. — Since the lecture was delivered, investi- 
gations at the Greenwich Observatory have established the existence 
of a fairly regular annual variation in the rate of rotation of the 
earth. Relative to uniform time the earth gets behind by about 60 
milliseconds in May-June and ahead by a similar amount in Novem- 
ber. The corresponding variations in the length of the day amount 
to somewhat more than 1 millisecond a day on either side of the 
mean value. H. S. J. 



THE ELEMENTARY PARTICLES OF PHYSICS 



By Carl D. Anderson 
California Institute of Technology , Pasadena 



The idea of elementary particles of matter, of small, discrete, in- 
divisible particles out of which aU matter in the universe is consti- 
tuted, is as old as recorded history. The Greeks in their philosophical 
speculations discussed at length the question of the ultimate nature of 
matter. They realized that there were only two possible choices open 
to them; either matter must be thought capable of being divided into 
smaller and smaller units without end, or else it must consist of small 
units which are themselves wholly indivisible. Many of the Greek 
philosophers experienced a philosophical difRculty in trying to conceive 
of infinite divisibility, whereas others found it equally difficult to think 
of a particle as being truly indivisible. The difficulty is closely akin to 
that which one experiences when contemplating the limits of the uni- 
verse, and trying to decide in his own mind whether it pleases him 
more to thinlv of the universe as unbounded and extending to infinity, 
or to imagine a finite universe with definite bounds beyond which there 
is nothing, not even space. The idea of the existence of indivisible ma- 
terial particles, however, seems to have had more appeal to the Greeks, 
and the atomic hypothesis was expounded and developed in the fifth 
century B. C, chiefly by Thales, Leucippus, and his distinguished 
pupil, Democritus, until in many respects it resembled the views which 
are held today. 

The views of Democritus were prominent for 500 years but began 
to wane after the beginning of the Christian Era and by about A.D. 
200 had almost wholly disappeared from European philosophical 
thought. The idea of material atoms did not really appear again in 
Europe until about the middle of the seventeenth century, a time 
marking the beginning of the great era of scientific experimentation 
which has continued with an ever increasing tempo up to the present. 

During this period, through scientific research based on experimen- 
tation, the atomic theory of matter slowly developed. Highlights in 

> Based on material presented in the Sigma Xi Annual Address, A. A. A. S. Centennial, Washington, 
September 1948. Reprinted from American Scientist, vol. 17, No. 2. April 1949, by permission from The 
Society of the Sigma XI. 

203 



204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

this development were the Laws of Chemical Proportion as discovered 
and enunciated by Dal ton near the beginning of the nineteenth cen- 
tm-y, and later the successes of the Kinetic Theory of Gases. By the 
beginning of the twentieth century, the concept of the chemical atom 
had received general acceptance as a theory based on scientific experi- 
mentation. The idea of atoms had thus been removed from the realm 
of philosophical speculation and had become a proved scientific fact. 
According to this picture all matter depending upon its nature consists 
of a mixture of varying numbers of the ninety-odd different chemical 
atoms. The size and the mass and other properties of most of the 
chemical atoms had been determined although not with great preci- 
sion. 

DISCOVERY OF FIRST ELEMENTARY PARTICLES 

During the time when the chemical atom was being firmly estab- 
lished as a scientific fact, other scientific investigations were succeed- 
ing in proving the existence of at least one particle of matter which 
was more elementary in character than the chemical atoms. In the 
decade from 1890 to 1900 the discovery of X-rays and radioactivity, 
and studies of the phenomena associated with the discharge of elec- 
tricity through gases, soon proved the existence of the electron and 
showed that the atoms of chemistry must all be considered as complex 
structures, structures which are themselves built up of particles of a 
more elementary character. 

The electron was distinguished from the other particles previously 
studied by physicists and chemists in one very important respect. It 
was established as a unique particle in the sense that all electrons 
were found to be identical with one another, no matter from what form 
of matter they were derived. For the first time then the presence of 
a particle truly elementary in character was revealed to science. It 
was found always to carry a negative electric charge and to have a 
mass about 2,000 times less than the hydrogen atom, the simplest 
and least massive of all the chemical atoms. The electron immedi- 
ately took its place as one of the elementary particles common to all 
forms of matter. 

The following 30 years, from 1900 to 1930, were extremely fruitful 
in furthering our knowledge of the properties of the chemical atoms. 
The work of Moseley showed that chemical atoms were members of 
a family, all of them being related to one another in a perfectly definite 
and simple way. In 1911 the experimental genius of Rutherford in 
Cambridge, England, proved the existence of the atomic nucleus, and 
in 1919 he succeeded for the fu'st time in producing an atom of oxygen 
from the disruption of the nucleus of an atom of nitrogen. Thus in 
1919 the will of man for the first time was able to cause the disinte- 
gration of an ordinarily stable element, with the accompanying release 



ELEMENTARY PARTICLES OF PHYSICS — ANDERSON 205 

of nuclear energy. These and other investigations all combined to 
prove that the proton, the nucleus of the simplest of all the chemical 
atoms, hydrogen, is a constituent of aU other chemical atoms, and 
hence is in fact one of the elementary particles of matter. 

In 1930, then, the physicist had at his disposal two elementary ma- 
terial particles, the electron and the protron, in terms of which to try 
to understand the structure of all matter. In this undertaking the 
physicist realized many great successes, but in many instances his 
efiforts resulted in sharp failures. Apparently the world was not to 
be understood in terms as simple as these. 

In general the physicist was successful in understanding those phe- 
nomena which we may classify, for want of a better term, as extra- 
nuclear phenomena, and he was unsuccessful in understanding those 
phenomena which we may classify as nuclear phenomena. By extra- 
nuclear phenomena we mean those processes in which the electrons 
which form the outer shells of the atom are the active participating 
agents; in this type of phenomena the central core of the atom, or the 
nucleus, is present but remains undisturbed and does not participate 
actively. Nuclear phenomena, on the other hand, are those in which 
the nucleus is the active participant. 

Extranuclear phenomena and nuclear phenomena have a great 
many distinguishing characteristics. One of the most interesting and 
important of these distinguishing characteristics is concerned with the 
level of energies involved. Extranuclear phenomena involve very low 
energies as compared with nuclear phenomena. The physicist uses the 
term electron volt as a measure of energy. The energies of extranuclear 
phenomena are found usually to range from a fraction of one electron 
volt to several electron volts, whereas nuclear phenomena are found 
usually to correspond to several millions of electron volts. 

In our environment almost every phenomenon in nature represents 
an extranuclear phenomenon: for example, the burning of coal, the 
growth of plants, the generation of electric power by conventional 
means, the fermentation of wine, the explosion of dynamite, and others 
in uncountable numbers. Nuclear phenomena are not so common- 
place, but a few examples may be mentioned: for example, the gen- 
eration of the sun's heat, the decay of radium, the manufacture of plu- 
tonium, the absorption of cosmic rays in the earth's atmosphere, the 
explosion of an atom bomb. 

The concept of energy has been introduced here because of the great 
importance that this concept has in the discussion of any physical phe- 
nomenon. I have stated that extranuclear phenomena represent low- 
energy phenomena and nuclear phenomena represent high-energy 
phenomena. To be more accurate I should have said that in extra- 
nuclear phenomena we find low concentrations of energy; that is, the 
energy changes that one associates with a single elementary particle 



206 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

are low in extranuclear phenomena and high m the case of nuclear 
phenomena. Moreover, physicists for the past several years have been 
studying certain phenomena which represent energy concentrations 
many thousands of times greater than those represented even by 
nuclear phenomena. This range of energies has been called the range 
of ludicrously high energies. So far the only opportunity the physicist 
has had to study phenomena in the range of ludicrously high energies 
is in connection with observations associated with cosmic rays, and we 
shall see in a moment that important knowledge of the elementary 
particles of matter has come from studies of phenomena in the range 
of ludicrously high energies. 

As stated previously, by 1930 two elementary particles of matter 
were known to the physicist, the electron which always occurred with 
a negative electric charge and the proton which always occurred with 
a positive charge. When considered in a manner consistent with the 
theoretical concepts as they had been developed up to that time in 
terms of the quantum mechanics, the negative electron and the positive 
proton served quite successfully as building blocks in terms of which 
to understand the structure of atoms so far as the extranuclear phe- 
nomena were concerned. But when attempts were made to picture the 
structure of the nuclei of the various chemical atoms, or to understand 
nuclear phenomena, the attempts usually ended in failure. 

Then suddenly in 1932 two new elementary particles were dis- 
covered: the neutron and the positive electron, or positron. The laiown 
elementary particles were therefore doubled in number, increasing from 
two to four, and providing the physicist with more material with which 
to work. 

The discovery of the neutron, which came as a result of experiments 
performed in Germany, in France, and in England, was immediately 
welcomed, for now neutrons together with protons could serve as the 
building stones for the various types of atomic nuclei. One very grave 
and fundamental problem which formerly had been present was now 
removed immediately, for it was no longer necessary to assume the 
existence of electrons inside the nucleus, a concept which always had 
been accompanied by serious theoretical difficulties. 

The discovery of the positive electron, or positron, came during a 
series of experiments being performed for the purpose of measuring 
the energies of the particles produced by cosmic rays. The discovery 
of the positron was an unexpected discovery. This statement is true 
even though, about 2 years before, a British physicist, Du*ac, had an- 
nounced a new theory which actually predicted the existence of posi- 
trons. This new feature of physical theory was not welcomed by 
physicists, however; it was on the contrary considered to be an un- 
fortunate defect in the theory, and many attempts, by Dirac himself 



ELEMENTARY PARTICLES OF PHYSICS — ANDERSON 207 

and others, were made to remove it, although all were unsuccessful. 
If even one physicist in the world had taken the theory of Dirac 
seriously, he would have had an admirable guide leading directly to 
the discovery of the positron. Had this happened, the positron 
would almost certainly have been discovered by 1930 rather than in 
1932. However, after the positron was shown actually to exist, then 
it was a very short time indeed until many of its properties were 
understood in terms of the Dirac theory. 

ELEMENTARY PARTICLES AND RADIATION 

The discovery of the positron represented the first instance in which 
it was recognized that an elementary particle of matter may have only 
a transitory existence. In ordinary m.atter, for example, the average 
life span of a positron is only a few billionths of a second, for when 
a positron and a negative electron come close to one another they 
mutually annihilate one another— the two particles disappear and in 
their place one finds only radiation. The whole of the material sub- 
stance constituting the particles is spontaneously transformed into 
radiant energy. Measurements show that this process is quantita- 
tively in accord with the now famous Einstein equation E=mc^, which 
relates mass and energy. The process which is the inverse of the 
annihilation of material particles also occm"s, namely, the production 
of particles out of radiation. If radiation of sufficiently high energy 
is passed through matter, electrons and positrons are generated. In 
this process the material substance of the two particles is actually 
created out of the energy represented by the radiation, and again in 
conformity with the Einstein equation E=mc^. 

In the light of these happenings one must change basically his con- 
cept of the elementary particles of matter; these particles are no longer 
to be thought of as permanent objects which always preserve their 
identity, and which serve only as budding blocks of matter by joining 
together in groups to form the more complex chemical atoms. One 
must recognize instead the possibility of the creation of material 
particles out of radiation, and the annihilation of material particles 
through the production of radiation. Such a possibility as this, of 
course, was completely inconceivable to the Greeks in their long 
philosophical discussion on the indivisibility of matter versus the 
divisibility of matter. 

A further step toward a realization of the great complexity inherent 
in the relationships among the elementary particles of matter came in 
1935 with the discovery of the positive and negative mesotrons, or 
positive and negative mesons as they are now often called. This dis- 
covery was also made in investigations of the high-energy phenomena 
occurring when cosmic rays are absorbed in their passage through 
matter. 



208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

The mesotron is a particle some 200 times as massive as an electron, 
and therefore about one-tenth as massive as either a proton or neutron. 
It occurs with both positive and negative electric charge. The dis- 
covery of the mesotron did not come quickly and accidentally as was 
the case with the positron and the neutron. It came only after the 
completion of a sustained series of observations, covering a period of 
4 years, which were designed to remove certain inconsistencies always 
present when we attempted to understand certain [!cosmic-ray phe- 
nomena in terms of the elementary particles then known. These 
inconsistencies were removed in terms of the existence of the mesotron, 
whose discovery was publicly annoimced in 1936. 

Unlike the neutron, the mesotron was not a particle to be imme- 
diately welcomed by the physicist. The physicist makes his advances 
by simplifying his understanding of nature; hence, a physical world 
which could be explained in terms of only one or two distinct elemen- 
tary particles would be most to his liking. The discovery of the 
mesotron did not introduce a simplification; rather it complicated the 
situation for it increased the number of material elementary particles 
from four to six. Apparentlv the Creator does not favor a world of 
too great simplicity. 

Before the discovery of the mesotron a Japanese physicist, Yukawa, 
had postulated on theoretical grounds the possible existence of parti- 
cles of a mass intermediate between a proton and an electron. His 
theory, however, was not generally known to physicists at that time, 
and did not have any part at all in the discovery of the mesotron. 
Had this theory been generally known it is still doubtful if it would 
have affected the course of cosmic-ray research, since, unlike the 
Dirac theory of the positron, it would not have served as so useful a 
guide in pointing out the most fruitful directions for the research to 
follow. 

Like the positron the mesotron has a very short life expectancy. 
In free space, both positive and negative mesotrons have a normal life 
span of just over two-millionths of a second, after which time they 
spontaneously disintegrate. Very recent observations have shown 
that in all probability the spontaneous disintegration of a mesotron 
results in the simultaneous production of an electron and two neutrinos. 
Neutrinos are the interesting elementary particles which had pre- 
viously been invented in order to balance energy and momentum in 
the process in which an electron is produced when a radioactive nucleus 
decays. A similar situation exists in the case of the decay of a 
mesotron except that here, because the mesotron disappears entirely, 
it is necessary to postulate the emission of two neutrinos in order to 
balance energy and momentum. 

In free space mesotrons spontaneously decay after about two- 
millionths of a second. In the presence of matter, a mesotron of 



ELEMENTARY PARTICLES OF PHYSICS — ANDERSON 209 

negative charge may terminate its existence in an even shorter time. 
It does this by entering an atomic nucleus or, in the language of the 
physicist, by undergoing nuclear capture. 

The mesotrons observed in cosmic rays are produced by the very 
high energy particles of the primary cosmic-ray beam as it comes into 
the earth from outer space and plunges through the earth's atmos- 
phere. In a manner somewhat analogous to the creation of positrons 
and electrons, the mesotrons are born out of the tremendous energies 
carried by the primary cosmic-ray beam. 

There are many interesting phenomena involved in the birth and 
death of mesotrons and in the violent nuclear processes which accom- 
pany these phenomena, but it will not be possible to discuss them here. 
However, I should like to mention in this connection two important 
advances which have been made within the last 2 years. 

RECENT ADVANCES IN NUCLEAR RESEARCH 

One of these is the work under way in Bristol, England, by Powell 
and his coworkers, which has consisted of a detailed analysis of the 
tracks produced by mesotrons in the emulsions of photographic plates. 
These investigators have discovered a mesotron of a new type which is 
heavier than the ordinary mesotron. It is about 285 times as massive 
as an electron, whereas the ordinary mesotron is about 215 times as 
heavy. The heavy mesotron has only a very short life; it lives only 
about one one-hundredth as long as the light mesotron, after which 
time it disintegrates and produces a light-weight mesotron and another 
particle which is probably a neutrino. The negatively charged heavy- 
weight mesotron may also directly enter an atomic nucleus and give 
rise to a violent nuclear disruption. 

Although both the newly discovered heavy mesotrons and the light 
mesotrons discovered in 1936 have some properties in common — e. g., 
both types of particles occur with positive and negative charges, both 
have short lives, and both are found in cosmic rays — nevertheless in 
some very fundamental respects they are entirely different types of 
elementary particles. The heavy mesotron interacts very strongly 
with atomic nuclei, but the light mesotron interacts only very weakly 
with atomic nuclei. Another difference lies in the respective values of 
that important property Icnown as the spin or angular momentum; 
recent researches indicate that the heavy mesotron has an integral 
spin, whereas the light mesotron has a half-integral spin. 

In all probability it is the heavy mesotron and not the light mesotron 
which is to be identified with the particle first postulated on theoretical 
grounds by Yukawa in 1934. The theory of Yukawa even in its pres- 
ent state today is very primitive. However, this theory still provides 
the best basic concept in terms of which to understand processes in- 
volving mesotrons, and after further development in the future the 



210 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 

Yukawa theory may possibly provide an understanding in terms of 
mesotron exchange forces of that all-important problem as to the 
nature of the forces acting between the particles inside a nucleus. So 
far no satisfactory theory has been developed in terms of which to 
understand many of even the simplest phenomena involving the 
nucleus. To acquire a quantitative understanding of the interactions 
of the elementary particles of matter and of the fundamental nuclear 
processes is one of the great tasks of theoretical physics today. 

To complete our list of elementary particles we should also include 
the 'photon. This particle, together with the neutrino as noted above, 
is, however, in a somewhat different category from the other types 
of particles. The photon is not a material particle, in the sense that 
it cannot be identified with any particle which can exist at rest and 
have associated with it a finite amount of ponderable material sub- 
stance. Photons are to be identified only with radiation or radiant 
energy. The neutrino must also be placed in a special category, since 
it cannot have associated with it an appreciable amount of ponderable 
material substance if any at all, and since it has never been directly 
observed. 

In all, then, the physicist at the present time recognizes at least 10 
distinct elementary particles of matter. Wliether this list is complete 
or not no one can say with certainty. The indications are that the 
list is not complete, for evidence seems to be rapidly accumulating for 
the existence of at least one additional elementary particle. This 
particle is found in cosmic rays and appears to have a mass some 1,000 
times the mass of the electron. But v/hat its properties are and how 
it is related to the light and heavy mesotrons and to the other elemen- 
tary particles of matter is a subject which must await the results of 
further observations. 

The thought of probable further additions to the list of elementary 
particles of matter suggests a question which is quite apart from 
physics and has to do simply with the naming of new particles. We 
have here actually an interesting example of the great difficulties that 
physicists sometimes have merely in assigning labels or names to the 
various concepts which their experience or their theories have brought 
forth. It is usually necessary to choose some sort of name for these 
concepts, whether they be elementary particles of matter or something 
else, at a time before all the facts regarding them are known. In 1937 
the term mesotron was suggested to designate the new particle of 
intermediate mass discovered in the cosmic rays in 1936. Since then 
this term has often been contracted to meson and has been so em- 
ployed. Since the discovery of the new particle whose mass is greater 
than the mass of the original cosmic-ray mesotron, the term mesotron 
or meson has been employed to designate both types of particles and 
the Greek-letter prefixes tt and ju used to differentiate between them. 



ELEMENTARY PARTICLES OF PHYSICS — ANDERSON 211 

Thus the term ir-mesotron or ir-meson designates the heavier particle 
and ix-mesotron or n-meson designates the hghter particle. This 
nomenclature seemed satisfactory for a time until continued experi- 
mentation began to show more and more clearly the important basic 
differences between the two types of particles. It is beginning to be 
quite apparent now that the properties of these two types of particles 
are such that they will not natm-ally fall into the same classification. 
Thus the use of a common generic term, such as mesotron or meson, 
to designate both these types of particles may in the future prove to 
be quite inconvenient and illogical. Just what should be done with 
respect to nomenclature at this time is not clear, but it is a matter 
which should receive very serious consideration, especially in view 
of the apparent entry of still another new elementary particle into 
the fold. 

Another important advance that I want to mention is the recent 
success in producing mesotrons in the large cyclotron on the University 
of California campus at Berkeley. This represents the first time that 
it has been possible by artificial or laboratory methods to imbue a 
single particle of matter with an energy sufficiently high to make pos- 
sible the creation of mesotrons. This they have succeeded in doing 
in Berkeley with their beam of a-particles, or helium nuclei, which 
have been accelerated to an energy of 400 million electron volts. 
They observed the production of both the heavy and light mesotrons, 
and all indications are that the mesotrons thus produced are identical 
with those previously observed among the particles produced by 
the cosmic rays. 

Now in the design stage are other particle-accelerating machines 
which will yield particle energies several times the 400 million electron 
volts so far achieved in the Berkeley cyclotron. When these machines 
are in operation, working at energies up to 6 or 7 billion electron volts, 
we can expect to learn much more about mesotrons and the other ele- 
mentary particles of matter. Moreover, we must expect that a con- 
tinuation of research in cosmic rays will also extend our knowledge 
in this field, since in the cosmic rays particles are available for study 
whose energies are even 10 to 100,000 times greater than those to be 
expected from any of the accelerators that are being planned. 

In conclusion I should like to indicate the possible significance of 
these new discoveries to science and to the world at large. 

In this discussion I have classified physical phenomena, according 
to the energy associated with them, into thi'ee categories: (1) low- 
energy or extranuclear phenomena, (2) high-energy or nuclear phe- 
nomena, and (3) extremely high-energy or what we might call, for 
want of a better name, elementary-particle phenomena. Knowledge 
of the first of these, low-energy or extranuclear phenomena, has already 
profoundly affected the life of nearly every human being on earth. 



212 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

The industrial revolution, our mechanized civilization, the shrink- 
ing of the world through advances in communication and transporta- 
tion have all come as a direct application of our knowledge of low- 
energy or extranuclear phenomena. Indirectly it has been responsible 
for the political and economic organization of the whole earth. Our 
present age might well be classified as an extranuclear age. 

Since the explosion of the atomic bomb, and the achievement of the 
release of nuclear energy on a large scale, it seems rather clear that 
we are now entering a new period in which nuclear phenomena are 
destined to have an important part in shaping the world, at least 
politically if not economically, in the very near future. Just how 
great will be the influence on the world of our knowledge of nuclear 
phenomena no one can say. 

It is only 50 years since our direct knowledge of the electron was 
not much more than a faint green glow in a glass tube — and now no 
one would deny that our knowledge of the properties of the electron 
has had an effect of profound importance in shaping our civilization. 
It is also only about 50 years since the world's knowledge of nuclear 
phenomena consisted of nothing more than the thoughts passing 
through the mind of Becquerel as he pondered a darkened area on a 
photographic plate. At present our knowledge of all these fields is 
incomplete, but particularly is this true of nuclear phenomena, and 
most particularly true of high-energy phenomena or the phenomena 
of the elementary particles. 

So far, the world's knowledge of the phenomena of high energies 
or the interactions between the elementary particles is represented by 
nothing more than a few printed pages in the scientific journals, by 
discussions among physicists, or perhaps by an occasional lecture. 
But we can look forward with anticipation and even excitement to 
the new discoveries which are surely to come as studies are carried 
forward of elementary particles and very high-energy processes. New 
phenomena of great beauty, extreme complexity, and novelty are 
certain to be revealed and finally to be understood. Whether our 
knowledge of these new phenomena will then exert a great or a small 
influence on the world as a whole no one can say. I believe it would 
be most unwise, however, in the light of the history of scientific 
development, to expect this influence to be small. 



EECENT ADVANCES IN VIKUS RESEARCH 



By Wendell M. Stanley 

Professor of Biochemistry and Director of the Virus Laboratory 

University of California 



Viruses are small infectious agents that can cause disease in man, 
other animals, plants and bacteria. They range in size from about 
10 mju, a size slightly smaller than that of certain protein molecules, in 
an almost continuous spectrum of sizes up to about 300 m/z, a size 
slightly larger than that of certain accepted living organisms. A given 
virus can multiply and cause disease only when within the cells of 
certain specific living organisms. No virus has been found to repro- 
duce in the absence of living cells. During multiplication viruses 
occasionally change or mutate to form a new strain which in turn 
causes a new disease. Viruses were not discovered until 1892 when 
Iwanowski demonstrated that the causative agent of the mosaic disease 
of tobacco would pass through a filter that retained all known living 
organisms. Six years later Beijerinck proved that this agent was 
not an ordinary living organism and recognized it as a new type of 
infectious disease-producing agent — namely, a virus. The same 
year Loefiler and Frosch demonstrated that foot-and-mouth disease 
of cattle was caused by a vnus. The discovery of the first virus 
disease of man, that of yellow fever, was made in 1901 by Reed and 
coworkers. 

Since the original discovery of the infectious, disease-producing 
agent known as tobacco mosaic virus, well over 300 different viruses 
capable of causing disease in man, animals, and plants have been 
discovered. Among the virus-induced diseases of man are smallpox, 
yellow fever, dengue fever, poliomyelitis, certain types of encephalitis, 
measles, mumps, influenza, virus pneumonia, and the common cold. 
Virus diseases of animals include hog cholera, cattle plague, foot-and- 
mouth disease of cattle, swamp fever of horses, equine encephalitis, 
rabies, fowl pox, Newcastle disease of chickens, fowl paralysis, and 
certain benign as well as malignant tumors of rabbits and mice. Plant 
virus diseases include tobacco mosaic, peach yellows, aster yellows, 

' Talk presented at the Medal Day Meeting at The Franklin Institute, October 20, 1948. Rejirinted 
by permission from Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol. 246, No. 6, December 1948. 

213 



214 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

potato yellow dwarf, alfalfa mosaic, curly top of sugar beets, tomato 
spotted wilt, tomato bushy stunt, corn mosaic, cucumber mosaic, and 
sugarcane yellow stripe. Bacteriophages, which are agents capable 
of causing the lysis of bacteria, are now regarded as viruses. 

The viruses have been separated as a special group of infectious, 
disease-producing agents by means of several general properties, no 
one of which is, however, exclusively characteristic of viruses. Never- 
theless, no great amount of dij3iculty has been encountered in the 
segregation of the virus group. Viruses are characterized by their 
small size, by their ability to reproduce or multiply when within the 
living cells of a given host, by their ability to change or mutate during 
multiplication, and by their inability to reproduce or grow on artificial 
media or in the absence of specific living cells. The sole means of 
recognizing the existence of a virus is provided by the multiplication 
of the virus which is, of course, usuaUy accompanied by manifesta- 
tions of disease. Viruses spread from diseased to normal susceptible 
hosts by different methods. Some are transferred by direct contact, 
as when a diseased leaf is caused to rub against a healthy leaf by a 
gust of wind, or when a normal person or animal comes into direct 
contact with a diseased person or animal. Such viruses can usually 
be spread by indirect contact through the medium of nonspecific 
animate or inanimate objects. Some viruses cannot be transferred 
by direct contact, but require an intermediate host such as a mosquito, 
louse, or leafhopper. In some cases a highly specific intermediate 
host is necessary, and a more or less definite period of incubation 
within this host may be required before the virus can be transmitted. 

Because properties such as reproduction and mutation have long 
been considered characteristic of living entities, viruses were, for 
many years, regarded as hving organisms somewhat smaller than 
ordinary bacteria. However, the isolation in 1935 of tobacco mosaic 
virus in the form of a crystalline nucleoprotein of unusually high 
molecular weight and the subsequent isolation of still other viruses 
in the form of high molecular weight nucleoproteins, some of which 
were also crystallizable, cast doubt upon the validity of classifying all 
viruses as organisms. With the exception of virus activity, the 
properties of some of the smaller viruses are quite similar to the 
properties of ordinary protein molecules, whereas at the other extreme 
with respect to size, the properties of the viruses are more nearly like 
those of accepted living organisms. The viruses, therefore, serve as a 
bridge between the molecules of the chemist and the organisms of 
the bacteriologist, and provide us with new reasons for considering 
that life, as we Ivuow it, owes its existence to structure, to a specific 
state of matter, and that the vital phenomenon does not occur spon- 
taneously, but is possessed in varying degrees by all matter. It is 



ADVANCES IN VIRUS RESEARCH — STANLEY 215 

obvious that a sharp line dividmg Hving from nonhving things can- 
not be drawn and this fact serves to add fuel for discussion of the 
age-old question "What is life?" 

Attempts to learn something about the nature of viruses through 
studies on their general properties began with Beijerinck's work in 
1898 and were continued in different laboratories for over 30 years 
without too much success. Although Beijerinck and Allard made 
important contributions, perhaps the most significant work was that 
of Vinson and Petre during the years from 1927 to 1931 when they 
showed that tobacco mosaic virus could be subjected to several kinds 
of chemical manipulations without loss of virus activity. Never- 
theless, in 1932 the true nature of viruses was a complete mystery. It 
was not known whether they were inorganic, carbohydrate, hydro- 
carbon, lipid, protein, or organismal in nature. It became necessary, 
therefore, to conduct experiments which would yield information of 
a definite nature. Tobacco mosaic virus was selected for these initial 
experiments because it appeared to provide several unusual ad- 
vantages. Large amounts of highly infectious starting material 
were readily available and the virus was known to be unusually 
stable. Furthermore, it was possible to titrate or measure the amount 
of this virus in a preparation with ease and rapidity and with great 
accuracy. During the course of a wide variety of early exploratory 
experiments, it was found that the enzyme pepsin inactivated tobacco 
mosaic virus only under conditions under which pepsin is active as a 
proteolytic agent. It was concluded that tobacco mosaic virus was 
a protein or very closely associated with a protein which could be 
hydrolyzed by pepsin. With this as a lead, efforts were made to 
concentrate and purify tobacco mosaic virus by means of the methods 
previously employed in work with proteins. Soon, by means of a 
combination of procedures involving salting-out, isoelectric precipita- 
tion and adsorption on and elution from an inert material, a crystal- 
line material was obtained which possessed the properties of tobacco 
mosaic virus. This crystalline material was found to be a nucleo- 
protein with rod-shaped molecules or particles about 280 by 15mjuin size 
and with a molecular weight of about 40,000,000. Early skepticism 
that a virus could exist in the form of a crystallizable nucleoprotein 
has largely disappeared, chiefly because the results of a vast amount 
of experimental work have indicated that the virus activity is a 
specific property of the rod-shaped nucleoprotein. 

Tobacco mosaic virus exists in the form of many strains which 
appear to have arisen by a process similar to that of mutation in 
higher organisms. Several of these strains have been obtained in 
purified form by means of differential centrifugation. Purified prep- 
arations obtained from plants diseased with different strains of 

866591—50 15 



216 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

tobacco mosaic virus were found to possess properties quite similar to, 
yet in every case distinctive from, those of puriJEied preparations of the 
ordinary strain. Spectacular progress has been made in the establish- 
ment of the nature of the chemical changes which accompany the 
mutation of tobacco mosaic virus. The amino acid composition of 
purified preparations of eight strains of tobacco mosaic virus and of 
two types of influenza virus has been determined. The results ob- 
tained with the strains of tobacco mosaic virus indicate that the 
mutation of a virus can be accompanied by the elimination of one or 
more amino acids from the virus structure, by the introduction of one 
or more new amino acids into the virus structure, or by a change in the 
concentration of one or more amino acids present in the virus structure. 
This work has great significance for it has provided the first informa- 
tion regarding the nature of the structural changes which accompany 
mutation. Extension of this work may reveal the exact nature of the 
chemical differences between virulent and avirulent virus strains, and 
provide important information regarding the mutation process in 
higher organisms. 

Attempts have been made to change the structure of tobacco mosaic 
virus by means of known chemical reactions in vitro in an effort to se- 
cure chemically modified active virus. Although several types of chem- 
ical derivatives of this virus were produced and were found to possess 
full virus activity, the inoculation of such virus derivatives to normal 
Turkish tobacco plants always resulted in the production of ordinary 
tobacco mosaic virus. The results indicated that the chemical deriva- 
tives were converted to ordinary virus following their introduction into 
the cells of the plant, or, more probably, that the infecting molecules 
may not necessarily function as exact patterns for reproduction. De- 
spite these results it still appears that it may be possible to make 
changes in vitro similar to those which occur in nature, and thus secure 
a heritable chemical modification. Obviously this is a field in which 
important new results can be anticipated. 

Following the isolation of tobacco mosaic virus in the form of a 
crystalline nucleoprotein having individual molecules or particles about 
15 by 280 mju in size, studies were undertaken in several laboratories to 
determine if other viruses could be obtained in purified form, mainly by 
techniques involving high-speed centrifugation. Some of these puri- 
fied viruses are crystallizable nucleoproteins having either rodlike or 
spherical particles. Some are nucleoproteins which have, as yet, not 
been crystallized. Others are large particles consisting of nucleo- 
protein, lipid, and carbohydrate, and possessing, in some cases, a 
degree of morphological difl'erentiation which resembles that of organ- 
isms. Still other viruses have, as yet, defied isolation and purification, 
possibly, in some cases, because of extreme instability. The viruses 



ADVANCES IN VIRUS RESEARCH — STANLEY 217 

which have been purified possess varied shapes and form an abnost 
continuous spectrum of sizes. The smaller rod or spherically shaped 
viruses appear to be simple nucleoproteins, some of which can be 
obtained in crystalline form. These appear to have chemical and 
physical properties which, neglecting virus activity, would tend to 
place them in the molecular world. The larger viruses have a com- 
position and properties which are characteristic, not of molecules, but 
of organisms. The viruses have certainly provided a link between the 
molecules of the chemist and the organisms of the biologist. Yet 
there is no place at which a line can be drawn dividing the molecules 
from the organisms. 

The viruses appear to form a continuous series with respect to 
structure, ranging from the smaller viruses, which are simple nucleo- 
proteins with many properties similar to those of ordinary molecules, 
on through viruses with a gradually increasing complexity of structure, 
to the larger viruses, which, with respect to structure and properties, 
are similar in many respects to organisms. However, it must be re- 
membered that the properties of only a relatively few purified viruses 
have been determined. In view of the possibility that these represent 
the more stable and more easily purified viruses, one cannot be certain 
that a true picture of the chemical and physical properties of viruses as 
a whole has been obtained as yet. Information regarding the mode of 
reproduction of viruses is needed most urgently. At present it is not 
known whether viruses reproduce by fission or by means of some new 
process. The solution of this puzzle would certainly represent a most 
important and significant advance, for the basic reactions character- 
istic of virus reproduction may well represent the fundamental process 
which characterizes all living things. 



GROUND-WATER INVESTIGATIONS IN THE 
UNITED STATES ' 



By a. N. Sayre 

Geologist in Charge, Ground Water Branch 

Water Resources Division, U. S. Geological Survey 



Before discussing ground-water investigations in the United States 
I should like to outline briefly the broad problems of water supply, 
water control, and conservation, in the solution of which ground- 
water investigations play an important part. 

For mere existence, a man requires only about 2 quarts of water 
per day. However, even in simple pastoral or agricultural settings, 
the biological necessity represents only a part of the total needs for 
water, and in our own complex industrial and agricultural economy 
great quantities of water are needed for a multitude of purposes. 
Water is needed for sanitation, for washing clothes, for facilitating 
sewage disposal, for scrubbing floors, and for processing foods. It is 
needed for fire protection, for generating power, and for industrial 
processes, for irrigation, for air conditioning, and even for producing 
atomic energy. The task of providing water at the right time and 
place is a serious problem which fully occupies the attention of 
thousands of engineers and chemists and a smaller number of geolo- 
gists. Intimately associated with the water-supply problem is the 
problem of controlling floods to minimize the erosion of our soils and to 
conserve floodwater for beneficial uses. For obvious reasons, many 
of our agricultural, industrial, and urban developments have taken 
place along waterways where they are vulnerable to the ravages 
of floods which appear to become more costly almost year by year. 
There is good reason to believe that the demand for water supply will 
continue to increase and that the demand for control and conservation 
of floodwaters will also increase. Projects for accomplishing these 
ends will become more expensive and their planning and design will 
require greater knowledge of our water resources and of the basic 
geologic and hydrologic factors affecting them. 

• Presented at the Joint meeting of tlie Society of Economic Geologists and Geological Society of America, 
Ottawa, Canada, December 1947. Reprinted by permission from Economic Geology, vol. 43, No. 7, Novem- 
ber 1948. 

219 



220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Especially during the past century, the use of water has increased 
at an amazing rate. In 1850 only 83 cities in the United States had 
public water supplies, and only a small proportion of the homes in 
these cities had water piped du^ectly from the city mains. By 1939 
there were 12,760 ^ municipal waterworks and thousands of industries 
had private supplies from wells or surface-water sources. As the 
number of waterworks increased, the uses of water and the per- 
capita consumption also increased. The quantities of water used 
for a few purposes are given below. Flush toilets, bathing and 
laundry, street cleaning, and fire protection require an average of 
about 40 to 75 gallons per day per capita.' Processing a ton of steel 
in highly finished form requires about 65,000 gallons * of water; 
making a gallon of gasoline takes 7 to 10 gallons ^ of water. Vast 
quantities of water are used for air conditioning and for making paper, 
explosives, coke, textiles, and a host of other products. Thus, a large 
city, such as Chicago, with numerous industries may have a per-capita 
water consumption as high as 250 to 300 gallons per day. 

Only a few thousand acres in the West was irrigated in 1850, but 
21 million acres * was irrigated in 1939, and many additional irrigation 
projects are under construction. An acre of cotton uses about 2.5 ^ 
acre-feet, or 800,000 gallons, of water during the growing season; an 
acre of alfalfa requires about 4 acre-feet of water; irrigation of truck 
gardens, fruits, sugarcane, rice, and other crops also requires large 
amounts of water. In eastern United States, supplemental irrigation 
is increasing because the application of a relatively small amount of 
water when it is needed by crops may double or triple the yield of 
the land. 

The greatly increased use of water has, in many places, almost fully 
utilized the readily available water supplies, drawn ground-water 
levels dangerously low, caused sea water to enter streams and ground- 
water reservoirs in coastal areas, and permitted oil-well brines or 
factory wastes to pollute many of om* ground-water reservoirs and 
streams. Thus, the development of additional water supplies for 
new projects or industries has become increasingly difficult and costly. 
Nevertheless, it would be a mistake to infer that our water supplies 
are approaching exhaustion. Actually, much can be done to conserve 
and thereby increase the total amount of water available for beneficial 
use. For example, in many places spacing pumped wells over wider 

' Engineering News-Record, vol. 123, p. 414, 1939. 

» Turneaure, F. E., and Russell, H. L., Public water supplies, 4th ed., p. 19. John Wiley & Sons, New 
York, 1940. 

* Lloyd, Kenneth M., Industry and water supply in Ohio. Ohio State Univ. Exper. Stat. News, p. 31, 
April 1946. 

» Jordan, Harry E., Industrial requirements of water. Amer. Water Works Assoc. Journ., vol. 38, pp. 
6&-68, 1946. 

• Census Bureau. 

' National Resources Committee, Regional Planning, pt. 6, p. 91, 1938. 



GROUND-WATER INVESTIGATIONS — SAYRE 221 

areas would prevent excessive lowering of the ground-water levels^ 
Artificial recharge of ground-water reservoirs by spreading flood- 
waters and by other means has been successful in several areas. 
Abatement of pollution in streams and ground-water reservoirs, 
retention of floodwaters in reservoii's for later use, control of reservoir 
stages by forecasting normal and flood flows of streams, control of 
silt and sedimentation, and other measures are being carried out to 
increase the supply available for perennial beneficial use. The 
continued growth and prosperity of the Nation will depend to a large 
degree upon the success with which these problems are attacked and 
solved. 

Unlike most mineral resources, water is not exhaustible, in the strict 
sense, because it is replenished from time to time by precipitation. A 
surface reservoir may be dangerously low and be refilled in the nick 
of time by heavy rains. Heavy pumping may cause ground-water 
levels to decline progressively until pumping is no longer economically 
feasible, but when pumping is temporarily or permanently reduced 
the water levels usually recover. Likewise, a period of heavy rainfall 
following a drought period may induce recharge sufficient to restore 
water levels essentially to predrought levels. 

Only a part of the water taken from streams or pumped from wells 
is actually consumed. In many manufacturing processes water is 
merely a washing agent and is essentially unreduced in volume by 
its use. Water used in boilers or in quenching hot metal is partly 
evaporated, but the remainder is discharged or re-used. Water used 
in irrigation is partly evaporated and partly transpired by plants, but 
there is always an excess which is discharged and which carries away 
undesirable salts. The excess water from all these uses returns to 
the stream or to the ground altered by the concentration of minerals 
contained in it, or by the addition of dissolved constituents, or of 
color, or sediment, or simply by the addition of heat. It may be 
re-used for the same or other purposes with or without the addition 
of new water. For example, the water of the Pecos River, in Texas 
and New Mexico, is used and re-used for irrigation and domestic 
supply seven or eight times between its source and Girvin, Tex. Al- 
though water is added from tributary areas along its course, each 
time the water from the river is used the minerai concentration 
increases, and a few miles above Girvin it is so highly mineralized 
that even the most resistant crops are unable to survive its application. 
Even so, it may still have potential use, because water also possesses 
the energy of position and in its journey from the mountains to the 
sea it may be used many times over for generating hydroelectric 
power. 

Another characteristic peculiar to water results largely from the 
vagaries of precipitation. Many places are faced successively with 



222 ANTS^UAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

water shortages and destructive floods. Although enormous sums 
have been spent on flood control, complete protection from floods is 
difiicult and often prohibitively costly, and in only a few places has 
it been accomplished. 

Whatever conclusions are reached with regard to the economics of 
flood control by storage reservoirs, from the standpoint of conservation 
of water supply it is advantageous to salvage as much of the floodwater 
as possible. In certain areas where water supply is now inadequate, 
as it is in many places west of the 100th meridian, much of the water 
from precipitation escapes to the sea during floods. In Los Angeles 
County, Calif., much of the floodwater is retained in surface reservoirs 
from which it is later discharged into specially prepared recharge 
basins and seeps into the underground aquifers. Some of the flood- 
water is caught in seepage reservoirs designed to promote infiltration 
into the ground-water basins, and some of it escapes to the sea, but 
essentially all the floodwater in the Los Angeles area will be put to 
beneficial use when the projects now under consideration are com- 
pleted. Plans for similar flood control in other parts of the country 
are in various stages of execution. 

Ground water and surface water are so intimately related that for 
proper solution of the over-aU problems of water supply, control, and 
conservation it is now necessary to have all the facts regarding both. 
Precipitation, which is the source of both, is partly lost, largely through 
evaporation. Especially during the growing season, a large part 
enters the ground and is transpired by plants. The remainder per- 
colates downward below the plant roots to become ground water, or 
runs off directly as surface flow. The ground water, returning to the 
surface as seeps or springs, provides the base flow of the streams which 
prevails through periods of low precipitation. On the other hand, 
especially in the West, many streams lose water by seepage in certain 
stretches and thus recharge the ground-water reservoirs. 

Man}?- of the basic ground-water investigations in the United States 
are carried on cooperatively by the United States Geological Survey 
and State or local agencies, including State geological surveys, State 
engineers, counties, and municipalities. In Illinois ground-water 
investigations are made by the State Geological Survey and the State 
Water Survey; and in Missouri investigations are made by the State 
Geological Survey. In California a large staff of engineers in the 
State Division of Water Resources for many years has been investi- 
gating overdraft of ground-water supplies. Recently arrangements 
were made whereby the United States Geological Survey, in addition 
to its investigations in Los Angeles, Orange, and Santa Barbara 
Counties, will assist the Division of Water Resources in the geological 
phases of a State-wide inventory of the water resources of California. 



GROUND-WATER INVESTIGATIONS — SATRE 223 

Various other Federal and State agencies are obtaining some data on 
ground water in connection with special phases of their work. 

The ground-water investigations of the United States Geological 
Survey began more than 50 years ago. At that time ground-water 
supplies were little developed. Consequently, most of the early field 
investigations were of the exploratory type. Laboratory and field 
studies by King, Slichter, and later by Meinzer outlined the broad 
principles of ground-water occurrence and movement. However, 
before the deep-well turbine pump was developed in the early part of 
this century, use of ground water in large quantities was limited to 
areas of springs or artesian flow, or to areas where the water level was 
within reach of suction pumps. After the turbine pump was intro- 
duced, it became possible to pump economically even where water 
levels are deep; power costs also decreased, and well drilling and finish- 
ing methods were improved to increase the efficiency of wells. Because 
of these advances, ground water came to be used in ever-increasing 
quantities, first in areas where surface water was not readily available, 
and later in areas where ground-water supplies were more economical 
because they obviated the long pipe lines, collection works, and costly 
treating plants needed for surface-water supplies. The first great 
expansion of ground-water supplies was made largely without technical 
guidance. Because of their immense storage capacity, the ground- 
water reservoirs were regarded as inexhaustible, and in many places 
development was well advanced before progressively declining water 
levels brought about the realization that ground-water reservoirs may 
be depleted. As a result, demands for detailed ground-water studies 
steadily increased. These studies are thorough, systematic investiga- 
tions which include areal geologic mapping; subsurface studies occa- 
sionally augmented by geophysical surveys and test drilling to deter- 
mine the structure, thickness, and the sequence of water-bearing and 
non-water-bearing beds; collecting data on fluctuations of water levels 
in relation to precipitation and to pumpage; determining the recharge 
and perennial yield; inventories of ground-water withdrawal; test 
pumping to determine coefficients of permeability, transmissibility, 
and storage; determining the quality and temperature relationships, 
and the relations between surface and ground water. The work does 
not include supervision, construction, or control of water supplies. 

The United States Geological Survey is now making cooperative 
ground-water investigations in 42 States and in Alaska, Hawaii, the 
Virgin Islands, and Puerto Rico. In general, the State or local 
authorities are most familiar with the needs in their States, and they 
are largely responsible for designating the areas in which investigations 
are to be made. Most of the ground-water staff of the United States 
Geological Survey now have headquarters in field offices, of which 
there are about 40. 



224 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

In addition to the cooperative investigations with States and local 
agencies, certain investigations primarily of Federal interest are being 
carried out with use of Federal funds only. For example, an extensive 
program of ground-water investigations is being conducted in the 
Missouri River Basin to provide basic information needed for planning 
and constructing the various water projects that are authorized or 
planned. This information will include determination of existing 
ground-water conditions and probable effect of irrigation on ground- 
water levels, especially with reference to waterlogging and drainage, 
canal locations with reference to seepage, areas where irrigation with 
gi'ound water is feasible, the location of potential sources for farmstead 
and municipal water supplies, and so on. Other investigations, such 
as that recently started in the Central Valley of California, will provide 
basic information needed in the project to use excess floodwaters for 
recharging the heavily pumped ground-water reservoirs in the San 
Joaquin portion of the valley. Several projects also are under way 
in connection with defense plans. 

A large program of measurement of ground-water levels in observa- 
tion wells has long been an integral part of the cooperative program. 
Recently a small Federal fund was provided for extending this pro- 
gram, analyzing the data, and determining the current status of our 
ground-water supplies on a Nation-wide scale. The program includes 
the investigation of the possibilities of forecasting low-stage stream 
flows from fluctuations of ground-water levels, enabling more efiicient 
control of reservoir and river stages in the operation of hydroelectric 
plants and permitting considerable economies in the generation of 
power. Conversely, base flow is an index of ground-water storage. 
As the ability of the ground-water reservoirs to absorb water ma- 
terially affects the runoff to be expected from rainfall, the analysis 
of data on ground-water levels should aid in flood forecasting. 

In addition to and as part of the above program, several research 
projects are under way, including the study of movement of water 
through soils and water-bearing materials; infiltration from streams 
and its effect on the temperature and quality of the ground water; 
the occurrence of ground water in fractures and solutional openings 
in impermeable rocks, such as limestone, tightly cemented sandstone, 
granite, etc., and the improvement of our techniques for locating 
producing wells in such rocks; earth subsidence resulting from the 
withdrawal of ground water, and related problems connected with 
elasticity and compressibility of artesian aquifers; methods of analyz- 
ing results of pumping tests to determine coefficients of transmis- 
sibility and storage; and a number of other projects. 

With respect to the probable future of ground-water investigations, 
it should be pointed out that ground-water development was expand- 



GROUND-WATER INVESTIGATIONS — ^SAYRE 225 

ing rapidly in the middle thirties. In 1935 the total use of ground 
water in the United States amounted to about 10 billion gallons a day. 
The development was greatly accelerated by the needs of the war, 
so that by 1945 the total pumpage had nearly doubled.* Although 
the war ended more than 2 years ago there has been no sign of a 
decrease in the use of ground water. In fact, both surface water and 
ground water are now being used in greater quantities than ever 
before. As the use of water approaches ever more closely the limits 
of the available supply, it is believed that water-resources investiga- 
tions will be needed with ever-increasing urgency because water 
constitutes the prime factor in the continued development of the 
Nation's industrial and agricultural economy. 

• Guyton, W. F., Industrial use of ground water in the United States. Abstract, Joum. Washington 
Acad. Scl., vol. 39, No. 3, pp. 105-106 Mar. 15, 1949. (To be published in Proc. Geol. Soc. Amer.) 



MODERN SOIL SCIENCE 



By Charles E. Kellogg 
U. S. Department of Agriculture 



[With 2 plates] 



Most people probably think of soil as the loose surface material 
plowed in the field or spaded in the garden. At some time we have 
taken up a handful and let it run through our fingers, or squeezed it 
into a soft ball. We have seen sand grains, roots, and worms in it. 
Sometimes soil is hard, almost like rock; sometimes it is coarse and 
loose, like cinders and ashes; where most productive, soil is soft and 
mellow. 

We cannot see or feel the chemical composition of the soil, but 
obviously it must contain a wide variety of elements and compounds. 
Some plants grow on every kind of soil, and we know that even the 
simplest plants requne several nutrient materials besides the carbon, 
hydrogen, and oxygen they get from the air and water. 

Starting with this simple concept, the making of chemical analyses of 
soils to increase our knowledge is a natural step, and indeed even the 
early chemists did this. By analyzing the soils and the plants growing 
on them it seemed logical to work out a balance sheet of plant nutrients. 
If the nutrients in a soil and the amounts required by plants are known, 
it seems reasonable to predict how many crops could be grown before 
the soil would be exhausted, what crops would be best, and what 
fertilizers would be necessary. 

There were many difficulties with this simple concept of a balance 
sheet. Despite support from the great Justus von Liebig with his 
towering reputation, this theory failed rather badly on the practical 
side, and even worse on the scientific side. The fertilizer industry that 
grew up under the shadow of Liebig did develop useful fertilizers, and 
these increased yields, but the fertilizers were often inefficient and 
always uncertain. 

It really is too bad that the balance-sheet theory was so inadequate, 
since it was refreshingly simple. But the soil is anything but simple. 
First of all, actual soil in the woods or garden is partly alive. It is 
quit-e unlike the dead samples of soil stored in the glass jars of chemical 
laboratories. A soil consists of thousands of compounds, organic and 

» Based upon material presented in Sigma Xi National Lectureships. Reprhited by permission from 
American Scientist, vol. 36, No. 4, autumn issue, 1948. and Science in Progress, Series VI, Yale Univ. Press. 

227 



228 AISTNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

inorganic. Some of these compounds are highly active even when 
present in tiny amounts, whereas others, Hke quartz, are relatively 
inactive even though their bulk is large. The total chemical analysis 
conceals these important variations. One must turn to the X-ray, the 
petrographic microscope, the electron microscope, the spectrograph, 
and similar devices to discover the relevant materials. The soil is 
much more than the surface film stirred in tillage; it is the group of 
layers that make up the whole volume of the landscape, extending 
down as deeply as the living organisms themselves. In fact, soil is 
the essential link between the lifeless mineral body of the earth and 
the biological kingdom, including man himself. 

THE SOIL PROFILE 

If, instead of looking only at the soil in our garden, we look at many 
gardens, all sorts of differences among these soils are evident. Then 
if the soils across a continent are examined a close relationship among 
vegetation, climate, and soil becomes apparent. Subhumid grasslands 
and black soils go together; cool, moist cUmates and evergreen forests 
with light-colored soils; tropical rain forests with red soils, and so on. 

Soils consist of several distinct sheets, one on top of the other. In 
an excavation or a cut these sheets appear as layers, or soil horizons. 
Of course, some layers in the soil are inherited from layers in the 
original rocks. But regardless of the original rocks, we shall find 
true soil horizons, resulting from the peculiar environmental conditions 
of the place. Taken together, from the surface down into the weath- 
ered rock beneath, a collection of horizons is caUed a soil profile. 
The soU profiles in different kinds of landscapes are strikingly different 
from one another, yet they are ahke in the same kind of landscape 
wherever that landscape is found. 

This recognition, about 1870, of a unique soU profile for each kind of 
landscape was the greatest single advance ever made in fundamental 
soil science, analogous to the development of anatomy in medicine. 
One does not need to depend upon inference from the geological 
nature of the rock, or from climate, or from other environmental 
factors, considered singly or collectively; the soil scientist can go 
directly to the soil itself. I hasten to add that rather than making the 
other sciences useless in soil study, this step in fact made them more 
valuable. Through soil morphology, soil scientists found a basis 
on which to classify the results of observations, of experiments, and of 
practical experience. 

THE MATERIAL OF SOIL SCIENCE 

The material of soil science covers the land area of the world. 
Thousands of kinds of soUs exist. Due to the complex natm^e of its 



MODERN SOIL SCIENCE — KELLOGG 



229 



wmos 







<T) 


-1^ 


■ 




> 














O 


d 


a 




a 


X2 


03 




u 




a 


— : 




ort 


o 


o 






+-> 












o 


01 


u 


Oi 


o 


^ 


03 

bn 


^ 


(1 


-u 


■*-> 




W) 


03 


V-l 


PI 


T3 


a 


<J 


c5 




0) 


PL. 




3 


d 




-IJ 


OJ 


+j 




C 


tl 


o 




f^ 




3 


•^ 








O 


a, 


a 




in 




4) 




>i 


(-1 




,d 




-fj 


3 




.=2 


d 


d 


-S 


d 


Xi 


n 


o 


a 


T3 


'3 


a 


H 


d 


d 


r\ 




03 






n 




cd 


a 




O 
O 


a 

d 


o 




C:. 




bf) 


0) 


a 

o 


02 


d 


-»-5 


03 


o 

bC 


a 

o 


O 

01 


T3 

d 






U) .« ^ .2 






d 
^ d 



a I a 

<u d 



O o3 
o3 -r 



Id :d 
d o 



d «5 

(D CO 

-d m 



" 2 d ° 

S -S o m 

■i^ ^ o a 

_ a> >» 2 

ya +^ d o3 

•3 d '^ tD 

►f" O M o 

a ^ a o 



CO ,f^ 



d 
d 

I d 






.a H 



230 AN^^JUAL report Smithsonian institution, 1949 

materials, soil science is not easily classified as a science in the tradi- 
tional patterns. Often it is included with the physical sciences, like 
chemistry and physics. Yet it is also grouped as correctly with the 
biological sciences, along with plant physiology and bacteriology. 
Then again, soil science is appropriately grouped with geology and 
geography as an earth science. Actually soil science uses the prin- 
ciples and methods of all thi^ee of these groups, and a soil scientist 
who uses the principles of only one or two of the groups, to the exclu- 
sion of the others, can only have small principles that have little 
prediction value and soon bog down in contradiction. In addition 
to those already mentioned, there are important principles and 
methods peculiar to soil science itself that do not belong to any other 
science. In application, the principles of soil science must be inti- 
mately related to those of the social sciences. 

It needs to be emphasized that the experimental method and the 
method of scientific correlation are essential in both fundamental 
soil science and in the application of its principles to practical prob- 
lems in farming, gardening, and forestry. 

Soils must be studied in relation to one another and to the whole 
environment, both natural and cultural, to understand their forma- 
tion and the influence of the individual factors of climate, vegetation, 
parent rock, relief, and time. How any one of these factors operates 
depends upon the others. The significance of any one soil charac- 
teristic depends upon the others. Any soil is a combination of 
characteristics, produced by a combination of factors, each of which 
influences the functioning of the others. 

Experiments are needed, both natural and artificial, to learn how 
individual soils behave and how they respond to treatment. These 
must be specifically related to individual kinds of soil, however, if the 
results are to be used in developing principles or as the bases for 
practical predictions. Thus the experimental methods and the 
methods of scientific correlation are intimately interwoven in produc- 
tive research in soil science. 

SOIL AND LANDSCAPE 

Let us look briefly at the implications of this concept of soils. They 
are natural bodies, each with its own unique morphology; they are 
dynamic bodies, developing with the natural landscape itself; they ac- 
curately reflect, at any moment, the combined or synthetic influence of 
the living matter and climate, acting upon the parent rock through 
processes conditioned by relief, over a period of time; they are dis- 
tributed over the earth according to orderly discoverable and definable 
geographic principles. 

The geological process of mountain building, rock formation, and 
landscape evolution from which the parent materials of soils originate, 



MODERN SOIL SCIENCE — KELLOGG 



231 



are stOl going on along with soil formation. The natural erosion of the 
uplands gradually removes a little of the surface bit by bit while the 
soil film settles down, and fresh minerals are added to the soil from 
beneath. With the warping of the landscape these processes are 
accelerated or retarded. 

At several of the Soil Conservation Experiment Stations of the 
United States Department of Agriculture, rates of erosion were deter- 
mined under permanent vegetation (15).^ Under the natural forest 

Exchongeoble Colions (WE/lOOQms) Exchongeable Cations (M E./lOOqms.) 

pH 10 20 30 40 10 20 30 40 pH 

Depth 




Percentoqe of Cloy 



A. From diabase 

Figure 2. — A comparison of the clay content and exchangeable bases from two 
soils developed in similar environments, except for the difference in parent 
rock. The fundamentally important differences in clay content and in ex- 
changeable bases are obvious between the soils and among horizons within 
each soil (9). 



cover of the Cecil soil of the Piedmont, erosion proceeds at a rate of 
about 1 foot in 10,000 years. This value was determined on a 10- 
percent slope. Yet on a 14-percent slope of the Muskingum silt loam 
of Ohio, considerably over 200,000 years would be required to remove 
1 foot by erosion under the forest cover. 

Under a well-established grass cover, normal erosion proceeds 
slowly on the dark-colored soils developed under tall prairie grasses. 
On the Marshall silt loam near the Nebraska-Iowa line, with 9-per- 
cent slope, nearly 14,000 years would be required to remove 1 foot 
under bluegrass. On a black soil of east Texas, Austin clay with a 
slope of 4 percent, the figure is nearly 900,000 years. 

•Numbers In parentheses refer to literature cited at the end of this article. 
866591—50 16 



232 



ANTSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 



These values probably do not represent the real extremes, but rather 
relate to normal erosion. Some soils erode much more rapidly under 
clean cultivation with bad effects upon soil productivity. Through 
proper cropping systems and soil management practices, erosion of 
soil under use should be kept somewhere near the normal rate. 



Organic 

Mofter('%) pH 

6.2 6.3 

36 5.9 

2.0 55 



1.0 7.6 




Organic 

100 pH MofferC"?.) 
5.5 6.2 

5.3 2.1 
5.5 0.9 
5.9 0.3 



.8 0.8 



A. Miami S.'it Loom- 
Unduiot ing (o Rolling 



B. Bethel Silf Loom- flat 



Figure 3. — A comparison of the mechanical composition of two soils developed 
from similar parent materials and in similar environments, except for relief. 
On soils of undulating to gently rolling relief there is continually a small 
amount of erosion in the natural landscape. As the surface is thus slowly 
eroded, each soil horizon works down into the one beneath. Over a period of 
several thousand years the whole soil profile, while remaining at the same 
length, may sink into the landscape a foot or more. Thus the soil is kept 
constantly renewed with new minerals. This is illustrated by the Miami silt 
loam at the left. The soil at the right is developed from similar material on 
flat upland where there is little or no erosion in the natural landscape. The 
leached material accumulates at the surface, and clay formation and the accu- 
mulation of clay are accentuated in the middle portion of the profile, with the 
development of a claypan. Whereas the Miami silt loam is a well-drained soil, 
pervious to roots and water, the Bethel is an imperfectly drained soil. During 
wet periods excess water is held up by the claypan which is also impenetrable 
to mast roots. Kinds of crops and soil-management practices for optimum 
production are quite different indeed, even though the soils lie side by side on 
the same farm (2). 

Percolating water gradually dissolves the minerals in the soil and the 
rock beneath. Clarke has said that this process alone reduces the 
surface of the United States on an average of about a foot in 30,000 
years (6). From a study of streams, Dale and Stabler (7) estimated 



MODERN SOIL SCIENCE — KELLOGG 233 

several years ago that the average rate of denudation for the United 
States as a whole was about 1 foot in 8,760 years, with suspended 
matter accounting for about 65 percent and dissolved matter 35 per- 
cent. Solution progresses much more rapidly than this in areas of 
soft limestone and high rainfall, and, of course, the process is almost 
infinitely slow on the hard rocks of steep slopes. 

Other landscapes receive part of the erosion products and part of 
the solution products from the iipland. It is probable that a third of 
the population of the world get their major food supply from alluvial 
soils recently rejuvenated by additions of fresh rock minerals to their 
surface. The Nile is a famous example. In flood stage the water of 
the Nile contains over 1,000 parts per million of suspended matter 
relatively rich in phosphorus, potassium, nitrogen, and other plant 
nutrients. Part of this covers the soil in the flood plain and part of it 
moves out into the sea. Barrell (1) estimated that the Nile Delta 
alone contains the equivalent of nearly 12,000 cubic miles of rock, to 
say nothing of the soluble material contributed to the sea water. 
According to Barrell's figures the rock material in the delta of the 
Niger River is equivalent to a wedge-shaped mountain range some 
18 miles wide at the base, 3 miles high at the top, and 1,000 miles long. 

This gives some idea of the enormous movement of surface soil 
material as a natural process. In addition, in the Tropics especially, 
volcanoes often shower the landscape with fresh rock or ash. A layer 
of ash only an inch thick amounts to 200 to 300 tons per acre of fresh 
fine rock material. Usually such ash contains significant amounts of 
calcium, potassium, magnesium, phosphorus, and other elements essen- 
tial to plant and animal growth. Even nitrogen is sometimes present 
in important amounts. An acre-inch of the ash from Parlcutin, the 
new volcano in Mexico, contains the equivalent of over 20 tons of 
ground limestone. Sometimes productive soils are covered with a 
rather sterile ash, but more often old leached soils are rejuvenated. In 
the humid Tropics productive soils are generally those that are young, 
recently developed from volcanic lava, or soils that are kept reju- 
venated by the relatively rapid addition of fresh minerals from beneath 
as the surface erodes away, or by additions of alluvium or volcanic 
ash to the surface. 

The most nearly dead soils are those on flat landscapes of high rain- 
fall that are not rejuvenated by erosion, by new minerals entering the 
soil from beneath following natural erosion, or by sediments from 
above. These dead areas must await a new cycle of uplift and erosion 
before they become productive naturally. 

THE MINERAL-ORGANIC CYCLE 

We are interested in soU chiefly because it supports green plants, and 
from green plants all other plants and animals, including man himself, 



234 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

get their food supply, either directly or from other plants and animals 
that live on the green plants. Of equal importance to this basic fact is 
the one that plants, and all the other living matter associated with 
plants, are chiefly responsible for the kind of soil developed. It can be 
stated that there is no life without soil, and no soil without life. Life 
and soil seem to have evolved together in a mineral-organic cycle, or 
rather in many cycles, because there are many kinds of plant associa- 
tions, many kinds of landscapes, and many kinds of soils. 

After the earth cooled into a soHd surface, and before vegetation 
covered the land, it probably looked something like an extreme desert 
region looks today, with jagged hills, sharp angles, and deep, irregular 
stream courses. With the coming of vegetation, soils began to form. 
Landscapes became more stable; jagged peaks softened into round hills 
with gentle slopes. Vegetation not only changes the rock material, but 
holds it in place, allowing it to slip away only gradually and harm- 
lessly. 

The plants select the essential elements from the mass of rock ma- 
terial into which they extend their roots. The great bulk of most soils 
consists of various combinations of silicon, aluminum, and oxygen 
along with significant, but often tiny, amounts of the other 92 elements. 
Plants take in phosphorus, calcium, potassium, manganese, copper, 
and other elements which they require, and build them into character- 
istic fruits and leaves, bark and wood. As the leaves and fruits and 
other parts fall, and as plants die, this organic matter becomes in turn 
the food of bacteria and other decay organisms. With their help, the 
chemical decomposition releases the nutrients to the soil for other 
plants. 

Estimates have been made of the annual production of organic mat- 
ter in the natural landscape (10); unfortunately few data exist for the 
roots. For tall-grass prairie the figures for annual production are from 
around 1 ton to over 2 tons per acre. In temperate forests, values 
of around 3 tons per acre have been reported, with about one-half 
wood and one-half needles or leaves. Figures for tropical vegetation 
are much harder to determine, but estimates run up to 90 tons per acre 
per year. Of course, one year is but a moment in the life of a soil. But 
in 1 ,000 years a truly enormous influence is exerted on the soil by this 
root-sorting and the biological and chemical reactions associated with 
the production and decomposition of such vast quantities of plant ma- 
terial — quantities ranging from perhaps a low of 100 tons per acre 
through a medium of 3,000 tons, to nearly 90,000 tons, depending upon 
the kind of landscape. 

To have some notion of the magnitude of this organic-mineral cycle 
in terms of a few specific elements, we might look at data for the annual 
leaf fall in ordinary hardwood and evergreen forests in northern 
United States (4, 5). 



MODERN SOIL SCIENCE — KELLOGG 235 

Pounds per acre 
Element Hardwood Evergreen 

Calcium 65.6 26.5 

Nitrogen 16. 6 23. 6 

Potassium 13.5 6.5 

Magnesium 9. 2 4. 5 

Phosphorus 3.3 1.8 

These figures are broad averages and conceal significant differences 
among the specific organic-mineral cycles of individual soil types. Then 
too, the cycle varies in speed. In tropical areas it is very rapid: A small 
amount of a plant nutrient goes a long way since it is used over and 
over again in its rapid cycle from the soil to a plant, to the soil, and 
back to another plant again. 

Thus it is clear that there is a continual cycle of nutrients out of the 
soil into the plants and back into the soil again. We are concerned 
both with the amounts involved and also with the conditions that affect 
them. In fact, the amounts by themselves can be misleading. Take 
calcium, for example: In the arid to subhumid regions the rainfall is 
insuflBcient to remove the calcium and it accumulates in a special 
horizon called the "lime zone" in the lower part of the soil profile. 
Calcium would not need to be added to this type of soil even after thou- 
sands of harvested crops. Yet in humid forested regions the leaching of 
calcium completely out of the soil is so great, in relationship to that 
brought up by the plants, that it must be returned to the soil in 
agricultural practice, either through the addition of organic matter 
or mineral amendments. 

In the famous Kentucky bluegrass region the underlying rock is 
very rich in phosphorus. The soil contains supplies for thousands 
of crops. Yet in most parts of the world this critical element must be 
added by the farmer to supplement the natural mineral-organic cycle. 

The kind of vegetation in the natural landscape has much to do with 
these vitally important cycles of elements. On the whole, trees do not 
require large amounts of phosphorus, and they do not preserve it in the 
soil to the extent that the grasses do. Thus when the vegetation is 
removed and replaced by the plant crops the soil is often found to be 
deficient in one or more of the plant nutrients. What man is doing is 
establishing a new landscape, an unnatural one, if you please. He must 
discover the appropriate mineral-organic cycle through trial and re- 
search, and then introduce practices to compensate for the change. 
This gets at the heart of the fundamental problem to which soil science 
addresses itself in its practical application to agriculture. 

Soil fertiHzation, for example, is not simply a matter of replacing the 
nutrients removed by harvested crops. Some soils may be able to 
supply all or certain nutrients indefinitely; others may need heavy 
fertiHzation, far beyond what the plants take out, for long initial 
periods. Nor are we concerned simply with the effects on just one 



236 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

crop or of the crops that can be grown on the soil anyway. Rather 
we must think of the various combinations of crops and practices, 
and their immediate and longtime influence upon the soil and upon 
one another, to the end that a combination will be developed which 
will maximize the ratio of production to labor and materials on a 
permanent basis. 

LITTLE PLACES AND BIG PLACES 

It is obvious that some sort of soil classification is essential, since 
the world has a great many thousands of kinds of landscapes, kinds of 
soil profiles, and lands of mineral-organic cycles. Of course, one cannot 
deal with all these soils at one time, nor do they present equal con- 
trasts. Actually, there are few sharp lines between soil types; rather the 
soil of the world is a continuum that may be divided into reasonably 
homogeneous units according to the state of our knowledge and the 
demands for accuracy and scientific prediction. The soil is a natural 
product, and no two soil profiles are identical any more than two oak 
trees or two college professors are. Soil types are man-made creations. 
In one soil type are included all the soils that appear to have the same 
kind of profile, even though they are not alike in every single respect. 

This is not the place to go into the age-old problem of classification. 
AU the natural sciences have the same problem. A classification is good 
to the extent that it serves the purpose of remembering characteristics, 
seeing relationships, and developing principles. A classification is bad 
to the extent that scientists become slaves to it, and twist their data 
and ideas to fit the classification. It improves as our knowledge 
grows. Some wonder when soil classification will "settle down"- — 
when names and definitions will no longer be changed. This will 
happen when soil science has ceased to discover anything new — in 
other words, when it dies. 

Let us now consider the significance of the lower groups, or local soil 
types, in contrast to the great soil groups, or continental soil types. 
The differences that are apparent between our garden and our neigh- 
bor's, or between one plot of crops or trees and the adjoining one, are 
differences related to the local conditions of rocks, relief, and age. 
The soil of one garden is derived from sandstone and another from 
granite; one garden is hilly and one is flat; one is on an old slope and 
one is on a young stream terrace. Associated with these differences 
are characteristics of great practical and scientific interest. Soils too 
sandy for gardens are often found mixed in an intricate pattern with 
soils that are too heavy in clay; soils too steep for cultivation with 
soils that are flat and wet. If these soils are studied carefully, one 
can determine how they differ from one another and what direct rela- 
tionships exist between the soil characteristics and the factors of the 
environment. Nevertheless, serious errors may be made as to the 




BBOWN PO OZOLIC SOILS 

wim/!mi Bfown leached soils of cool-temperate, tiumic 
[g%%%%^ forested regions. 



REDDISH C HESTNUT SOILS 

INN^NNNNN Dark reddish-bro«n soils of warm -temperate, 

N\\^S>Slj semiarid regions under mixed slirub and grass 

CRAY- BR O WN POOZOLIC SOILS 9R0WN SO ILS 

^^^^^ Grayish -brown leached soils of temperate, | i ,'i ;i; i ; i;i; i : | Brown soils of cool and temperate, semiar id grass- 
K^yiv'VfV'r^ humid forested regions. !'!' ! '!'!'!'! ^ lands. 



reflecting the dominaling influence of some kjcal f^tor of relief, parent 
material, or age over the normal effect of dimate and vegetalion.(M»iy 
areas of these sals are included with zonal groups on the mapj 
PLANOSOLS 

Soils wiin sironjiy leached surface horizons orer claypans on 
nearly flat land m cool to warm, humid to subhumid regions, 
under grass or forest vegetation. 



JEOj»NO YELLOW POOZOLIC SOILS 

fled or vellow leached soils of warm-temperate, 
humid forested regions. 



PRAIRIE SOILS 




Very dark brown soils of cool and temperate, 
relatively humid grasslands. 



JEODISH PRAIRIE SOILS 



REDDISH BROWN SOILS 

■ Reddish -brown soils of warm-temperate to hoi. 
semiarid Itj arid regions, under mined shrub and 
grass vegetation. 

NONCALCIC BROWN SOILS 

Wi W^lrji ^ Brown or light reddish-brown soils of warm- 
W Mf ' Sf^ temperate, wet-dry, semiarid regions, under 
^ j ! g ! ^^ ^^ mined forasi, shrub, and grass vejetation. 

SIEROZEM OR GRAY DESERT SOILS 



Dark reddish-brown soils of warm- temperate. :;;;;;;;;::'.: Gray soils of cool to temperate. and regions, 
relatively humid grasslands. :;::;:;;;';;:: under shrub and grass vegetation. 



CHERNOZEM SOILS 



REP DESE RT SOILS 

Light reddisti-uiw""' jui.* «> ..o. ... .v..,-- - 
to hot, and regions, under shrub vegetation. 



Oark-brown lo nearly black soils of cool and p^iHl^ Light reddish-brown soils of warm -temperate 
temperate, subhumid grasslands. • ' "^ '' "^ '' '"*'""' "'"'" ""'•" ""••»•'"" 



RENOZINA SOILS 

|SS9gS90ark grayish -brown to black sals developed from soft limy 
HSSSSra materials in cool to warm, humid to subhumid regions, mostly 

SOLONCHAK(I) AND S0L0NET2 (2) SOILS 

■ 111 Light-colored soils with high concentration of soluble 
salts, in subhumid to and regions, under salt-lovmg plants. 
12) Dark -colored soils with hard prismatic subsoils, usually 
strongly alkaline, in subhumid or semiand regions under 
grass or shrub vegetation. 
WIESENBOOEN(I), GROUND WATER P0DZ0L(2), 
AND HALF-BOG SOILS (3) 

^ (tl Dark-brown to black soils developed with poor drainage 
S under grasses m humid and subhumid regions. 
"■ 121 Cray sandy soils with brown cemented sandy subsoils 
developed under forests from nearly level imperfectly 
drained sand in humid regions. 
(3) fHxjrIy drained, shallow, dark peaty or mucky soils underlain 
by gray mineral sml, in humd regions, under swamp-forests. 
ILS 

9 ftoriy drained dark peat or muck soils underlain by peat, 
n mostly in humid regions, under swamp or marsh types of 
■ vegetation. 



AZONAL 

Sols without well-developed soil characteristics.(Many areas 
of these soils are included with other groups on tlie map I 

lithosols and shallow soils 
(arid-su bhumid) 



Shallow soils consisting largely of an imperfectly 
weathered mass of rock fragments, largely but 
not exclusively on steep slopes. 




SANDS (DR Y) 

Very sandy soils. 



ALLUVIAL SOILS 

^■■■1 Soils developing from recently deposited alluvium 
^^^^^ that have hadlillie or no modification by pro- 



I cesses of soil formahon. 



CEK 



Figure 4. — Soil map of the United States. 



866591—50 (Face page 236) 



MODERN SOIL SCIENCE — KELLOGG 237 

causes of soil characteristics, because of failure to see the common 
characteristics of unlike soils found in the same ecological region. 

In a broader study one might reach altogether different conclusions. 
Suppose, for example, that one studies in detail the upland soils on 
smooth slopes from limestone and sandstone in West Vhginia in con- 
trast to those on smooth slopes from limestone and sandstone in 
western North Dakota and in southern Arizona. Here again, striking 
differences are apparent, but the most important of these relate to 
differences in climate and vegetation; geology would seem relatively 
unimportant. 

Thus by grouping the local soil types into higher categories, the 
broad soil groups that dominate the landscapes of great regions are 
compiled. When one considers individual practices in the garden, on 
the farm, or in the forest, it is the local landscape and the local soil 
types that are important. When one considers the great movements 
of population, the potentialities of nations, and the historical trends 
of peoples, the significant factors are the great soil groups. Thus 
the gardener sees soil characteristics with a different emphasis than 
does the geographer, but soil science has much to contribute to both. 

PRIMITIVE SOCIETIES ON THE SOIL 

The soil supports plants, animals, and man himself. Primitive man 
must have been as much the helpless product of his environment as 
were the wild animals. He lived close to the soil and was a food 
gatherer. He took the plants and animals, including fish, that were 
available in his own landscape. Most of these were eaten with little 
change by cooking, storage, or refining. No doubt it was a risky busi- 
ness. Families might fail to get food because of drought, deep snows, 
wars, or other calamities, and starve. However, when things went 
well, although they might live on a few foods for a time, during the 
year there was usually a variety. Then too, primitive man ate vigor- 
ously. He ate whole foods — skins, hulls, seeds, and other parts that 
are now thrown away. It is only recently that modern man has 
attempted to create a balanced diet. Early man received or failed to 
receive his proteins, minerals, and vitamins, unconsciously. Of course, 
no scientist was available to study our savage ancestors at the time, 
but many studies have been made of relatively primitive peoples and 
of the physical degeneration caused by the substitution for native 
whole foods, like cereal grains, milk, cheese, fruits, and meat, of refined 
sugar, white flour, and similar products of more "advanced" societies 
(12). Thus native peoples may become degenerated, or even extinct, 
after contact with Western Europeans. There are reasons to suggest 
that people, like plants and animals, over a long period come to an 
adjustment with their food supply (11). 



238 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Marett held that people having food deficient in some essential ele- 
ment, say calcium, phosphorus, or iodine, gradually develop the ability 
to conserve this element. That is, in the evolutionary process the 
ability to get along satisfactorily with only a little of some element 
would have survival value. Such people would be most likely to have 
children able to thrive and grow strong. But in the process, size, 
skin color, and other features, even the psychological characteristics 
and social traits, are altered. Marett believed that differences in food 
composition, most of which were closely related to the local environ- 
ment before the modern period, had a great deal to do with the origin 
of races, with the physical and social differences among the different 
peoples of the earth. 

Marett argued, for example, that in regions with acid soils deficient 
in calcium, people of small size would be favored. The physiological 
strain of lactation upon females would be much greater in humid 
regions where soils are generally leached and acid and the foods de- 
ficient in calcium and phosphorus, than in arid regions where sods 
usually contain abundant lime (calcium). Thus on acid soUs where 
food is deficient in calcium the bodily strain would lead to adjustments 
for economizing lime through decreased size, especially of bones. He 
suggested that the operation of these forces may have been important 
in the development of fine bones among modern people as contrasted 
to our more coarse-boned ancestors. Such changes are very gradual, 
and are not marked until after long-living in a particular landscape. 

MAN AS A CULTIVATOR 

As civilization developed, man became a cultivator. He began to 
direct the course of nature toward his own ends, and ceased to be 
simply a food gatherer dependent only upon the natural bounty of 
the landscape. He ceased to be primarily a thief, and became a 
grower, a homemaker, a planner, and a conservationist in the only 
sense the term has any social meaning. As he gained in experience 
he learned to satisfy himself more easily; in fact, some people in the 
society could cease to be food gatherers. Social structures rose with 
the evolution of trades and professions. As the efficiency of food 
production increased, more and more people could be released from 
food gathering to develop the arts and sciences, to make the other 
things man needed for his health and comfort, and, unfortunately, 
to make war. 

From the dawn of history to the rise of modern science the accumu- 
lation of learning about agi'iculture was a terribly slow process. 
Experience, which was passed down from father to son over the genera- 
tions, was the only guide. Only a few departures were made, because 
there was no substitute for such experience. Further, there was little 



MODERN SOIL SCIENCE — ^KELLOGG 239 

realization that experience on one soil, in one landscape, could not be 
relied upon where another soil was involved. Migrations were often 
disastrous for this reason. Then, too, world history records changes 
in the landscape under the very feet of the farmer, like the slow spread 
of the Sahara Desert as it gradually expands to its former position, 
following the moist period of glacial times (8). 

Unfortunately, the early scientists of Greece and Rome reached 
little into the problems of agriculture. With a few conspicuous excep- 
tions, the philosophers of that day accepted farming as the job of 
slaves, beneath the dignity of trained scholarship. 

THE GREAT DISCOVERIES 

The tempo of man's struggle with his envii'onment completely 
changed with two great forces : the rise of modern science and the great 
discoveries. The most important fact of Western culture was the 
opening of new land in the world. The forces leading to the pessi- 
mism of Malthus were already destroyed before his famous essay on 
population had been printed. Science began to increase productive 
efficiency. Western Europeans found new homes in the landscapes 
of the Americas. 

Europe had been bound by an aristocracy based upon land. Al- 
though many came to the new world to seek gold and adventure, 
most people came to find land and to build homes on the only security 
they knew. Gradually the east coasts of the new world filled up. In 
the beginning people were confined to land near the sea and to navi- 
gable waters, as they had been in the centuries before. But modern 
science came to the aid of discovery. The European colonists pushed 
into the interior, especially in North America. Railroads had made 
possible the exploitation of interiors of continents, of the great areas 
of black soils. Except for a few isolated spots, these soils were scarcely 
used by civilized folks at the time of the Treaty of Westphalia when 
modern nationalism had its birth. During the nineteenth century 
the black soils (Chernozem and Prairie soils) and the brown soils 
(Chestnut and Brown soils) in North America were occupied. The 
frustrated, the persecuted, the seekers of new opportunity had a place 
to go, and it was a good place with good soil. For over 200 years a 
man and woman could carve themselves out a farm home on the colo- 
nial frontier, in the Ohio Valley, on the great prairies of Illinois and 
Iowa, and finally on the Great Plains to the west. Grassland needed 
only cultivation, once transportation was established. 

In addition to the fine soils, there were other free resources, the 
forests and minerals. There was land in North America, Central 
America, South America, New Zealand, and Australia. Following 
the great discoveries Europeans found opportunities throughout the 



240 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITTJTION, 1949 



world. This progress is credited by many people to western civiliza- 
tion, but it would have been a poor civilization indeed that could not 
have succeeded with these riches. With such abundant resources for 
its citizens, it is hard to imagine how any American government could 
possibly have failed. 

At the present time, however, people must make a go of things where 
they are, or else move into areas where a great deal of careful planning 
is necessary for successful agriculture or industry. There is no more 

Chemical Composition {%) Chemical Composition (%) 

CaO MgO o ^P^^^^„ '°? o so lOO CaO MgO 

0.1 0.2 h ^ lllllll Ky^^<^^^^^^ I Depth 

0.1 Tr 



0.1 0.1 



0.2 0.1 



0.2 Ti* 



0.4 6.0 





0.4 


2.0 


0.7 


3.8 


0.8 


11.0 


0.5 


15.4 


0.0 3 


35.5 



B. Conomingo Silt Loom 
of Maryland 



A. Nipe Cloy of Puerto Rico 

Figure 5. — A comparison of some of the chemical properties of two soils de- 
veloped from similar serpentine rocks, one in tropical Puerto Rico, and one in 
temperate Maryland. Under temperate conditions the silica has been pre- 
served, whereas it has nearly all been removed under tropical conditions. 
Further, under tropical conditions there has been an enormous increase in the 
amount of iron, and the tropical soil has been affected by weathering and soil- 
forming processes to a much greater depth. Of course, along with these obvi- 
ous chemical changes are a great many other changes reflected in the miner- 
alogical composition and physical properties of the two soils. Both of them 
are relatively unproductive naturally and require quite different methods for 
their improvement (14, 15), 



MODERN SOIL SCIENCE — KELLOGG 241 

fertile soil in the world waiting only for the plow. But there is a great 
deal of unused land in the world that can be made productive through 
the application of modern science, land that is made up of thousands 
of unique types of soil. 

MODERN SCIENCE 

The great discoveries themselves owe much to modern science. An 
insignificant part of the bread grains of the world were grown on the 
black Chernozem soils of the subhumid grasslands when the Treaty of 
Westphalia was signed. Now these same black soils are contributing 
more than one-half the supply of bread grains to the world. Within 
some 250 years man has occupied these soils. At first he applied the 
old methods and the old traditions, with poor results. Then from 
modern science he received railroads, proper machinery, and power. 
Whereas 100 yesiTS ago most cities of importance in the world were 
located on Gray-Brown Podzolic soils, like those of the Ohio Valley 
and northwestern Europe, now there are great cities on the black soils 
and on the brown soils like them. In fact, the great modern army 
that stopped the Germans at Stalingrad was raised on these soils. 

Our early application of science to make a better adjustment 
between man and his envu'onment was uneven. The various sciences 
have developed unevenly, and they are applied unevenly in different 
parts of the world. Early attempts to build the Panama Canal 
showed the failure of engineering without medicine, and there are 
similar failures of engineering and medicine without improved hus- 
bandry. Soil depletion due to erosion in parts of Africa has followed 
attempts to buy the wares of the peddler before husbandry had im- 
proved the efficiency of agriculture. In fact, soil depletion through 
accelerated erosion, exhaustion of plant nutrients, accumulation of 
excess salts, and loss of mellow structure follow the decline of the 
people. The great opportunities for futm-e development depend not 
on science alone but on a symmetrical science. 

Of course, some object to machines and the planning inevitable to 
the use of science. They talk about going back to nature. But 
obviously this would not be possible unless we were willing to do 
away with a large part of our population and with all our modern 
gadgets. Scientists, and agricultural scientists in particular, were 
blamed by some for the last great depression. It was said that if 
scientists had not developed all these new methods surpluses and low 
prices would not have existed. Of course, this appears ridiculous to 
a scientist, since millions of people are in need of essential food and 
clothing for health. To the scientist surpluses are market phenomena 
within man's control and due to imperfections that are subject to 
control. The good life requires abundance, and abundance depends 
upon the eflBcient use of aU our knowledge. 



242 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Returning to the relationship between man and the soil, or land- 
scape, where he finds himself: the optimum or ideal adjustment can 
be approached by changing the environment, changing the soU, or 
by man adapting himself to the environment. Actually, of course, 
man does some of both, and science helps both processes. From our 
understanding of the soil and the environment we learn how to change 
it, and how to adapt ourselves to it. 

The soU is not easily changed, however, for in spite of all we learn 
to do through husbandry there still rem^ains a closer relationship 
between the quahty of foods and the natural soil type than there is 
between their quality and modern agricultural practices. Of course, 
irrigation of the desert or drainage of swamp land by means of large- 
scale engineering devices brings an immediate change. But most 
changes come slowly and often indirectly. A little change in the 
soU can set into motion a whole series of fundamental changes. 

For example, most of the soils developed in humid forested land- 
scapes are acid. Although they are productive for a time, these soUs 
produce only a few of the plants man needs. By adding some lime, 
often some phosphate, and sometimes some other materials in rela- 
tively small amounts, the farmer can widen his choice of crops. He 
can grow the deep-rooted legumes where he could not before. These 
crops, in turn, have a pronounced influence on the soil and upon the 
crops that follow them. Similarly, the farmer in the humid region 
can develop a soU approaching the notoriously productive Chernozem 
of the subhumid grasslands by making up through fertilization for 
the extra leaching in the humid climate. Although fertilizer has not 
been found to have a dependable influence on the quality of food 
crops, through fertilization the farmer can so expand his range of 
crops that he can select those most nutritious for animal feed and 
human food. 

Every natural soil has certain limits to its potentialities. Through 
modern science these limits may be expanded in terms of kinds of 
crops and yields. No very close relationship exists between the natural 
fertility of soils and their actual productivity in society. The important 
factor is their response to management. Some of the most productive 
soils in the United States are in the southeastern region, soUs that are 
notoriously infertile when first cultivated as compared to the black 
soils of the Middle West. 

NEED FOR SYMMETRY 

Man's adjustment to the natural soil is not merely a matter of doing 
a few things. It is the process of substituting a new environment, with 
all its varied effects on Uving matter and the dynamic processes within 
the soil, for the old one. With the smooth-lying soils of the Iowa 
prau'ies the farmer gets nearly maximum yields from his first cultiva- 



MODERN SOIL SCIENCE — KELLOGG 



243 



tion; in fact, there is no practical way now known to maintain the 
nutrient supply and productivity of these soils as high as they were 
under continuous grass and still use them for crops under anything 
like present economic conditions. However, these soils can be main- 
tained in cultivation at a slightly lower level of productivity under 
practices that maintain the nutrient supply and organic matter and 
control the water supply to avoid excess run-off and erosion. This is 
to be expected, since these soils were developed under grasslike plants, 
similar to the crops the farmer wants to grow. 

Exchonqe Capacity (M.E./lOOgms.) 

40 60 80 100 120 




Exchangeoble Bases 
Exchangeable Hydrogen 



A. Under Spruce 
Exchange Capacity {m. E. / \00 qrrn.) 




B. Under Hardwood 

Figure 6. — These graphs illustrate a comparison of total exchangeable bases 
and exchangeable nitrogen in two soils developed under similar environmental 
conditions, except for the vegetation. Because the spruce needles and twigs 
decompose slowly there is a considerable accumulation before decomposition 
is equal to the annual drop from the forest. Since the hardwoods drop nearly 
twice as much calcium and other bases each year, soils developed under hard- 
woods have a relatively higher amount of exchangeable bases. The upper 
chart indicates clearly the horizon of extreme leaching lying almost directly 
under the organic mat of a Podzol (3). 



244 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

The situation is different when the forest is removed from a leached 
soil in the humid region. The organic matter and nutrients must be 
built up far above the levels present in the natural soils, and the bal- 
ance is delicate, both the natural balance and the one created by man. 
Too much lime added, and other nutrients become unavailable. Too 
much nitrogen added, and plants are weak, poor in quality, and easy 
prey to diseases. Water control without proper fertility may be 
impractical and wasteful. Rarely can the maximum economic pro- 
duction from soils in humid forested regions be realized by application 
of just one or two scientific practices. 

CONCLUSIONS 

In the past, the environment determined man's development and set 
definite limits on his activities. His music and architecture, his 
economic and political institutions, in fact, his whole social being 
was strongly influenced by the potentialities of the soil. As modern 
soil science develops further, the environment will determine less 
what man is and more what he does. Scientists will learn more 
precisely how to carry specific management practices from one soil to 
another, in order to achieve good productivity. 

As science progresses there will be increasing emphasis upon sym- 
metry in science, upon fitting the parts together. Although such an 
emphasis runs counter to the modern trend of specialization, organiza- 
tional devices both in research and education will be created so that 
teams of scientists of different specialties work together. Only in 
this way can even a small part of our agricultural potentialities be 
realized or more than a small part of our soil science be put to work. 

Even now, there would be enough food if soil science were used to the 
fullest extent. There are no apparent limits to our potentiality; it is 
far away, far beyond oiu* present production. Even in this great 
country there is needless inefficiency in agriculture, needless from the 
standpoint of proved scientific principles and practices. Some farm- 
ers do not know what to do; others have no way of knowing, or of 
following the practices if they did know. Thus even on the soil 
already occupied, the opportunities for more food are enormous. In 
addition, there are still areas in the interior of continents that are 
only partly used for lack of industry or transportation. This is 
especially true concerning Asia, 

Even more important than these wasted opportunities are the great 
areas of tropical soils. Some say that the resources of the Tropics are 
almost without limit; others say they are nil. The truth is that with- 
out modern science their productivity is small; thus it might be said 
that the Tropics are overpopulated now. However, with the applica- 
tion of a symmetrical soil science, the potentialities of the Tropics are 



MODERN SOIL SCIENCE — ^KELLOGG 245 

enormous. Most of the soils are naturally infertile in terms of our 
present practices in temperate regions, but it is possible to modify 
the mineral-organic cycle of these soils and get good production of 
cultivated plants on a secure basis. All the agricultural sciences will 
be involved, along with soil science, medicine, engineering, economics, 
and political science. 

This outline of soil science in modern society leaves a million details 
untold. If peace and abundance in the world are achieved, thousands 
of soil scientists will have contributed their whole lives toward it, 
along with other people. The data of soil science show that abundance 
is possible. Whether it should be achieved, and whether it will be 
achieved, are not scientific questions. But if the people of the world 
decide that they want peace and enough food, and if they address 
themselves to the economic and social problems standing in the way, 
soil science says it is possible. 

LITERATURE CITED 

1. Barrbll, Joseph. 

1914. The strength of the earth's crust. Journ. Geol., vol. 22, pp. 24-48, 

2. Brown, Irvin C, and Thorp, James. 

1942. Morphology and composition of some soils of the Miami family and 

the Miami catena. U. S. Dep. Agr. Techn. Bull. 834, 55 pp. 

3. Chandler, Robert F. 

1939. Exchange properties of certain forest soils in the Adirondack section. 
Journ. Agr. Res., vol. 59, pp. 491-505. 

4. Chandler, Robert F. 

1941. The amount and mineral nutrient content of freshly fallen leaf 
litter in the hardwood forests of central New York. Journ. Amer. 
Soc. Agron., vol. 33, pp. 859-871. 

5. Chandler, Robert F. 

1943. Amount and mineral nutrient of freshly fallen needle litter of some 

northeastern conifers. Proc. Soil Sci. Soc. Amer., vol. 8, pp. 
409-411. 

6. Clarke, Frank Wigglesworth. 

1924. The data of geochemistry. Ed. 5, U. S. Geol. Surv. Bull. 770, p. 841. 

7. Dale, R. B., and Stabler, H. 

1909. Denudation, in Papers on the Conservation of Water Resources, 
U. S. Geol. Surv. Water-Supply Pap. 234, pp. 78-93. 

8. Gautier, E. F. 

1935. Sahara, the great desert. Trans, by Dorothy Ford Mayhew. 264 

pp. New York. 

9. Humbert, R. P., and Marshall, C. E. 

1943. Mineralogical and chemical studies of soil formation from acid and 
igenous rocks in Missouri. Univ. Missouri Res. Bull., 60 pp. 

10. Jenny, Hans. 

1941. Factors of soil formation. 281 pp. New York. 

11. Marett, R. de la H. 

1936. Race, sex, and environment: A study of mineral deficiency in human 

evolution. 343 pp., illus. Hutchinson, London, 



246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

12. Pbice, Weston A. 

1939. Nutrition and physical degeneration. A comparison of primitive 
and modern diets and their effects. 431 pp., illus. Haeber, New 
York. 

13. Roberts, R. C, et al. 

1942. Soil survey of Puerto Rico. U. S. Dep. Agr., Series 1936, No. 7, 
503 pp., illus., maps. 

14. Robinson, W. 0., Eddington, Glen, and Byers, H. G. 

1935. Chemical studies of infertile soils derived from rocks high in mag- 
nesium and generally high in chromium and nickel. U. S. Dep. 
Agr. Techn. Bull. 471, 28 pp. 

15. United States Department of Agriculture. 

Reports of investigations at the Soil Conservation Experiment 
Stations. Techn. Bull. 558, 837, 859, 860, 873, 888, and 916. 



Smithsonian Report, 1949.— Kellogg 



PLATE 1 




PROFILE OF A PODZOL SOIL IN MAINE UNDER THE EVERGREEN FOREST 

A heavy mat of partly decomposed organic matter from the forest lies over a nearly white, strongly leached 
horizon. Directly beneath this is a dark brovi^n horizon containing colloidal material originating from 
the horizons above. In this region soil-forming processes do not extend deeply. The parent material- 
glacial drift— lies at about 20 inches. 



Smithsonian Report. 1949. — Kellogg 



Plate 2 





t/4 



r, '■$• ^''. I -Vi 




A, profile of a dark-colored soil developed under tall grasses in Iowa (Webster clay loam— a Wiesenboden) . 
During its development drainage was poor, which has intensified the effects of the grasses in producing 
abundant supplies of humus and kept leaching at a low point. When drained this is one of the most pro- 
ductive soils in the world for the crop plants of temperate regions. (Photograph by Dr. R. W. Simonson.) 

B, profile of a light-colored, leached soil developed under forest in the humid Atlantic Coast Plain (Ruston 
sandy loam— a Red Podzolic soil). In this environment little humus accumulates in the soil and 
leaching is active. The thick black layer so prominent in the Webster soil is essentially absent. Col- 
loidal material has left the surface horizon, and part of it has been moved to the layer beneath. The 
peculiar mottling of the soil in the lower part is characteristic of those developing in warm humid climates. 
Although not naturally productive for crop plants, this soil can be made so through proper fertilization to 
supplement the plant nutrients already in the soil, crop rotations that emphasize the deeply rooted leg- 
umes, and by water-control systems that prevent accelerated run-off and erosion when cropped. (Photo- 
graph by Dr. R. W. Simonson.) 



TIME IN EVOLUTION 



By F. E. Zeuner, Ph. D., D. Sc. 

Professor of Environmental Archaeology 
University of London 



The study of evolution has proceeded along two different lines. 
While biologists were able to investigate the intimate structure 
of the cells composing living organisms and thus to unravel aspects 
of the mechanism of evolution, paleontologists supplied us with 
evidence for the succession of the forms of life. Broadly speaking, 
biological evidence has suggested that changes in the characters of 
species are sudden and paleontological evidence that they take place 
gradually. Apart from the problems connected with the causes of 
evolution (which are outside the scope of this discourse), there is 
involved in this difference the problem of time. 

It was, therefore, only natural that workers on evolution were 
interested in the question of how much time was required to bring 
about certain changes in the characters of animals and plants. This 
chi'onological aspect of evolution was stressed by the early evolution- 
ists, like Lamarck, Darwin, Wallace, Weismann, and Eimer. But 
paleontology and stratigraphy could do no more than provide a 
relative chronology of evolution. For the actual time involved there 
were only guesses available which were so divergent that no con- 
clusions could be based on them. No wonder, therefore, that the 
time aspect of evolution was neglected by the later generations of 
workers. The guesses did agree, however, in one respect: that, 
measured by human standards, the time available for evolution was 
very long. 

Since the end of the last century, however, geology has developed 
several methods of estimating geological time in years. Sequences 
of annual deposits, cHmatic and astronomical cycles, time rates of 
sedimentation and the decomposition of radioactive substances have 
been used in a great variety of ways, and the branch of geology which 
is called geochronology, has produced a number of time scales covering 
the entire history of the crust of the earth. As is to be expected, many 

1 Presented at the Weekly Eveuing Meeting of the Royal Institution of Great Britain, Friday, December 
3, 1948. Reprinted by permission of the Royal Institution, with slight alterations and additional figures. 

8G6591— 50 17 247 



248 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

parts of the time scales are uncertain and the margin of error is often 
considerable. But an order of magnitude is gradually emerging and 
various portions of the time scales have been checked by independent 
methods and adjusted to each other. They have thus become useful 
instruments for the reconsideration of the time aspects of evolution. 

It is my intention to introduce you to this fascinating subject. 
Within the limited time available only a few interesting examples 
can be given. The treatment of facts and problems will inevi- 
tably be sketchy, which means that some of my remarks will over- 
state the case, while others, which might appear to be overstatements, 
are not overstatements. In order to show the applicability, or 
otherwise, of some of the apparent rules to different branches of the 
tree of life, examples have been selected from as great a variety of 
groups as possible. 

Let us first discuss the rate of changes in direct lines of descent, 
disregarding the phenomenon of splitting or branching of the phylo- 
genetic tree. What I mean is illustrated by the pedigree of man, in 
which the numerous branches leading to other groups have been 
omitted. In order to attack the problem of the time rate of evolution, 
such a generalized and tentative pedigree is of course useless. It is 
necessary to consider a group for which a close succession of abundant 
fossil material is available. Such a group is that of the horses, which 
has been well studied in the United States. In figure 1 the chrono- 
logical order and the range in time are shown for successive genera 
directly ancestral to Equus, the modern horse. From this arrange- 
ment, Simpson has deduced the average duration of a horse genus as 
about 5}i million years. In column III, the horse's ancestors are 
spaced in accordance with the amount of structural modification 
between successive stages, and the amount is measured in arbitrary 
units. It is evident from the comparison of columns I, II, and III, 
that the morphological step, for instance, from Epihippus to Meso- 
hippus was great, though it did not take more time than the preceding 
one from Orohippus to Epihippus. Evolution appears to have been 
accelerated in this case, as also from Parahippus to Merychippus. 
The remainder of the diagram shows the kinds of morphological 
characters used in assessing the units of column III, and also the 
trend of evolution in the horses. 

This evidence supplies us with some interesting information, namely 
(a) that the rate of morphological change is not a simple function of 
time, and (b) that the average period of existence of a horse genus is 
of the order of a few million years. The horses have further provided 
an observation made by Stirton, which is worth mentioning. In 
studying the progressive increase in height (hypsodonty) of the 
cheek teeth, he noticed that at any one point of the lineage there is 
not enough individual difference in the height of the cheek teeth. 



TIME IN EVOLUTION — ZEUNER 



249 



I. TEhSTATIVE TIME 

SCALE IN MILLION 

YEARS 

! PLEISTOCENE 



II. RANGE 
OF GENERA 



EQUUS 



5- '-" 
U 

o 



10- 



15- 



20- 



25- 



30- 



35- 



40- 



45- 



50- 



55- 



u 
o 



o 
o 



t 



> PLIOHIPPUS 



> MERYCHIPPUS 



y PARAHIPPUS 



^ 



> MIOHIPPUS 



> MESOHIPPUS 



> EPIHIPPUS ~ 



OROHIPPUS 



r 



IIS. GENERA SPACED 
ACCORDING TO EXTENT OP 
STRUCTURAL DIFFERENCE^ 

EQUUS 
7 
^ PLIOHIPPUS 

11 
- MERYCHIPPUS 



18 



PARAHIPPUS 

5 
MIOHIPPUS 

c 
h MESOHIPPUS 

16 



HYRACOTHERIUM 



EPIHIPPUS 



— OROHIPPUS 

9 
l— HYRACOTHERIUM 



Figure 1.— The evolution of the horse in North America correlated with the 
absolute time scale. (Based on the work of E. D. Cope, W. D. Matthew, W. B. 
Scott, G. G. Simpson, R. A. Stirton, and others.) 



250 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

nor even in successive species of ages as much apart as 1 million years, 
to believe that the minute differences present had any value as a 
determining factor in sm-vival. 

Returning to the duration of a genus, it will be interesting to 
consult other groups, to see whether the figure of 5K million years 
found in the horses is more generally applicable. Similar values are 
found in other groups of Mammalia, such as the land carnivores. 
For these Simpson constructed a "survivorship curve" showing that 
the mean duration of a genus of carnivores is Q% million years. But 
for the bivalve Mollusca, he obtained a mean as high as 78 million 
years. 

Just to add a few more figures: Swinnerton found 20 million years 
as the average lifetime of a genus of Triassic ammonites. Lingula, on 
the other hand, a brachiopod, has been known for its persistence since 
the Cambrian. This genus has lasted over 400 million years. From 
this evidence the terrestrial Mammalia appear to have genera of a 
short duration, but even this is a matter of a few million years. 

One might be inclined to interpret these different rates of generic 
evolution in terms of species steps, assuming that each lineage would 
pass through several evolutionary changes, each constituting a new 
species, before the accumulated differences justify one in calling the 
descendants a new genus. It is certain that this process underlies 
the evolution of the horse, but it is conceivable that in other groups 
genera may have originated without the interposition of a series of 
species steps. The time rate of species formation, therefore, must 
now be considered. 

Selecting again terrestrial forms of life, mainly mammals, as our 
first examples, because more detailed evidence is available, we find 
that since the end of the last glaciation, some 10,000 to 20,000 years 
ago, only minor subspecies have appeared. The differences are 
confined to body size, color, slight differences in body proportions, 
in the development of appendages, etc. The British race of the red 
deer, for instance, has evolved since Britain became separated from 
the Continent some 7,500 years ago. This is shown by fossil evidence, 
since the early postglacial specimens found in the Thames belong to 
the Continental race. Moreover the characters of Cervus elaphus 
scoticus, as the British race is called, are probably not fixed genetically, 
since, when the breed was transferred to a favorable environment, 
in New Zealand, it reverted in many respects to the Continental type. 
Other examples could be given of the insignificant character of 
Postglacial differentiation in species. 

Greater differences are observed in some, but by no means the 
majority, of Upper Pleistocene species, of about 50,000 to 100,000 
years ago. For the marmot of that time, for instance, Wehrli found 
that the shape of the temporal ridges has since become stabilized. 



TIME IN EVOLUTION — ZEUNER 251 

These ridges run into the upper posterior edge of the processus 
postorbitahs in a certain number of fossil specimens, while in recent 
Marmota marmota they have moved to the upper side of the processus. 
That this character has become practically fixed since the Upper 
Pleistocene, is shown by the following figures: 





Table I 












Marmota 


Inter- 


Primitive 






tne 


mediate 


type 






{Percent) 


(Percent) 


{Percent) 


Upper Pleistocene 




33 


53 


13 


Recent 




98 




2 



Forms of this degree of variation would, in the recent fauna, be re- 
garded as subspecies. 

Going back to the Middle Pleistocene, about 250,000 years ago, 
the differences become more conspicuous, but they are still treated 
as subspecific by most taxonomists. It is only in the Lower Pleisto- 
cene, about 500,000 years ago, that we encounter ancestral forms on 
which the taxonomists agree that they must be classified as distinct 
species. This applies, for instance, to the Em-opean elephants, 
Elephas antiquus, and the mammoth, which Soergel has shown to 
have evolved from an early Pleistocene common ancestor, Elephaa 
meridionalis. If this view is correct, nearly half a million years 
were required to produce a new species by way of a gradual change. 
If it is not correct, the point of divergence lies farther back in the 
past and the rate of species change is longer. In the lineages of 
rhinoceroses, bears, and deer, simdar evidence is available and there 
are cases in the Recent fauna which have been explained as the results 
of geographical isolation dming the glaciations (the common crow 
and the hooded crow, for instance). But again there are species 
which have changed much less since the Lower Pleistocene, which 
are regarded as no more than subspecifically distinct from their 
Recent descendants and, therefore, must have a slower rate of species 
formation. In the Cromer Forest Bed (about 500,000 years ago), 
14 percent of the species are regarded as "Recent," though it is quite 
likely that subspecific differences will be detected by future revisers. 

Five hundred thousand years, then, appears to be a fast rate of 
species evolution in terrestrial mammals and no faster rate has, to 
my knowledge, yet been found in other groups of the animal king- 
dom. Let us now consider the question, how long have species re- 
mained stable or unchanged? To answer it we have to resort to ma- 
rine groups. Lower Miocene MoUusca of Java, for instance, are 
regarded as conspecific with Recent forms. They have been stable 
for 30 million years. Surveying fossils in general, this has to be 
regarded as a high figure, but it need not be a maximum. 



252 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

It is conceivable that plant species behave differently. Small 
has analyzed several groups of plants from the chronological point of 
view, notably the diatoms. He came to the conclusion that the mean 
duration of species is measured in millions of years. Furthermore, 
he distinguished in the diatoms long-lived species (up to 100 million 
years) and short-lived species (one million years or less). In other 
groups he encountered shorter rates than this. These time rates are 
of much the same order as in the animal kingdom. But there is one 
interesting difference: while in animals the evidence suggests gradual 
change of specific characters, SmaU regards the changes in the diatoms 
(and perhaps other plants) as sudden. 

Summarizing, we may say that half a million years is a short life- 
time for a species and, so far as our admittedly incomplete evidence 
goes, something like a minimum. The lifetime of genera appears to 
be rarely less than 5 million years. Short rates are observed in ter- 
restrial groups like most Mammalia, while long rates are frequent in 
mainly marine groups like the bivalve sheUs and the diatoms. There 
appears to be a certain amount of correlation between the rates of 
species evolution and the degree of changeability of the environment, 
slow rates being frequent in envirormients like the sea in which living 
conditions are exceedingly stable. 

Hitherto we have been discussing changes in single lines of descent. 
Let us now consider the phenomenon of phyletic splitting. Branch- 
ing is a frequent event in phylogenesis. An ancestral species may 
evolve into two divergent descendant species by the disappearance of 
intermediates, or the ancestral species may remain unaltered and a 
new type emerge as a side branch. In fact, few groups would survive 
without splitting, since owing to the action of internal (genetic) and 
external (environmental) factors, many species become extinct. 

If the rate of splitting equals the rate of extinction, the number of 
species in a systematic category, like a genus or a family, remains 
constant. But if the rate of splitting is greater than the rate of ex- 
tinction, the number of species in the group under consideration will 
rise increasingly steeply along an exponential curve. 

There are many different ways in which the rate of splitting can be 
plotted in relation to time. I have selected two simple methods of 
plotting which can be applied readily to any group from which suflB- 
cient fossil material has been adequately studied by a taxonomist. 
One is to plot the number of species existing in any period or sub- 
period, or smaller stratigraphical division, on the absolute time scale. 
The other consists of doing the same for the newly appearing species 
only. In the first, the surviving species modify the picture. The 
second is a truer presentation of the rate of splitting, but the material 
is often not complete enough for its application. 



TIME IN EVOLUTION — ZEUNER 253 

Now let US consider a few examples. Figure 2 shows the genus 
Salenia. These sea urchins start in the Lower Cretaceous, The 
number of species rises rapidly to a climax in the Upper Cretaceous 
("increase phase"). Cases like this one, of a rapid, almost sudden, 
blossoming-out of a group were called "explosive evolution" by Schin- 
dewolf . We may borrow the term and call the phase of rapid increase 
the explosive phase. In Salenia it is followed by a catastrophic drop 
followed by a slow "decline phase" leading to almost complete 
extinction. Of the cause of this sudden drop we are completely igno- 
rant; it is an unusual feature, as will be seen when other diagrams are 
considered. 

As regards the increase phase, we learn that in Salenia it lasted for 
about 40 million years. 

Figure 3 shows the Brachiopod genus Lingula. Again it reveals a 
rapid rise in the number of species at the beginning, from the Cam- 
brian to the Ordovician, of the order of 40-50 million years. But 
between the increase and the decline phases, a more or less "station- 
ary" phase is intercalated, during which the number of species did 
not vary greatly. The decline phase of Lingula set in with the Car- 
boniferous. It is a long-drawn-out phase and continues into the 
present. 

Another interesting case is that of the coelacanths, a group of the 
fringe-finned fishes or Crossopterygii (fig. 4). This group never had 
a truly explosive phase. Nevertheless, there is an increase phase 
from the end of the Devonian to the Triassic, lasting about 100 
million years. 

One more example may be given, the molluscan genus Poiretia 
(fig. 5). Here, the explosive phase in the evolution of the genus 
is 30-40 million years. Other examples confirm that the length of 
the explosive phase is of the order of a few 10-million years, the 
extremes so far found being 30 and 100 million years and the mean 
around 50 million years. 

As an example from the plant kingdom, illustrating at the same 
time a group with stable, geometrical characters living in an environ- 
ment which changes but little, diatoms may be shown. Small in- 
vestigated the chronology of their evolution, and the diagram of 
Hemiaulus shown (fig. 6) is a translation into our method of plotting 
of one of his diagrams. It shows a steepening rise to a climax in the 
Cretaceous. The increase phase lasted about 80 million years, no 
longer than in groups living in less stable environments, but there was 
a pronounced initial lag phase. 

Now it is interesting to consider some higher systematic categories. 
One might expect that the explosive phase in the evolution of higher 
systematic units, like families, orders, classes, is longer than in 
genera. But this is not so. 



254 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 




too 

million years 

CRETACEOUS PALAEOGENE NEOCENE 

Figure 2. — Diagram of the numbers of species in the sea-urchin genus Salenia 
from the Cretaceous to the present day. (Surface area proportional to the 
number of species.) 




400 300 200 

million years 

U.CAMB.ORD. SILUR.DEV.CARB. PERMJRIASJURAS.CRET.CAINOZOIC 

Figure 3. — Number of species in the brachipod genus Lingula, from the Upper 
Cambrian to the present day. (Surface area proportional to the number of 
species.) 



TIME IN EVOLUTION — ZEUNER 



255 



COELACANTHIDAE 




1 



300 250 200 I50 lOO 50 O 

million years 

DEV. CARBON. PERM. TRIAS.JURASS.CRET.CAINOZOIC 

FiGURK 4. — Diagram showiug frequency of species of coelacanth fishes in relation 
to time. In the Upper Devonian the family Diplocercididae flourished. In the 
Carboniferous it was replaced by the Coelacanthidae, which reached their climax 
in the Triassic. The small number of coelacanths recorded from the Permian 
may not represent their true frequency owing to the fact that relatively few 
marine deposits are known from the Permian. Possibly, therefore, the rise to 
the climax in the Triassic was not interrupted in the Permian, as is shown in 
the diagram, but was continuous from the Lower Carboniferous; if so, the rise 
would have taken about 100 million years and the rate of evolution would then 
be one of the slowest known. The coelacanths are regarded as a very con- 
servative group which changed but little in the course of time. 




tiuUronve&rs 



PALAEOGENE 



NLOGENE 



Figure 5. — Diagram showing the number of new species of the moUuscan genua 
Poiretia appearing in the different subdivisions of the Tertiary. The maximum 
number of new species was produced in the late Palaegene, within 30 to 40 
million years of the appearance of the genua. 



256 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 



The first example of this kind is that of the rotahid Foraminifera 
(fig. 7), showing the number of existing genera in the superfamily. 
Again there is a phase of steepening increase. It lasted from the 
early Cretaceous into the Oligocene, for about 70 million years. 
Another case is that of the genera in the brachipod family, Spiriferi- 
dae, with an explosive phase of about 80 million years. A third 
example shows the orders in the class of the true fishes. This diagram 




Pm|TRlASSIC- 

200 MILLION 



lOuRASSIC — > ^.CRET. UrCrETAC.-* EoCENE 
llOOniLLION YEARS 



Ol. Miocene Puoc. R. 



Figure 6. — The diatom genus Hemiaulus. The number of species living in any 
period (blocks) and the number of new species appearing in any period (curve) 
from the Permian to the present day. (Numerical material from Small, 1948. 
Ordinate scale linear.) 




ISO 
million years 
TRIASSIC JURASSIC CRETACEOUS PALAEOGENE NEOCENE 

Figure 7. — Diagram showing the number of genera in the superfamily Rotalioidea 
(Foraminifera) present in various geological epochs. (Surface area of blocks 
proportional to the number of species.) 

(fig. 8), which is based on Romer's work, is not strictly to scale, but 
there is no doubt that orders hke the sturgeons and gar pikes had 
explosive phases of some 20-60 million years. 

Finally, the number of orders within the class of the winged insects 
(Pterygota) must be mentioned. Since about a hundred orders have 
been distinguished, it is possible to plot them in much the same way 
as species in a genus. Once more, an explosive phase emerges, an 
exceptionally large number of orders appearing during the Upper 
Carboniferous and the Permian, over a period of about 60 million 
years. 



TIME IN EVOLUTION — ZEUNER 



257 



Table 2. — Insect orders 

Existing 

Devonian 

Lower Carboniferous 2 

Upper Carboniferous 18 

Permian 37 

Mesozoic 31 

Tertiary 38 

Recent 48 



CAINOZOIC 



New 

2 
16 
30 
22 
13 




CRETACE- 
OUS 



JURASSIC 

TRIASSIC 
PERMIAN 

CARBON 
-IFEROUS 

DEVONIAN 

SILURIAN 



Figure 8. — The evolution of the true fishes correlated with the geological time 
scale. Based on a diagram by A. S. Romer. 

To summarize, increase phases (often of the "explosive" type) in 
the evolution of genera, families, and orders lasted, so far as evidence 
goes, something like 15-100 million years, with a mean of about 50 or 
60 million years. 

In other words, the increase phase of evolution is of the same length 
[of the order of 50-60 million years (±30)], irrespective of the sys- 
tematic unit investigated. It is difficult to resist the temptation to 
speculate on the significance of this result. What it appears to mean 
is that the number of species steps involved in the evolution of new 
systematic categories is the same irrespective of the rank of the cate- 
gory. It takes no longer for a new order to evolve than for a new 
genus to appear. 



258 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

If this is accepted as a valid inference from the material studied, 
then the difference between genera, famihes, orders, and classes must 
lie in the quality of the unit steps involved in their evolution. This 
is not a new idea,^ though we have arrived at it from a new and un- 
expected direction. 

What is meant by the statement that the quality of the steps de- 
cides the systematic category which is evolving, is easy to illustrate 
but difficult to formulate. A good example is the evolution of the 
jaws of the fishes from gill arches. This is an extraordinarily interest- 
ing case of change of function of an organ. Its real significance, 
however, is that this change provided the fishes with a decided ad- 
vantage over their environment. It opened up new and better food 
supplies and, as Sewertzoff expresses it, "increased the general life- 
intensity of these animals." A biting-mouth skeleton is important 
also as an offensive and defensive weapon. It is, I think, sufficiently 
evident that this particular change of function was full of evolutionary 
potentiahties. Applying Sewertzoff's terminology, such changes may 
be called aromorphs. 

On the other hand, if one considers the extreme adaptation of a leaf 
insect {PhyUium) , one finds that it has — to use Sewertzoff's phrase- 
ology — led to a decrease in the life-intensity of the animal. No new 
food supplies have been made available by the process of adaptation, 
and its evolutionary potentialities are nil. This type of adaptation is 
typical of the lower systematic categories. 

There is another interesting feature that emerges from the chrono- 
logical treatment of evolution. It is that there appears to be no 
correlation between fast rates of species evolution with groups having 
a rapid succession of generations. Elephants are among the most 
slowly breeding animals known and yet their rate of evolution was 
the fastest so far found. On the other hand, Drosophila, which, 
because of its rapid succession of generations, is so much used in 
experimental biology, is a genus 50 million years old. It appears 
therefore that a rapid succession of generations must not be taken as 
a substitute for long periods of time. It is indeed surprising to find 
that the number of generations is not the only factor ruling the rate 
of change in evolution and that this change is in a vague way correlated 
with absolute time. Does this perhaps mean that external, environ- 
mental factors are influencing evolution over very long periods of 
time? I am unable to answer this question, or to offer any other 
explanation. 

I hope I have been able to show that a study of the chronology of 
evolution is well worth the effort. The suggestions made here must 

'This has been put forward In diflerent forms, for instance, by O. G. Simpson and R. Qoldschmidt. 



TIME IN EVOLUTION — ZEUNER 259 

not be taken as final results. For the time being the material is 
still too scanty to make generalizations sufficiently safe. Some of 
the time rates, however, have been found by several workers inde- 
pendently, and some of the rules — if one be allowed to use this term — 
have been deduced by more than one worker. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

GOLDSCHMIDT, R. 

1940. The material basis of evolution. 436 pp. New Haven. 
SCHINDEWOLP, O. H. 

1947. Fragen der Abstammungslehre. Aufs. Reden Senckenb. Nat. Ges., 
Frankfurt a M., vol. 1. 23 pp. 
Simpson, G. G. 

1944. Tempo and mode in evolution. 237 pp. New York. 
Small, J. 

1946. Quantitative evolution — VIII. Proc. Roy. Irish Acad., ser. B, vol. 

51, No. 4, pp. 53-80. 
1948a. Quantitative evolution — IX-XIII. Proc. Roy. Irish Acad., ser. B, 

vol. 51, No8. 17-21, pp. 261-346. 
1948b. Some laws of organic evolution. 15 pp. Privately printed. 
Zbuneb, F. E. 

1946a. Biological evolution and time. Ch. XII in Dating the Past. London. 
1946b. Time and the biologist. Discovery, vol. 7, No. 8, pp. 242-249, 256. 
(Some diagrams shown in the discourse are figured in this article, 
and acknowledgments are due to the editor of Discovery for per- 
mitting their reproduction.) 



MORE ABOUT ANIMAL BEHAVIOR 



By Ernest P. Walker 
Assistant Director, National Zoological Park 



IWith 16 plates] 
INTRODUCTION 

The scope of the subject "animal behavior" is almost unlimited, for 
every species has its own particular pattern of behavior and the indi- 
viduals of the species show many variations even from that pattern, so 
that the subject could really be made an exhaustive study for each 
and every species. Although psychologists have made extensive 
studies of human behavior, actually they have merely made a good 
beginning. Glimpses of animal behavior and some conception of how 
behavior patterns may have developed frequently help in explaining 
human behavior and human reactions, for our reactions are the result 
of a long series of experiences of trial and error and elimination by 
natural causes just as has been the case with those of other animals. 
Similar causes have brought about similar reactions in many 
instances, and different causes and environment have developed 
different reactions; there is, therefore, a remarkable diversity of 
behavior pattern among the different kinds of animals that live under 
many different conditions. Those that have not been able to adjust 
themselves to their environment have become extinct and are usually 
known only by their fossil remains; those that could adapt themselves 
and multiply are the forms that have survived to the present day. 

The activities in an animal's life are essentially the same as the basic 
activities of humans. Individuals must survive, and to do so they 
must be able to avoid enemies, to obtain food and shelter; and for the 
species to survive, the individuals must reproduce and the young must 
be given an opportunity to start their own struggles for survival. 

No doubt everyone who has observed animals closely has seen them 
do many things that could not be explained in the Hght of our ex- 
periences and practices. However, we must judge and interpret the 

« An earlier article by the same author, under the title "Animal Behavior," appeared In the Annual 
Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1940, pp. 271-312, 18 pis. As the first paper has been out of print 
for several years, some of the same ideas and examples contained in it are incorporated in the present paper, 
although not as exact quotations. 

261 



262 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

actions of animals in the light of the lives they normally lead in the 
wild. If we are well enough informed as to the conditions under 
which they live and their mode of life, we can often understand actions 
that would otherwise be incomprehensible or aimless to us. I do not 
believe that animals do any more aimless things than humans. On 
the contrary, I am often impressed by the direct and eflBcient 
manner in which they carry on the work of their lives. 

The habits of animals are so intimately associated with and gov- 
erned by their structure that one who is somewhat familiar with either 
the habits or the structure can often make rather close deductions 
from one regarding the other. 

Every habit or type of behavior that has been developed because it 
helps the animal in its life is, of course, a special trait. Some are so 
little known that attention might be focused upon them and con- 
sideration given to the manner in which they benefit the animal. 
To understand the animals best, we must realize that merely because 
we cannot perform a given act does not mean that an animal cannot 
do it. For example, the sense of smell in most humans is so unde- 
veloped that we cannot trail another animal by scent, as we know many 
animals do. Also, our hearing is so dull we cannot detect sounds that 
we know many other animals hear. Likewise, other senses of animals 
are probably so much more keenly developed than om-s that they re- 
ceive impressions or information of which we know little or nothing. 
For example, some animals give off vibrations that other animals are 
able to detect; the presence of a warm live body can be detected by 
certain snakes at distances of several feet even though their eyes and 
nostrils are not functioning; and apparently impressions are received 
by insects through their antennae and by fish through their lateral 
lines. 

How individual animals acquire their behavior patterns is a fas- 
cinating field for study. Some actions are apparently taught to the 
young by the parents; some are learned by the young by observing 
others of their Idnd; some are learned by the trial and error system, or 
as we know it, "by bitter experience"; and some come to the animal 
by instinct; that is, the animal reacts in a certain way (usually the 
right way) under certain circumstances without previously having 
had an opportunity to learn consciously to act in that manner under 
those circumstances. How such reactions develop is explained by 
various theories and is a separate study. 

ECOLOGY, STRUCTURE, AND HABITS 

Ecologists refer to an animal as occupying an ecological niche, that 
is, the main activities of the animal take place within a certain type 
of habitat. It may live entirely within the water, on or under the 
ground, or almost entirely on trees, or combinations of any of these, 



ANIMAL BEHAVIOR — ERNEST P. WALKER 263 

and its food is definitely limited by the products that it can obtain in 
the habitat which it occupies. Animals that do not use the same food 
or are not antagonistic, because one does not prey upon the other, 
can occupy the same areas or overlapping areas, so that ecological 
niches do not have definite, clearly defined boundaries, but are rather 
areas or space spheres of activity having also a time component. The 
structure of the animal to a large extent governs the type of ecological 
niche that it may occupy, since through evolution the animal's form 
has been modified to adapt it to the type of ecological niche that has 
been available to its long line of ancestors down to itself. Thus we 
can to some extent explain and understand the great variety of forms 
of animal life. 

We might consider two little creatures of approximately the same 
size which occupy different ecological niches and are very different 
in structure, and see how they fit into their respective spheres. These 
are golden hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) and "flying" squirrels 
(Glaucomys volans). 

The golden hamster of Syria averages about 4 ounces in weight, 
with a maximum of about 8 ounces. It is a stout-bodied, short-necked, 
short-armed, and short-legged little mammal with short fingers and 
toes and a tail only about half an inch in length. It has very large 
cheek pouches that open inside the lips and extend far back of the 
shoulders, in which it can carry surprising loads of food or nest mate- 
rial. It is rich golden-reddish brown above and white beneath, with 
white hands and feet. The little creature is an inhabitant of an arid, 
rocky region where it lives mainly among rocks or in burrows in the 
ground around the rocks. Syria's climatic conditions result in a 
scarcity of food material for such little creatures for long periods of 
time ; therefore, the storage of food is necessary and the cheek pouches 
are of great value in carrying food to its burrow or den. It works 
industriously at this, apparently the only limit to the amount of food 
it carries being determined by the amount that is available. 

They are relatively slow-moving, clumsy little creatures in com- 
parison with many other animals that we know, but are obviously 
well adapted to leading their lives in an efficient manner in their 
habitat. Their movements remind one of military tanks in that they 
are slow, ponderous, and persistent. There is nothing sprightly or 
agile about them, but if they want to go in a certain direction or up a 
certain surface they keep at it so persistently that frequently they 
succeed, and they can wedge themselves through surprisingly small 
crevices. They display remarkable persistence and determination to 
get into crevices that would seem to be so small and uncomfortable as 
not to be attractive to them. 

The mouths of rodents are definitely on the underpart of the head 
and back of the nose, making it diflacult for them to cut upward when 

866591—50 18 



264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

in their normal position. The animals solve this problem very 
readily, however, by throwing themselves on the back or side and 
cutting upward with their teeth. A picture of such an effort is shown 
in which my "Shehammy" has thrown herself on her back and is 
trying to cut upward on the lower edge of a door so that she can 
squeeze through the crack between it and the floor (pi. 1, fig. 1). 
This aperture was only seven-eighths of an inch high and, when she 
tried to force her way through it standing on her feet, she was much 
too thick and her body was much too tense, but in the inverted posi- 
tion she extended her arms forward so that she was able to get a grasp 
on the lower edge of the door and pull herself through the crevice, 
which she did repeatedly. This "hammy," one of my pets, did it 
regularly, and I have seen other rodents do it occasionally. 

Frequently one of my golden hamsters, when permitted to run 
about my study in the evening, would clamber up in the crack between 
a bookcase and the wall a foot or more above the floor and stay there 
for a considerable time. She usually rested by bracing her feet 
against the wall and her back against the bookcase and apparently 
was content to stay in that position. This suggests to me that these 
animals adopt such a position as a means of being comfortable in 
fissures between the rocks among which they live. 

When hamsters want to get down from an elevation that they have 
reached, they apparently do not think of jumping down even a few 
inches, but lower themselves as far as possible with the hind feet, 
sustaining themselves by the top of the hind feet, which are bent at the 
ankle. Next they release one foot and then the other and fall head 
downward, usually landing on their noses, but sometimes on their 
backs (pi. 2). They then sit up, sneeze, rub their noses, and go about 
their business. It will be noted that they do not utilize their hind 
claws or toes which are too small to be effective. This method, 
while probably a relatively inefficient action, has persisted because 
it is not seriously harmful in the circumstances under which they 
live, and is the best they can do with their short fingers and toes 
which are not of much use to them for such descents. 

At night, when foraging for food, hamsters apparently spend very 
little time eating, preferring to fill their pouches, take the load of food 
home, and return for more (pi. 1, fig. 2). In this way they gather 
food when it is available and eat at leisure in their nests without 
being exposed to danger. During the daytime, their sleeping period, 
they frequently wake up and eat, probably consuming much more 
food at this time than during the night when they are actively foraging, 
grooming, exploring, or visiting their neighbors. 

When "hammies" are away from their homes or other shelter and 
there is a sudden alarm, they dash for shelter with surprising speed for 
little folk with short legs but if they are touched or attacked before 



ANIMAL BEHAVIOR — ERNEST P. WALKER 265 

they can get away, they throw themselves on their backs incredibly 
quickly and are prepared to fight savagely with their sharp, fairly 
strong teeth and tiny claws. If they are in their nests, they pay little 
attention to outside disturbances, at most sniffing from just inside the 
doorway. 

Baby "hammies" arrive in litters of as many as 17, tiny, blind, 
naked, pink, helpless little fellows that lie on their backs and nurse 
while mother "hammy" hovers over them to keep them warm in the 
snug cup-shaped nest of fibers she has constructed in a remote portion 
of the burrow or den. The little ones grow very rapidly, and by the 
thirteenth day they have a good coat of fur, are eating solid food, and 
begin wandering about in the burrow, den, or cage. Even though 
their eyes are not yet open, they find their way back to the nest if 
mother has not detected their absence and carried them home. By 
the fifteenth day their eyes are open, and by the seventy-third day they 
produce babies of their own. They bear large families in rapid suc- 
cession but cease to breed regularly when about 1 year old, and the 
life span is short (probably a maximum of about 3 years). There is 
a high mortality rate, probably throughout life. 

The structure and lives of the flying squirrels (Glaucomys volaris) of 
North America are in marked contrast to those of the hamster. 
Flying squirrels weigh about 3 ounces, have slender bodies, long, 
slender, strong arms, fingers, legs, and toes with fairly long, curved 
claws, and a rather long tail. The skin of the body is much larger than 
is necessary to enclose the delicate little form and is extended outward 
along the side as hair-covered membrane indistinguishable from the 
skin of the body. This skin reaches down to the wrists and ankles, 
so their outline is almost square when the little creatures put their 
arms forward and out and their legs back and out as they do while 
gliding through the air. This adaptation more than doubles the area 
of the upper and lower surfaces as it appears when the animals are at 
rest. In keeping with this form, the hairs of the sides of the tail are 
long, and closely set, and project at almost right angles, whereas those 
of the upper and lower surfaces are very short and lie close to the bone 
of the tail, so that the tail is, in cross section, almost like a feather. 
All these are modifications for life in an entirely different habitat from 
that of the hamster. 

Flying squirrels live among the trees, generally making their nests 
in hollow limbs, old woodpecker holes, or other shelters high above 
the ground. They are strictly nocturnal, having very large eyes 
adapted to admitting the maximum light available. They are not 
limited in their movements to climbing up and down the trees or to 
mere leaping between objects, for their remarkable form gives them 
power to glide long distances. To do this they seek an elevated point, 
leap out into space and spread their arms and legs so that they take 



266 .\NNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

on the form of miniature gliders (pi. 4, fig. 1). When approaching a 
landing, v>^hich they generally try to make on a tree or other object 
not on the ground, they swing slightly upward to check the ghde and 
bring their long arms and legs forward as shock absorbers (pi. 4, 
fig. 2). Instantly upon alighting they dart around to the other side 
of the tree or limb, which is probably a provision to escape any 
enemy that might be following them. 

Before flying squirrels take off on a glide they almost invariably 
sway the head and body as far as possible first to one side then the 
other, repeated several times, and often raise as high as they can 
stand and crouch as low as possible. This is probably a sort of range 
finding by triangulation. 

They feed very largely on nuts and acorns which they gather and 
store in their nests and probably in almost any location in the forest 
in which they can find a cavity that is large enough to hold a nut 
securely. I assume this from the fact that my pets regularly place 
nuts at many places about the house other than in their nest box. 
They particularly selected the top of the window, the medicine cabinet 
in the bathroom, my hand, my pockets, inside my collar, and even 
the depression between my arm and body when I have my arm close 
to my body. When placing nuts, they have an interesting habit of 
trying to make them secure wherever they are leaving them. They 
force them into the crevice or onto the surface where they are leaving 
them, then tap them three or four times with their front teeth. This 
suggests that they probably similarly try to wedge the nuts in cracks 
in the bark or slight depressions on the tops of tree limbs in the wild. 

In addition to nuts and seeds, they eat some fruits, berries, and 
insects. My pets eat mealworms, grasshoppers, and smaU bits of 
meat in moderation. 

"Glauckies" (short for their scientific name) are very hesitant 
about going down to the ground, feeling much more at home leaping 
about in the trees, gliding from place to place; however, they will go 
down on occasion. When they do so, they are plainly not at home 
and run with the arms and legs extended so as to hold the body as 
high above the ground as possible, the gliding membrane being 
pulled upward close to the body so that a very pecuUar effect is 
produced. 

Instead of sleeping soundly and ignoring disturbances in their 
neighborhood, as do the hammies and many other burrowing creatures 
who know they are safest in their dens, the flying squirrels sleep 
lightly and at the least disturbance in their neighborhood they peer 
out or dash away. 

"Glauckies" are born in families of two to six pinlc, helpless little 
ones, with the gliding membranes plainly evident. They develop 



ANIMAL BEHAVIOR — ERNEST P. WALKER 267 

slowly, are not well clothed in fur until about the twenty-eighth day, 
and continue nursing until about the fifty-sixth day. In recognition 
of the dangers of an active life in trees, they, like young tree squirrels 
(Sciurus), start out exploring near the nest with great caution, and 
venture farther and take more chances only as they gain strength, 
experience, and confidence. Their gestation period is about 60 days 
and young are born when the parents are about 1 year old. 

These brief descriptions of the widely different hamsters and flying 
squirrels, which inhabit very different ecological niches, give a glimpse 
of the specialization among animals which enables them to survive 
and to lead their lives under diverse conditions. 

Giraffes (Giraffa) have developed such a high degree of specializa- 
tion that they are able to fill an ecological niche Mathout competition 
with other mammals except in those portions of theu' range which 
overlap that of the elephants. Much of the food of the giraffe is 
taken from the upper portions of shi'ubs or from the lower branches 
of trees far above the reach of most mammals. In addition to its long 
legs and very long neck, the giraffe has elongate, mobile lips and can 
extend its tongue several inches to help it gather in leaves and twigs. 

The moles {Scaloyus and other genera), which burrow in the earth, 
are blind, have exceedingly short forelimbs, with nose and tail very 
sensitive to touch, large, powerful hands armed with long, strong 
claws, and very strong muscles in the fore part of the body, particularly 
those associated with the arms. The fur is very soft and short and 
wiU lie in any direction; thus it does not impede the mole when it 
desires to run backward in its burrow, which it often does. Moles 
feed on earthworms, grubs, and other small animal life they catch in 
the earth. (See pi. 5, fig. 2.) 

In marked contrast are the gibbons (Hylobates and Symphalangus) , 
highly specialized members of the primate or monlvey group. Their 
arms are exceedingly long and powerful, with elongate hands and four 
strong fingers, the thumb being small and situated far back on the 
hand. The legs are rather long, and the feet are better fitted for 
grasping than are the hands. The body is small. These adaptations 
enable gibbons to be the most expert of all mammals in swinging by 
their arms through the forest from branch to branch and even from 
tree to tree. In this process the hands are used as hooks, the thumb 
taking no part in grasping. Since the hands are usually occupied 
when traveling through the trees, gibbons carry objects such as food 
or branches by grasping them with the feet. The same method of 
carrying objects is used by chimpanzees (Pan) and orangutangs 
(Pongo) . 

Whereas the gibbons, chimpanzees, gorillas (Gorilla), and orang- 
utangs lack tails, the spider monkeys (Ateles) of Central and South 



268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

America possess long, prehensile tails which they use in many 
ways, especially to hang by or to use as a supplementary hand 
in steadying themselves. In the picture (pi. 11) it will be seen that 
one of the animals is using its tail to hold itself while it leans far 
forward. On one occasion 1 saw seven spider monkeys in this group 
leaning forward, held by their tails, watching for the door to open so 
they could go into the house for their afternoon meal. 

Some rodents have large, powerful incisor teeth that protrude 
much more than those of the majority of rodents, and one naturally 
surmises that this trait is associated with some habit peculiar to them, 
which indeed it is. The animals possessing such teeth use them in 
burrowing; that is, they cut away the earth, remove small stones, 
and cut roots, thus performing most of the functions that the powerful 
hands of the mole perform and, in addition, do the cutting work 
which the mole's hands cannot do. Some other rodents, and many 
of the insectivores also, have projecting incisor teeth, but these are 
relatively small and slender and are obiously not suitable for such 
heavy work as digging, moving small stones, or cutting. These are 
used as forceps for the picking up of food, which consists mainly of 
small fish, insects, or worms. 

Such animals as the kangaroos (Macropus), the kangaroo rats 
(Dipodomys), the African spring hare or spring hass (Pedetes), the 
jerboas (Alactaga, Scarturus, Salpingotus) and others have large, 
long, powerful hind legs, relatively small, weak, short forelegs, and 
long tails which are either tufted with long hairs near the tip or are 
rather heavy, often very thick near the base (pi. 5, fig. 1). These 
animals are leapers and use the hind legs almost exclusively in propul- 
sion. The tail is a balancing member; it also acts as a tripod leg 
in some forms. 

The types of leaps of different animals vary greatly. One interest- 
ing difference is the contrast between the leap of the flying squu-rel, 
an animal that leaps directly toward its objective with a very flat 
trajectory, often planning to land below its target and then climb 
up to it, and the leap of the tarsier {Ta?-sisus) which has a very high 
trajectory and lands the leaper at its objective. After becoming 
accustomed to photographing the leaps of flying squirrels, I tried 
photographing tarsiers leaping and aimed my camera as I would 
for the squirrels. "With the pronounced leap upward of the tarsier, 
I at first caught only the tail and hind portion of the animal in the 
upper portion of the picture. After a few such experiences I learned 
the difference in their leaps and corrected my aim accordingly. 

The list of such highly specialized forms could be expanded indefi- 
nitely to include representatives of all groups of animal life, for 
every animal is specialized to lead a certain type of life. 



ANIMAL BEHAVIOR — ERNEST P. WALKER 269 

CLEANLINESS 

Almost all animals are fastidiously cleanly about their persons and 
their homes. Because of the fact that many animals live on or in 
the ground or on trees or other surfaces that frequently are dirty 
according to our standards, we often erroneously consider the animals 
to be uncleanly. As a matter of fact, practically every animal takes 
great pains to avoid soiling its coat, and when it does unavoidably 
become soiled, the animal at the fii*st opportunity painstakingly cleans 
itself by shaking, rolling in the sand, washing in water, or licldng itself. 
Even those pests, the common Norway rat, roof rat, and house mouse, 
which have found that they can obtain food and shelter in man's 
filthy surroundings, endeavor to keep themselves clean. If they are 
observed when not alarmed, it will be seen that they carefully pick 
their way through their surroundings in an effort to avoid soiling 
themselves, and after they have finished their exploration they will 
invariably be seen to groom carefully. If one will part the fur of 
small mammals it wiU be seen that the skin is generally immaculately 
clean. 

A star-nosed mole (Condylura cristata) that I am keeping as a pet 
comes out of the ground, goes into a dish of water and at once begins 
grooming. In a few minutes it has washed thoroughly. 

Animals have developed many ways for keeping themselves and 
their nests clean. Apparently flying squirrels rarely void excreta 
during their entire sleeping period, which may be as much as 16 hours. 
Obviously they wish to keep the inside of the tree or other nest loca- 
tion clean, so wait until they go out at night when they can see 
clearly and there is a minimum of danger from outside enemies. 
Many of the burrowing mammals have little toilet rooms that open 
off of the main burrow where they deposit their excrement, thus keep- 
ing the main burrow clean. Young North American opossums 
(Didelphis virginiana) of an age to be in the pouch or still be clinging 
to their mother apparently do not release their excretion unless they 
are stroked on the lower abdominal region. This is probably a pro- 
vision for keeping the pouch clean until such time as the mother is 
ready to clean the httle ones. 

POSTURES 

The new-born babies of many of the small mammals naturally lie on 
their backs. This leaves them in the proper position for nursing 
when the mother hovers over them, protecting them, hiding them, 
and keeping them warm. 

Most hoofed animals do not voluntarily sit on their haunches. A 
horse assumes this position briefly when getting up, but this does not 
constitute true sitting. The exceptions to the rule are the tapirs, 



270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

which frequently sit on their haunches with the forefeet supporting 
the front part of the body (pi. 14, fig. 2). 

A position that would appear to us to be uncomfortable is regularly 
adopted by flying squirrels, which normally live in hollow trees. The 
body hangs in a vertical position, either head up or head down, sus- 
pended by the fingers or the toes, most of the load actually being on 
the fingernails or the toenails (pi. 3, fig. 1). They sleep in such poses 
at least a portion of the time. The hanging position is probably 
assumed as the result of having accommodated themselves to situations 
where there is no satisfactory ledge or bottom in the den, so that a 
tree cavity that would otherwise be unsuitable can be utilized by 
clinging to its rough surfaces. However, they now take this pose 
freely even when comfortable nests or rests are available. Of course, 
they also take other positions such as curled up in a ball or lying on 
the side or the back. 

The inverted position so often used by sloths (Choloepus, Bradypus, 

and Scaeophus), wherein they hang beneath a limb, is well known and 

is entirely suitable for their purposes. Bats generally hang head 

downward. 

HOMING INSTINCT 

When an animal has become established at a given location, it 
almost invariably develops a strong attachment for its home even 
though such home does not provide entirely satisfactory quarters. 
Almost every animal has a rather definite area in which it lives its 
entire life, and it rarely leaves this range except when forced to do so 
by very unusual circumstances. This is commonly shown when 
captive animals escape, for they usually remain nearby for some time 
and frequently go back into the cages if they are able to do so. People 
who are familiar with animals regularly take advantage of this trait 
by leaving the cage door open, refraining from frightening the animal, 
and placing food in the cage or nearby until the animal is recaptured. 

On one occasion I was keeping a specimen of the least short-tailed 
shrew (Cryptotis parva) in a jardiniere. I had observed it trying to 
leap out, but it is not adapted to leaping and was apparently unable 
to reach the top. After a few days I discovered that it had escaped 
during the night probably by superior jumping gained by persistent 
exercise. It was so tiny that it was useless to search for it in the 
house, so I waited until evening and then placed the jardiniere on the 
floor almost directly below the place at which it had been standing on 
my desk. I crumpled around it an old blanket so that it formed a 
ramp or runway from the floor up to the top of the jardiniere. I then 
mashed a mealworm and dragged particles of it in a trail on the 
blanket from where it touched the floor to the top of the jardiniere. 
Within a couple of hours the little fellow was back in his home. 



ANIMAL BEHAVIOR — ERNEST P. WALKER 271 

Plainly he had come to recognize the jardiniere as home and was glad 
to get back to it when it was made possible for him to do so. 

Remarkable developments of the trait of returning to the home 
range are shown by carrier pigeons (Columba), and birds, mammals, 
and fish that migrate. 

SELF-PRESERVATION 

Humans ordinarily give little thought to the matter of self-preserva- 
tion, although it becomes a vital subject during wartime. Among 
other animals it is ever foremost. In its broadest aspects self-preserva- 
tion involves not only active and passive resistance to enemies, but 
also the ability to obtain food and shelter. Humans have recently 
had brought to their attention the fact that they, like other animals, 
must either be prepared to defend themselves or run away when an 
aggressor attacks or threatens. If there is no place to which they can 
escape, or if they cannot successfully fight off their enemy, they have 
only the alternatives of being subjugated and made slaves, as some- 
times happens among humans, or of being destroyed, which in the 
case of animals may mean being devoured. 

There are very few animals that are aggressive to the extent of 
trying to drive away or subjugate their neighbors merely for the 
pleasure of the victory. Ordinarily, they will start a fight only when 
it is necessary to obtain food, shelter, or a mate. 

The methods used by animals to avoid, escape, or defeat an enemy 
are almost as numerous as the species of animals, for the individuals 
of every species employ one or more methods. All are interesting 
and some are very remarkable. 

The seeking of shelter is the most common of passive defensive 
measures and is practiced to a greater or less degree by all animals. 
Some go into burrows in the ground, crevices in rocks, or holes in 
trees, while some of the larger ones retreat into dense jungles or 
forests. 

"Freezing," the act of remaining motionless, is extensively employed, 
as at the first intimation of danger almost every animal ceases prac- 
tically ail movement. Since an object which is very conspicuous 
when moving is readily overlooked when stationary, "freezing" is a 
highly successful means of avoiding detection by enemies. Even 
those that depend mainly on their ability to scent their prey may 
have difficulty locating it if they cannot see it. 

Rabbits and hares (Leporidae), quail (Colinus), and grouse (Tetra- 
onidae), when perfectly still in their native haunts, are very difficult 
to see, and often will not move unless one almost steps on them. 
This method of escape is applicable in almost any type of surrounding, 
even on seemingly barren plains or expanses of snow. It is most 
effective, of course, if the color pattern of the animal is such that it 



272 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 9 

harmonizes and blends with the surroundings or if the outHne of the 
animal is obliterated by some type of camouflage. Most animals are 
so colored that they blend perfectly with their surroundings, some, 
such as the ptarmigan {Lagopus), certain hares (Lepus), and weasels 
or ermine (Mustela), even changing to white in winter to blend with 
the snow. 

Among insects, camouflage and mimicry have been developed to a 
high degree of perfection in many species. Some resemble their 
natural surroundings so closely that they are diflicult to distingusih 
even though one is looking directly at them. Resemblance to dead 
or green leaves or stems is the most common camouflage, the pattern 
and form of the insect being modified to a strikingly perfect imitation 
of the color and form of those parts of the plant on which the insect 
usuafly lives. In the type of specialization known as mimicry, one 
species of insect very closely resembles and usuaUy behaves like 
another which is distasteful or dangerous to animals. By this 
resemblance the imitator is often let alone by an animal that mistakes 
it for the undesirable insect which it resembles. 

When it is not possible to avoid an enemy, some animals use a more 
or less passive method which is well illustrated by the armadillos 
(Dasypus, Tolypeutes, and related genera) which roll themselves into 
a ball, completely protecting the feet, tail, and head within the armor 
plate of the body (pi. 6, figs. 1 and 2). This method effectively 
baffles many animals that would ordinarily devour them, and when 
the would-be attacker becomes discouraged and leaves, the armadillo 
unrolls itself and goes about its business. Another method is the 
feigning of death, which is well illustrated by the American opossum 
which, when alarmed, falls on its side with the mouth partially opened 
and appears so limp and inert that it is often left for dead by animals 
that would vigorously attack if they surmised the animal to be alive. 
Apparently opossums are unpalatable to many animals, so that this 
means of protection is very effective. When danger ceases to threaten, 
the opossum gradually resumes activity, but if the attacker is merely 
waiting nearby and makes a movement, the opossum will usuaUy 
again go into its death-feigning act. It is supposed that this behavior 
is a type of fainting induced by fright and is perhaps not actually 
under the control of the animal. When the hog-nosed snake of the 
eastern United States, frequently called spreading adder (Heterodon), 
feels itself in danger, it feigns death, throws itself on its back, and 
assumes various grotesque poses if it is seriously aggravated. It does 
not, however, do this unless the annoyance is great and continued. 
Many insects feign death when a disturbance occurs in their vicinity. 
This is illustrated by the many beetles that inhabit low shrubbery, 
which drop from their elevated locations to the ground and remain 
quiet or quickly take refuge in a more protected location. 



ANIMAL BEHAVIOR — ERNEST P. WALKER 273 

One of the most remarkable modifications of feigning death of 
which I have heard was witnessed and described to me as follows by 
John N. Hamlet, of the United States Fish and Wildhfe Service: 

Three of us recently saw a Cooper's hawk (Accipiter cooperi) chase a spotted sand- 
piper {Actitis macularia). The piper dropped into the water and stayed under for 
several seconds. The Cooper's lit on the stream edge a few yards down the 
stream. The sandpiper came to the surface and floated down the stream with 
its wings open flat on the water and its neck stretched out. It passed within 3 
feet of the hawk who gave it no more than a casual glance. The piper floated 
down stream about 20 yards and took off and disappeared. 

The live sandpiper drifted close by the hawk but was not recognized 
because it was not moving in its usual pose. This is a choice example 
of the effectiveness of "freezing" and assuming an unusual pose. 
Mr. Hamlet has witnessed similar action by sandpipers on two other 
occasions. 

Bluff is another effective defense that is employed by many animals. 
Its best form is for the animal to face its enemy in a pose not usually 
assumed by it and that makes it appear as large as possible, ferocious, 
and threatening. Many, if not all, of the owls (Strigiformes) bluff 
by crouching low, spreading their wings at almost right angles to the 
body and ruffling the body feathers until the bird appears several 
times larger than it really is. The bittern does likewise, and most 
mammals bluff to some degree. A good example is the dwarf weasel 
(Mustela rixosa campestris) , only about the size of a cigar, who stands 
his ground, opens his mouth wide, barks, and even attacks if need be, 
although its teeth and jaws are so small it can scarcely break the 
skin of one's hand. The domestic cat's (Felif cattus) high-arched 
back, bushed-out tail, and wide-open, snarling mouth present a good 
example, and many of us have witnessed the hestitation of a dog 
suddenly confronted by such an attitude. Often this hesitation 
gives the cat an opportunity to escape without having to fight. 

Fighting for mates is definitely beneficial to the species, for by 
nature's law of the survival of the fittest, which must prevail through 
all species, only those survive that are best able to take care of them- 
selves. This, taken in its broadest sense, includes not only physical 
strength but mental alertness and adaptability to varying and new 
conditions. Males that are physical weaklings and would not father 
vigorous offspring are ordinarily vanquished in encounters for mates 
and therefore leave no progeny. By this process nature has consist- 
ently eliminated the unfit and has improved each of the species. 
The occasional maiming of individuals in their conflicts is not in 
itself injurious to the species, as such mutflations are not inherited 
and, if the parent was vigorous, the progeny stand excellent chances 
of being vigorous even though the parent may have been injured in 
some of its conflicts. 



274 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Among animals that live in colonies or in herds, conflicts are gen- 
erally rare except among males that are fighting to determine who 
shall be master of the herd, as in the case of bison. However, on one 
occasion I witnessed a definite fight in a prairie dog (Cynomys) colony. 
In this case the aggressor was outside of the burrow and trying to 
keep another one in the burrow and, at the same time, to fiU the 
burrow with dirt to bury him. Several others were within a few 
feet watching the proceedings but taking no part in it although it 
was obvious that they sympathized with the "underdog." Whenever 
the one that was in the burrow would attempt to come out, the one 
that was outside would try to bite and scratch him, and, when he had 
him forced back into the burrow, would scratch and push earth into 
the entrance. Finally, after perhaps 20 minutes, he lost interest and 
left. The bystanders almost immediately went to the burrow, greeted 
and apparently sympathized with the one that had been attacked, 
and in a few minutes the normal life of the colony had been resumed. 
This method of fighting by trying to imprison the victim is also used 
by prairie dogs in closing the entrance to the burrow which a snake 

has entered. 

ADAPTABILITY 

The readiness with which animals accept approaches or friendliness 
of man varies greatly. Some seem to be so thoroughly imbued with 
caution and suspicion of man's intentions that they can be tamed 
only with the greatest of effort. Others respond almost immediately 
to handling and friendly treatment. Examples of the latter are the 
gray foxes of the United States (Urocyon) which tame very readily 
and in marked contrast to the general wariness and slow taming of 
the red foxes (Vulpes). The beaver (Castor) is another animal that 
tames easily, sometimes merely a few hours of kind treatment being 
sufficient to win its confidence. Young hair seals (Phoca) also tame 
almost immediately when captured. Usually they seem to have no 
fear when picked up, looking to their captors as friends and becoming 
affectionate pets, sometimes swimming after a boat that is leaving 
them behind after its occupants have picked them up and petted 
them briefly. 

Penguins are fearless and very curious as to visitors on land or on 
the ice or snow where they normally have few or no enemies, but in 
the water they are cautious as there they are accustomed to watching 
for enemies such as killer whales (Orca) , sea leopards (Hydrurga) , and 
large fish. 

Another phase of the adaptability of animals is the degree to which 
wild animals can survive where man has established himself. Most 
of them appear to have no fear of man's presence and his activities 
so long as they are not actually molested and their haunts and food 



ANIMAL BEHAVIOR — ERNEST P. WALKER 275 

supply are not destroyed. We can see numerous examples of animals 
that have gone ahead fairly successfully with their lives when man 
has not interfered too much with conditions essential for them to live. 

Another group consists of animals that thrive in close proximity to 
man and either become a part of man's household and receive his 
direct aid in their existence, or adapt themselves to the conditions 
that man provides and obtain food and shelter in spite of his utmost 
efforts to control them. In this group are the Old World rats (Rattus) 
and mice (Mus) that have become estabHshed almost throughout the 
world wherever man has made settlements. Other examples are the 
European house sparrow (Passer domesticus) , commonly called English 
sparrow in the United States, and the European starling (Sturnus 
vulgaris) both of which have become firmly and widely established in 
North America. These two birds, like the rats and mice, have be- 
come pests in some regions where they have adapted themselves to a 
remarkable degree and have become very plentiful. They have found 
sufficient food and shelter around man's activities so that they have 
thrived where other less adaptable forms have not been able to sur- 
vive. Indeed, in many cases they fight the native birds and take 
over the ecological niches normally occupied by the local birds that 
are less adaptable and aggressive and have not been successful in 
defending their territory. 

It is sometimes said that there is a third group of animals comprising 
those that cannot tolerate proximity to man but, if we study the 
problem, we usually find that man's activities so changed conditions 
essential to them for food or shelter that they could not survive, or 
else that man intentionally killed them off. 

Most animals, if given to understand that man will not harm them, 
will become tame, and if man will feed them it is surprising how 
friendly even very wUd kinds will become. I have a pet big brown 
bat (Eptesicus juscus) that in a few days became so tame it would 
return to me after each of its flights about the room (pi. 13, fig. 2). 
Even when I awaken her she makes some effort to overcome her 
stupor and come into my hand to be warmed preliminary to taking 
her evening flights and receiving mealworms, of which she is very 
fond.^ 

Chipmunks (Tamias) that have been tame during the summer or 
fall, then go into partial or complete hibernation and are inactive 
for a period of from 5 to 6 months, come out in the springtime and 
resume their friendships and friendliness practically as though they 
have not been interrupted. One individual that came in the window 
onto my desk and was so tame that I took a picture of it while it was 
on my hand obtaining food, returned the foUowing spring and re- 

' In the Saturday Evening Post for February 4, 1950, is an account of further results of my studies of 
bats. 



276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

sumed our relationship where it had broken off with the beginning 
of bad weather the previous fall. 

Another example of the confidence of wild creatures is the case of 
two flying squirrels that are greatly loved guests in our home. They 
have such fondness for both my wife and myself that they want to 
be with us at every opportunity, even to sleeping in our pockets. 
They leap to us as a means of quick locomotion and for the pleasure 
of the leap and glide (pi. 4, fig. 2). Their behaviour has been treated 
at some length in the National Geographic Magazine for May 1947, 
"Flying Squirrels, Nature's Gliders." 

OBTAINING FOOD 

The obtaining of food is an ever-present problem for all animals. 
With some it is apparently a very simple process; with others it brings 
into play the use of the special structures with which nature has pro- 
vided them. The food-getting habits of practically every animal 
would make an interesting study, but only a few of the widely differ- 
ent methods can be mentioned here. 

The peculiarly shaped bill of the flamingo (Phoenicopterus) , which 
looks as though it had been broken in the middle and the tip bent 
downward, is used in an interesting manner. As will be seen from 
the picture (pi. 7, fig. 1), the bird extends its neck almost straight 
downward, which brings the upper portion of the biU closest to the 
ground. The edge of the bill then scrapes along the ground in very 
shaUow water, and the lower mandible opens and closes rapidly. 
The water thus scooped into the mandible is strained between the fine 
laminations of the upper and lower mandibles and then discharged 
after the minute crustaceans on which the flamingo feeds have been 
strained out. 

Relatives of the flamingo are the swans and other water fowl 
(Anatidae), many of which obtain then- food in fairly shallow water. 
They eat a wide variety of plant and animal material such as seeds, 
green leaves, tubers, fleshy roots, moUusks, and crustaceans, and a few 
of them eat some fish. When the food is not too far below the surface 
of the water, they "tip up" so that they can extend the neck and head 
to the maximum distance below the surface (pi. 7, fig. 2). Others dive 
for their food. 

Herons (Ardeidae) feed mainly on small fish, frogs, and other 
animal life, which they obtain by standing practically motionless in 
the water and waiting for the unwary victim to come within reach. 
They suddenly extend their long necks to a surprising distance and 
catch the prey before it has a chance to dart away. They may stand 
in such a position for hours at a time waiting for their victims to 
approach. 



ANIAIAL BEHAVIOR — ERNEST P. WALKER 277 

A very different method of obtaining food is employed by the birds 
of prey (Falconiformes), which catch their victims by a quick swoop. 
An outstanding example of a bird that employs this method is the 
falcon (Falco), which while soaring or flying almost out of sight will 
detect a bird in flight, or a bird or small mammal on the ground, dive 
from thousands of feet at speeds of as much as 280 miles an hour with 
the wings almost folded but extended just enough to enable it to steer 
itself, and strike and carry off its victim in its talons. In these dives 
the speed of the bird is so great that a whistling sound is produced. 
On one occasion I heard the whistling and an instant later a half-grown 
chicken was struck within about 8 feet of where I was standing, the 
falcon having come down at about a 45° angle over my head. It 
scarcely seems possible that a bird can fly with such speed and accuracy 
as to overtake and capture a startled duck in the air, but the duck 
hawk (Falco peregrinus anatum) does this regularly, providing a 
thrilling demonstration of skill and dexterity. Hunting with falcons 
was a royal sport in the Old World for many centuries and then was 
almost discontinued in Europe. It continued in Asia and is now 
popular again in Europe and the United States, where many different 
kinds of birds of prey are being trained to capture game or lures and 
bring them to the trainer. Among the birds that have been so trained 
are the beautiful, dainty little sparrow hawk {Falco sparverious), 
Cooper's hawk (Accipiter cooperi), duck hawk, the prairie falcon 
(Falco mexicanus) , golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetos), and even the 
barred owl (Strix varia). 

Another and little-known method of obtaining food^is practiced by 
the skimmers (Rynchops nigra), in which the lower mandible is con- 
siderably longer than the upper. Their regular practice in feeding is 
to fly so close over the water that the tip of the lower mandible is in 
the water, and when they come upon fish they merely lower them- 
selves enough so that they can scoop up the fish. 

Practically all woodpeckers (Picidae) feed on insects, most of 
which they capture in their burrows in wood. These birds may often 
be seen going up or down trees, keeping the body often in a vertical 
position by grasping the trunk with the feet and leaning back on 
the stiff tail. Through their keen hearing they detect an insect under 
the bark or in the wood, and then proceed to cut away the bark 
or wood with their beaks until they approach close enough to the in- 
sect or worm so that they can draw it out of its burrow with their 
long-barbed tongues. The work of the woodpeckers in removing 
insects from the wood is far more beneficial than harmful, for if the 
insect is allowed to remain there it may do considerable damage, 
whereas the woodpecker ordinarily works only to excavate wood that 
has already been damaged by the insect, and by removing it prevents 



278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAJST INSTITUTION, 194 9 

further damage. The flickers (Colaptes), members of the woodpecker 
family, have found a less laborious method of obtaining a considerable 
portion of their food — they have learned to eat ants on the ground 
and have taken to feeding extensively on these and other insects in 
addition to what they get from the trees. The California wood- 
pecker (Balanosphyra formicivora hairdi) and its relatives feed to some 
extent on acorns, which are very plentiful in many portions of their 
range, and they have adopted the practice of making holes in the 
bark of trees or in posts in which they place acorns for future use. 
Sometimes a trunk or limb of a tree or post will be studded ;with 
hundreds of acorns, each in its own separate setting which holds it 
securely with the end of the nut projecting slightly from the hole. 

The night hawks (Chordeiles) , whippoorwills (Antrostomus) , swifts 
(Chaetura) , swallows (Hirundo) and their relatives capture practically 
all their food in their very wide capacious mouths while flying. Some 
bu'ds such as the tyrant flycatchers (Tyrannidae) and a few others 
have the habit of sitting on a perch that gives a good view of sm*- 
rounding territory and watching for insects. As these come within 
range, they are captured in the air in a short flight by the bird, which 
then returns to its perch to watch for more. The hummingbirds 
(Trochilidae), as is well known, have a very long beak and tongue 
which they extend into flowers to feed on the nectar and insects that 
they find there. Other small birds known as honey creepers (Co- 
erebidae and Melithreptidae) have a long, sickle-shaped beak which 
they use in obtaining insects, nectar, and fruit pulp and juices. 

Feeding habits among the mammals also vary widely. The langur 
and colobus monkeys (Presbytis and Colohus) feed mainly on the 
leaves of certain trees. Many of the bats, particularly the small ones 
(Microchiroptera) , feed almost exclusively on insects that they cap- 
ture in flight. Some forms are carnivorous, killing other bats and 
small birds and perhaps small mammals. Vampire and false vampire 
bats (Desmodus and Diaemus) lap blood that they obtain from warm- 
blooded animals by cutting off a very thin layer of the skin with their 
razorlike incisor teeth. Other very large bats with a wingspread of 
as much as 4 feet, which inhabit the Tropics, are known as fruit bats 
(Pteropus and related genera) because they feed largely on fruit. 
These bats frequently travel in considerable flocks and move to 
various regions from time to time to find food. 

Most rodents eat mainly plant food such as seeds or nuts, leaves, 
stems, or roots of plants; many, however, also eat some insects and 
small amounts of meat. A few have developed highly specialized 
feeding habits together with specialized teeth and shape of jaws. 
These include the fish-eating rat of South America {Icthyomys) and 
an insectivorous type (Rhynchomys) from Luzon Island in the Philip- 
pines. Nothing has been recorded regarding the habits of this animal, 



Smithsonian Report, 1949.— Ernest P. Walker 



Plate 1 




1. Golden Hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) 

Lying on her back, she is trying to cut ujiward on the lower edge of a door, 
this position she pulled herself through the Ji-inch crack under the door. 



In 








2. Golden Hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) 

The cheek pouches are filled with seeds. The pouch is outlined by a white dotted 

liue. 



Smithsonian Report, 1949.— Ernest P. Walker 



Plate 3 




1. Eastern Flying Squirrel (Glaucomys volans) 
Hanging head downward Ls one of its favorite positions while eating 




2. Eastern Flying Squirrel (Glaucomys volans) 

The flattened tail, long, strong fingers and toes, large eyes, and edge of the gliding 
membrane are clearly shown. 



Smithsonian Report. 1949.— Ernest P. Walker 



P! ATE 4 




1. Eastern Fuying Squirrel (Glaucomys volansj 
A glide as seen from beneath and to one side. 






2. Eastern Flying Squirrel (Glaucomys volans) 

Preparing to alight from a glide. 

The two pictures on this plate were taken with the electronic flash which operates at about 1/5000 of a second. 



Smithsonian Report, 1949.— Ernest P. Walker 



Plate 5 




1. Egyptian Jerboa (Jaculus jaculus) 

A characteristic pose, with the very small arms and hands held close to the throat. 
The hairy pads beneath the feet are protection against hot sand and the abrasive 
action of rough surfaces. 




2. TowNSEND's Mole (Scapanus townsendii) (Museum Skin) 

Showing the broad, powerful forefeet with large, straight claws for digging; the 
long, sensitive, mobile snout; short, sensitive tail; and dense, soft, short, plush- 
like fur. 



Smithsonian Report. 1940 Rrnrst P Wnlk. 



PLATE 6 




1. Three-banded Armadillo (Tolypeutes tricinctus) 

Rolled up as a protection against enemies. The top of the head is the large inset 
portion in the front of the shell; the tail is lying along side of the head. (Photo- 
graph by Joao Moojen.) 




L .— ^a- --.. — 

2. The Back of the Same Animal 
The hinged arrangement of the plates of the back permit it to roll up completely. 



Smithsonian Report, 1949.— Ernest P. Walker 



Plate 7 




f^r 




1. Flamingoes (Phoenicopterus) 
The birds are shown feeding in shallow water, grooming, and resting. 




2. Whistling Swan (Cygnus columbianus) 

"Tipping up" to obtain food from the bottom. In this position these birds can 
reach to a depth of about 45 inches. 



1^ 
o 


cc 




3 C 




T3 ^ 


ra 


03 


o3 


^ 


;-. 


(D 


t. 


bD 


X! 


<u 


O 




T3 


-iJ 


M 




O 




03 OJ op O 

^ ri:: (-,'-5 




Smithsonian Report, 1949. — Ernest P. Walker 



Plate 9 




1. Female South American Opossum (Metachirus nudicaudatus) 

This animal lacks the marsupial pouch. Some of her babies clinging to her 
nipples are to be seen between her hind foot and her tail. (Photograph by 
Joao Moojen.) 




2. FEMALE South American Opossum (Metachirus nudicaudatus) 

Eight baby opossumsare clinging to the n ipples between the hind legs of their mother. 
(Photograph by Joao Moojen.) 




'" S cu " 

03 



^ 



U ^ S 



i ^ 

D 

a. 



p o c 



OJ 



>i fi » bC 






w 



T3 



J CD ^ ^ ■« 

^ +j (« 3 nj 
cji— I o3 O 
•rl ti t> « 

rr -^ OJ S _, 

"=^^ bi)g 

^ a; ^^ O +» 

.^« O M ^ 




Smithsonian Report, 1949.— Ernest P. Walker 



Plate 12 




Plains Least Weasel (Mustela rixosa campestris) 

Upper and middle, in summer coat; lower, in winter coat (this form apparently 
does not become entirely white). This is a very rare form of which practically 
nothing has been recorded, and these may be the only pictures ever taken of 
it. About three-quarters natural size. 



Smithsonian Report, 1949— Ernest P. Walker 



Plate 14 




1. Two-toed Sloth (Chuoepus didacsylus) 

Hanging beneath a limb is its usual pose. The forefeet have two toes 

feet, three toes. 



the hind 




2. Young Malayan Tapir (Acrocodia indica) 
The striped baby coat is being replaced by the solid gray and black of the adult 

coat. Age 3 months. 



Smithsonian Report, 1949. — Ernest P. Walker 



Plate 15 




1. Male Black Australian Swan (Chenopis atrata) 

The bird is attacking a man in defense of the half-grown young in the foreground. 
The female was just to the left outside the picture. 




2. Malayan Porcupines (.acanthion brachyuhum; 
The two anhnals alternate head to tail, in which position they regularly sleep. 



Smithsonian Report, 1949.— Ernest P. Walker 



Plate 16 




1 Six-BANDED Armadillo (Dasypus sexcinctus) 
The animal is on its side asleep. Tliey tremble almost constantly when sleeping. 




2. Thirteen-lined Ground Squirrels rciTELLUs tridecemlineatus) Asleep 

Three rest on the top of their heads, one is lying on its back, and one in the back- 
ground is mainly right side up. 



ANIMAL BEHAVIOR — ERNEST P. WALKER 279 

but we can judge from its structure that it probably eats insects or 
other soft animal food. The food of carnivores, the flesh eaters, is 
rather uniformly flesh or fish, but carnivorous animals frequently pass 
over the principal meaty portions of a carcass to drink the blood 
and eat parts of the viscera, thereby obtaining valuable vitamins. 
Almost invariably the glands or other parts which they eat are known 
to scientific workers as being excellent sources of vitamins. In one 
experiment that was conducted under my direction, we separated 
chicken viscera into its various component parts and then offered 
these to small carnivores. Almost all immediately chose the pancreas, 
which suggests that it is probably a valuable food. Most people 
have witnessed a dog burying a bone and later digging it up and chew- 
ing on it. It is possible that the bacteria of the soil act on the bone 
to make it more palatable and more digestible and possibly to elimin- 
ate any danger of ptomaine poisoning. A few carnivores, such as the 
binturong {Arctictis) and the palm civets (Paradoxurus and related 
genera), have taken to a diet consisting largely of fruit. 

An ingenious method was once demonstrated to me by the West 
African marsh civet or marsh mongoose (Atilix paludinosus) in the 
National Zoological Park. This animal, about the size of a large cat, 
had a remarkable method of breaking bones. He was commonly 
given two pieces of horse ribs 4 inches in length and, when he had 
eaten most of the meat off of them, he would take a piece of bone 
between his forepaws, raise himself up on his hind feet with the hind 
legs well extended and with his forepaws well above the level of his 
head, and then quickly throw the bone down on the cement floor of the 
cage from a height of 2]^ to 3 feet. If he was not satisfied with the 
results of the first throw, he would repeat the process. The pro- 
cedure described suggests that these animals probably use the same 
methods in breaking the shells of mollusks and land crabs on which 
they feed in their native haunts of West Africa. 

The shortest mammal in the Americas and almost the smallest in 
the world is the lesser short-tailed shrew {Cryptotis parva) which 
inhabits the eastern United States. It weighs as much as two dimes, 
less than one-fourth of an ounce, and naturally such a tiny creature 
cannot cope with large antagonists in the usual manner. It normally 
lives in loose soil and leafmold where it feeds on earthworms, insects, 
and a wide variety of small animal life including frogs. Even a 
vigorous earthworm is a difficult creature for the tiny shrew to subdue 
in the usual manner, but earthworms lose their activity within a few 
seconds after the shrew gives them a few light bites; sometimes a 
single nip will suSice. Apparently the saliva carried into the very 
minor injury made by the shrew's teeth is poisonous to the earthworms 
and takes effect very quickly. When the earthworm has become 
quiet the shrew proceeds to devour it, and it may be that this special- 

866591 — 50 19 



280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

ized saliva accelerates digestion. Little is known regarding the 
poisonous bite of these little creatures, but it is apparently similar 
to that of a slightly larger close relative, the short-tailed shrew 
(Blarina) whose saliva is definitely known to be poisonous to many 
small creatures and whose bite on a man's finger is sufiiciently 
poisonous to produce pain extending halfway up the arm with resultant 
irritation lasting as much as a week. Such bites are somewhat com- 
parable to the bites of snakes in which a secretion from specialized 
glands is introduced under the skin of the victim, although these 
shrews do not have specialized teeth or glands that are primarily 
poison producers. 

Among the reptiles, the chamaeleon (Chamaeleonidae) has the 
interesting habit of obtaining the insects on which it feeds almost 
exclusively by suddenly extending its tongue to a distance almost as 
great as the length of its head and body and catching the unwary 
insect with it. The tongue is attached near the front of the mouth 
and folds back into the mouth like that of the frogs and toads, which 
also capture their prey in a similar manner (pi. 10, fig. 2). 

Emil Liers' study of otters (Lutra) in North America have shown 
that these remarkably intelligent and playful animals feed largely on 
crayfish and numerous small invertebrates instead of fish, which they 
have generally been supposed to eat. It is strange that this was not 
discovered long ago, emphasizing the fact that there is still a fertile 
field for research on animal life. 

Through the long period of development of each species, animals 
have learned that in general each individual or pair requires a cer- 
tain amount of territory in which to sustain itself. Other species 
that do not conflict with it will be tolerated in this territory, while 
those that would be competitors may be driven out. Forms of life 
that constitute the food supply are rarely devoured to the point of 
extermination, and animals can therefore ordinarily obtain sufficient 
food within a rather definite territory. Some require but a small 
range for this purpose; others must have an extensive territory and 
move to various parts of it at frequent intervals to obtain the necessary 
food. For example, the wolf (Canis nubilus and related forms), an 
animal that preys on other animal life, usually has a range about 20 
miles in diameter and, except when the female is living at the den 
caring for the young, it traverses this range, generally in large circuits, 
returning to any given portion of the range about once every 2 weeks. 

Seasonal fluctuation in the food supply, such as the migration of 
fishes or the dying off of insects, results in the migration of forms that 
prey upon them to locations in which food can be found. For example, 
insect-eating birds have an abundant supply of food in the Northern 
Hemisphere during the summer but, with the approach of winter, 



ANIMAL BEHAVIOR — ERNEST P. WALKER 281 

insects and fruits become scarce and many of the birds cannot sm-vive. 
By migrating to regions farther south, however, they are able to 
obtain an adequate supply of such food. Some forms that do not 
migrate change theu- feeding habits during the year. During the 
summer when fruit and insects and other animal life are abundant and 
easily obtained, they feed extensively on these elements, and in the 
winter they eat seeds and plant hfe that has matured during the 
summer. Good examples of this are the birds of the sparrow group 
(Fringillidae) , in which the young are fed almost exclusively on insects 
and fruit and the parents eat such food extensively when it is available, 
but during the winter when few insects or fruits are to be had, they 
feed mainly on seeds. Others feed only on certain types of food and 
apparently cannot survive unless they can obtain these particular 
foods. Notable among these are the cross-bills (Loxia), birds of the 
Northern Hemisphere about the size of sparrows with usually some 
bronze, red, or purple markings. They feed on seeds of the spruce, 
hemlock, or pine which they obtain directly from the cones by perch- 
ing on them and reaching under the scales of the cones with their 
peculiar crossed mandibles and extracting the seeds. Such beaks 
are probably well adapted for this purpose but are a serious handicap 
to eating the type of food that most birds consume; therefore these 
birds are erratic in their occurrence in a given range. If there is a 
failure of the seed crop of the spruce, hemlock, or pine, they must 
move to regions in which there is a good crop of seeds on these trees. 

Such sturdy, hardy animals as the American bison {Bison bison) 
and caribou (Rangifer) have extensive ranges that embrace both 
summer and winter forage grounds to which the animals migrate 
seasonally, some making a round trip of several hundred miles each 
year, measured in straight lines. 

We are prone to think of our food selection and handling as being 
superior to that of animals, but after observing the care with which 
animals select the choice morsels and pass over food that they detect 
as being contaminated or not palatable to them, I believe that the 
wild ones probably are far better fed and are better judges of food 
than we are. Studies of the feeding habits of antelopes on the native 
range disclose that in a 14-day period they eat 24 to 30 different kinds 
of vegetation. Possibly some of the material was eaten as many of 
us have taken food during war time, merely for the purpose of survival, 
but obviously they picked and selected foods that they preferred and 
thought were best for them. If one will watch a wild rabbit or almost 
any wild animal, he will see that it constantly and carefully selects 
or rejects food. On many occasions I have endeavored to induce 
animals, either wild or in captivity, to eat food that I had seen them 
pass over. Rarely could I get them to do so, and on one occasion, 



282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

the third time I offered a certain nut to a very friendly wild squirrel, 
it took the nut, opened it, and dropped it, perhaps to show me that 
the nut was not fit to eat. 

TRANSPORTATION OF OBJECTS 

The need of transporting food, nest materials, or young, and occa- 
sionally objects that apparently are taken for ornamental purposes 
or merely because the animal likes them, have been solved in various 
ways. Most animals carry objects in their mouths to some extent, 
just as a dog carries a stick or ball, but there are a number of ways 
in addition to this: for example, some of the Old World monkeys 
{Macaca and others) have cheek pouches that open inside the lips, 
but outside the jaws, in which they are able to store food, which must 
be a great convenience to them when they are trying to obtain their 
share in the presence of other greedy monl^eys. They then grab what- 
ever food they can, put it in their cheek pouches, and eat it at their 
leisure. Monkeys with food in their pouches sometimes look as though 
they had mumps on one or both sides. Internal cheek pouches are 
found in a number of other animals such as the chipmunks (Tamias 
and Eutamias) and hamsters, which use them as shopping bags or 
baskets into which to place food to carry it home to the den where it 
is stored for future use (pi. 1, fig. 2). Another type of cheek pouch is 
the external one which is fur-lined. This is present only in a few 
North American forms such as the pocket gophers (Geomys, Thomomys, 
and related genera) , the pocket mice {Perognathus) and kangaroo rats 
(Dipodomys and Microdipodops) . Their pockets open outside the 
mouth, the skin of the face being folded inward to form the pockets. 
The pockets can be turned inside out to clean them, then pulled back 
into place by a special muscle. The owners of these pockets carry 
food, nest material, and even earth in them. 

We are so accustomed to seeing mother cats carry their kittens 
by grasping the skin at the back of the neck that we commonly think 
of this as being the principal way of carrying young; however, there 
are many other methods. The mother squirrel grasps the skin of 
the baby's abdomen in her lips or teeth so that the little one hangs 
in an inverted position beneath her head, grasping her neck with its 
hands and feet and curling its tail around her neck, thus aiding in 
the carrying and leaving no dangling appendages to interfere with 
mother's hands and feet in her travels through the trees. Baby 
monkeys cling tightly to the mother in most cases, but the white- 
tufted marmoset {Callithrix jacchus) mothers generally carry the 
babies only when nursing them ; the rest of the time the fathers carry 
them (pi. 8, fig. 1). They cling to his long fur and ride on his back or 
under surface and hold on so securely that he can make leaps through 
the trees without dislodging them. Baby gibbons cling to the mother 



ANIMAL BEHAVIOR — ERNEST P. WALKER 283 

on almost any part of her body and frequently take a position around 
her body almost like a belt. 

The Brazilian mammalogist, Joao Moo j en, of the Museu Nacional, 
Brazil, has informed me that the baby of the rare sloth (Scaeophus 
torquatus) clings tightly to the mother and is almost completely hidden 
in her long loose hair. If no danger threatens, it may cling to her 
back, which is frequently the underside; however, if danger threatens, 
it is brought onto her chest or abdomen which is usually her upper 
side or is between her and a tree trunk. In this position it is weU pro- 
tected between the mother and the trunk or branch to which she is 
clinging and is so well hidden in the fur that it can scarcely be seen 
(pl.8, fig. 2). 

We commonly think of the marsupials as always carrying the 
young in the mother's pouch. This is true for many of the forms, 
including the common opossums (Didelphis) of North and South 
America, but there are some marsupials that lack the pouch on the 
abdomen of the mother. In some of these species the young are 
carried or dragged about by the mother as they cling to her nipples. 
Good examples of this type are the small South American mouse 
opossums {Marmosa and allied forms) which range in size from 
about that of a house mouse to that of a common rat. The young 
hang suspended from the mother's nipples which are in a cluster 
between her hind legs, and in this location they are well protected. 
When the young become larger, they are dragged on their backs, 
as the mother walks along the ground. If one becomes detached from 
the nipple, it is lost, for apparently they cannot again attach them- 
selves to the nipples, and the mother appears to make no effort to 
rescue them. The Metachirus pictured with the little ones hanging 
from her nipples had eight babies (pi. 9, fig. 2). 

Rodent babies of a number of different forms in various parts of the 
world also cling to their mother's nipples until they are of good size, 
and when she travels about on the ground or through the trees, they 
dangle or are dragged about on their backs. The North American 
wood rat or pack rat {Neotoma) has this habit, and as many as four 
young, which individually may weigh almost a fourth as much as 
their mother, will be dragged about by her. 

In the Tasmanian "wolf" (Thylacinus), a marsupial, the pouch is 
a fold or shelf of skin on the abdomen between the hind legs which 
opens backward — a sort of rumble seat — and the young are carried 
in this. The best pouch of all is possessed by the kangaroos; they 
carry the babies in a large, deep, baglike fold of the skin of the mother's 
abdomen until they may weigh almost one-fourth as much as the 
mother. When there are no young in this pocket, or when they are 
very little, it is shrunken and drawn up until it is rather small, but 
as the young grows the pouch stretches and can accommodate one 



284 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

young until it is well able to take care of itself. There is a muscle 
around the entrance of this pouch which acts like a draw string and 
constricts the opening until it is very small, preventing foreign objects 
from getting in and the young from tumbling out. 

The very beautiful, graceful kangaroo rat mothers of North America 
lift their babies by grasping them by the back of the neck with their 
lips or teeth. They steady the little ones by holding them with the 
forearms, then hop along on their hind legs. This method of carrying 
the young was observed and photographed by that great naturalist, 
the late Vernon Bailey. 

The North American opossum is said to carry leaves and straw for 
its nest by wrapping the tip of its tail around the material. Some 
doubt exists, however, that this is an established habit, as only a few 
instances have been reported. 

As previously mentioned, gibbons, orangutangs and chimpanzees 
frequently carry objects grasped in their hind feet as well as in their 
hands. On one occasion I saw a chimpanzee pick up a piece of banana 
in one hand, a piece of bread in the other hand, and a head of lettuce 
with one foot. The ability to carry objects in the foot is particularly 
useful to animals that regularly traverse the forest by swinging by 
their arms from limb to limb. An orangutang carried a limb about 
2}^ inches in diameter and 8 feet in length from an outside cage to an 
inside cage in the National Zoological Park, handling it much of the 
time by grasping it with the hind foot (pi. 10, fig. 1). 

A number of the animals that burrow, particularly those that make 
extensive tunnels such as the pocket gophers of North America, the 
mole-rats (Cryptomysjind Bathyergus) of Africa, and the bamboo-rats 
{Rhizomys and related genera) of Asia, push the earth before them, 
placing the hands closeUo the sides of the head and against the earth 
and supplying the motive power for moving the body forward by the 
hind legs. Others scrape earth rearward with the forefeet and then 
send it farther rearward by strokes of the hind feet. This is the most 
common method of those that do not make continuous tunnels. The 
prairie dogs (Cynomys) of North America move a great deal of the 
earth that they use in building mounds by this method, and they also 
push earth before them. 

Beavers carry at least part of the earth or mud they use by holding 
it against the breast with the hands. 

Elephants (Elephas and Loxodontia) pick up objects by encircling 
them with the trunk. 

Apparently both whales (Cetacea) and seals (Pinnipedia) some- 
times hold their young to their sides by means of the flipper. This 
procedure has been observed so rarely and for such brief glimpses that 
little is known of it. Whalers say that a mother whale sometimes 



ANIMAL BEHAVIOR — ERNEST P. WALKER 285 

uses this method to take her baby under water with her out of danger. 
Seals may do it for the same reason. 

Recently my wife and I witnessed a female black individual of the 
gray squirrel of the eastern United States collecting bark fiber for her 
nest. She went onto a dead limb of a tulip tree about 8 feet from our 
window and began loosening a strip of bark about a foot in length. 
Some was torn loose entirely but left hanging by a small strand, other 
parts were not hanging down but were well loosened from the branch. 
I thought at first she was not satisfied with the quality of the bark, 
and I was about ready to offer her advice on how to collect bark 
without wasting so much of it. Finally she began picking up the 
hanging fibers in her mouth, placing them crosswise and tucking the 
ends in so they would not drag and be in her way. When she came 
to the strands that still kept the pieces of bark attached to the limb 
she cut them off. In a few instances she backed up and pulled them 
loose by tugging. I then realized that she did not need any advice 
on how to gather bark with her equipment. She had loosened all the 
bark she needed but left it attached so it would not fall to the ground, 
then when she had enough loosened she began gathering it up. Of 
course she could not have had much loose bark in her mouth and still 
cut more bark loose from the limb with her teeth. As usual she had 
done her work in the most efficient way. 

Many times I have offered my pet "flying" squirrels a tidbit that 
they preferred to the one they were eating. This confronted them 
with a real problem. Their experience through the ages has been not 
to drop food, for it falls to the ground and is ordinarily lost. They 
usually solve the problem by looking for a place in which to cache the 
food they are eating, then come back to me to take what I am offering. 
Likewise I have many times put the same problem or a similar one up 
to the gray squirrels (Sciurus carolinensis) of the eastern United 
States. Most of them try to solve it by attempting to take the second 
morsel without dropping the first. Usually they cannot do this but 
make several attempts and finally finish by sitting nearby to eat the 
first piece and then come for the second, or sometimes they give up 
the attempt and take the first piece home or at some distance to eat, 
then return for the second. When I am giving them peanuts in the 
shells there is often an amusing struggle to get two together in the 
mouth so that they can both be held. Sometimes a squirrel will hug 
the nuts in its arms next to its neck and take a few short hops to get 
away and work on them at its leisure. I saw one old lady squirrel 
develop an ingenious method of solving the problem. After working 
with the nuts for a few seconds on several occasions she sat there and 
shelled one of the nuts, put the kernels in her mouth, then picked up 
the other nut quite easily. Later another learned this method and 



286 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

both squirrels now do it regularly. Having learned the method, they 
usually hesitate after I have given them one nut to see if I will give 
them a second. Why make a trip home with only one nut when they 
can just as well carry two? The second squirrel to learn this is 
younger than the first one and may have observed the older one per- 
form the feat, for as pointed out elsewhere I believe animals learn 
much from observing others of their kind. However I saw the entire 
process of learning to do the act the first time with both of them, and 
thereafter it was a regular procedure to use the new accomplishment. 
Captive love birds (Agapornis) sometimes place straws under the upper 
tail coverts to transport them to the nesting site. 

My wife recently witnessed a novel method of transportation 
adopted by a yellowjacket (Vespula maculifrons) . The bees were 
feeding on and carrying away pieces of raisins put on om* fourth-floor 
window ledge for the birds. Generally they cut off a small piece of a 
raisin and never carried away a whole one, but she saw one bee roll a 
raisin with its head to the edge of the ledge and push it over. When 
the raisin started to fall, the bee followed it a short distance, then came 
back and repeated the process until it had dropped four raisins. My 
wife does not think the raisin was accidentally pushed over, as the 
bee's movements seemed aimed at pushing it to the edge. Perhaps 
the nest was near the building and this bee had discovered an easy 
way of getting raisins to the nest. 

CARING FOR AND TEACHING THE YOUNG 

The type and amount of care and teaching that animal parents 
give the young varies from nothing to a very good education. Any 
consideration of this subject at once raises the question of how much 
the animal does by instinct and how much it learns from its parents 
or others. Of course, no conclusive or complete answer can be given 
to this, but there are many fragments of information that we can piece 
together to give us some light on the subject. Some animal mothers 
never see their young and give them no attention whatever. Among 
these are such animals as most snakes and lizards, which lay eggs that 
are hatched by the heat from the soil or from decaying vegetation, 
and the parent takes no part in their incubation. Exceptions are the 
pythons (Pythonidae) and skinks (Scincidae), which incubate their 
eggs, and the female alligator which stays near the nest to keep away 
intruders that might harm the eggs. However, the mothers take no 
part whatever in caring for or instructing the young. The mound- 
building birds of Australia and New Guinea (Megapodidae) do not 
incubate the eggs or care for the young; the mother lays the eggs in a 
mass of vegetation which she, together with other birds of the same 
species, scrape together, and in which all of them lay their eggs as in a 
sort of communal incubator. 



ANIMAL BEHAVIOR — WALKER 287 

On the other hand many animals, particularly mammals and most 
birds, give a great deal of care to the young and obviously give them 
definite instructions. The bears (Ursus and Euarctos) are well-known 
examples. When mother bear begins leaving the den in the spring, the 
young are left inside and are apparently told to remain there. They 
do not begin coming out for some time — until the mother feels that 
they have developed enough to need a slightly larger world. She 
first permits them to play close to the entrance to the den while she 
stands guard, and later, when they are stronger, she takes them with 
her on foraging expeditions, at which time she tears open decayed 
stumps and logs to expose ants, grubs, mice, and other delicacies. 
Likewise, she turns over stones for animal food that can be found under 
them, digs up roots, and leads the babies where acorns can be found. 
Mother bear is a strict disciplinarian and does not permit the young to 
stray far away. If danger threatens and she feels that for any reason 
she cannot take the young to the den, she often sends them up a tree 
while she stays on the ground not far away. She is usually successful 
in her instructions to them to keep silent, although occasionally a baby 
will become so frightened that it will cry, which often results in its 
being soundly spanked and cuffed for its infraction of her rules. If 
she desires not to send them up a tree but decides to run away, she 
keeps them close to her, and if they are disposed to lag or become 
tired, she will sometimes cuff them along ahead of her, sometimes 
tumbling them end over end so that they will have an incentive to 
keep up with her. TbToughout this entire time, when the young are 
with the mother, observers have seen that it is definitely a training 
period in which the mother shows the young where and how to obtain 
food, what sounds and smells to avoid, and what are apparently safe 
in their haunts. 

Apparently about the same procedure is followed among the foxes 
{Vulpes), wolves and wild dogs (Canis), and wildcats (Felis), for the 
mother leaves the Uttle ones in the den until they are able to begin 
playing about the entrance, where she finally permits them to sun 
themselves and romp and engage in tussles with brothers and sisters, 
gaining strength and agility. She brings them food, over which they 
struggle, and finally she brings live food so that they have the actual 
experience of handling live prey. Among the foxes and wolves, the 
father often participates in bringing food, and both mother and father 
stand guard near the entrance to give the alarm for the young to take 
refuge inside when danger threatens. Usually a short bark or two is 
sufficient to warn the little ones to take shelter. When they are old 
enough and strong enough to venture farther away from the den, the 
mother takes them on hunting expeditions on which they learn to 
catch small prey that is within their strength. On these expeditions 



288 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

they learn to be alert, to beware of danger, to be on the watch for 
prey and how to catch it, and what to avoid. 

Mother deer (Odocoileus), antelope (Antilocapra) , and moose (Alces) 
hide their newly born young and leave them hidden for some days. 
The baby antelopes may be left in plain sight on a grass-clad or very 
sparsely vegetated plain. Baby deer are hidden in the grass or sparse 
shrubbery, and baby moose may be hidden in such places or in slightly 
more dense vegetation. The mother then goes her way to get her 
food and rest, and returns to the little one only to nurse it at intervals 
of several hours. Thus the young are not exposed to the hazards of 
following the mother for the first few days until they have gained 
strength and are able to travel with such speed and endurance that 
they stand a good chance of survival by escaping with her. The mother 
cottontail rabbit (Sylvilagus) scratches out or selects a slight depression 
in the soil and lines it with fur that she plucks from the underside of 
her body. The depression is too small for her to be in it with the 
babies, but she crouches over it, and when the little ones nurse, they 
reach upward or climb up through the soft downy nest to reach her 
nipples. The cottontail nurses her little ones only at rather long in- 
tervals — apparently not at all during the daytime — and as long as 30 
hours are known to elapse between feedings in some instances. When 
danger threatens she dashes away and the enemy usually follows her. 

Mother sea otters (Enhydra), which spend a great deal of time in 
the ocean, lie on their backs much of the time and the babies rest on 
the mother's ventral surface. When she dives for food she leaves the 
little one floating on the surface while she goes to the bottom and 
picks up sea urchins and other food which she brings to the surface 
and eats while lying on her back. 

A mother flying squu-rel that raised her family in my home, has 
given me many glimpses of how she cares for her babies. Flying 
squirrels are, of course, strictly nocturnal and there would be many 
hazards for them in the daytime; therefore I was not surprised to find 
that "Mother Glaucky" carries her babies back into the nest when 
she finds that they have strayed out during the daytime. Perhaps 
she and the tree squirrels teach their babies by demonstration and by 
voice, but I have not been able to detect much evidence of this. The 
young play among themselves about the nest, gradually gaining 
strength and agility and venturing farther from the nest. The 
length of time that baby flying squirrels and baby tree squu-rels are 
weak and uncertain in their movements and are dependent on the 
mother is much greater than is generally supposed. Baby flying 
squirrels do not venture out of the nest until they are about 60 days 
of age and then only to explore in the immediate vicinity of the nest. 
By the seventieth day they are venturing somewhat farther, but their 
muscles are still soft and they have not gained agility or confidence. 



ANIMAL BEHAVIOR — ERNEST P. WALKER 289 

In the wild they would probably not go farther than a few feet in 

their own nest tree. It is not until they are about 90 days old that 

they are ready to assume full activity. Golden hamsters, on the 

other hand, develop very rapidly, and by the thirty-fifth day, although 

not full size, they are apparently on their own in all respects. 

Swans (Cygnus, Chenopis, and Olor) are remarkably good parents 

and keep close watch that their young are protected from enemies. 

The female generally stays in the background and keeps the young 

with her while the male goes out to meet the intruder. If the danger 

is imminent he will approach with a direct rush and make vicious bites 

with his beak and will strike severe blows with his wings. If the 

danger is not imminent but he still feels an intruder might do harm 

he frequently approaches indirectly, that is, comes up to one side of 

the enemy apparently as though to catch it off guard. On one 

occasion while I was sitting very quietly on a rock in the swan yard 

trying to get a picture, the male swan persistently worked around to 

one side of me and when I did not move he finally grabbed my arm 

with his beak and tried to strike me with his wings. As soon as I 

started to move away he was satisfied. In this instance I had been 

trusting to my lack of motion to allay his suspicions, but my efforts 

to "freeze" were not successful. One of the poses of the male black 

Australian swan (Chenopis atrata) threatening an intruder is shown 

in plate 15, figure 1. 

SLEEP 

Generally we think of sleep as a very simple state of inactivity 
which is similar in all animals, but actually the attitudes and types of 
sleep of various animals differ considerably. I think it likely that 
most, if not all, of the mammals that live in burrows well beneath the 
surface of the ground sleep very soundly, as they are comparatively 
free from danger while in their dens. Naturally, my observations of 
this fact have been limited and to my knowledge it has not been 
carefully studied; however, the few creatures of the burrowing type 
that I have been able to study all seem to sleep very soundly. A 
golden hamster can be picked up and handled gently within 30 seconds 
after it has ceased activity and has thro\vn itself down to go to sleep. 
I have similarly handled pocket mice when they were asleep in their 
nests and have found that they were quite difficult to arouse, which is 
in marked contrast to the great alertness of many other forms. 

Animals that live above ground are, of course, subject to a wide 
variety of hazards when they are asleep and must therefore, as it were, 
"sleep with one eye open." This is particularly true of rabbits, most 
birds that sleep in the open and, no doubt, most other creatures that 
are in similar exposed locations. My pet flying squirrels selected a 
laundry bag hanging on a bathroom door for their nest and appear 



290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

not to be disturbed by tbe swinging of the bag, which perhaps simu- 
lates the swaying of the trees in which they would normally live. 
They are, however, distinctly disturbed by vibration produced by 
rubbing the door or the rod on which the bag hangs, which would 
probably remind them of the disturbance made by an enemy climbing 
to their nest in a tree. When thus awakened, they usually react in 
one of two different ways. If sharply startled they are very likely to 
dash out of the nest ready to take off in a glide or run to another, safer 
location; or if the alarm is not so sudden they may merely quickly 
and quietly go to the entrance of the nest and look out to see the 
cause of the disturbance. This behavior is, of course, associated with 
the rather exposed location in which they live, where danger may 
arrive from almost any direction and their best chance for survival 
may be to flee. 

I am inclined to think that the African elephant shrews (Macrosce- 
lides rufescens) sleep with both eyes open instead of only one. I 
have kept some in my den to study them at all hours of the day and 
night, and I have yet to see them with their eyes closed. They are 
invariably sitting upright with their eyes wide open, or at most only 
slightly closed. This trait suggests that they probably sit above 
ground in more or less exposed locations and are perpetually alert 
for danger. 

A wide variety of poses are assumed by animals in sleeping. In 
addition to the well-known attitudes of lying on the ventral surface, 
the back, or the side, a great many curl up in a very compact ball. 
The squirrels and others with bushy tails tuck the head and feet well 
inside and wrap the tail around them so that it actually affords some 
protection and warmth for the back of their necks and their backs. 
In this curled-up position they may lie on the side, but more frequently 
the head and feet are on the underside with the top of the head actually 
resting on the surfaces on which they are sleeping. This is a common 
position among a great many of the rodents. The giant anteater lies 
on its side, curls its head and feet together, and covers itself with 
its very long-haired tail which serves as a blanket and, perhaps in 
the wild, to some extent as camouflage. The sloths sleep hanging 
beneath a limb with the head thrown upward and forward so that it 
rests on the chest, or they may be partially sitting in the fork of a 
tree with the head forward between the upper arms, the tree tnmk, 
and the chest. Some animals sleep standing up. Horses commonly 
do this, and some elephants do much of their sleeping standing. 
Most of the bats sleep hanging head downward, beiug suspended by 
the nails of their hind feet. The red bat (Nycteris), which sleeps 
hanging on a twig in a tree, has an extensive membrane between the 
hind legs which it draws downward so that it serves as a protection 
to the ventral parts of the body. When hanging head downward, 



ANIMAL BEHAVIOR — ERNEST P. WALKER 291 

bats are in a good position to take off for flight, for they are generally 
at an elevated location and have merely to let go with their toes and 
spread their wings to be in full flight. 

I have noticed that the nine-banded, the six-banded, and the hairy 
armadillos (Dasypus and Euphractus) all tremble almost continuously 
in their sleep, particularly when lying on their backs or sides, as they 
often do. This is unique among mammals with which I am ac- 
quainted, but I have no theory to explain it. 

Malayan porcupines {Acanthion hrachyurum) like to sleep side by 
side and have an interesting method of avoiding the spines of another 
that has already lain down. Each succeeding one merely faces in 
the opposite direction from the last one in the row. I have seen as 
many as five lying asleep in such alternating head and tail positions, 
but when I tried to take their pictures in this arrangement I usually 
disturbed some of them, so that I have never been able to photograph 
more than two together (pi. 15, fig. 2). 

The tiny bat parakeets (Loriculus) sleep hanging head downward, 
clinging to the perch by their feet. 

Of all the small mammals I have observed the females are much 
more particular regarding the nest than the males. The females will 
move it about, cut on the nest box, assemble nest material and keep 
it well shaped into a snug nest, whereas most of the males are far less 
particular, usually worldng on the nest only enough for it to be 
passably comfortable. Of course, my wife noticed this before I did 
and pointed out that females have stronger instincts for home main- 
tenance than males. 

Most mammals, when they have the opportunity to awaken natur- 
ally, like to sit and "thinlv," or perhaps just sit, like many people 
who cannot start off "in high gear." Those that I have observed, 
after about half an hour start normal activity. 

Hibernation was discussed briefly in my previous paper on Animal 
Behavior and has been extensively treated in other literature so will 
not be further mentioned herein. 

CONCLUSION 

The better our knowledge of animal habits and behavior, the better 
we are prepared to cope with the problems in connection with animal 
life and the administration of resources in which animals play a part 
of greater or less importance. Biologists are constantly being con- 
fronted with problems of how to control, circumvent, keep away, or 
increase wild life. The problems may be simple or very complex, 
but are always interesting. 

Wildlife administration has become an important branch of national, 
State, and local government work for we have come to realize that 
many of the forms are highly beneficial and should be protected and 



292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

built up to the maximum possible numbers, and that a few are injurious 
and should be controlled. 

As the activities of manlcind are extended, the importance of wildlife 
protection increases correspondingly, for we could not live without 
animal life and the extirmination of any form is a serious loss. Better 
understanding of animals leads to recognition of their value and there- 
fore to more interest in their protection, and the study of animal hfe 
as a profession, as a hobby, or merely through casual observation yields 
much pleasm'e. 

Note. — All photographs are by Ernest P. Walker unless otherwise listed. 



THE BREEDING HABITS OF THE WEAVERBIRDS 
A STUDY IN THE BIOLOGY OF BEHAVIOR PATTERNS 



By Herbert Friedmann 

Curator, Division of Birds, 

U. S. National Museum 



[With 8 plates] 



The Aveaverbirds, as their popular name impHes, are, by and large 
birds noted for the elaborate nests they build — in many cases actually 
weave — out of grasses, straws, rootlets, and other similar materials. 
Included in this family (Ploceidae) are some of the finest, most expert, 
and most famous of all avian architects. In no other single bird 
group of similar status has the habit of nest building been carried to 
greater heights, indeed their only rivals for excellence in this particular 
are some of the hang-nests or troupials of the New World. 

My interest in the weaverbirds began some 30 years ago when I had 
the opportunity of studying the actual weaving methods in captivity 
of one species, the red-billed weaver, Quelea quelea. Not long after- 
ward when I began my studies of parasitic birds I learned that at 
least two species of weavers, and possibly several others, not only 
built no nests at all, but laid their eggs in the occupied nests of other 
kinds of birds to whose care the eggs and the subsequent young were 
left. A few years later, over a year's field work in South and East 
Africa gave me ample opportunity to become familiar with the surpris- 
ing range of aspects the nest-building habit exliibits in this family of 
birds. In this paper it is not my purpose to attempt to describe each 
and every one of these aspects, but to discuss them from the point of 
view of the biological implications they present. The family is a 
large and varied one and contains a great many species (about 275), 
many of which have highly divergent nesting habits, which offer very 
suggestive data to the naturalist concerned with the evolution of 
habits in birds. 

In order to appreciate more adequately the significance of the 
various aspects of the nest-building habit in these birds, and to 
evaluate them more properly in connection with other parts of the 
life histories of birds involved, it is necessary to make a few preliminary 

293 



294 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

general remarks. Birds, as a rule (there are, of course, exceptions), 
go through a fairly definite cycle of behavior patterns during the year, 
and repeat this cycle every year of their adult lives. Very briefly 
stated, the cycle consists, in typical fashion, of the following parts: 
Migration or, in the case of nonmigratory birds such as the weavers, 
the fragmentation, or breaking-up, of "winter," nonbreeding flocks 
into pairs of birds; the establishment of individual breeding territories 
(the extent and definiteness of which vary in different species) ; court- 
ship and mating; nest building; egg laying; incubation; care of the 
young ; and, finally, migration or the return of the individual birds or 
pairs to the "winter" flocks. Each of these parts of the whole cycle 
is subject to great variation, and each may be influenced in its devel- 
opment and expression by its antecedent stages, and each may exert a 
similar influence on its succeeding stages. 

Like any other sequence of events or stages, the undue development 
of any one part may tend to throw out of line one or more of the 
remaining parts. When everything runs smoothly according to 
what may be looked upon as a normal pattern, it is very difficult 
to observe the sequential effects of each part on its successor and it is 
rarely possible to get even vague glimpses or hints of how the per- 
fected whole cycle came to be developed through the ages. It is 
only when something deviates from this normal pattern that we have 
much chance of learning anything of the factors that control or 
influence it. With these general thoughts in mind, it is instructive 
to examine in some detail what has transpired in one family of birds 
with respect to one part of the life cycle, the nest-building habit, 
and, in connection with it, to related portions of the cycle. 

The weaverbirds have been divided into a number of subfamilies 
(the exact number differing in different classifications), which in a 
general way are characterized by different nest-building habits. 
The arboreal, so-called typical weavers (Ploceinae) construct a 
suspended type of woven nest, usually shaped like a ball or a closed 
oval with a lateral or a downward-extending entrance tube or 
"vestibule." Most of the species of this group are colonial, some- 
times as many as 50 or more nests being built in the same tree, and 
often with no others on any of the surrounding trees for considerable 
distances. On the other hand, some species are quite solitary, like 
Reichenow's weaver {Ploceus reichenowi), of which usually only one, 
and apparently never more than two pairs nest on the same tree, and 
in those cases where there are two, only one seems to be breeding at 
a time. The instinct to build is, however, very strong in most members 
of this group as far as known. Thus, Bates (1930, p. 484) noted of the 
hooded weaver {Ploceus cucullatus) in Cameroon that ". . . it seems 
to be a necessity of the birds' nature to be always busy with their 
nest; they will occupy themselves in their spare time with tearing down 



BREEDING HABITS OF WEAVERBIRDS — FRIEDMANN 295 

unused nests, strewing the debris on the ground under the tree . . ." 
Of the spectacled weaver of South Africa (Ploceus ocularius) Roberts 
(1940, pp. 337-338) records that the nest has a protruding entrance 
tube which is usually from 3 to 6 inches in length, but that in several 
instances the nest-building activities of the birds were so great that 
the entrance tubes became extended to a length of 6 feet! One 
nest in the Albany Museum at Grahamstown, recorded by Stark, 
has an entrance "upwards of 8 feet long." It is a well-known occur- 
rence in captivity, such as in zoological parks, for different species 
of weavers, when given quantities of raffia or straw, to weave a vast 
quantity of rather formless masses of compact, densely woven mate- 
rial over the branches in the cage and even over the wire mesh of the 
cage itself. The birds do so equally avidly whether they are in 
breeding or in nonbreeding plumage; in other words, the m'ge to 
build, which in most birds is seasonal and is part of the cyclical 
sequence of behavior patterns, is here extended far beyond its normal 
limits. Furthermore, in at least some of the species of typical weavers 
(many are still very poorly known as far as details of habits are 
concerned), the bulk, if not all, of the actual nest construction is 
done by the males and not by the females. (In most ordinary 
birds the female does most of the nest building.) Thus, in the 
masked weaver {Ploceus velatus mariquensis) Taylor (1946, pp. 
145-155) found that the males did all the nest building, except for 
some of the lining which was put in by the females. When a nest 
is completed the male that built it immediately starts to make another, 
and in one colony a single male wove no fewer than 1 1 completed nests. 
In another species, the Baya weaver of India (Ploceus philippinu^), 
Ali (1931) found that the males were polygamous and that the number 
of mates each was able to get depended on the number of completed 
nests he was able to build for them, the actual courtship and mating 
behavior taking place in or around the newly finished nest. Ali 
writes that in his experience with this species — 

... in the initial stages of an adult nesting colony, no hens are as a rule in evidence, 
and I have been unable to discover their whereabouts during the first few days. 
It would appear that the instinct to breed asserts itself earlier in the adult cocks 
than in the hens, for it is not until the time when the nests have progressed to a 
stage where the egg-chamber is finished or nearly so, that some of the females 
first become physiologically "ripe." They now visit the colony quite obviously 
with the sole object of "prospecting" for laying sites, i. e., to discover if there are 
any nests that are ready for their occupation. . . . Two hens often fight for the 
possession of an acceptable nest. The successful hen henceforward boldly enters 
the nest and busies herself with finishing off and making the interior comfortable. 
In no case have I been able to observe the cooperation between male and female 
so often described. The lion's share of the building — in fact all of it — is undoubt- 
edly done by the cock alone. Her contribution is only the "interior decoration". . . 
The "building mania," as it has been called, that comes over the adult cock at 
this season is a sure indication of his readiness to breed . . . 
866591—50 20 



296 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

While my own field notes are less detailed for any one species of 
weaver than are Ali's on the Baya, I found males of a dozen or more 
related African species actively engaged in nest building. In the 
cases where my notes are fullest (the Cape weaver, Ploceus capensis 
olivaceus, the black-headed weaver, Ploceus nigriceps nigriceps, and 
the Kenya vitelline weaver, Ploceus vitellinus uluensis) my observa- 
tions indicate that the male does most of the nest weaving, if not all 
of it. In some other species (Jackson's weaver, Ploceus jacksoni, and 
the spotted-backed weaver, Ploceus spilonotus) there seemed to be 
more activity among the females in this regard but still the bulk of the 
building was carried on by the males. (It may be that some of the 
"females" were really males in nonbreeding plumage, a point that 
could have been determined only by more collecting at the time. 
That this is not unlikely may be adduced from the fact that in my 
field notes on the masked weaver, Ploceus velatus arundinarius , I 
wrote that the females take part in the nest-building activities, but 
Taylor's careful study of a slightly different subspecies of this bird, 
referred to above, convinced him that the males did all the actual 
construction and that the females merely added or rearranged some 
lining materials. It may well be that the birds I recorded as females 
were males that had not yet come into nuptial plumage.) Chestnut 
weavers {Ploceus rubiginosus) , watched in captivity, showed more 
nest-building activity among males than females. Of Speke's weaver 
(Ploceus spekei) van Someren (1916, p. 409) noted that, "dozens of 
nests are built by the male, but only one is occupied; thus there are 
always plenty of old nests in all stages of completion." 

In one of the forest-dwelling, relatively solitary, or at least not highly 
colonial, tjqjical weavers, Malimhus cassini, of West Africa, Bates (p. 
478) found that both sexes take care of the young. He shot a male 
and a female at their nest, which had, "... a woven entrance tube 2 or 
3 feet long, so thin that its walls were transparent, and the birds could 
be seen entering and leaving, feeding young." In the Cape weaver, 
Ploceus olivaceus capensis, previously mentioned, Skead found that 
both parents fed the young, and it appears that this behavior is fairly 
widespread in the entire group. 

Another section of this subfamily contains the so-called bishop 
birds (Euplectes) and the whydahs (Coliuspasser and its close allies). 
These birds are far more terrestrial than the members of the genus 
Ploceus and their habits are somewhat different. Lack (1935, pp. 817 
ff.) studied the fire-crowned bishop (Euplectes hordacea hordacea) in 
Tanganyika Territory and found that the males are polygamous and 
do most of the nest building, each female merely finishing or lining the 
one it occupies, and each hen continuing to add to the nest throughout 
the period of incubation, eventually making it so thick that the ob- 
server can no longer see through it, and adding a small saclike ledge 



BREEDING HABITS OF WEAVERBIRDS — FRIEDMANN 297 

above the entrance. One male was found to have three mates at the 
same time, and may have had still others. The males have very 
definite territories and the hens apparently seek out the established 
cock birds. Actual mating takes place when the nest is in process of 
being built by the male, but the female has, in all probability, already 
settled in his territory for some time before this. Incubation of the 
eggs and feeding of the young are solely the business of the hens, 
which incubate chiefly at night, the warmth from the sun presumably 
being suflScient for the eggs dm'ing the daylight hours. 

Less complete data on the whydahs {Coliuspasser ardens and C. 
jacksoni) suggest that these birds are monogamous. Thus, in writing 
of the latter species Jackson (1938, pp. 1469-1470) states that he re- 
gards the evidence against the supposed pologamy of this whydah as 
conclusive. Near Nairobi, Kenya Colony, he had extremely favor- 
able conditions for watching this species within a fenced-in enclosure 
with open grass, outside of which enclosure the grass had been burned. 

In such a small area it was easy enough to count and mark with a stick each 
dancing ground. This done, the whole area was hurriedly quartered with the aid 
of two boys to move and frighten away all the birds present; we then retired a 
short distance, sat down and waited for them to return. The cocks very soon 
appeared; the females were much more wary, but returned in due course. Some 
of them settled in the grass and remained there, evidently on their nests, while 
others were occupied in going to and fro with fine grass in their bills; these latter 
rarely remained hidden for more than a minute at a time. Next day we returned, 
and by quartering every yard of the area we discovered four nests with three 
eggs, three with two eggs, one with a single egg and three not yet completed. 
Each nest when found was marked by tying a knot in a wisp of tall grass close by. 
At the end of a week we again returned; but no more nests were found, and on no 
occasion did the females equal the number of cocks, but I accounted for this 
through my failing to detect one or two of them as they sneaked back to their 
nests containing incubated eggs . . . 

At least it seems from this account that there were not more hens 
than cocks as would have to be the case in a polygamous species. 

Unlike many of the weavers whose courtship is performed at the 
newly constructed nest, a group of males of Jackson's whydah makes 
a roughly circular dancing area by breaking or snipping off the tall 
grass to make a clearing of from 2 to 6 feet in diameter. In the 
middle of this clearing are left standing a sizable number of grasses 
forming a dense tuft into which the males partly excavate little re- 
cesses. Then a number of males go through a leaping peformance, 
generally with no hens around to watch them. Jackson describes the 
position assumed by the cock as follows: 

The head is thrown back like that of a proud Turkey-cock, the beak being held 
horizontally; the feet hang downward, the tail is held straight up till it touches 
the ruflf at the base of the head and neck, the ends of the feathers falling in a curve 
downward, with the exception of two tail-feathers which are held straight out 
and downward. 



298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

While actually rising in the air the half-open wings are worked with a very 
quick shivering motion, and the feet are also moved up and down very rapidly, 
beating the air. 

The bird springs straight up in the air, sometimes for a few inches and sometimes 
to the height of two or more feet, and then drops. 

The whole of the plumage is much puflFed out throughout the performance, 
which is repeated five or six times, with a short interval for rest. 

The game would appear to be somewhat fatiguing, as the bird rarely makes 
more than five or six jumps at a time without a short rest . . . They very often 
assume their curious jumping attitude some little distance before they arrive at 
their playground . . . 

Besides the data quoted above it may be added that apparently 
but one male may make use of one dancing area, and that often at the 
end of the jumping dance it appears to try to burrow into the shallow 
recesses of the central tuft of grasses (as though there were nests 
there) . 

Jackson's whydah shows the courtship behavior pattern developed 
to a greater degree of display and ostensible rivalry between males, 
and to a greater specialized areal usage (courtship, or dancing, ground 
as contrasted with nesting site or even breeding territory) than others 
of its relatives, but the difference seems to be more one of degree than 
of kind. As tjT^ified by its habits, this section of the terrestrial Plo- 
ceinae may be said to be characterized by elaboration of courtship 
behavior from individual displays near the nest to a complex display 
at a dancing ground, and by what seems to be monogamy. (More 
detailed information is needed on this point, however. In the case of 
the black whydah, Coliuspasser concolor, and of the red-collared why- 
dah, Coliuspasser ardens, there are observational data supporting a 
monogamous state; in the long-tailed wydah, Coliuspasser procne, 
similar but less extensive data suggest polygamy.) Recently V. D. 
van Someren (1945, pp. 131-141) has concluded that Jackson's why- 
dah is polygamous, but his own presentation of the case is not too pos- 
itive. Thus, he writes that — 

. . . polygamy appears to be general, and seems to arise because of the imper- 
fect correlation between the maturation of the males and females. Some males 
mature early, others late, and the early males may cease dancing and start moult- 
ing while later males are just beginning to assume breeding plumage and dance. 
This irregular maturation of the males may be spread over several months, while 
by contrast, the females mature almost simultaneously, and all nests are found 
at the same stage of building or incubation within a few days. Since the sex- 
ratio of the mixed flock is almost 50:50, late maturing males are thus able to 
mate with several females, because the mature females probably now outnumber 
the mature males. Males may commence dancing some four months ' before the 
first nest is found, but these early males are probably unsuccessful at mating be- 
cause of the unready state of the females. Males may start dancing while still 
in non-breeding plumage, but the behaviour pattern of these immature males is 
undeveloped in several respects. 



BREEDING HABITS OF WEAVERBIRDS — FRIEDMANN 299 

It may be noted that the assumption that late-maturing males are 
able to have several mates is based on the thought that more females 
are mature in the later than in the earlier part of the season, but, only 
a few lines above, van Someren informs us that all the females mature 
simultaneously, which would imply that the females mature later 
than the early-maturing males. It would seem, from this, if van 
Someren's assumption be correct, that the early-maturing males might 
be no longer in breeding condition late in the season when mates are 
available, or else they would compete with the later-maturing cocks 
for the hens to a degree sufficient to diminish the likelihood of the 
late-maturing mates having more than a single mate apiece. 

The care of the eggs and the young appears to be left wholly to the 
females, and, as far as the incomplete evidence goes, the actual nest 
building is also done by the hens of the various species of whydahs. 

We have but little rehable data as to the territorial aspects of the 
lives of most of these birds, except for Jackson's whydah. In his 
study of this bird van Someren found that — 

. . . true territorial behavior becomes evident early in the sexual break-up of the 
flock. The males, isolating themselves on rings (?'. e., dancing areas) establish a 
well-defined territory of small extent, of which the ring itself is the focal point; 
the territory extends all round the ring at a radius of 6 to 10 feet from the central 
tuft. 

A female alighting anywhere within this territory may be solicited by courtship 
behavior by the male on the ring, even though she may not alight on the ring 
itself. Another fuU-plumaged male alighting on this territory is treated in one of 
two ways, depending on the attitude of his tail as he alights. If he alights with 
his tail arched and the two outer plumes drooping as in the dancing attitude, he 
is attacked with pursuit flight if the owner is present in the territory. If however, 
the intruding male alights with his tail folded in the normal flight attitude he is 
usually solicited and displayed to be the owner as if he was a female. It is very 
noticeable that when a male returns to his territory from outside it, the tail is 
arched and the two outer plumes drooped the moment he crosses the boundary; the 
bird alights in the dancing attitude, and thus shows his ownership by his 
appearance . . . 

Where two or more rings are found within a few inches of one another . . . 
they are aU formed by the one male, who may use them alternately while dancing, 
and keep them all in good order . . . rings occupied by two separate males are 
not found closer than about 12 feet. These boundaries are accepted by the other 
members of the flock early in the break-up, hence territorial squabbles are seldom 
seen late in the season . . . This territory is related purely to sexual functions 
and has no food significance; feeding is carried out in a mixed flock even in the 
height of the dancing season, on neutral ground where sexual rivalry is notably 
absent. 

Furthermore, this territory appears of no significance to the females apart from 
the fact that they are attracted to the rings; they are unaware of the boundaries 
of the male territories. At nesting time, the males cease dancing vigorously and 
the main dancing area may become completely deserted; the females nest in a 
different area which is usually some distance away from the dancing grounds. The 



300 A]NNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

nests tend to be grouped together, and are usually about 20 to 30 feet away from 
the nearest ring if males have been dancing previously in the neighborhood, i.e. 
well outside the territory boundaries. 

In connection with the development of courtship posturings, it may 
be pointed out that, unlike the members of the arboreal Ploceinae, 
the whydahs, and, to a somewhat lesser extent, the bishop weavers, 
have very marked sexual dimorphism in the breeding plumage of the 
adults and many species have elongated or otherwise specialized 
plumes in the nuptial dress of the males. In the nonbreeding season 
the sexes generally look alike. 

Before going on to the next subfamily, we may briefly summarize 
the situation in the typical weavers (Ploceinae) . Many of the species 
are colonial (which means, in effect, that in most of them the individual 
nesting territories are nonexistent), and in those species that have been 
most fully observed the nests are built largely or wholly by the males. 
Furthermore, in some forms it seems that the males are regularly 
polygamous and that the number of mates each one acquires depends 
on the number of nests he has been able to provide for his mates. 
From the standpoint of our hypothetical "standard" picture of the 
cycle of breeding behavior patterns this implies that the first stage — 
migration or the fragmentation of flocks into individuals or pairs — is 
omitted, that territoriality is likewise skipped, and that the usual 
sequence of courtship and nest building is reversed. As we have noted, 
the actual courtship and mating takes place in and about the newly 
completed nests the males have constructed. The Ploceinae take 2 
years to acquire adult plumage and to come into breeding condition. 

This summary is correct as far as it goes, but there is still one more 
variation in the reproductive behavior pattern exhibited in this sub- 
family. One species, sometimes called Kendall's seed-eater, some- 
times (and more properly) the cuckoo finch, Anomalosjpiza imberbis, 
a bird with no very close relatives, but apparently nearer to the bishop 
w^eavers than to any other assemblage, is wholly devoid of any nest- 
building or incubating or rearing instincts, and is, in short, parasitic. 
It is still very imperfectly known, and all that may be said with any 
certainty is that it is parasitic on small ground-nesting (or near the 
ground nesting) warblers of the genera Cisticola and Prinia. (Six 
species of the former and one, possibly two, of the latter genus are 
known as hosts of the cuckoo finch.) As Delacour (1943, p. 71) has 
recently pointed out, the fact that Anomalosyiza agrees with the 
Viduinae in being parasitic does not necessarily imply close relation- 
ship to the members of the latter group. In most respects it seems 
best placed, taxonomically, with the Ploceinae, but, it must be ad- 
mitted, is an aberrant member of that group. It is a slightly gregari- 
ous bird, living, at least in the nonbreeding season, in loose flocks. 
Nothing is on record concerning its courtship, sexual relations, or 
territorial habits. 



BREEDING HABITS OF WEAVERBIRDS — FRIEDMANN 301 

The next subfamily is a much smaller assemblage — the buffalo 
weavers (Bubalornithinae) — containing only two species, each with 
several races. Unlike the typical weavers these birds do not construct 
nests of fine weaving and elaborate structure, but make rather bulky, 
massive nests of twigs and thorny branches, rough and untidy in 
general appearance, and not suspended from, but placed on top of, 
the branches of large trees (in my experience often baobabs). The 
birds are colonial and the nests are often placed so close together that 
they are actually in direct contact with one another. Jackson (p. 
1380) records that he saw where branches had given way under the 
combined weight of too many of these nests on several occasions. 
Brehm found as many as 18 nests in 1 mimosa tree in northeastern 
Africa. The nests are often 2 or 3 feet across and are used and 
repaired and added to year after year. Each nest of the black buffalo 
weaver {Buhalornis alhirostris) contains two or more chambers, lined 
with grass and straw, each with an entrance facing away from the 
other. The only nests I ever saw of the other species, the white- 
headed buffalo weaver (Dinemellia dinemelli), had but a single cham- 
ber. There are descriptions in the literature of nests of Buhalornis 
containing more than two entrances. Priest (vol. 4, p. 220) writes 
of one that "... there were numerous entrance holes, and it looked 
as if about a dozen birds lived in each of these communal nests ..." 
That the urge to build is extended in these weavers beyond the usual 
small part of the annual cycle of most birds, as it is in the Ploccinae, 
is indicated by some observations made in Darfur, in the Sudan, by 
Lynes, who noted that "... at all seasons we found these Textors 
{= Buhalornis) hanging about their everlasting great nest-clusters, 
into which, even in midwinter, birds with quite inactive sexual organs 
would sometimes carry twigs as if nesting . . ." 

Many years ago, in southwestern Africa, Andersson described the 
nests as follows: 

The collective nests consist externally of an immense mass of dry twigs and 
sticks, in which are to be found from four to six separate nests or holes of an oval 
form, composed of grass only, but united to each other by intricate masses of 
sticks, defying the ingress of any intruder except a small snake. In each of these 
separate holes are laid three or four eggs ... I obtained no less than forty of 
these eggs . . . and on the following day the birds were busy in repairing one of 
the collective nests which had been injured during the collection of the eggs . . , 
I believe these nests are annually added to, for, so far as I have been able to see, 
the same nest is retained for several consecutive seasons. 

We do not have nearly as complete information on the buffalo 
weavers as on the typical ones, but what data are available indicate 
that the birds are colonial, that there is little or no observable evidence 
of any prenuptial fragmentation of wintering flocks, and that the 
males do at least part of the nest building. Whether they do it all 
or not is still unknown. 



302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

The evidence does suggest that the nest-buildmg habit is indulged in 
out of the breeding season and by nonbreeding birds; not too different 
from the typical weavers in this respect. 

The next subfamily, the sparrow weavers and social weavers (Ploce- 
passerinae), shows a great indulgence in nest building, in and out of 
the breeding time, which culminates in the truly gigantic communal 
structures of the social weaver {Philetairus socius). Thus, of one 
South African sparrow weaver, Plocepasser mahaliy Roberts (1940, 
p. 332) ^vrites that — 

... a single pair of birds will construct as many as a dozen nests of whitish grass 
stems on the projecting branches, these being arched over the top with two 
entrances below on opposite sides, so that there is no cavity for the eggs and 
evidently made for amusement only; the nests in which the eggs are laid have 
only one entrance and are warmly lined with feathery grass tops . . . 

A somewhat different description is given by Stark (1900, pp. 84-85) 
who informs us that the species is — 

... of social habits, it remains in flock all the year round and breeds in company, 
several nests being generally built in a single tree. Rarely have 1 met with more 
pugnacious birds; the males in spring are constantly fighting, and so desperate 
are their quarrels that the combatants frequently lie exhausted, side by side, on 
the ground, incapable for further movement . . . The nests are large, roughly 
built, kidney-shaped structures, usually placed near the ends of the branches of a 
mimosa or other thorny tree. They are constructed of long grass-stems, the 
blades and flowering tops being woven together, the stiflF stalks projecting in all 
directions. During the winter each nest has two entrances from below, separated 
in the interior by a narrow bridge of grass, on which the birds roost. At the 
beginning of the breeding season one entrance is stopped up with leaves and grass, 
a shallow cavity being left in which the female deposits two or three eggs . . . 
As soon as the young are on the wing, the second entrance is unstopped, and the 
nest is again used, both by the old and young birds, as a roosting place. The 
nests are annually repaired and last for many years. 

A somewhat similar account holds for another species, the gray- 
headed social weaver of East Africa, Pseudonigrita amaudi. Jackson 
(p. 1384) comments on the remarkable nest of this bnd — 

... it is very large and quite exceptionally compact, and has two entrances 
pointing downwards. During the period between breeding seasons these nests 
are used for roosting, the birds resting on the ridge between the two entrances. 
In the breeding season one of the holes is stopped up and the eggs are deposited 
in a depression beyond the ridge on the material used for stopping up the second 
entrance. The nest is firmly woven to several twigs or branches ... in small 
clumps of five to eight nests together. 

Of a slightly different race of the same species Jackson found (p. 1385) 
the nests "... were packed together so closely as to form almost one 
compound nest." 

Probably the most remarkable of all weaverbirds' nests is that of 
the famous sociable weaver of the western arid portions of South 
Africa, Philetairus socius. The enormous communal nests built by 



BREEDING HABITS OF WEAVERBIRDS — FRIEDMANN 303 

these little sparrowlike birds attain truly great proportions — as much 
as 25 feet long and 15 feet wide at the base and from 5 to 10 feet in 
height! While each nest is the product of not a lone individual, or 
even a pair, but of a whole flock of as many as 75 or 80 pairs, still the 
sheer bulk of the nesting material gathered and placed by the birds 
is a striking testimony to the tremendous year-round urge of the nest- 
building instinct in this species. The time I spent studying this bird 
in the western Transvaal in 1925 was one of the most fascinating 
experiences an ornithologist could have, and I cannot refrain from 
including here part of my notes, at the expense of repeating some items 
already published in an earlier paper (1930). 

As the common name of the bird unplies, Philetairus is very social 
in its habits; in fact it is probably as social as any bird could possibly 
be. It is always found in flocks, feeds in flocks, and breeds in large, 
many-apartmented compound nests. The smallest flocks that I saw 
contained about 20 birds; the largest one at least 150. The flocks 
seem to stay pretty much in the same general vicinity aU the year 
round, and the birds use their huge, massive nests as roosting places 
diu-ing the nonbreeding season. With this extreme sociability and 
sedentary habit of life the territorial relations of the species have been 
modified in a way that is quite remarkable, perhaps unique among 
birds. Instead of each pair of birds having its own breeding territory, 
each flock seems to have a definite territory, and as the individual 
flocks are usually far enough apart not to compete with each other, 
the boundaries of these territories are seldom crossed by individuals 
of other flocks and other territories. However, in a few cases in my 
own experience two flocks were fairly close together (i. e., two nests 
were on trees not very far apart), and the birds mingled more or less 
while feeding, but in these cases far more fighting and quarreling was 
observed than in aU the others together. In an area approximately 
100 miles long and 10 miles wide, or 1,000 square miles in all, I found 
only 26 nests of the social weaver, so it can be seen that the flocks 
ordinarily do not live in very close juxtaposition to each other. (The 
nests are so large, and so conspicuous at great distances, and the 
country so open and easy to examine, the trees being so relatively few 
in number, that I am quite certain I found practically every nest in 
this area.) 

The nests observed varied in size as did the flocks. The smaUest 
nest found measured about 3 feet in diameter at the base and was 
about 3 feet high and had about 10 entrances on the under surface, 
indicating that it contained that number of individual nests. The 
largest one found was incomplete, i. e., a piece of it had broken off, 
breaking its supporting branches by its weight, but the remaining 
part was a large, flat, horizontal mass of straw, more or less repaired 
at its broken edge, and measured about 25 by 15 feet at the base and 



304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

was about 5 feet high. The part that had broken off must have been 
about 5 feet in diameter each way. This nest contained about 95 
nests within it. 

In a locaUty where these birds occur it is impossible to remain long 
unaware of their presence. Trees are not so numerous but that each 
one becomes an object of more or less importance in the landscape. 
Needless to say a tree on which there is a social weaver's nest is a very 
conspicuous object, visible for a great distance and widely proclaims 
the presence of the builders. But the bhds themselves soon intrude 
upon one's consciousness with their noisy, harsh, chattering notes as 
they fly by in flocks or feed in scattered bunches upon the seeds of the 
small, stunted shi'ubs and plants that wrest an existence from the 
inhospitable soil. While feeding they keep up an incessant chatter 
much like a flock of house sparrows, and, like them, frequently quarrel 
over bits of food. In flight they all act in unison with a precision 
quite remarkable for birds of their type, the whole flock turning, 
rising, falling, wheeling, and stopping more or less together. 

Although the birds live in compound "apartment-house" nests, 
feed and fly in flocks, and are at all times exceedingly gregarious, they 
seem to establish fairly strong mating relations as far as my field 
observations indicate. If they were haphazardly promiscuous they 
would be forever in each other's way getting in and out of the entrance 
holes of the individual nests in the large communal structures. As a 
matter of fact, the harmony of life within each colony, the lack of 
what may be likened to traffic congestion, i. e., the coming and going 
of birds in the task of providing food for the young, the fact that out of 
numbers of individual nests examined by various observers none were 
found with unusual numbers of eggs or young, all argue for individu- 
ality in nest occupancy. Whether each male has only one or several 
mates is, however, unlvQOwn. 

There have been several attempts to explain the structure of the 
large, composite nests of this species, some writers claiming that each 
pair of birds builds an individual nest, aU of them close together, and 
then the flock builds the common roof over all the nests, while other 
writers have recorded that the flock builds a large structure and then 
each pair builds its individual nest into this structure. I never saw 
the actual begimiing of a nest, and the smallest nests I found were, as 
mentioned above, complete structures with numbers of nests within 
them. However, Roberts (1940, p. 333) describes the construction 
of the communal nest as follows: 

. . . first a roof is constructed of coarse straws in the strong branches of a large . . . 
tree, and under this a great number of nest-chambers are made by nipping oflf 
the straws to form a tunnel upwards with a chamber at one side of the top of the 
tunnel; each pair of birds has its own nest-chamber, and scores of pairs may 
occupy the same colony. 



BREEDING HABITS OF WEAVERBIRDS — FRIEDMANN 305 

To this I may add that regardless of how the first start is made, it is 
true that all through the nonbreeding season, the entire flock does a 
large amount of roofing and general enlarging of the whole affair so 
that it is true that subsequent individual nests are built into the large 
structure. The nests are added to year after year, and frequently 
become so large and heavy that they break the branches upon which 
they rest, and crash to the ground. All the birds seem to work 
together equally, apparently the males as well as the female(?)s, and 
even during the breeding season, when they have eggs or young in 
the nest, the male birds may be seen carrying straw to the roof or 
other parts of the common structure, not necessarily close to their 
own respective individual nests. The huge, massive affairs are 
composed wholly of dried grasses of a rather coarse, tough sort that 
grows commonly in southwestern Africa, and the seeds of which 
enter into the diet of the weavers very largely. The material is not 
really woven or even plaited on the surface of the nest, but is rather 
roughly put together in about the same way that hay is put into a well- 
made hay rack, but with a fairly definite thatching arrangement, 
causing the rain to run off and not soak through. The under side 
of the nest presents the rough, hard ends of the coarse straws and forms 
a very uneven surface. 

In the sparrow weavers and social weavers (subfamily Plocepas- 
serinae) we find, then, as far as om- incomplete data permit us to 
generalize, an annual behavior cycle characterized by lack of migration 
or winter flock fragmentation, a substitution of a communal flock 
territory for individual ones as far as nesting is concerned, and a very 
marked development, both in seasonal duration and in individual 
activity, of the nest-building habit. The published observational 
data indicate that both sexes participate in nest building, but these 
data are open to question because of the similarity in plumage of the 
males and females; whether one or the other does most of the con- 
struction is not known. Nothing appears to be on record concerning 
the courtship habits, so it is not possible to ascertain whether this 
part of the cycle comes before or is associated with already completed 
nests as it is in some of the typical weavers (Ploceinae) . 

Turning now to the next group, the weaver finches (subfamily 
Passerinae), which group includes the ubiquitous house sparrow 
(Passer domesticus) and its relatives, we find a different range of nest 
types. Some, like the house sparrow, build fairly bulky, formless, 
untidy nests in trees, on ledges, cornices of buildings, even in holes 
in trees, and other elevated sites (never on the ground). When 
built in the branches of a tree the nest usually is domed with an en- 
trance on one side, and fairly abundantly lined with feathers and other 
soft materials; when built in a hole the Immg is much reduced as is 



306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

the rest of the nest structure. The birds are multiple-brooded; both 
sexes take part in nest building and in caring for the young. 

Although the nests are not such as would, in and of themselves, 
suggest that their makers were overly involved in building activities, 
there is evidence that in a closely related species, the Cape sparrow 
of South Africa, Passer melanurus, the birds use the nests throughout 
the year as sleeping places "... especially in winter, when nests with 
more warm material are often specially built for the purpose" (Roberts, 
1940, p. 334). In other words, in this species we find some indication 
of nest-building activity outside of the breeding season. Whether 
this is true for other forms of the genus is not known. 

To return to the house sparrow, the reproductive behavior cycle, 
as reported by Jourdain and Tucker (1938, pp. 157-158), is quite 
peculiar and is still in need of further study before it can be properly 
interpreted. The — 

. . . prominent feature of breeding-season is noisy display, in which sometimes 
one, but commonly several males hop with loud chirpings, round female with 
elevated bill and tail and drooping wings, but merely elicit pecks from irritated 
hen , . . Whole performance commonly ends with sudden dispersal of participants 
and appears unconnected with coition or even pairing. Gengler relates latter to 
rough-and-tumble scrimmages between several males without display, female 
commonly becoming involved as well, though selection of mates as result of these 
tussles seems not very clearly demonstrated. Coition is normally solicited by 
female with drooping wings and twittering note, without display by male, and 
may be repeated as many as a dozen or fifteen times in succession. Same observer 
states that both mated and unmated birds of both sexes are involved in displays, 
but that mated males display only to other females, never their own. He inter- 
prets display as relict of former genuine courtship, now functionless except as 
outlet for persistent display instinct . . . exceptionally coition may be preceded 
by typical display of male without usual solicitation of female. 

There is evidence, as well, that the species has a polyandrous or promis- 
cuous tendency, and Thompson (quoted by Jourdain and Tucker) 
considers the noisy displays are explained partly by this tendency, 
and partly by the males coming into breeding condition before the 
females. 

Other members of the subfamily, such as the yellow-throated spar- 
rows of the genus Petronia, the rock sparrows of the genus Gymnoris, 
and the gray-headed sparrow, Passer griseus, appear to nest chiefly 
if not wholly in holes in trees, in old woodpecker or barbet holes, or 
even in suitable natural holes of not too large a size. They generally 
line these nesting holes with fibers and feathers. The gray-headed 
sparrow has adapted itself to human habitations and frequently 
nests under the eaves of buildings. The chestnut sparrow, Sorella 
eminibey, not infrequently makes use of old nests of other weaverbirds 
although it does at other times build for itself. 

The absence of adequate data on the members of this group, other 
than the house sparrow, makes it impossible to generalize on any broad 



BREEDING HABITS OF WEAVERBIRDS — FRIEDMANN 307 

scale or sure foundation. It is safer, then, merely to summarize the 
picture in the one relatively well-known member. The picture of 
courtship display is markedly altered from what we are in the habit 
of considering normal for most passerine birds — males displaying to 
any females but their own mates; females apparently sohciting rather 
than permitting coition, a precarious monogamy with a tendency 
toward polyandry and promiscuity. 

The scaly weavers of the genus Sporopipes form a subfamily by 
themselves, the Sporopipinae. They are not too well known, but I 
have found them in veiy loose flocks or small assemblages in the dry 
thornbush veldt of the Transvaal, where they feed on the ground 
like the Passerinae. The South African species (Sporopipes squami- 
jrons) breeds during the southern winter as a rule, but at times during 
the summer as well, suggesting a not too well delimited nesting time. 
These birds are not colonial breeders, but build their roughly globular 
nests of grass stems and fine twigs, with a fairly pointed lateral en- 
trance, in the middle of the dense thorny branches of shrubs and low 
trees. Two nests that I found were less globular than published 
descriptions indicate is usual. They were somewhat similar to the 
untidy structures of the house sparrow, but smaller, slightly more 
compact, and less irregular in shape. In my field notes I described 
them as horizontal cylinders rather poorly closed at one end, and made 
of grasses, fine twigs, straws, etc. One nest containing three eggs 
was being very timidly guarded by two of the birds, presumably a 
pair (the sexes look alike). The birds would not stay near the nest 
while I was close to it, but returned to it as I walked away. Nothing 
seems to be on record concerning courtship, mating, or territorial 
behavior in any of the scaly weavers. 

We now come to the subfamily Viduinae, the indigo birds and the 
widow birds, containing a dozen species, three of which are definitely 
known to be parasitic and the others are suspected of having similar 
breeding habits. This group is somewhat intermediate between the 
Ploceinae and the next subfamily, the Estrildinae. Like the mem- 
bers of the Ploceinae, the Viduinae take 2 years to acquire adult 
plumage, and do not breed until then (the Estrildinae breed when 1 
year old, as do the majority of small passerine birds). The adult 
males have a breeding plumage in which they are very different from 
the brown, streaky hens and year-old birds, the former of which they 
resemble in the nonbreeding plumage. (The Estrildinae do not 
show any seasonal plumage change as a rule.) The best known of the 
Viduinae is the pin-tailed widow bird, Vidvxi macroura, and the fol- 
lowing description of its habits is taken largely from my field notes 
coupled with pertinent data in the literature. 

Vidvxi macroura is a gregarious bird and is usually seen in flocks of 
from 5 to 50 birds, depending on the season. In the breeding season 



308 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

in South Africa, where seasons are definite, the flocks tend to break 
up and the birds pair ofT more or less. Yet it is not uncommon to 
see small flocks all through the breeding season. Such flocks usually 
contain but one full-plumaged male and the rest of the bu'ds are in the 
brown hen type of plumage. In some cases I shot into the flocks and 
found that the brown birds were year-old males, but in two cases the 
birds proved to be females with fairly enlarged ovaries. It seems, 
therefore, that this bird is somewhat polygamous, although I should 
judge from most of the cases I have observed (and they are many) 
that it is frequently, if not usually, more or less monogamous. In 
equatorial Africa all the individuals of the species in any one locality 
do not breed at the same time and these flocks usually contain a 
breeding pair and either year-old birds or nonbreeding adults. The 
lack of definite seasons complicates things superficially to the extent 
that the apparent state of affairs has no real relation to the actual 
conditions. 

This widow bird is largely terrestrial in habit and gathers most, if 
not all, of its food on or near the ground. However, in Natal, at 
least, during the southern winter the birds go about in large flocks and 
spend much time in the trees, where they act and sound not unlike 
small finches such as the North American redpoll, Acanthis linaria. 
They are by no means confined to trees and are found in tall grass 
and in reeds along stream banks. During the breeding season the 
males often use isolated trees as perches from which to sing and to 
watch over their territories, but the birds spend by far the greatest 
part of the time on the ground. 

On November 24, at Woodbush, Transvaal, I saw an adult male 
in full breeding plumage. It was perched on a bush in an open 
grassy field, and as I approached it flew off to a nearby bush and then 
to another not far off as I came close again. It made a small circling 
flight and came back to the original bush. On and off during the 
rest of the day I found it there each time I visited the spot and found 
by repeated trials that it could not be induced to leave it. It had 
definitely established its territory there, and apparently the bush in 
which it was first found was its singing perch. The next day I spent 
a couple of hours watching it and tried to make it fly off, but it would 
not go more than a hundred feet and then circle back gradually. 
There was a single hen bird in the immediate vicinity. I shot the 
male and found the testes were much enlarged. The plumage was 
still very fresh; in fact the long central rectrices still retained a little 
of their sheaths and one of them was so loose that it came out when I 
skinned the bird. 

In the same region I watched two other males that were established 
in their individual territories. One of them was watched for 3 
successive days and was apparently without a mate as yet. It had a 



BREEDING HABITS OF WEAVERBIRDS — FRIEDMANN 309 

territory about 400 yards in diameter, considerably larger than that of 
the first male, but more open, less bushy, and probably contained 
possibilities of no greater number of nests to parasitize than the other. 
The third and last male had a smaller breeding area and was usually 
accompanied by three or four brownish henlikc birds. I shot one of 
these birds and found it to be a male — a year-old bird in first nuptial 
plumage. 

The courtship displayed was first observed at Woodbush, Transvaal, 
on December 1 . The male flew up from the ground and hovered about 
2 feet in the air directly over a female, with his body feathers slightly 
ruffled and his wings beating rapidly. With each wing beat the four 
long rectrices were violently jerked and made to stream boisterously 
over the female, much after the cascade type of tail display of Coli- 
uspasser ardens and Coliuspasser procne. 

On another occasion, in equatorial East Africa, I saw a male display 
to a female that was perched in a thorn tree. The display was similar 
to the one already described; the male danced in a stationary posi- 
tion as though suspended in midair a couple of feet above the female. 
On still other occasions I watched males courting when there were 
several of the brownish hen-feathered birds present. In all such 
cases I noticed definitely that the male tended to confine his atten- 
tions to one particidar bird. It seemed as though there was but one 
female and that the other brown birds were year-old males. In one 
case I shot the whole band (five brown birds) and found that one was a 
female in breeding condition and the rest were yoimg males. 

Inasmuch as this widow bird is parasitic in its breeding habits it 
is interesting to compare it with the cowbirds (Molothrus) of the 
Americas. The chief difference seems to be in their sexual relations. 
Both are more or less monogamous but the Vidua tends toward 
polygamy while the Aiolothrus tends toward polyandry. 

The vocal efforts of this species are not remarkable. The usual 
call notes are weak, high, but sharp tsips, something like the weaker 
notes of the redpoll (Acanthis linaria). When a band of birds calls 
simultaneously and rapidly they produce a light twittering chorus. 
The song is a rapid but modulated repetition of the call note and 
usuaUy consists of from 5 to 10 syUables and occasionally more. 
It is given in flight as well as when at rest. Curiously enough, I 
never heard a male sing while going through his display dance before 
a female. 

As is well known, this species is parasitic in its breeding habits; 
i. e., it lays its eggs in the nests of other birds and leaves them to their 
care. Vidua macroura is not the only ploceid exhibiting this habit — 
V. regia and V. paradisea and, as we have already noted, Anoma- 
lospiza imherhis are also parasitic, and probably the other species 
of Vidua will in time be found to be parasitic as well. Vidua 



310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

macroura is parasitic chiefly on waxbiUs and generally lays but one 
egg in a nest. I have seen sets containing two, three, and even, four 
of the widow bird's eggs along with those of the victims, but such 
sets are not usual. The eggs are pure white and differ from those of 
the common fosterers only in size. 

The following birds have been found to be parasitized by Vidua 
macroura: 

Lonchura scutatus Estrilda rhodopyga 

Estrilda astrild ^ Estrilda delamerei 

Estrilda subflava Lagonosticla senegala 

Estrilda melpoda Lagonostica rubricata 

Estrilda massaica Amauresthes fringilloides 

Estrilda melanotis Coliuspasser ardens 

The incubation period is 12 days. 

The breeding season in South Africa is late in the southern summer — 
January, February, and early March, sometimes earlier. In Kenya 
Colony the species breeds during both the short and the long rainy 
seasons. The short rains come in November, December, and Jan- 
uary; the long rains in April, May, June, and July. As one goes 
northward the rains shift to later in the calendar year; thus in the 
southern Sudan the long rains extend into September and start 
correspondingly later than in Kenya Colony. 

The young Vidua does not always crowd out or starve out its nest 
mates (at least in the few cases I watched) as do the young cuckoos 
and cowbirds in so many cases, but all grow up together. Fully 
fledged young Vidua macroura are often found in flocks of young 
waxbills after leaving the nest but they do not remain long in these 
assemblages. Before they get ready to molt (postjuvenal molt) 
they form flocks of their own. I have seen as many as 15 or 20 
young pin-taUed widow birds together. Frequently one or two adult 
birds, often males in breeding plumage, are found in these flocks. 

My observation on Vidua regia, the shaft-tailed widow bird, Vidua 
jischeri, the straw-tailed widow bird, and Vidua orientalis, one of the 
indigo finches, while much less complete than those on Vidua macroura, 
also indicate that the superficially apparent polygamy is actually not 
real, that while one male in adult breeding plumage may be accom- 
panied by a small flock of brown henlike individuals, most of the 
latter are immature birds of both sexes and only one in a group may 
be an adult female. In the case of the straw-tailed widow bird, 
Vidua Jischeri, I once observed what seemed to be a territorial fight 
between two males in full breeding plumage. 

To summarize the behavior-pattern cycle in the Viduinae, we may 
characterize it as foUows: apparently monogamous and solitary (?), but 
sohtary only with respect to its own age group (adults), not solitary 



i,-VH 





^ • 


■'', . - 


■ ,, ' 






, - 


s 




« 






V 


,,-* 


* 


,« 




-/■ '-^ 


-# ~ 


* 


'"^, 




w 


r ' ' 


t 




'■ '* 


s 






^*^^. 


> 




« :.« 


V ^'- 


J 


-.- 




- ■* 






■« 


> „ 




'^ji^.' 







Smithsonian Report, 1949. — Friedmann 



PUATE 4 




1 . A Very large Old n t -, i of- ph i l t- i ai f<iis si >i,.:ius. Parts of Which Had 
Fallen Down by Their Own Weight 




2. The Social Weaverbird. Philetairus socius 



Smithsonian Report. 1949. Friedmann 




1. Nest of Puoceus ocui^rius 
(From Chapin, Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 37, 1917.) 




2. Nest of Euplectes flammiceps 
(From Chapin, Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 37, 1917.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1949. — Friedmann 



PLATE 6 




» -. 









Upper, dancing ground oi ( 'oliusjniss( , jiuksimi: iniildlc, male Coliuspasser 
jacksoni on its dancing ground; lower, male Coliuspasser displaying to female 
on dancing ground. 
(AU photographs on this plate from Van Someren, Jonrn. East Africa Nat. Hist. Soc, vol. 18, 1945.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1949. — Friedmann 



Plate 7 




^^^HHHBU^** 



1. Cuckoo Finch, anomalospiza imberbis 
(From Shelley, Birds of Africa, vol. 4, 1905.) 







2. Young Anomalospiza Being Fed by prinia falvicans 
(From Roberts, Ann. Transvaal Mus., vol. 5, 1917.) 



BREEDING HABITS OF WEAVERBIRDS — FRIEDMANN 311 

as far as immature "hangers-ou" are concerned; courtship display well 
developed in all species; nest-building, incubation, and rearing instincts 
completely lacking in three members {V. macroura, paradisea, and 
regia) and probably in the others as well. The young of the three known 
parasitic species do not seem to evict or to starve out their nest mates 
of the host species, but may grow up in apparent amity with them. 
Koberts (1939, pp. 106-107) finds that while this is so, the female 
parasite usually destroys an egg of the host when depositing its own 
in the nest, but no such observations have been published. Usually 
there is but a single egg of the parasite in any one nest, but Roberts 
has found one instance where "five eggs of the common waxbill were 
all replaced by eggs of the Pin-tailed Widow-Bird." Delacom" and 
other writers have implied that the Viduinae are parasitic chiefly on 
waxbills, and even go so far as to suggest that each of the Viduinae has 
its particular Estrildinae host species, but this is by no means definitely 
established. Thus, the pin-tailed widow bird is known to parasitize 
at least nine species of Estrilda and Lagonosticta, and two ploceine 
weavers, Coliuspasser ardens and Amauresthes fringilloides , while there 
is some evidence that Vidua regia lays its egg in the nest of a warbler, 
Prinia fiavicans. 

The last subfamily of weaverbirds, comprising the waxbills, grass 
finches, and mannikins, is the Estrildinae. Delacour (1943, pp. 71-72) 
has recently summarized the characteristics of this group as follows: 

Small weaver-finches of highly specialized color pattern, never showing a primi- 
tive streaked sparrow- like brown plumage and horn-colored bill; sexes alike or 
different; immature always different from adult females. No eclipse plumage in 
males, with one exception. Nestlings always showing brightly colored, swollen 
spots, lobes or bands at the gape, and an ornamentation of the tongue or palate, 
consisting of spots or lines. Eggs numerous and always white; nests globular 
with a side entrance, but not woven. Young birds become adult within a year 
of their birth and are then able to breed, while it takes two years for young 
Viduinae and Ploceinae to mature. Peculiar song and courtship variable but 
consistent, in a general way, in large groups of genera. Ten primaries in the wing, 
the first being very short and falcate, with the exception of two genera {Clytospiza 
and Spermophaga) where it is moderately long, not parasitic. 

This large group is composed of three natural subdivisions: the wax- 
bills, chiefly found in Africa, but with one genus in Asia; the grass 
finches, found in Australia and some of the islands of the south Pacific; 
and the mannil<;ins, found in Africa, Asia, and Australia, The 
Estrildinae never weave elaborate nests like the Ploceinae but con- 
struct roughly globular nests of grasses and leaves, with the entrance 
on one side, and which are usually built near or on the ground, in the 
grass, or in bushes and low trees. The nests are very large for the 
size of their builders. A number of species frequently use old nests 
of other weavers, but usually do a certain amount of work on the 

866591—50 21 



312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

nests themselves, such as adding to or rearranging the lining. Thus, 
the bronze mannikin, Lonchura cucullatus, sometimes builds its own 
nest, but often breeds in old nests of other weavers, particularly of 
species of Ploceus. At Kaimosi, in western Kenya Colony, I found a 
rather untidy, loosely constructed nest of dried grasses and plant 
fibers, lined with grass seed-heads and feathers; it contained four white 
eggs and was evidently the nest of a pair of these mannikins, which 
were constantly seen on or about it. On the other hand, a day later I 
saw a Lonchura enter an old Ploceus nest, and, wondering what the 
bird might be doing there, I cut down the nest and found in it two 
eggs exactly like those found in the other nest the day before. The 
bird acted in a very excited manner as I examined the nest. Jackson 
(p. 1473) also records that this species breeds in old nests of Ploceus 
reichenowi, which it lines with grasses. Other Estrildinae known to 
use old nests of other species not infrequently are the silverbill, 
Lonchura cantans, the cut- throat finch, Amadina fasciata, the red- 
headed finch, Amadina erythrocephala, the common waxbUl, Estrilda 
astrild, the zebra waxbill, Estrilda subflava, the lavender waxbill, 
Estrilda perreini, and the cordon-bleu, hraeginthus bengalus. 

Aside from the fact that nest building in many of the Estrildinae 
is not so fixed in its pattern but that the birds may either build new 
nests for themselves or make use of old nests of other species (often 
very different in design from those their own species would construct) , 
it is worth noting that in a good number of species the males take part 
in the task of incubating the eggs. Thus, in writing of the zebra 
waxbill, Jackson (p. 1517) goes so far as to say that ". . . as is gen- 
erally the case with Waxbills, the males assist in incubation." Infor- 
mation on the courtship habits and sexual relations of the Estrildinae 
is still rather scanty, at least as far as significant and reliably 
worked-out details are concerned, but what data there are indicate 
nothing unusual in either respect. The birds appear to be monog- 
amous, and, as is so frequently the case with species in which the 
sexes look alike, the courtship antics do not show any peculiar or 
marked developments. 

In review, then, the great family of weaverbirds exhibits an aston- 
ishing range of diversity and variety in the mode of expression of the 
different parts of the reproductive behavior cycle. In the beginning 
of the breeding time we find everything from marked fragmentation 
of wintering flocks into pairs, to year-round gregariousness, and in 
courtship from a pattern that comes prior to nest building to one that 
follows the completion of the nests by the males, from solitary antics 
to elaborate display on special dancing grounds, and, on the other 
hand, to almost none at all, or, as in the case of the house sparrow, 
to barren but promiscuous displaying by mated males, seenungly 



BREEDING HABITS OF WEAVERBIRDS — FRIEDMANN 313 

devoid of direct reproductive function, coupled with apparently 
monagamous coition-inviting display by mated females. Nest budd- 
ing may vary from solitary to highly communal, and to none at all, 
and even to parasitism, from slovenly put together masses of material 
to amazingly fine and intricate weaving, or huge, communal super- 
structures, or may be reduced to merely relining a disused nest of 
another species or to lining a hole in a tree. Nest construction may 
be done entirely by the male, by both sexes, or largely by the female, 
or may be omitted entirely. Sexual relations vary from solitary 
monogamy or social monogamy to polygamy, polyandry, and to ap- 
parent promiscuity. Incubation in some species, or groups of species, 
is performed solely by the hens, while in others the cocks share the 
task with their mates, or, in the case of still others, neither sex takes 
any care of the eggs, but are parasitic. The members of the subfam- 
ilies Ploceinae and Viduinae do not come into breeding condition or 
acquire adult breeding plumage until they are 2 years old; the mem- 
bers of the other groups breed when 1 year old; this in itself is a pro- 
found difference. In some forms of the Viduinae and Ploceinae it 
permits a type of breeding-season gregariousness, although only a 
single adult male and female are usually involved in each little flock. 

Few, if any, families of birds offer such a bewildering array of 
variations of the parts of the annual cycle, and I cannot help but 
wonder if some of these variations may not have been due originally 
to the extremes to which, in previously established variations, some of 
the stages had been carried. At least the situations created by some 
of these extreme developments seem to have been propitious for 
further and even quite contrary subsequent changes. 

Paradoxical as it sounds, it is possible that the excessive develop- 
ment of the nest-building habit may actually have been a contributing 
factor in the origin of the complete absence of nest building and egg 
care that we know as brood parasitism. In cases of extreme indul- 
gence in nest construction such as we find in the social weaverbird 
(Philetairus socius) and some of its relatives (Plocepasser etc.), the 
huge bulky structures are added to, chiefly by the males, aU through 
the nonbreeding season. By the time the birds are ready to make 
their own individual nest tunnels in the already existing superstruc- 
ture they are not acting very differently from birds that make use of 
old nests of other species which they then repair. In the case of the 
numerous species of typical weavers (Ploceinae) in which the not yet 
breeding males construct many nests, the subsequently mated females 
are again in a not dissimilar position of taking over nests which they 
themselves have not built, and relining them and breeding in them. It 
seems that Ali (1931) must have had some such thought in mind 
when he noted that Baya weavers occasionally laid eggs in disused 



314 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

nests of others of their own kind instead of making new ones for 
themselves, as this prompted him to raise the following argument: 

If the bird laid in disused nests it would only succeed in avoiding the labour 
of building, but would still have to incubate the eggs itself. If on the other hand 
it was successful in slipping into an unguarded Baya nest whence the brooding 
hen had gone (as actually happened on September 18) and in laying its eggs there, 
it would be, quite involuntarily, but with good effect all the same, compelled to 
retire on the return of the legitimate occupant, leaving its egg to be hatched by 
the Baya. Would such a process not tend, in course of time, to develope into, 
and establish, a habit of systematic and voluntary parasitism as has been observed 
in some African weavers? 

In this connection it may be recalled that Lynes (1924, p. 661) found 
that in nesting colonies of several species of African weavers related 
to the Baya, studied by him in the Darfur Province of the Sudan, 
many nests contained one or two extra eggs of the same species as the 
host, but recognizably distinct by virtue of different color or state of 
incubation, in other words, eggs that probably were laid by other 
individuals of the same kind. It seems then, both in Asia and in 
Africa, that not infrequently female weavers, ordinarily using nests 
they have not built themselves, may lay an occasional egg in a nearby 
nest of their own species. 

The Viduinae are, as stated earlier in this paper, intermediate be- 
tween the typical weavers (Ploceinae) and the waxbills (Estrildinae) . 
In many species (perhaps the majority) of the former group, and also 
in a good number of forms of the latter group, the hens breed in nests, 
the actual construction of which has been foreign to their experience 
and their efforts; in many forms of the latter group, and at least some 
members of the former subfamily, the care of the eggs is taken over, 
at least in part, by the cocks. 

The parasitic mode of reproduction occurs, as far as known, in five 
widely separated and quite um*elated families of birds — the ducks, the 
cuckoos, the honey-guides, the weaverbirds, and the hang-nests (cow- 
birds). There can be little doubt that the development of brood 
parasitism has taken place independently in each of these five groups, 
and it is not without significance, or at least suggestive value, that 
this highly aberrant reproduction pattern has developed among the 
small passerine birds (generally considered to be the most highly 
evolved of all the birds) in those two families some of whose members 
have carried the habit of nest building to its highest and most complex 
development. It is all the more noteworthy that in the weaverbirds, 
a larger group than the hang-nests and one with greater diversity of 
behavior patterns, the parasitic habit has developed in two sub- 
families, apparently [independently — the' cuckoo finch, Anomalospiza 
imherhis, in the Ploceinae, and in the members of the Vidumae, three 
of which are definitely known to be parasitic, and the rest of which 



BREEDING HABITS OF WEAVERBIRDS — FRIEDMANN 315 

are strongly suspected of having the same habit. Many more details 
have stUl to be learned of the annual cycle of behavior patterns in 
these birds before it may be possible to attempt to determine the 
precise causes and the subsequent evolutionary paths that twice in 
the history of the weaverbirds have lead from nesting and incubation 
and caring for the young to a state of brood parasitism. 

REFERENCES 
Ali, Salim a. 

1931. The nesting habits of the Baya (Ploceus philippinus) . Journ. Bombay 
Nat. Hist. Soc, vol. 34, No. 4, pp. 947-964. 
Bates, George L. 

1930. Handbook of the birds of West Africa. 
Belcher, Charles F. 

1930. The birds of Nyasaland. 
Chapin, James P. 

1917. The classification of the weaver birds. Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., 
vol. 37, art. 9, pp. 243-280. 
Delacour, Jean. 

1943. A revision of the subfamily Estrildinae of the family Ploceidae. 
Zoologica, vol. 28, pt. 2, pp. 69-86. 
Delacour, Jean, and Edmund-Blanc, F. 

1933-1934. Monographic des veuves. Oiseau, n. s., vol. 3, pp. 687-726; vol. 
4, pp. 52-110. 
Friedmann, Herbert. 

1922. The weaving of the red-billed weaver bird in captivity. Zoologica, 
vol. 11, No. 16, pp. 355-372. 

1929. The cowbirds. A study in the biology of social parasitism. 

1930. The sociable weaver bird of South Africa. Nat. Hist., vol. 30, No. 2, 

pp. 205-212. 
1935. Bird societies. In A Handbook of Social Psychology, chap. 5 (edited 
by Carl Murchison). 
Jackson, Frederick J. 

1938. The birds of Kenya Colony and the Uganda Protectorate. 3 vols. 
JotJRDAiN, F. C. R., and Tucker, B. W. 

1938. In Witherby, Jourdain, Ticehurst, and Tucker, Handbook of British 

Birds, vol. 1, pp. 157-158. 
Lack, David. 

1935. Territory and polygamy in a bishop-bird, Euplectes hordacea hordacea 
(Linn.). Ibis, ser. 13, vol. 5, pp. 817-836. 
Lynes, Hubert. 

1924. The birds of north and central Darfur. Ibis, ser. 11, vol. 6, pp. 661- 
678. 
Priest, Cecil D. 

1933-36. The birds of Southern Rhodesia. 4 vols. 
Roberts, Austin. 

1917. Parasitism amongst finches. Ann. Transvaal Mus., vol. 5, No. 4. 
pp. 259-262. 

1939. Notes on the eggs of parasitic birds in South Afi-ica. Ostrich, vol. 10, 

pp. 1-20, 100-117. 

1940. The birds of South Africa. 



316 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Shellet, G. E. 

1905. The birds of Africa, vol. 4, pt. 1, pi. 31 (opposite p. 108). 
Stark, Arthur C. 

1900. The birds of South Africa, vol. 1. 
Taylor, J. Sneyd. 

1946. Notes on the masked weaver. Ostrich, vol. 17, No. 3, pp. 145-155. 
Van Someren, V. D. 

1945. The dancing display and courtship of Jackson's whydah. Journ. 
East Africa Nat. Hist. Soc, vol. 18, Nos. 3-4, pp. 131-141. 
Van Someren, V. G. L. 

1916. List of birds collected in Uganda and British East Africa, with notes 
on their nesting and other habits. Ibis, ser. 10, vol. 4, pp. 373-472. 



NEW ZEALAND, A BOTANIST'S PARADISE 



By Egbert H. Walker 
Associate Curator, Department of Botany, U. S, National Museum 



[With 10 plates] 
INTRODUCTION 

The wisest traveler learns as much as possible before a trip, sees 
all he can during his journey, and corrects and enlarges his knowledge 
by further reading and inquiry after returning home. This article is 
the outgrowth of the author's short but full visit in New Zealand, 
which was ideal in nearly every respect except for lack of advance 
knowledge of the country, especially of its botany. It suggests what 
the writer would have lilted to know in advance but had to learn on 
the trip and after it. The suggestions given here for further reading 
may be of interest, not only to the fortunate few who wiU visit New 
Zealand in person, but the greater number who may do so vicariously 
by reading and by listening to those who have gone. 

The plants of New Zealand can hardly fail to gain the attention of 
the visitor, and the student of New Zealand will find abundant refer- 
ence to them in his reading. People in an industrial country may 
ignore the plant life, but those in an agricultural land like New 
Zealand cannot escape the imprint of the vegetation on their 
lives. New Zealand is a land of enthusiastic and competent amateur 
naturalists, and its professional botanists are outstanding. The visitor 
will find a local naturalist in nearly every town or center, who is eager 
to share his specialties with the stranger and to show him the offerings 
of the field. The traveler to New Zealand will probably first meet 
the introduced flora which dominates the landscape in the inhabited 
parts. Only when he visits the more remote and undisturbed areas 
will he see many of the native plants. If he has an economic or 
agricultural bias, probably the grasslands, the backbone of New 
Zealand's economy, will impress him most. (See pi. 9.) If he is 
conservation-minded, the sight of the vast area of shrubland and 
fernland {Pteridium aquilinum var. esculentum) will make him pain- 
fully aware of man's destruction of the native forest. But the soul 
of the pure botanist, undisturbed by problems of economics and con- 

317 



318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

servation, will be stirred most as he enters the forest or "bush" where 
abounds the native New Zealand flora, so rich in plants found in no 
other country — that is, the endemic species. (See pis. 2 and 3.) 
Besides the grassland, scrub, and bush he will see other plant forma- 
tions. The extensive plantations of trees, all planted in rows of uni- 
form age, are very impressive. The species so grown are all exotics, 
that is, not native to New Zealand, the principal one being the Monte- 
rey pine (Pinus radiata), a useless tree in its native California, but 
here by far the most economically important tree to be found. Not 
only does it occur in plantations, but it is to be found almost every- 
where as a hedge tree or windbreak (pi. 9, fig. 1) and even as a 
naturally planted weed invading wasteland. 

It is essential in understanding the peculiarities of the flora of New 
Zealand to know its location and climate as contrasted with that of 
more familiar areas. The vegetation or the major plant formations 
will then be discussed, after which the flora or the elements which 
compose the vegetation will be taken up. Finally some consideration 
will be given to the past and present study of botany in the country. 

LOCATION AND CLIMATE 

New Zealand extends from about the 34th to the 47th parallel south 
latitude, a distance of about 900 miles. (Fig. 1, and fig. 2, p. 333.) 
It consists essentially of three islands, North, South, and Stewart 
Islands, with a few small nearby islands or islets. There are several 
outlying island groups, politically and biologically part of New 
Zealand, of much interest, but they are not included in this discussion. 
For vivid geographical comparison, suppose the tliree main islands of 
New Zealand were inverted and superimposed on North America at a 
corresponding latitude, with the North Cape of North Island at Cape 
Lookout about the center of the Atlantic coast of North Carolina. 
Then the South Cape on Stewart Island would lie north of Quebec in 
Canada. The East Cape at the end of the Grisborne Peninsula of 
North Island would be in southern West Virginia, and Mount Egmont 
at Harpers Ferry, W. Va. Wellington, at the southern end of North 
Island, would be in west-central Pennsylvania, and Christchurch on 
the east side of South Island would be on the shore at the east end of 
Lake Ontario. Both areas are in temperate zones of the earth's 
surface, but their climates are in striking contrast. Eastern North 
America has a continental climate with extremes of temperature and 
a moderate, irregular precipitation. New Zealand, however, has a 
strong oceanic climate wdth far milder temperatures throughout and 
a much smaller difference in temperature between the northern and 
southern ends and between winter and sunmier. The precipitation is 
fairly evenly distributed throughout the year, although it varies 
from place to place. New Zealand owes its climate to the unifying 



NEW ZEALAND — EGBERT H. WALKER 



319 






^^^o^^C^^vCv.-^-^.^ 







leq\ 



^^ \ 



\ \ ^rc 






\\ \Tr'opfc of Capr'/cor-rf^'\ > ^'O'^ 



't.^J}y^^:^.1:<\ 









i^Brisbiine 

f/ / //^ // ^ / // // ^ 



V V 



•\ 






" ^ — O -O \ \ ^ 







NFW\ 



Figure 1 — Chart of Tasman Sea showing deflection of the cold Antarctic drift 
by the warm East Australian current from the Tropics. (From W. C. Davies 
(12).) 



influence of the warm Tasman Sea on the prevailing westerly winds 
which blow over it from Australia, over a thousand miles away. In 
its oceanic climate lies the explanation of many of its vegetational 
contrasts with other countries. 

The vegetation in northern New Zealand is far more tropical in 
appearance than its geographical counterpart in North Carolina. 



320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

This "subtropical" aspect of the forests can be seen even in northern 
South Island and grades into the characteristic features of the dense 
temperate rain forests of the west coast of South Island. The south- 
ern-beech forests of Nothqfagus in the south are clearly Temperate 
Zone forests. (See pi. 1, fig. 2.) 

The mountains in New Zealand cause more changes in the climate 
from place to place than does the latitude. The mountain ranges 
and plateaus of North Island lie mostly east of the center. They 
are largely volcanic and influence the vegetation not only through 
their effect on the winds and moisture but also on the soil. The 
volcanic ash and pumice readily absorb more moisture, much of which 
seeps away beyond the reach of the plants growing on the surface. 
Mount Egmont is a majestic isolated volcanic cone on the west coast 
with vegetation in characteristic altitudinal zones from sea level to 
the perpetually snow-covered siunmit. 

In South Island the rugged Southern Alps parallel the west coast 
and thrust their peaks far into the zone of permanent snow. (See 
pi. 7, fig. 1.) Their highest peak is Mount Cook, its summit 12,349 
feet above the Tasman seashore less than 24 miles to the west. They 
are formed by erosion of uplifted land rather than volcanic activity 
and are composed largely of friable greywacke rock. (See pi. 7, fig. 2.) 
These ranges drain the prevailing westerly winds of most of their 
moisture. Thus the west coast has a heavy rainfall of around 200 
inches a year, while on the plains of the eastern leeward side there 
may be as little as 20 inches. The highest annual rainfall yet re- 
corded is 228 inches at Puysegur Point on the west coast, and the 
lowest, 13 inches, in Central Otago only 150 miles away. Dense rain 
forests cover the steep western slopes and the narrow coastal plain 
below, whereas on the east are the natm'al grasslands and the broad 
cultivated plains. In Central Otago is a semidesert area. The 
transition from heavy rain and dense forest to sunshine and almost 
barren eroding slopes may be made in a surprisingly short time in 
driving over the divide. Other ranges and hills, especially the Kaikora 
Ranges in Marlboro and those in the rugged Banl^s Peninsula, inter- 
rupt this picture and diversify the ecological conditions and vegeta- 
tion. Thus New Zealand has a great variety of distinctive^ plant 
formations in a remarkably small space, a fact which makes bota- 
nizing a most interesting and relatively easy occupation. The climate 
of New Zealand has been presented by Kidson (16, 17).^ 

THE GRASSLANDS 

The grasslands of New Zealand are the foundation of its agricul- 
tural economy, and one is sure to be impressed by their extent and 

t Numbers In parentheses refer to the bibliography. 



NEW ZEALAND — EGBERT H. WALKER 321 

r 

variation. They are of two kinds: first, the original tussock grass- 
lands of native species (pi. 9, fig. 2), and second, the pastures with a 
sward formed of introduced species (pi. 9, fig. 1). The history of 
New Zealand is largely the story of man's replacement of the native 
bush with pastures and the exploitation of the native grasslands in 
feeding his flocks of sheep. In the ashes of the bush he planted grasses 
and began the process of adapting the sward-forming techniques, so 
well developed in his native England, to the conditions of this new and 
promising land. He fought a continual battle with the few native 
plants with weedlike tendencies and the more numerous and generally 
more vigorous exotics, which he intentionally or unintentionally 
brought from the far parts of the earth. From early blunderings he 
has now developed the technique of sward growing to a very advanced 
degree, and agricultural progress or deterioration in large parts of 
North Island and certain regions of South Island depends on the com- 
position and condition of this pasture sward. Much land formerly 
covered with fern, scrub, or blackberry is now grass-covered, with a 
high sheep-carrying capacity. It was a most enlightening experience 
to see the work of the Animal Research Station at Ruakura near 
Hamilton in Auckland Province, in breeding and mixing strains of 
grasses, on which, with proper rotation, an amazing number of sheep 
can graze throughout the year without additional feed. The various 
types of these artificial grasslands of North Island have been carefully 
mapped and analyzed in a publication by Madden (19). Something 
of the history and significance of these grasslands can be gleaned from 
the account written by an English^'agronomist, Stapledon, who visited 
Australia and New Zealand in 1926 (25). The planted pastures of 
South Island, developed by essentially the same means, are well 
described in Hilgendorf's ecological survey of the grasslands (13), 
which supplements Madden's. 

The natural grasslands are very different from the man-made 
pastures. They occur most extensively in South Island, but smaller 
areas are to be found in North Island, especially in the central plateau. 
A relatively low rainfall with a cooler and more even temperature are 
among the principal factors governing the development of grasslands 
rather than shi'ublands or "bush." The plant composition of this 
formation varies considerably according to local conditions. Pas- 
toralists generally recognize five tussock grasses. Two of them, snow 
grass {Danthonia raoulii var. jiavescens) ^ and red tussock {D. raoulii 
var. rubra) are the tall tussocks, 3 to 6 feet high, while the short 
tussocks, 1 to 2 feet high, are the silver tussock (Poa caespitosa) and 
the hard or fescue tussock (Festuca novae-zealandiae) . The blue 
tussock (Poa colensoi) is only 6 to 9 inches high. 

' The names, both common and scientific, in general use In discussing these grasses vary considerably. 
This makes research on the grasslands rather difficult. Zotov (28) recognizes only four tussock grasses. 



322 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

The history of the tussock lands is an almost continuous story of 
progressive deterioration due to overgrazing, burning, rabbit infesta- 
tion, and increased wind erosion, land shp, soil creep, and water 
erosion. The present deserts in northern Canterbury, Marlboro, 
and Central Otago Provinces were grasslands when white settlement 
began, and the carrying capacity of most sheep runs is today far less 
than it was in the beginning. Everywhere one can see erosion that 
is of recent origin. A most definite sign of overgrazing in South 
Island is the excessive development of the scab weed, Raoulia lutescens. 
(See pi. 8, fig. 2.) Usually the rabbit population increases as the 
tussocks diminish and more open spaces are formed. This only 
accelerates the destructive process. It is important to keep in mind 
that the tussock grasses themselves are rarely grazed, except the new 
growth which springs up after they are burned over, which is tradi- 
tionally done annually. The role of the tussocks is to furnish pro- 
tection to the smaller grasses and other plants which grow among 
them and furnish most of the feed. 

The tussock grasslands of South Island have been dealt with rather 
fully by Zotov (28) and recommendations presented for restoring these 
areas to production. First, annual burning must be ehminated or, if 
absolutely necessary to eliminate shrubby invaders, replaced with 
carefully controlled burning. The number of grazing animals must 
be reduced to the carrying capacity of the land and rotational grazing 
introduced in order to restore the fertility. When necessary, the tus- 
sock grass must be replanted with selected unpalatable strains or jor- 
danons, and, when a protective covering is thus established, highly 
palatable strains of native species must be sown between the tussocks. 
Hardly any of these measures are now used by the sheepmen. It was 
most gratifying to have a glimpse of the Government's research work in 
tussock-grass restoration at its field station in Hutt VaUey near 
Wellington. The work done there is preliminary to research and 
experimentation in the tussock country itself and will surely some 
day result in restoration of much depleted land. Probably some 
areas have gone almost beyond reclamation and will remain, as have 
so many other parts of the world, monuments to man's lack of fore- 
sight and self-control in seizing aU the produce of the land rather than 
just its surplus. 

SHRUBLAND AND FERNLAND 

No traveler in New Zealand can fail to be impressed, and at the 
same time generally depressed, by the vast extent of land covered by 
shrubs and ferns. Unlike the grasslands, they bring no sense of well- 
being to man, and, compared with the forest, they at first seem 
botanicaUy unattractive. But neither impression is wholly correct. 



NEW ZEALAND — EGBERT H. WALKER 323 

Shrubland is any plant community in which tall trees are wanting 
and shrubs dominate. The fern, which comprises the fernland, is the 
native variant of the world-wide bracken, Pteridium aquilinum var. 
esculentum, or P. esculentum of many authors. Fernland is here 
linked with shrubland because the fern reaches shrub size and the 
formation is as dense and impenetrable as the densest thicket of 
woody shrubs. Furthermore, this fern community is closely related 
ecologically to the other most extensive shi'ub community, that 
dominated by manuka ^ (Leptospermum scoparium or L. ericoides — 
Myrtaceae) (pi. 5, fig. 2). Together these two cover more area than 
do the other shrub formations, of which there are many in very 
different habitats and of diverse composition, form, and origin. As 
in other lands, these shrub formations develop in response to certain 
natural conditions. These conditions may develop over a long 
period of time. When sudden changes occur favorable to the growth 
of a shrub community the formation is called an induced formation. 
Shrub formations follow certain volcanic eruptions and sometimes 
floods or places of excessive erosion. But more significantly they are 
man-induced, coming along after the forest has been destroyed with 
ax and fire, and grass has been sown on the ashes, or where man's fires 
and his overabundant greedy sheep have destroyed the natural 
grass cover. (See pi. 4, fig. 1.) 

The manuka {Leptospermum scoparium — Myrtaceae) is a shrub or 
small tree with an amazing adaptability and persistence. It usually 
forms a community without the bracken or it may be variously mixed 
with this fern. It seems able to grow anywhere, wet or dry, in good 
soil or bad, and in heat or reasonable cold, but not in alpine con- 
ditions or deep forest shade. Its outstanding ability to thrive on 
poor soil makes it rush in where man has done his best to destroy the 
land. It is especially prominent on the gumlands of North Auckland, 
dug over and the fertihty dissipated in the search for fossil kauri gum, 
desired as an ingredient in high-grade varnish. Manuka is extremely 
plastic in its response to its environment. Within this community 
there are some 81 other species of plants, many of them of great 
interest to the botanist, not the least being the bulbous-rooted New 
Zealand orchids. Manuka is an important source of fuel for man, 

' To the foreigner the widespread use in New Zealand of native Maori names for trees and other plants is 
somewhat disconcerting. Very often there is no other name, as for example, manuka for Leptospermum 
scoparium or kauri for Agathis australis. These names have often been made into the specific scientific 
names, as taraire in Beilschmeidia taraire and tawa in B. lawa. Another common practice of many New 
Zealanders is to use in speech a specific scientific name for a common name, as macrocarpa for Cupressua 
maaocarpa, lawsoniana for Cupresstis lawsoniana, and radiata for Pinits radiata, the Monterey pine. 
Another disconcerting practice is the use of some common English name, such as pine, for something which 
a foreigner at least would hardly recognize as such. Native pine in New Zealand refers to species of Podo- 
carpus. Thus the traveler is in a new nomenclatorial atmosphere. For popular names of New Zealand 
plants see Andersen (2) and Cheeseman (4). 



324 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

and in its shade grow seedlings of many forest trees, which eventually 
rise up and wipe out this "nurse" species by overshading it. So the 
manuka shrubland fills a varied and not altogether harmful place in 
New Zealand's plant economy. 

One cannot feel quite so resigned to the fernland, though one 
quickly does resign from the job of trying to penetrate it. Its adapta- 
bility and proliiicness closely matches the manuka, but within its 
dense growth there are few if any other plants. Like the manuka, it 
cannot endure much shade or cold, and so is not a denizen of the 
forest and alpine or subalpine slopes. Man may burn its tangled 
fronds, but new ones rise quickly from the unharmed underground 
stems. However, overstocking with cattle which eat the tender 
young fronds catches the bracken in its "tendon of Achilles," and if 
the practice is persisted in, this scourge can eventually be conquered. 

A third shrubland community of much prominence is not only the 
result of man-made conditions, but of man's introduction of plants. 
The English gorse, Ulex europaeus, was first brought, no doubt, to 
relieve man's nostalgic longing for the lovely English countryside and 
to lend color to the generally colorless New Zealand vegetation. But 
this was an imprudent act. From the hedgerows it spread easily to 
adjacent fields, dry, gravelly river beds, formerly forested hillsides, and 
pastures. It is quite indifferent to the quality of the soil. Large open 
spaces soon became impenetrable thickets. Man constantly burns it 
off, but fire seems only to improve the viability of its seeds and to 
impoverish the soil, which harms the accompanying fodder plants 
more than it does the gorse. Control over large areas by grubbing it 
out of the ground is hopeless in this land of hmited labor and large 
demands on human resources. Handcuffed with this gorgeous yellow 
culprit are the broom (Cystisus scoparius — Leguminosae) , the rose, and 
the blackberry, and several adventive shrubs from adjacent Australia, 
especially hakea (Hakea acicularis — Proteaceae). One American 
shrub of this category is the tree-lupine of California, Lupinus arboreus, 
brought as a sand binder and now spreading beyond its first plantings 
to other sandy and gravelly spots, not always according to man's 
wishes. 

The term "scrub" is often applied to any shrub formation. In 
Australia it is erroneously applied to certain forest formations, but 
Cockayne (7) applies the term in a more restrictive sense to any 
community of divaricating, stiff, shaggy, and often spiny shrubs. 
Such shrubs have numerous extremely wiry or rigid, much interlaced 
branches and twigs which zigzag at a wide angle in every direction. 
The thickets they form are close, unyielding, and often cushionlike 
masses. To push ones way through this scrub is impossible and to 
travel over it is often a hazardous undertaking. The scrub is usually 
subalpine and is composed of various species of Coprosma (Rubiaceae), 



NEW ZEALAND — EGBERT H. WALKER 325 

Cassinia and tree-daisy (Olearia — Compositae) , wild Irishman {Dis- 
caria toumatou — Rhamnaceae — pi. 6, fig. 1), and Myrtus (Myi-taceae) , 
though altogether there are about 55 species in 18 families which have 
this divaricating habit. 

The plant collector who makes pressed specimens almost meets his 
Waterloo when he tries to make a herbarium specimen to represent 
adequately such a plant. Some divaricating shrubs further thwart 
the collector by dropping their leaves, flowers, and fruits almost at 
the first gentle touch. The divaricating branches of pohuehue 
(Muehlenbeckia astoni — Polygonaceae) are pliant enough, but when a 
representative specimen has been warped into a plant press there is 
rarely a leaf or fruit left in situ, and a vivid supplementary description 
is needed to bring to the observer's mind any adequate concept of the 
original habit of the plant. 

One will find various slii-ub formations in a wide range of habitats. 
Besides the extensive hillside formations of manuka and fern, and the 
subalpine scrub, this type of vegetation is often found on sea coasts 
(both rocky and sandy), wet lands, mineral lands, areas of volcanic 
ash and pumice, and wind-swept shores and mountain slopes. Its 
component species, growth forms, and adaptations to environmental 
conditions are of much interest. In some places associations of trees, 
dwarfed to shrub size by wind, salt spray, or soil influences, resemble 
and merge into shiub formations. 

FORESTS 

The principal natural resource in New Zealand when the pakeha or 
white man first came was its trees; at the present time it is its grass. 
But the white man could live only secondarily on the forest, so the 
trees had to go in order that he might provide for his primary need — 
food. Hence, this natural resource, which formerly covered almost 
the whole of North Island and much of South Island, was sacrificed 
at a rate hardly equaled anywhere else in the world. It took Europe 
four centuries to exploit its forests and America two centuries, but 
New Zealand accomplished this in one century. Although the exten- 
sive natural forests of the past are gone, the remaining fragments are 
sufficient to tell us a great deal about New Zealand's botanical history. 
According to Cockayne (7), 385 species of plants are characteristic of 
the forests. Of these, 99 are trees, 63 shrubs, 51 herbs, 26 grasslike 
plants, 88 ferns, 26 climbing plants, 15 epiphytes, and 13 parasites. 
Ninety percent are endemics. So it is in the New Zealand forest that 
a visiting botanist will find his greatest delight in becoming acquainted 
with the true New Zealand flora. If he arrives in North Island, as is 
most likely (and much regretted by the people of South Island), his 
first acquaintance will almost surely be with the rain forest, which is 
composed of many species of trees and shrubs of many genera and 



326 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

families. (See pi. 3, fig. 1.) Later he will meet the strikingly dif- 
ferent southern-beech forest, composed almost entirely of one or two 
species of Nothofagus and few shrubs. (See pi. 1, fig. 2.) There, if he 
is from the Temperate Zone of North America or Europe, the traveler 
will feel much more at home, although all the plants will be new to him. 

The rain forest in New Zealand is clearly tropical in its origin and 
affinities; indeed, it is often designated as subtropical rain forest, 
although it lies entirely in the Temperate Zone. Its character is the 
result of the oceanic climate with its mild, rather uniform temperatures, 
and its abundant, evenly distributed rainfall, which assures a high 
atmospheric humidity throughout the year. The southern-beech 
forest of Nothofagus, however, is clearly temperate in origin, with its 
nearest affinity the Nothofagus forests in Patagonia, Tierra del Fuego, 
and southern Chile, on one side, and in Tasmania and adjacent 
Australia, on the other. This forest occurs in New Zealand in cooler 
and less humid regions than most of the rain forests. It depends 
more on ground water and thrives in a less humid atmosphere. AH 
the forests in New Zealand are evergreen. There are a few deciduous 
trees but none of them are forest dominants, so there are no deciduous 
forests in New Zealand. 

The rain forest is complex, the beech forest relatively simple. These 
two forests may be contrasted in part, as follows: 

Rain forest Southern-beech forest 

Tropical in appearance. Temperate in appearance. 

Composed of many tree species in many Composed of one or two tree species in 

genera. one genus. 

Dense within. Open within. 

With several plant strata.* With only an open layer of shrubs be- 
tween canopy and ground. 

Bases of trunks often with plank but- Trunks without buttresses. 

tresses. 

With many vines or lianas. With very few vines. 

Loaded with epiphytes. With only a few parasites. 

With many ferns. With few ferns. 

Each forest formation has various forest associations within it, these 
being quite complex in the rain forests and relatively simple in the 
southern-beech forest. The forest associations are named according 
to the dominant species within them, the principal associations in the 
rain forests being: (1) kauri {Agathis australis — Pinaceae), (2) mixed 
dicotylous-taxad,® and (3) "white pine" or kahikatea (Podocarpus 
dacrydioides) . 

♦ "Forest is piled upon forest."— Humboldt. 

• Cockayne's term for thLs forest association varies. It is called a mixed faxad forest (6) and dicotylous- 
podocarp forest (7). Species of New Zealand "pine," Podocarpus or Dacrydium, members of the yew family 
Taxaceae, are dominant or characteristic. There are also many trees of various families of dicotyledons, 
whose seeds have two cotyledons In contrast with the conifers which have several and the monocotyledons 
with only one cotyledon. The use of the term dicotylous rather than dicotyledonous is in conformity with 
Cockayne's usage (7). 



Smithsonian Report, 1949,— Egbert H. Walker 



Plate 1 




1 . Lake Fergus Near the Homer Tunnel. Western Otago, South island 

Southern-beech {Nothofagus) forests clothe the nioiiiitains liigh up toward the snowy peaks of the Southern 

Alps. 




2. Southern-Beech Forest (Nothofagus fusca). paradise. Lake Wakatipu, 
otago province, south island 

Without looking at the foliage one would think himself to be in a northern-beech {Fagus grandifolia) forest 

in temperate North America. 



Smithsonian Report. 1949.— Egbert H. Walker 



Plate 4 




1. Edge of Waipoua State Forest, North Auckland. North island 

The untouched primeval kauri forest (right) formerly extended over the now cut-over stump, bracken, 
grass, and exotic shrub covered sheep-grazing land (left). (Photograph by E. H. Walker.) 




2. COASTAL DYSOXYLUM SPECTABILE FOREST, STEPHENS ISLAND, COOK STRAIT 

The forest floor is free of undergrowth, probably partially damaged by cattle. The Dysoxylum has 
characteristically twisted trunks and above-ground roots. The slender trunks are Piper excelsum. 
(Photograph by L. Cockayne, courtesy New York Botanical Garden.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1949.— Egbert H. Walker 



Plate 5 




1. Tree fern, shore of lake roto-iti. north island 
Large tree ferns of many kinds are denizens of the forests and cut-over lands, and often of the roadsides 




2. Manuka (Leptospermum scoparium). East coast South Island 

This abundant association clothes vast open lands from sea coast and swamps to mountain sides with an 
almost impenetrable thicket- (Photograph by L. Cockayne, courtesy New York Botanical Garden.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1949.— Egbert H. Walker 



Plate 6 




1. Wild Irishman (Discaria toumatou). a divaricating smkuh dry East 
Coast of south island 

This characteristic growth luibit is found in many New Zealand shrubs. See also plate 7, figure 1. 
(Photograph by L. Cockayne, courtesy New York Botanical Garden.) 




2. Collecting Donatia novae-zelandiae in an Alpine Bog, Maungatua 
Range, otago Province, south island 

This dense flat mat is so solid that footprints hardly show. Other species of this genus occur only in 
Tasmania and southern South America. (Photograph by E. H. Walker.) 



Smithsonian Report, I'MO- [-.nLorl H Waike 



Plate 7 




1. Hooker Vauley Below ih[ nt rmitage. East Side of Southern Alps, 
Canterbury Phovince. South Island 

A debris-choked glacial valley with braided streams thick with glacial grindings is gradually invaded by 
wild Irishman shrubs (Discaria toumalou) and alluvial fans of weathered rock. (Photograph by E. G. 
Holt, U. S. Soil Conservation Service.) 




2. Mounts Cook and I asman wm h the Fox Glacier. Westland Province, 

South island 

Rain clouds, rising against the range, drench the rain forests on the lower slopes and cover the higher 
peaks with deep snow, whence flow the glaciers. (Photograph by E. Q. Holt, U. S. Soil Conservation 
Service.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1949.— Egbert H. Walker 



Plate 8 



'^Misssr' 




■ K ^rl^m^t^^' 






1 . Erosion and Its Cause Near Waiho Downs. South of timaru, Canterbury 
Province, south island 

When sheep overgraze the grass and cut the turf, erosion occurs. Fencing out the sheep (left) allows the 
vegetation to help control erosion. (Photograph by E. O. Holt, U. S. Soil Conservation Service.) 




2. an overgrazed hill in tussock-grass country, linda pass, otago 
Province. South island 

Soil, bared by overgrazing between the tussocks, is covered with pale green scabweed {Raoulia lutescens) 
which in turn nurses tussock-grass seedlings. (Photograph by E. U. Walker.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1949.^Egbert H. Walker 



Plate 9 




^kjmt^Mmi^^ 



«^""^'**^^^^:^;«^*».i£*'" 



^^jg^^HW) 



•!»#»*•••' 




aw**!*'' •" 



*h)«(i4». ij, ^ - 










I* 



''^ 



1. PASTURE Land. Heretaunga Plain. Hawkes Bay. North Island 

Rich pastures of introduced grasses are often separated by hedges and windbreaks of lombardy poplars 
and Monterey pine or cypress. Turnips or swedes are grown for winter feed. (Photograph by E. Q. 
llolt, U. S. Soil Conservation Service.) 




2. Breast hill Station in the Low Tussock land of Canterbury Province. 

South island 

Sheep stations (ranches) are protected by windbreaks of planted pine. The roadside vegetation is little 
grazed and more luxuriant. (Photograph by E. G. Holt, U. S. SoU Conservation Service.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1949.— Egbert H. Walker 



PUATE 10 




1 . VEGETAeLESHBEP (RAOULIA M AM M 1 LLARI A ) AT 4.700 FEET ON MOUNT TORLESE, 

Canterbury Province. South Island 

The "pimples" on the near end are flowers. This weird plant is characteristic of open shingle slopes in 
the dry area. (Photograph by L. Cockayne, courtesy New York Botanical Garden.) 




2. Bull Kelp (Durvillea Antarctica) on Rocks at Low Tide. Dog Island. 

foveaux strait 

This flat-bladed leathery kelp grows abundantly on wave-lashed reeky shores. (Photograph by L. 
Cockayne, courtesy New York Botanical Garden.) 



NEW ZEALAND — EGBERT H. WALKER 327 

The kauri forest is the best known of the rain-forest associations, 
this being due to the noble as well as the highly commercial attributes 
of its prominent component, the kauri tree itself,^ (See pi. 2, fig. 1.) 
Originally almost all of North Island north of the 38th parallel, which 
crosses the island about the base of the Bay of Plenty, was a vast 
kauri forest. The title of a recent booklet, "The Waipoua Forest: 
the Last Virgin Kaui'i Forest of New Zealand" (21), shows its present 
state. The Waipoua State Forest or the Waipoua Forest Reserve in 
North Auckland contains about 40,000 acres, of which about 27,600 
acres is actually forested. Perhaps the Trounson Kami Park with 
only about 975 acres is too small to consider, but nevertheless it con- 
tains a primeval kauri stand of limited extent, donated by its lumber- 
man namesake to the State for a preserve. Because of its small size 
and the natm'al degeneration from its exposed margin, its longevity 
as a primeval forest may be limited. The kauri forest formation is 
composed of many other tree species besides Agathis australis, as well 
as characteristic shrubs and ferns, including huge tree ferns, and a few 
herbaceous plants. Among the many climbers is the kie-kie or climb- 
ing pandanus {Freycinetia banksii) (pi. 2, fig. 2), the only New Zealand 
member of this tropical family, Pandanaceae. This forest varies 
according to the presence or absence of the actually dominant trees, 
especially of Beilschmeidia taraire in the northern and B. tawa in the 
southern part of its range. Various studies have been made of this 
forest from different points of view, but probably Cockayne's (5) and 
McGregor's (21) are of greatest interest to the botanist. 

Impermanence seems to be woven into the fabric as weU as the 
history of the kauri forest. Cockayne (6) has stated that the kauri 
is always in a state of progression or retrogression. Seedling kauris 
cannot normally reach maturity within the kauri forest itself, but 
must grow up where there is more light, for this forest is predomi- 
nantly dark, gloomy, dense, and almost impenetrable. Seedlings 
grow well, however, in the shade of the manuka or in accidental 
clearings and along roadsides cut through the forest. By some it is 
thought that the kauri forest will in time cease to exist unless man 
takes a hand to perpetuate it. But the Maori people first came only 
800 years ago and the white man less than 150, and there were kauri 
forests many centuries earlier. There is in New Zealand now a lively 
controversy over the preservation of the Waipoua State Forest. 
Shall it remain as it now stands, or be reduced in size? Shall it be 
left wholly untouched, or is it to be altered within by forest manage- 
ment? Shall it furnish timber to commercial exploiters or forest 
managers, or be a recreation ground and memorial of the past to the 

• Actually the kauri tree is not dominant, as it grows singly or in clusters. Kauri forests are so named 
because of the prominence and commercial value of the kauri. The broad-leaved dicotylous species are 
actually dominant. 

866591—50 22 



328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

public, or an untouched natural research laboratory to the scientist? 
Able protagonists have arisen to fight for its preservation from com- 
mercial exploitation (21). 

The many complexities and variations in the mixed dicotylous- 
taxad forest can only be suggested here. Such a forest may be a rimu 
forest with the "red pine" (Dacrydium cupressimum) dominant, a 
totara forest with Podocarpus totara dominant, or a tawa forest with 
the principal trees Beilschmeidia taraire or B. tawa of the dicotyledon- 
ous family Lauraceae, though usually with Podocarpus or Dacrydium 
also present. These forest types intergrade and vary extensively, so 
it is often difficult to determine just what kind of tropical forest one 
finds himself in. 

The parallels of 38° and 42° south latitude are significant as the 
southern limits of quite a number of species and the northern limits 
of others. As noted above, the kauri ceases at about 38° south. 
Some of the 100 or so others which drop out at this point are the toru 
{Persoonia toru — Proteaceae), the white-flowered tawari (Ixerba brexi- 
oides — Saxifragaceae) , the climbing fern {Lygodium articulatum) , and 
the trailing fuchsia (Fuchsia procumbens — Onagraceae). The 42d 
parallel, where many other species drop out, cuts off the northern end 
of South Island. The fact that this unnatural boundary does not co- 
incide with Cook Strait between North and South Islands suggests 
the geologically recent separation of the islands. 

In addition, certain plant forms drop out at various points. For 
example, the numerous epiphytes of the mixed rain forests of the west 
coast of the South Island are conspicuously lacking in the rain forests 
of Banks Peninsula, the vicinity of Dunedin in Otago, Southland, and 
Stewart Island. The composition of these mixed rain forests changes 
also with variations in the atmospheric humidity, the soil moisture 
and composition, the altitude, and perhaps the geological and biological 
history. The dicotylous-taxad association of the better-drained land 
gives way to a much more pure association of "white pine," kahikatea 
(Podocarpus dacrydioides) in poorly drained or swampy lands, as 
formerly existed in some prominence in Canterbury on the dry side 
of South Island. Here the deleterious effect of the drier air, inimical 
to the best growth of most rain-forest trees, was compensated for by 
the greater and more steadily available ground water. The swamp- 
land forests of Stewart Island are dominated by another tree, Dacry- 
dium intermedia. Altitude, or the changed environmental factors 
that go along with changes in altitude, also cause changes in this 
mixed association. As it rises higher on the mountains it is gradually 
replaced by southern-beech forests. On Mount Egmont, however, 
they give way to another altitudinal forest association composed of 
kamahi (Weinmannia racemosa — Cunoniaceae) and the New Zealand 



NEW ZEALAND — EGBERT H. WALKER 329 

cedar {Libocedrus bidwillii — Pinaceae). These numerous changes are 
dealt with by Cockayne (7) and in many special accounts and reports 
of the vegetation of certain localities. 

The southern-beech forest extends intermittently, essentially from 
the central plateau of North Island to Southland in South Island (pl.l, 
fig. 1), but is lacking in a stretch of Westland and does not occur on 
Stewart Island. In former times it was often called birch, but this 
erroneous designation is seldom used today. These forests are usually 
composed of just one species of Nothqfagus, or at most two. The spe- 
cies change rather strildngly with changes in altitude. The forester 
is not content with the taxonomist's five species of this genus, but is 
able to recognize in this complex a great many more entities or varia- 
tions, most of them more or less significant to him in dealing with this 
economically important forest association. It is now the most im- 
portant native timber tree, since the kauri is practically gone as a source 
of commercial timber. Hence, the foresters are working out ways of 
conserving, extending, and using the beech forests of South Island. 
Soil conservationists are interested in Nothofagus forests, for these 
can prevent erosion on mountain slopes, if man would only let them 
alone or aid Nature to restore them. But man's ax and fire have laid 
waste large tracts of mountain slopes. And now another danger 
threatens the beech forests. The deer which man introduced for 
sport, or their progeny, are busy browsing and trampling the young 
beech seedling so that in places the undergrowth of young seedlings 
has disappeared. The solution for the regeneration of these forests 
seems to be the extermination of the deer, or at least the keeping of 
the population under control at a much lower level than it is today. 
Indeed, the problems of future forests involve many factors in this 
fascinating country. 

THE FLORA, OR THE PLANT SPECIES COMPRISING THE 
VEGETATION 

Many species of New Zealand plants are possibly unimportant in 
considering the structure, origin, and distribution of the vegetation or 
plant associations. They are, however, extremely important in rela- 
tion to the flora as a whole and the understanding of its origins, 
affinities, and distribution. There are too many interesting species to 
deal with them at all thoroughly here, but some aspects of the flora 
can be reviewed. The marine and fresh-water algae (pi. 10, fig. 2), 
and the other lower cryptogams must be omitted, but with full recog- 
nition of their great interest and importance. Although New Zealand 
is famous as a pteridologist's paradise, the ferns, too, must be largely 
ignored. (See pi. 5, fig. 1.) 

One's first impulse in looking at the New Zealand flora is to divide 
it into two categories, the native plants and those introduced by man. 



330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1940 

Each seems a separate unit and the visitor with limited time tends to 
pass over the introductions. There are, however, so many interesting 
and important botanical features in both floras that neither should 
be omitted. 

THE NATIVE FLORA 

The indigenous flora of New Zealand is among the most distinctive 
of the world's floras. It is not especiaUj rich in number of species, 
Cheeseman's Manual (4) listing only 1,763 species, but it contains a 
wealth of fascinating members, mostly belonging to genera and families 
unfamiliar to the traveler from northern lands. About 78 percent of 
the indigenous species of ferns and seed plants are endemics, that is, 
are not found anywhere else in the world. This becomes 88 percent 
if the ferns and monocotyledonous plants are excluded, and even 
higher if only the forest species are considered. Forty genera are 
found only in New Zealand. Among the more conspicuous or signifi- 
cant are the lacewood (Hoheria — Malvaceae), one of the few natives 
which has conspicuous and ornamental flowers and is deciduous, and 
two composite genera, Haastia and Raoulia, which form the "vegetable 
sheep" (pi. 3, fig. 2, and pi. 10, fig. 1), for which New Zealand is noted. 
The reasons for the occurrence of these species and genera only in 
New Zealand are mostly obscure, and leave much yet to learn. They 
may have evolved here or they may have had a widespread distribu- 
tion and have died out elsewhere. It cannot readily be determined 
that these represent a flora which developed in New Zealand, rather 
than one that came from some other part of the world in remote 
geological times, but the evidence is that such flora did evolve here. 
It is called the palaeozelandic flora and certain genera are tentatively 
assumed to belong to it. They include the three strictly endemic 
genera just mentioned, besides others now found elsewhere but which 
probably originated here. Among them are the distinctive New 
Zealand pine (Dacrydium) in the Taxaceae, the New Zealand broom 
(Carmichaelia — Leguminosae) , the widespread shrub Coprosma (Rubi- 
aceae) of distinctive divaricating habit and many species, and the 
woody genus Hebe (Scrophulariaceae) , which is often combined with 
the widespread genus Veronica with mostly herbaceous species. 

The majority of the nonendemic species and genera are found also in 
Australia. One might suppose this indicated a relation between the 
floras of the two regions, but too much emphasis should not be given 
to this numerical superiority of the Australian element. It is just as 
important in considering this relationship that certain prominent 
Australian groups do not occur in New Zealand. Thus in these 
islands there are no native eucalypts (Eucalyptus — Myrtaceae), bottle- 
brushes (Callistemon — Myrtaceae), Melaleuca (Myrtaceae), wattles 
(Acacia — Leguminosae), and other significant genera, especially 



NEW ZEALAND — EGBERT H. WALKER 331 

legumes, and only two genera, Persoonia and Knightia, of the con- 
spicuously Australian family Proteaceae. Few of the Australian ele- 
ments are familiar to travelers from the North Temperate Zone. One 
that a visitor to the New Zealand forest will soon meet, however, is the 
supplejack (Rhipogonium scandens — Liliaceae), a conspicuous vine 
which hangs from the tops of the trees. Another is the genus Celmisia 
(Compositae), whose many New Zealand species are among the chief 
ornamentals in the montane and alpine vegetation (pi. 3, fig. 2). 

Besides the Australian element there are indigenous species and 
genera, found also in the Malay Archipelago and the Pacific region, 
but they are fewer than the Australian ones. The kauri is of this 
group, for certain other species of Agathis grow in Australia, New 
Caledonia, Fiji, and elsewhere. The climbing pandanus (Freycinetia) 
(pi. 2, fig. 2) and the only New Zealand palm (Rhopalostylis) (pi. 3, 
fig. 1) belong to definitely Malayan-Pacific groups. 

The third group of indigenous but not endemic elements is the sub- 
antarctic, most conspicuously represented by the southern-beech 
(Nothqfagus) , already mentioned. There are a good many genera and 
some species in this group with distribution around the southern 
Pacific, some with extensions into more northern regions. They are 
of much interest to plant geographers in understanding the past geo- 
logical history of this whole southern region. 

Finally, there are New Zealand plants with a world-wide distribution 
constituting the cosmopolitan element. An example is the widespread 
bracken, Pteridium aquilinum, the New Zealand variety of which, var. 
esculenium, grows to such great size, as already noted. Most of these 
cosmopolitan species are seashore or littoral plants. 

These floristic elements and their origin have been discussed by 
various authors, including Wallace (27) and Cockayne (7). The sub- 
antarctic flora has been most thoroughly dealt with by Hooker in his 
introduction to the Flora Antarctica (14) and by Skottsberg (24). 

BOTANICAL DISTRICTS 

More significant to the traveler than the origin of the indigenous 
elements of the flora, is the distribution of the species within the islands. 
This has already been mentioned in connection with the various plant 
formations and their occurrence, but consideration of the species 
rather than the formations brings out more clearly the botanical 
divisions of New Zealand. Through a lifetime of study of the vegeta- 
tion and plants of this area, Cockayne (7) has divided the country, 
exclusive of the outlying islands, into 16 more or less distinct botanical 
districts. There is, of course, some disagreement with these divisions 
and other workers will alter them when new studies and interpre- 
tations are made, as Cockayne himself predicted. The districts are 



332 ANNUAL REPORT SAilTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

shown on the accompanying map, figure 2.^ The following char- 
acterizations are largely derived from Cockayne's publications and 
the writer's personal observations. Only a few of the many outstand- 
ing species are here mentioned. 

Northwest of North Cape lies the seldom-visited Three Kings Dis- 
trict composed of a small group of islands with this name. Their 
flora includes 10 species of plants not found elsewhere in New Zea- 
land, 6 of which are obviously related to New Zealand species, 3 have 
relatives only toward the north, and 1, a species of Chloris (Gramin- 
eae), is of almost cosmopolitan affinity, although not found elsewhere 
in New Zealand. The impoverishment of this flora by introduced 
grazing animals, especially goats, and its recovery after these were 
removed is an interesting study with significant implications for other 
likewise devastated areas. These Islands have recently been treated 
botanically by Oliver (23) and Baylis (3). 

In the North and South Auclcland^Districts there are more than 100 
species of plants which do not occur farther south, or extend only a 
short distance beyond the southern limit at approximately the 38th 
parallel. The kauri tree has already been mentioned in this connec- 
tion. The taraire (Beilschmeidia taraire), usually the dominant tree 
in the kauri forest, does not go farther south as does the other impor- 
tant kauri associate, the tawa {B. tawa). Several ferns are found 
only here, as weU as the parasite Cassytlm paniculata (Lauraceae), 
which resembles, but is no relative of, the dodder {Cuscuta) of wide 
distribution. This parasite genus occurs in the Pacific area, Australia, 
and the gumlands of northern North Auckland. It is a hazard to 
walking wherever it grows as it binds together the manuka and other 
shrubs by dull green resistant cords. An interesting phenomenon is 
the occurrence on the small islands adjacent to these districts of 
species or varieties similar to those on the main island, but with larger 
leaves, flowers, or fruits, among other diftering characters. These 
islands are diflSicult to reach, but one can often find these distinct 
plants growing in private gardens, nurseries, and parks where enthusi- 
astic New Zealand botanists grow them. Several species have their 
northern limit in the South Auckland district, one being the silver 
beech {Nothqfagus menziesii). Although there are no natural grass- 
lands in this area, there are extensive man-made pastures with certain 
distinct plant species, mostly gi-asses. The mild climate makes it 
possible to grow certain citrus fruits and other subtropical crops with 
success. 

' After this map was prepared Cockayne and Allan (8) proposed an additional district, the Sounds-Nelson 
Botanical District, comprising the South Island portion of the Ruahine-Cook District, which formerly 
straddled the Cook Strait. This district was recognized in Cockasme's larger work (7), which is followed 
in this survey, but which docs not have a map suitable for reproduction here. 



NEW ZEALAND — EGBERT H. WALKER 



333 



THHC tmes /• .»• 1 \ 

_ ,, . _,. _^-? North Cape 

C. Maria v. Dieman <r d , 



n\ j5 Doubtless Bay 
,. .>^>fV\k Bay of 



Islands 



EXPLANATION. | 


BOTANICAL (DISTRICT. 


No OK 


Three Kings ... 


1 


North AurUand 


2 


South Auckland 


3 


(t) Wsiluilo Subdiolrict 




f (b) Thanx^ Subdjstncl 




Volcjinic Plateau 


4 


East Cspe 


5 


Kgnicnt-V/anganui 


6 


Ruahine-Cook 


7 


(•) WclUnclon SuMistncI 




(b) Marlborough Sounds SiibdislncI 




North-eastern South Island ... 


8 


North-westtTD Smith Island . 


9 


Eastern South Island 


10 


Western South Islutid 


11 


North Otafio .... 


12 


South Otago .... 


13 


Kiord _ 


14 


Stewart 


15 








East Cape 



Waikato R 

NORTH ,.^_ -.^//-^^oWi^i 

X_Roloruij 

Aliii*^" %Gisbprne 

, t^ J ^'^ » rfTarawera V 
New Plymouth^--' ^ i if) J;», / \y Hawke B 
/^\:MrRuari(ku% li^u *.Napier 
Mt. Egm^nr^ Ka\o>V.,'*v'T t^CrC. Ki 

Vanga 




Figure 2.— The botanical districts of New Zealand, according to L. Cockayne (6). 



334 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITTJTION, 1949 

The first natural or tussock grasslands as one progresses southward 
are found in the Volcanic Plateau District. Here one begins to see 
certain characteristic subalpine shrub formations, especially of 
monoao (Dracophyllum subulatum — Epacridaceae). The volcanic 
mountains, three of which are still active, raise their summits far above 
timber line and support a fascinating alpine flora. 

The northern tip of the East Cape Botanical District is within the 
northern plant zone marked off by the 38th parallel, so contains some 
northern plants. The southern part in the Hawkes Bay region is 
drier, hence it has certain agricultural possibilities not found else- 
where. Maize or Indian corn (Zea mays — Gramineae) is grown for 
its grain, but elsewhere mostly for fodder. 

To the botanist Mount Egmont is probably the first attraction of 
the Egmont- Wanganui District in the southwest portion of North 
Island. However, its high mountain flora is less rich than is that in 
the mountains of the central plateau, which are visible in good 
weather from Egmont's higher slopes. The zones of vegetation on 
this isolated volcanic cone, however, are very vivid. There are few 
plants endemic to this district and the southern-beech forests are 
absent. A forest of tawa (Beilschmeidia tawa) probably originally 
covered most of the lower land, of which the Wanganui plain is the 
most significant, but the area is now almost entirely converted into 
agricultural land. The moist, mild climate has led here to the exten- 
sive development of dairying, a most thriving enterprise based entirely 
on artificial pastures. 

The Ruahine-Cook District occupies the southeastern segment of 
North Island, Tvath Wellington as its principal city. It is divided by 
the Ruahine and Tararua Mountains into two parts, the eastern or 
protected side having a drier climate. The west side is influenced by 
the winds and storms, so characteristic of Cook Strait, and sand dunes 
and wind-shaped trees and shrubs are common. There are remnants 
of various forest types in the lowlands, and southern-beech forests 
extend up to timber line in the mountains. Most of the North 
Island alpine species and formations are found on the higher slopes. 
(See pi. 3, fig. 2.) Among the lowland forest types is one composed 
primarily of the kohekohe {Dysoxylum spectabile), the only member 
of the Meliaceae in New Zealand. (See pi. 4, fig. 2.) It is a relatively 
open forest with dense shade, many lianas, and few undershrubs. 
This tree bears flowers and fruits on the larger branches and trunk, 
a characteristic fairly common in the Tropics and subtropics. The 
occurrence of mixed dicotylous-taxad forests and southern-beech 
forests at the same or adjacent elevations, but on slopes with different 
exposures, gives one an opportunity to see vividly the contrasts 
between these two types of forest. Certain mountain plants of South 
Island may be found on the exposed coast of Cook Strait at sea level. 



NEW ZEALAND — EGBERT H. WALKER 335 

The Sounds- Nelson District has remnants of forests almost identical 
with those of the preceding district, of which it has been considered 
only a part (6, 8). Cook Strait is less of a natural boundary than 
the parallel of 42° .S. which crosses South Island below this Sounds- 
Nelson District. The striking features of this district are the 
beautiful long, rugged sounds in the north and scattered, lofty moun- 
tains toward the south. The climate is one of the best in New Zealand, 
and agriculture of a more mixed nature than in most parts is well 
developed in the valleys and lowlands, especially about the principal 
city, Nelson. From this progressive center one can readily reach the 
diverse botanical associations and seek the unusually large number of 
endemics. The famous Mineral Belt crosses this district with its 
vivid exhibition of the effect of an excess of magnesium in the soil 
on plant growth. Here at a nonalpine elevation are alpine and other 
plants with a dwarf or dwarfed habit growing on the mineral or 
serpentine belt only a few yards from rich taxad and southern-beech 
forests growing on nonmineral soil. One of the principal interests 
of the Cawthron Institute in Nelson is in mineral deficiencies in 
agricultural soils. Hops, tobacco, and fruits are among the crops 
grown in this district. 

The Northwestern District is a mountainous area with some broad 
valleys. The rainfall is heavier, especially in the southern part, 
than it is farther east and agriculture is less well developed. It con- 
tains about 30 endemic species including Pittosporum (Pittosporaceae), 
a species of the epiphytic tree genus Metrosideros (Myrtaceae) 
(pi. 2, fig. 2), a native broom (Carmichaelia Jieldii — Leguminosae), 
gentians, forget-me-nots, and species of the variable woody genus 
Hebe (Scrophulariaceae) . This genus is so closely related to Veronica 
with only herbaceous species that they are often combined under the 
latter name. Here one finds certain wet areas called pakihis. They 
would be considered bogs if they contained more peat. They are 
underlain by an impervious soil of "iron pan" and stones, causing 
water to collect on the surface. Characteristic plants are sedges of 
the genus Cladiurn, the bog umbrella-fern {Gleichenia umhellata) not 
found between here and North Auckland, and a gentian. Here also 
occurs Epacris pauciflora of the family Epacridaceae, which in this 
part of the world furnishes the heaths, as the closely related Ericaceae 
do in the Northern Hemisphere. There are, furthermore, a few orchids, 
sundews (Drosera — Droseraceae), an endemic species of an endemic 
genus, Siphonidium longiflorum (Scrophulariaceae), and a few other 
plants, as well as that amazingly adaptable shrub, manuka. 

In the Northeastern District there are very few forests, except in 
the Seaward Kaikouras, the coastal one of several mountain ranges 
which dominate this essentially dry area, characterized by low tussock 
grasslands. Here occurs one of the two almost desert regions of 



336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

New Zealand already mentioned (p. 320) . The many endemic species, 
often of very restricted range, as is characteristic of those of South 
Island, are largely denizens of open rocks and high, barren, stony 
fields called fell-fields. Here, as throughout the drier mountains of 
New Zealand, occur extensive "shingle-slips" on dry mountainsides 
where weathering has broken the greywacke rock into deep layers 
of loose shingle. (See pi. 7, fig. 1.) On this formation grow certain 
distinctive shingle-slip plants, mostly isolated or in small colonies 
and specially adapted to these precarious life conditions. One of 
those most distinctive cushion growths known in New Zealand as 
vegetable sheep is characteristic of this Northeastern District, Haastia 
pulvinaris (Compositae) . It also occurs in the adjacent districts to the 
west and northwest. Other vegetable sheep are mostly in another 
composite genus, Raoulia, a widespread and variable New Zealand 
group of about 22 species of a characteristic, extremely dense growth 
form, especially adapted to dry areas. 

The Western District is an area of dense temperate rain forest of 
taxads and associated dicotyledonous trees on the western side of the 
Southern Alps. There is no beech forest except high up on the moun- 
tains (this perhaps properly belonging to the eastern province), and 
at the northern and southern ends of the district. The rainfall on 
the coast and mountain slopes and the snowfall in the high mountains 
are excessive. The traveler here feels he is in a pioneer atmosphere 
where man has only begun to despoil nature, except perhaps toward 
the northern end. Agriculture is limited by the extent of the forests, 
the rainfall, and the narrow coastal strip. Sheep are replaced by 
cattle which tlirive better under such humid conditions. The great 
attractions to botanists as well as others are the Franz Joseph and 
Fox Glaciers (pi. 7, fig. 2), which extend far down from the great 
snow fields above through deep gorges. Their tips are just under 
700 feet above sea level, far down among the forests. Here is the 
only place where one can photograph a glacier in a framework of 
tree ferns. There are a few endemics in this wet district. 

Over the divide on the opposite side of the Southern Alps is the 
Eastern District, almost the antithesis of the western. Here are 
extensive tussock grasslands instead of forests, and low instead of 
high rainfall, dry instead of almost saturated atmosphere, and well- 
developed agriculture, with wheatfields instead of stump-filled clear- 
ings recently cut from the "bush." The propserous city of Christ- 
church is the center from which to become acquainted with this area. 
The climate may be called semicontinental. Temperatures range 
higher and lower than in most other parts of New Zealand except 
Otago Province, and the precipitation varies. There is much discus- 
sion as to the original extent of the grasslands (pi. 9, fig. 2) and the 
forests, but the latter, undoubtedly never very extensive, are now 



NEW ZEALAND — EGBERT H. WALKER 337 

much less so. Remnants occm* in the Canterbury Plain of the swamp 
forest or kahikatea, composed of Podocarpus dacrydioides (see p. 328). 
In the high mountains are fell-fields, amazing shingle-slips, and other 
alpine formations, each with characteristic plants. Mount Torlesse, 
with its vegetable sheep (Raoulia eximia and R. mammillaria) (pi. 10, 
fig. 1), and other characteristic alpine plants, is a well-known mountain 
rather easily reached from Christchurch. The Banks Peninsula, 
with mountains of volcanic origin which can wrest moisture from the 
eastern winds, constitutes a subprovince. It, too, has certain endemic 
plants and formerly had dicotylous-taxad forests, now largely gone 
to make way for prosperous dairy farming. 

Reference has already been made (p. 320) to the desert conditions 
in Central Otago, which is the outstanding characteristic of the North 
Otago District. This is the hottest and driest, as well as the coldest, 
part of New Zealand. It owes this distinction to the protection from 
the rain-laden westerly winds and the failure of the southwest winds, 
which bathe the area to the south, to reach this district. Its desert 
conditions have been aggravated by overgrazing (pi. 8), burning, and 
the nibbling of an amazingly dense rabbit population. Irrigation in 
river valleys makes possible the growing of certain fruits and alfalfa. 
There are a few endemic plants, mostly xerophytes, some of them 
grazed almost to extinction. The weed population is perhaps more 
conspicuous than elsewhere in New Zealand. Forests are practically 
absent. 

The least-interfered-with and the botanically least-known part of 
New Zealand is the Fiord District, an area of difiicult access because 
of the meagerness of means of transportation and of population. Its 
boundaries are rather vague, especially the separation from the South 
Otago District. Forests of taxads and of southern-beech stretch from 
seacoast to timber line. Almost the only open land is the tussock 
grassland in the alpine zone between the tree and the snow lines. The 
distinctive or near-endemic plants are largely low ground plants or 
shrubs, most of which occur also in the districts toward the east. 
Here was recently found, in an isolated valley, the supposedly extinct 
fhghtless bird, the takahe {Notornis mantelli), one of the group of rails. 
Within 3 weeks of this discovery a large area was declared by the New 
Zealand Government to be a reserve where only those with special 
permits could go. Such rapid action bodes well for future conserva- 
tion. One wonders what rare plants may also some day be found in 
this district of superb wild scenery. Those who have been in this 
district so far have found it of rather more zoological than botanical 
interest. 

In the South Otago District, which includes southern Otago and 
most of Southland Provinces, the moisture comes largely from the 
wet southwest winds, which leave snow on the high mountains in the 



338 AKNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

west. Elsewhere the land is also mountainous with fertile plains 
between. From Dunedin one can readily reach mountains with many 
specially interesting plant formations and some forests. (See pi. 6, 
fig. 2.) Farther south are the eastward extensions of the beech forests 
of Fiordland, which so far cannot be set off by any definite line. 
Originally in the east were dicotylous-taxad forests differing from those 
farther north in their fewer species, but the forests in this area have 
suffered much from the ax of the settlers, who are still pushing steadily 
westward. The tussock grasslands at lower elevations are extensive, 
as well as the alpine formations high on the mountains. There are 
only a few endemic species in this district. Agriculture is well devel- 
oped, some of the most prosperous farms in New Zealand being in 
the vicinity of Invercargill in the south. 

The most unaltered part of New Zealand is the Stewart Island 
District, unless it may have to contest this honor with the Fiord 
District. It is for the most part heavily forested with dicotylous- 
taxed forests, which are very similar to those of southern South Island, 
just across stormy Foveaux Strait. Remarkable swamp or kahikatea 
forests occur here, dominated by Dacrydium intermedium and distin- 
guished by very numerous huge moss and livewort cushions on the 
forest floor. There are no beech forests on Stewart Island, and several 
other trees and shrubs that one would expect to be here are wanting. 
Altogether about 500 species of plants are to be found with about 20 
endemics. Several species are found elsewhere only on the sub- 
antarctic islands to the south or are closely related to plants of that 
region. Stewart Island has an abundant rainfall, high winds, and 
moderate temperatures, frost and snow being very rare except on the 
highest mountains, none of which are over 3,000 feet high. As there 
are no roads except close about the only settlement, Oban, on Half- 
moon Bay, travel is very difiicult. The interior is best reached by 
rough trails, usually called "tracks" in New Zealand, from nearby 
points on the coast to which one must go in hired fishing boats. A 
prominent feature is the characteristic coastal high-shrub formation, 
often of the composite genera Senecio and Olearia or tree-daisies, and 
treelike species of Dracophyllum (Epacridaceae), at the bases of which 
penguins nest. Alpine species are frequently found here at seal level. 

Much importance is attached to the study of the subantarctic 
islands farther south, and they have been visited a number of times by 
specialists. It is not, however, feasible to discuss them here. 

SOME PECULIARITIES OF NATIVE NEW ZEALAND PLANTS 

It is impossible in a brief survey such as this to take up even the 
most interesting plants. There are, however, a few outstanding 
characteristics or peculiarities of the plants of this flora which will 



NEW ZEALAND — EGBERT H. WALKER 339 

be of interest. In the first place, there are few annual or biennial 
plants in the native flora. Then it is striking that many genera, 
which in other parts of the world have mostly herbaceous species, 
here have only or mostly shrubby ones. Why the long-isolated New 
Zealand flora should have developed a flora without annuals and 
biennials and with this emphasis on woody plants is somewhat puz- 
zling. There were no grazing animals in New Zealand until the white 
man came, except possibly the large extinct flightless bird, the moa. 
Hence, the course of evolution may have been slightly different from 
what it was in other countries where grazing animals could have 
influenced the development of the flora. 

A puzzling characteristic of about 200 species in 32 different families 
is the development of different types of foliage and growth habits at 
successive stages in an individual plant's life. In its youth, which 
may extend from a month to 50 years, a plant may have a "juvenile 
foliage," and then develop a strikingly different "adult foliage." 
These may be so different that one finds it difficult not to doubt the 
veracity of the local botanists who point out that these different forms 
of foliage reaUy occur on the same plant and that they do not repre- 
sent different species. Furthermore, many of these plants in one 
stage are adapted to one habitat and in the other are better fitted to 
live in a different environment. Most of these species are endemics, 
so the phenomenon seems in some way related to the evolution of the 
New Zealand flora. Are these changes related to past changes in the 
climate of New Zealand, and are the plants now reflecting their evolu- 
tion in the stages of development tlirough which the individual plant 
passes? The phenomenon is a very puzzling one. It is by no means 
confined to New Zealand, but is more strilvingly evident here than in 
other parts of the world. At any rate this feature has advantages 
to the plant propagator, for sometimes in cultivation it happens that 
the "juvenile" stage is more susceptible to an insect or fungus attack 
than is the "adult" stage. In that case the grower can vegetatively 
propagate from "adult" plants, thus entirely eliminating the sus- 
ceptible stage in the development of his plants, unless the adults so 
grown take a notion to revert to the juvenile habit of growth. Often 
change to another stage can be induced by altering the growing con- 
ditions of plants under cultivation. 

Another disconcerting phenomenon to the student of species of the 
taxonomist is the extreme variation of form that may be found within 
a genus. A genus may have species which are diminutive in size and 
others that are huge trees. The taxad Dacrydium is an example. 
This phenomenon occurs in other countries also but it seems to be 
outstanding here. Great variation within certain species is also very 
disconcerting, as is the running together of the species in many genera 
such as Coprosma (Rubiaceae). Hybrid swarms are common and 



340 ANNUAL REPORT SJMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

have been given much consideration, over 500 hybrids having been 
recognized in the New Zealand flora. Thus the taxonomist is often 
hard put to give a plant a proper name and to define the limits of 
species. Reference has already been made (p. 324) to the divaricating 
habit of growth. (See pi. 6, fig. 1.) Indeed, New Zealand has so 
many engrossing botanical phenomena that the great interest in 
plants on the part of so many people is not surprising. Perhaps the 
characterization of the country as a botanical paradise is not an 
exaggeration. 

THE INTRODUCED FLORA 

The vividness of the conflict between the introduced and the native 
flora in New Zealand makes consideration of the exotic plants more 
worthwhile in this than in many countries. We can study the history 
of this conflict here more easily than anywhere else in the world for 
several reasons. In the first place, the geographical isolation of New 
Zealand has reduced the number of ways plants can come in, thus 
enabling us more easily to scrutinize these channels. Secondly, there 
are certain rather definite records of "pre-pakeha" introductions in the 
legends of the Maori peoples. Finally, the records of plant and animal 
introductions since the arrival of Captain Cook are fairly complete, 
and the existing gaps do not materially vitiate the conclusions that 
may be drawn from these data. 

It appears on the surface that the native flora is doomed to disappear 
under the impact of the more vigorous invaders. But more thorough 
observations have led to the conclusion that the strength in the new- 
comers lies in the aid they have gained from man's activities in chang- 
ing the environment to their advantage and to the disadvantage of the 
native species. Where competition occurs unadied by man, the 
indigenous species are able to maintain themselves and win supremacy. 
With a growing consciousness of the need for conservation in New Zea- 
land, late though it may be, the threat of extinction of the native 
flora wiU disappear. But it will be a long struggle to overcome the 
great losses already suffered here, as in so many other parts of the 
world, through man's past failure or unwillingness to see the conse- 
quences of his acts and to restrain his desire for immediate returns 
to himself, in the interests of future generations. 

Most Maori legends of the bringing of food plants to New Zealand 
are plausible explanations of the presence of certain species. Among 
these are the hue gourd (Lagenaria vulgaris — Cucurbitaceae), the 
sweetpotato or kumara (Ipomoea batatas — Convolvulaceae) , the taro 
(Colocasia esculenta var. antiquorum or C. antiquorum — Araceae), 
and the ti tree (Cordyline terminalis — Liliaceae). Sometimes, how- 
ever, these legends do not fit the observable scientific facts. For ex- 



NEW ZEALAND — EGBERT H. WALKER 341 

ample, legend says that the tree called karaka (Corynocarpus laevi- 
gata — Coriariaceae) was brought in a canoe about 500 years ago, 
obviously from Polynesia. But this species is not known in Polynesia 
or anywhere else outside of New Zealand except in the Kermadec 
Islands. Possibly it was brought from that group. Another species 
occurs in the New Hebrides and one in New Caledonia. These 
Maori introductions do not seem to have influenced the native vege- 
tation. These people did not greatly alter the environment in favor 
of their introductions, and even when they did do so they usually soon 
abandoned the fields and let the native flora take over again. 

The first definite record of introductions are those mentioned in the 
account of Captain Cook's second voyage to New Zealand in 1773. 
He brought animals to release, especially goats, and plants to sow, 
because on his first visit he was impressed by the shortage of food 
plants and animals in the country. He wanted to assure a larger 
supply for his future expeditions. Thus he planted gardens and en- 
couraged the natives to tend them and to plant more. On later ex- 
peditions observations were recorded of the few successes and the 
more numerous failures of these ventures. 

Probably few introductions occurred between Cook's voyages and 
the first regular settlement, which was at Wellington in 1839. It is 
recorded, however, that potatoes were actually exported to Australia 
during this time. Then with the influx of immigrants to New Zealand 
there came accidental weeds, partly with their rough bedding which 
was thrown out with other refuse full of European weed seeds. When 
these settlers gained some leisure from the grinding toil of pioneer 
life, nostalgic longings for the atmosphere of the lovely English 
countryside overcame them. They sent for plants to lend color to 
their new homes, where the native plants were generally so lacking in 
bright flowers. Here were no social class distinctions to keep the 
people from enjoying the sports reserved at home for the privileged 
few. Hence, as New Zealand lacked animals, fish, and game birds 
suitable for sport, deer, hares, rabbits, and other animals were intro- 
duced and released with no thought of the future, except the sport of 
hunting them. Skylarks were brought to make music for settlers' 
ears, and pheasants to shoot. Soon "acclimatization societies" were 
formed to aid in bringing in plants and animals. Enthusiasm rose 
to great heights. Many introductions, according to the records, 
failed time after time; others succeeded all too well and became 
destructive elements in the flora and fauna. The story of the efforts 
of diverse people and groups the world over to introduce plants and 
animals and then to control those that prove harmful is always the 
same. Many well-meaning efforts fail from lack of coordination of 
interested groups and of scientific understanding of the problems 



342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

involved either in selecting introductions or dealing with those that 
threaten to or have run amuck. G. M. Thomson (26) has vividly 
summarized this course in New Zealand. 

The first important list of introduced plants appeared in J. D. 
Hooker's Handbook in 1867 (15). The latest is that in Cheeseman's 
Manual, second edition, 1925 (4), since which time other species have 
arrived and more are constantly being introduced by both official and 
private interests. Several publications have been issued to aid in 
identifying introduced plants, as one by Allan (1). In 1922 G. M. 
Thomson brought together the scattered information on introduced 
animals and plants (26). His object in compiling the book was to 
obtain precise data as a basis for understanding what to expect in the 
conflict between the introduced and the native flora and fauna, and 
for drawing up effective future scientifically based control measures. 
He records over 600 species of plants as truly wild, that is, they re- 
produce by seed and appear to be permanent denizens of New Zealand. 
Most of them are of European origin, a few are from Australia, and 
some from America and Asia. 

Although widespread harm has resulted from bringing in certain 
foreign plants, the economy of the country is founded on imported 
species of plants and animals. The list of introduced plants includes 
injurious, potentially harmful, harmless, and both injurious and useful 
species, depending on circumstances. Reference has already been 
made to several harmful species. A potentially dangerous species is 
the prickly pear cactus {Opuntia sp.) which in Australia has been so 
destructive. It was reported in 1840 at Hokitika on the west coast 
of South Island but has not spread. One wonders what would happen 
if a frost-resistant species were released in Central Otago. Red clover 
(Trifolium pratense) came early, but had to wait for the introduction 
of the bumblebees to pollinate its flowers before it could set out to 
cover New Zealand. One accidentally introduced weed, the slender 
thistle (Carduus pycnocephalus) , which probably came originally as an 
impurity in farm seeds, now is an emergency winter feed for sheep in 
Central Otago. But if the native feed had not been overgrazed, this 
emergency would not arise. An interesting failure seems to be the 
Chinese paper mulberry (Broussonetia papyrifera) reported by Sir 
Joseph Banks on the first Cook expedition in 1769. It was obviously 
a Maori introduction, for cloth was made from its bark fibers, but it 
is not found in New Zealand now, though it is a common weed in 
most tropical and subtropical and warm-temperature countries. The 
common mullein has an advantage not shared by most weeds and 
cultivated plants in that the introduced rabbits and sheep will not 
eat it. 

Many New Zealand introductions show astonishing vigor, rapid 
growth, and large size. This is especially striking in the Monterey 



NEW ZEALAND — EGBERT H. WALKER 343 

pine (Pinus radiata). At first this phenomenon caused much alarm 
lest the native flora should be wiped out. Wlien Darwin's ideas on 
evolution through natural selection first came to people's attention, 
much speculation arose in New Zealand as to whether new species 
and varieties would arise capable of overcoming the native flora. 
Observations, however, do not show evolution of new entities, nor 
have the fears of the extermination of native species been realized. 
Although there have been profound changes in the vegetation, there 
is no known record of the extinction of any species. If the full record 
of the New Zealand flora at the time of the white man's first arrival 
were known, we might, however, be able to record today some extinct 
species. The record of the existence and distribution of New Zealand 
plants is by no means complete even today. Local extermination has 
occurred in many places. For example, the antiscorbutic, Lejndium 
oleraceum (Cruciferae), which Captain Cook found abundant and 
which supphed his urgent need, is now rare, thanks to the depreda- 
tions of appreciative sheep. The traveler will see and be shown many 
examples of formerly common but now rare plant species and the 
efforts being made to protect them. They usually show maintenance 
vigor when man's introduced gi-azing animals, sheep, goats, and 
rabbits, are ehminated. (See pi. 8, fig. 1, and pi. 9, fig. 2.) But at 
the same time aggressiveness is not confined to the introduced flora. 
Often when man has changed the natiu*al habitats, indigenous species 
have been the invading weeds rather than vigorous exotics. The 
most notable of these are the manuka (Leptospermum scoparium) 
(pi. 5, fig. 2) and the bracken {Pteridium acquilinum var. esculentum) , 
already described. 

Indeed, the introduced flora is well worth the traveler's attention. 

BOTANICAL STUDY AND RESEARCH 

Scientific interest in New Zealand plants began with the first 
explorers. The noted botanists Sir Joseph Banks and Dr. Daniel C. 
Solander accompanied Capt. James Cook on his first voyage to New 
Zealand in 1769. Most other expeditions that came here in the early 
days also made scientific observations and collections. We even owe 
some scientific knowledge to the early whahng voyages that preceded 
the settlement of New Zealand. The settlers were for the most part 
of a class which was alert and inchned to make observations, and many 
people recorded what they saw and sent collections to the European 
scientists. Officials and missionaries gleaned rareties from the 
countryside as they went about on business and mission trips. The 
nomenclature of New Zealand botany is full of memorials to their work, 
as Haastia (Compositae) for Sir Julius von Haast and Colensoa 
(Campanulaceae) for Rev. William Colenso. Scientists with various 

866591—50 23 



344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

expeditions collected here, but the most noteworthy was Sir Joseph 
Hooker who wrote various works on the Antarctic and New Zealand, 
including the first real flora of this future Dominion (14). Naturally, 
early work was done in England, but gradually scientific works began 
to appear in New Zealand. The Government fostered scientific work 
at an early date and the larger part of present-day botanical research is 
being carried on within the Government. Among the many botanists 
of New Zealand only two may be mentioned here for lack of space. 
Names of others are noted in the bibliography and in various works 
there listed. Leonard Cockayne contributed greatly, not only to the 
knowledge of ecology and phytogeography in New Zealand, but also 
to the dissemination of this knowledge among the people by his practice 
of writing for both the laymen and the scientists. (See especially 
(6).) T. F. Cheeseman issued the first edition, in 1906, of the now 
widely used Manual of the New Zealand Flora, the second edition 
having been issued in 1925 (4). It is now being revised again by H. H. 
Allan. 

The principal herbarium collections of plants in New Zealand are 
deposited in the Auckland Memorial Institute and Museum, the 
Division of Botany of the Department of Scientific and Industrial 
Research (everywhere known as the DSIR) of the Government in 
Wellington, the Dominion Museum in Wellington, and the Canterbury 
Museum in Christchurch. Botanical research is being promoted very 
actively, especially by the DSIR. Botany is being taught and research 
conducted in all the scattered colleges of the University of New 
Zealand, in Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin. The 
agricultural colleges are, of course, doing research in applied botany, 
as is also the Cawthron Institute in Nelson which is specially concerned 
with basic agricultural problems. 

The extent of this research and teaching is a recognition of the 
importance of botanical science in the development of the country. 
Much has been done, but in a real sense the surface has only been 
scratched. Cockayne's major work on the vegetation is an excellent 
comprehensive treatment, but the author recognized that it was a 
preliminary presentation. Cheeseman's excellent flora is subject to 
improvement, as indeed is every other flora ever published. 

One cannot in a survey such as this even touch upon all the facets 
of the subject. Many important plant formations and fascinating 
plants have been left for the traveler and the reader to discover. The 
fields of marine algae and fossil pollens are very lively and promising 
subjects of research in New Zealand today. Fungi are coming into 
their own, and bryophytes are by no means neglected; at least the 
groundwork has been laid. The ferns of New Zealand are famous and 
much has already been published on them. Nor are the laboratory 



NEW ZEALAND — EGBERT H. WALKER 345 

and experimental aspects of botany neglected. All are thriving and 
carrying on the advancement of pure and applied science in New- 
Zealand. 

The botanical traveler in New Zealand will soon come to know 
many amateur and professional botanists. Nearly every community 
has a local naturalist or two, often with special interest in some 
limited group of plants, and nearly all much interested in growing 
native plants in their gardens. The commercial nurseries are in tune 
with this spirit and have separate sections devoted to natives which 
can be successfully grown in gardens. The city parks are usually 
dominated by exotics, but it was most gratifying to hear one superin- 
tendent with 3,600 acres of park and public domain in his care, in a 
city of under 11,000 population, explain his extensive use of native 
species. The planting of natives versus exotics in reforestation is a 
lively subject. 

Botanical travel in New Zealand is relatively simple and most parts, 
except the Fiord region of the southwest and Stewart Island beyond 
the Halfmoon Bay region, can be reached by car, train, bus, or boat 
plus not too strenuous walking. The diffusion within the population 
of people sympathetic to botanical travelers makes the experience one 
never to be forgotten. The common bond of the English language 
facilitates explanations freely given. The handicap to the visitor of 
the frequent use of native Maori names is lessened by the unusual 
familiarity of many people with scientific names, so necessary for clear 
understanding. Indeed, New Zealand is a botanist's paradise. 

SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. Allan, H. H. 

1940. A handbook of the naturalized flora of New Zealand. Bull. Dep. Sci. 
and Industr. Res., No. 83, pp. 1-344, figs. 1-141B. 
A systematic treatment with keys, 

2. Andersen, Johannes C. 

1926. Popular names of New Zealand plants. Trans. New Zealand Inst., 
vol. 56, pp. 659-714. May. 
A discussion and alphabetic list of generic and specific names with Maori 
and English names. 

3. Baylis, G. T. S. 

1948. Vegetation of Great Island, Three Kings Group. Rec. Auckland Mus., 
vol. 3, pp. 239-252, pis. 35-40. 

4. Cheeseman, T, F. 

1925. Manual of the New Zealand flora. 2d ed., xliv + 1163 pp. Wellington. 
This is the best currently used systematic manual. A new edition is 
being prepared. 

5. Cockayne, Leonard. 

1908. Report on a botanical survey of the Waipoua kauri forest. New 
Zealand Department of Lands, C. — 14, pp. 1-44, 10 pis. (figs. 1-20), 
1 folded map. Wellington. 
One of many reports by Cockayne on important reserves, parks, and 

regions. 



346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

6. Cockayne, Leonard. 

1919. New Zealand plants and their story. 2d ed., xvi + 248 pp., illus. 

Wellington. 

A comprehensive semitechnical treatment for the general botanical 

reader and student. The index makes discussions of subjects more readily 

available here than in his more technical work of later date (see next entry). 

7. Cockayne, Leonard. 

1928. The vegetation of New Zealand. 2d ed. In A. Engler and O. Drude, 
Die Vegetation der Erde, vol. 14, pp. i-xxvii, 1-456, pis. 1-87, 
3 folded maps. Leipzig. 
By far the most comprehensive ecological and phytogeographical treat- 
ment yet prepared. It includes a good bibliography. The index is of plant 
names only. 

8. Cockayne, Leonard, and Allan, H. H, 

1926. A proposed new botanical district for the New Zealand region. Trans. 
New Zealand Inst., vol. 56, pp. 19-20. July. 
Proposes the Sounds-Nelson District, formerly included in the Ruahine- 
Cook District. 

9. Cockayne, Leonard, Simpson, George, and Thomson, J. Scott. 

1932. The vegetation of South Island, New Zealand. In G. Karsten, Vegeta- 
tionsbilder, Reihe 22, Heft 5/6, pp. 1-17, pis. 25-36. Jena. 

10. Cumberland, Kenneth B. 

1941. A century's change: natural to cultural vegetation in New Zealand. 
Geogr. Rev., vol. 31, No. 4, pp. 529-554, figs. 1-11, 1 folded map. 
October. 

11. Cumberland, Kenneth B. 

1944. Soil erosion in New Zealand, a geographical reconnaissance. [vi] + 227 
pp., illus., maps. Wellington. 
Includes a good general bibliography with botanical references. 

12. Davies, William C. 

1947. Some salient features of the New Zealand native flora. Bull. Roy. 
New Zealand Inst. Hort., November, pp. 1-16, 19 pis. (figs. 1-23). 
A general lecture with excellent illustrations. 

13. Hilgendorf, F. W. 

1935. The grasslands of the South Island of New Zealand. An ecological 
survey. Bull. Dep. Sci. and Industr. Res., No. 47, pp. 1-24, 2 maps. 

14. Hooker, Joseph Dalton. 

1844-60. The botany of the Antarctic voyage of H. M. discovery ships Erebus 
and Terror in the years 1839-1843 under the command of Captain 
Sir James Clark Ross. Pt. I, Flora Antarctica. Pt. II, Flora 
Novae-Zelandiae. Pt. Ill, Flora Tasmaniae. London. 

15. Hooker, Joseph Dalton. 

1867. Handbook of the New Zealand flora: a systematic description of the 
native plants of New Zealand and the Chatham, Kermadec's, Lord 
Auckland's, Campbell's and Macquarrie's Islands. Ixviii -1- 789 pp. 
London. 

16. KiDSON, E. 

1929. Climate of New Zealand. In New Zealand Official Yearbook, 1930, 
pp. 24-35, 1 text map. Wellington. Reprinted pp. 1-14, 1929. 

17. KiDSON, E. 

1932. II. The climate of New Zealand. In W. Koppen and R. Geiger, 
Handbuch der Klimatologie, Band 4, Teil S. Australien und Neusee- 
land, pp. S109-S138, figs. 1-5. Berlin. 



NEW ZEALAND — EGBERT H. WALKER 347 

18. Laing, Robert M., and Blackwell, Ellen W. 

1940. Plants of New Zealand. 4th ed., xvii + 499 pp., illus. New Zealand. 
A popular discussion and systematic treatment of the seed plants, 
exclusive of some groups, intended as a suggestive guide for botanists. The 
illustrations are mostly photographs of plants. 

19. Madden, E. A. 

1940. The grasslands of the North Island of New Zealand. Bull. Dep. Sci. 
and Industr. Res., No. 79, pp. 1-45, figs. 1-39, 1 folded map. 

20. Martin, William. 

[1947]. The Flora of New Zealand. 3d ed., xiii + 266 pp., figs. 1-88. New 
Zealand. 
A popular discussion of the flora, including the seaweeds, fungi, bryo- 
phytes, lichens, ferns, and major growth types of seed plants, intended for 
secondary students. 

21. McGregor, W. R. 

1948. The Waipoua Forest: the last virgin kauri forest of New Zealand. 
88 pp., 56 photographs, 1 text map. Auckland. 
An excellent analysis of this forest in the light of its threatened destruc* 
tion. 

22. Oliver, Vv^. R. B. 

1935. The plants of New Zealand. In New Zealand Official Yearbook, 1936, 
pp. 26-34. Wellington. Reprinted pp. 1-11, 1935. 
An excellent review of the principal features, of the flora, the families 
represented, and the major associations. 

23. Oliver, W. R. B. 

1948. The flora of the Three Kings Islands. Rec. Auckland Mus., vol. 3, 
pp. 211-238, pis. 31-34. 

24. Skottsberg, Carl. 

1915. Notes on the relations between the floras of subantarctic America and 
New Zealand. Plant World, vol. 18, No. 5, pp. 129-142, May. 

25. Stapledon, R. G. 

1928. A tour in Australia and New Zealand; grass land and other studies. 
XV + 128 pp., 8 pis. London. 

26. Thomson, George Malcolm. 

1922. The naturalization of plants and animals in New Zealand, x + 607 pp. 
Cambridge. 
A comprehensive treatment, with data on all introductions. 

27. Wallace, Alfred Russell. 

1902. Island life: or. The phenomena and causes of insular faunas and floras, 
including a revision and attempted solution of the problem of 
geological climates. 3d ed., xx + 563 pp., illus., maps. London. 
A well-known work. Chapter 22, pp. 487-508, is entitled "The Flora 

of New Zealand: Its Affinities and Probable Origin." 

28. Zotov, V. D. 

1938. Survey of the tussock-grasslands of the South Island, New Zealand. 
Preliminary report. New Zealand Journ. Sci. Technol., vol. 20, 
No. 4A, pp. 212A-244A. Reprinted without change of pagination 
as Bull. Dep. Sci. and Industr. Res., No. 73, 1939. 



THE ARCHEOLOGICAL IMPORTANCE OF GUATEMALA 



By a. V. Kidder 

Chairman, Division of Historical Research 

Carnegie Institution of Washington 



[With 6 plates] 



The high aboriginal cultures of Mesoamerica extended from north- 
central Mexico well into Nicaragua. Guatemala lies almost exactly 
in the middle of this great area. Not only is it central geographically 
but, as will be shown, it is unquestionably one of the New World's 
most important archeological fields. 

To begin at the very beginning, it is certain that somewhere in 
Guatemala there must exist remains of the earliest comers to the 
Americas. The Indians, we know, were present at the extreme tip 
of South America at a time when many sorts of animals now extinct 
were still in existence. To reach South America, their forebears 
must have worked their way down through Central America and 
Panama. Until very recently, however, no trace of early human 
occupancy of, or man's passage through, Mexico and Central America 
had come to light. But during the last 2 years crude implements and 
a human skeleton have been found in the Valley of Mexico in deposits 
which seem surely to date from very shortly after the close of the last 
glacial period. Discovery of similar evidence in Guatemala would 
add greatly to our at present extremely scanty information as to the 
peopling of the New World, and as to the culture possessed by the 
pioneers. 

Where to seek such evidence is a problem. The Pacific coast 
plain, level, rich in game, its waters teeming with fish, would seem to 
have offered the most favorable route for migration. It surely so 
served in later times. However, to find the meager remains that 
hunters and fisherfolk and gatherers of wild foods can be expected to 
have left behind them will not be easy. The coast plain and the 
slopes of the volcanic coast range are deeply covered by alluvium 
washed down during the ages from the mountains. Early camp sites 
must, in most cases, lie far below the present surface. Not only that, 
but the shore line of today is evidently a considerable distance farther 
out than it was 10 or 15 thousand years ago. Random digging would 

349 



350 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

be useless. A sharp lookout should therefore be kept for materials 
which may become exposed by the cutting of streams or by road and 
other excavations. But the chances of an archeologist's happening to 
be on the spot to take advantage of such an accidental find are almost 
negligible. 

Whether or not the highlands served as a route for early travel is 
unlvnown. They may well have been, and at any rate doubtless be- 
came inliabited a very long time ago. In the interior valleys there 
should accordingly exist remains dating from the very long period 
which elapsed between the first coming of man to Guatemala and the 
rise of agricultural, pottery-making cultures. This stretch of at least 
several millennia is at present entirely unrepresented by identifiable 
relics, not only in Guatemala but throughout Mesoamerica. In many 
parts of the highlands search for evidence of human life during those 
years will encounter the same difficulties presented by the coast. It 
is possible that the oldest sites may have been buried by falls of vol- 
canic ash — incidentally, it is most important that studies be made 
to determine the age of the more recent volcanic deposits. And even 
if not blanketed by the original falls, such sites may well have been 
covered by ash washed down from the higher parts of the terrain. 
For this reason search should be made of areas not so affected, as on 
the northern and western slopes of the Cuchumatanes, in Alta and 
Baja Verapaz, and particularly in the valley of the Motagua and its 
tributaries. That drainage is a most promising region because, owing 
to its aridity, the ground is little hidden by vegetation; many quebradas 
present extensive cross sections through old deposits; and also be- 
cause, in the Motagua country, there have often been found bones of 
members of the elephant family known to have been hunted by the 
early ancestors of the Indians in North America. 

The next major stage in Mesoamerican culture development was 
that which saw the beginnings of settled agricultural life, a stage, 
theoretically, during which maize was first brought under domestica- 
tion. This, again theoretically, should have been an era of small com- 
munities, possessing few of the attributes of the later, more advanced 
civilizations. Pottery, however, was presumably being made. I 
have said "theoretically" because no trace of these postulated first 
farmers has so far come to light in Guatemala or, for that matter, in 
any other part of Mesoamerica. That such a stage must have existed 
somewhere is obvious, because the oldest cultures we can now identify — 
the so-called Archaic of Miraflores and Salcaja in Guatemala, Playa 
de los Muertos in Honduras, Zacatenco and Early Tres Zapotes in 
Mexico — are so highly developed that they can only have been the 
result of a long period of growth. 

Were the above-mentioned Archaic cultures relatively uniform, one 
might suppose that they were introduced in mature form from South 



GUATEMALA — KIDDER 351 

America, but although they are more generaUzed than those of the 
Classic Period they nevertheless exhibit distinct local differences that 
seem to have evolved so-to-speak in situ. Furthermore, they are 
unlike any culture at present known from south of Panama. This 
problem of the early agricultural-pottery-making peoples is one of the 
most baffling which confronts the student of Mesoamerican prehistory. 
Guatemala should be a particularly favorable area for research on this 
important question because elements of the so-called "Q-complex" 
which, as Lothrop and Vaillant have pointed out, appear to underlie, 
or at least to have played some part in the evolution of the more 
southerly Archaic manifestations, are to be seen in both Miraflores 
and Salcaja materials. Search should accordingly be made for any 
culture of simpler type than Miraflores and Salcaja. If the Lothrop- 
Vaillant hypothesis is correct such a culture should contain an even 
higher percentage of '*Q" traits. 

It is, of course, to be hoped that the postulated early remains may be 
found in stratigraphic position below those of a recognized Archaic 
cidture. That would definitely settle the matter of relative age. 
But enough work has been done at Kaminaljuyu to make it reasonably 
certain that at that site nothing older lies below Miraflores and two 
other closely related but slightly earlier Archaic phases known as Las 
Charcas and Sacatepequez; and, although the Salcaja deposits have 
been less carefully studied, there are no indications that they overlie 
anything more ancient. Both Kaminaljuyu and Salcaja, however, are 
in areas heavily blanlveted by volcanic ash, the upper layers of which 
may be of sufficiently recent date to have rendered those localities 
unsuitable for agriculture during pre-Archaic times. It would there- 
fore be well to investigate country upon which little or no ash has 
fallen. The northwestern slopes of the Cuchumatanes fulfill this 
requirement and they should certainly be explored, not only because 
of absence of ash but also because that region sustains an exceptionally 
luxuriant growth of teocinte, a plant which, whether one regards it 
as an ancestor or a bastard offspring of maize, is in some way con- 
nected with maize. Maize having been without question one of the 
very important food crops of Archaic times, and therefore presumably 
of pre-Archaic times, any area in which it might have been brought 
under domestication becomes important in our search for the origins 
of New World civilization. 

With the opening of the Archaic Period we at last find ourselves on 
more solid ground, in that materials are abundant and their assign- 
ment to a pre-Classic era can be made not only on typological grounds, 
but on the incontrovertible evidence of stratigraphy. In Guatemala, 
as has been said, the Archaic is represented by Las Charcas, Sacate- 
pequez, Miraflores, and Salcaja. Further work can be counted 
upon to reveal other Archaic cultures in the highlands and on the 



352 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Pacific coast. In Peten, also, Archaic remains have been found: the 
Mamom phase and the somewhat younger Chicanel of Uaxactun. 
These are of special interest because before their discovery it was 
generally believed that advanced culture had developed in the high- 
lands and had not worked its way into the lowland jungles until a 
relatively late date. Now, however, it appears that Mamom may be 
even older than anything so far known in the highlands, for the closest 
resemblances between the Peten Archaic and that of the highlands 
are on the Chicanel, rather than the Mamom horizon. This raises the 
possibility that the beginnings of higher civilization may have to be 
sought in Peten. This will be no easy task because of the difficulty of 
getting about in that area and the practical impossibility of locating, 
in the dense tropical undergrowth, any archeological site not marked 
by mounds or stone structures, which, in all probability, were not 
erected by the first agriculturists. The Mamom and Chicanel 
deposits at Uaxactun would, for example, never have come to light 
had attention not been called to the site by the presence of its Classic 
Maya buildings. 

Nothing earlier than Mamom apparently exists at Uaxactun but 
even more ancient remains may well exist at some of the many other 
ruined cities of Peten and no excavation at any one of them should 
be considered complete until pits have been sunk to bedrock in plazas 
and other places where possibly early refuse might have accumu- 
lated. It is difficult to choose any specific district for investigations 
looking to the discovery of lowland pre-Archaic, but one would sup- 
pose that the shores of the many lakes of Peten and the banks of 
such great rivers as the Usumacinta and Pasion would be promising 
locations. 

To return to the Archaic proper, far too little is known of Mira- 
flores or Salcaja; and Mamom and Chicanel are represented by 
materials from but a single site. More data are needed, both in 
the way of specimens and in the matter of distribution. As to the 
archeology of great stretches of country we are entirely ignorant. 
It is nevertheless becoming increasingly clear that the Archaic cultures 
were considerably more advanced than was formerly supposed. The 
people of that time were skilled potters and stone workers, they had 
already developed social and economic systems under which it was 
possible to carry out great communal undertakings. As evidence of 
this are a number of very large mounds at Kaminaljuyu that are 
certainly of Miraflores date and one on Finca Arizona near Puerto 
San Jose in the summit of which were found Miraflores tombs. Tem- 
ple E-VII-sub at Uaxactun is believed to be a Chicanel structure. 
We must also believe that the remarkable hieroglyphic and calendrical 
systems of the Maya were evolved during the Archaic, for when the 
oldest dated stelae were erected at the beginning of the Classic Period, 



GUATEMALA — ^KIDDER 353 

those systems were in full working order. Where this took place is 
as yet unknown, Peten seems to be the most likely region, but the 
eminent Mexican archeologist Alfonso Caso has recently brought for- 
ward weighty arguments tending to show that bar-and-dot numera- 
tion, always thought to have been a Maya invention, may have been 
originated in Oaxaca, supposedly by the ancestral Zapotec ^; and if 
the very early date on the famous stela of Tres Zapotes, in Veracruz, 
has been correctly read and if it recorded a contemporaneous event, 
one might have to look to the southern coast of the Gulf of Mexico 
for the place of origin of the Maya calendrical system. 

We now pass upward in time to the Classic Period, which saw the 
full flowering of Mesoamerican civilization in Guatemala, Honduras, 
El Salvador, and Mexico. It was once rather generally believed, 
because of the brilliance of this development among the Maya, that 
their culture preceded and stimulated such others as those of Monte 
Alban, Tajiu, and Teotihuacan in Mexico, and of Tazumal in El 
Salvador. Finds of Early Classic Maya pottery at Teotihuacan and 
also in tombs at Kaminaljuyu, where it was associated with Teoti- 
huacan pottery and a stone carving of unmistakable Tajin style, have 
suggested, however, that most, if not all, the Classic cultures came into 
being more or less simultaneously, each apparently growing out of a 
preexistent and already locally specialized Archaic forerunner. As to 
the chronological position of still another very important culture, the 
Olmec or La Venta of southern Veracruz and Tabasco, there is greater 
doubt, the distinguished Mexican artist and scholar Miguel Covarru- 
bias believing it to have been earlier than, and in some respects 
ancestral to, those just listed. Other students feel that Olmec was 
probably contemporaneous with them. 

This problem and many others have been really little more than 
formulated. Much exploration, excavation, and comparative studies 
of ceramics, stone artifacts, jade carving, and major stone sculpture 
must be carried out before satisfactory solutions can be reached. In 
all such research Guatemala is destined to play a most significant 
role because of the abundance of its ancient remains and also because, 
throughout its long pre-Columbian history, parts at least of Guatemala 
served as a highway for migration and trade. 

Archeologically speaking, Guatemala, of the Classic Period may, like 
Gaul, be divided, very roughly, into three parts: the northern lowlands, 
the highlands, and the Pacific coast. The northern lowland province 
consists of the Department of the Peten, and British Honduras, 
with limited extensions into the Mexican states of Campeche and 
Chiapas, The Peten is its heart, both geographically and culturally. 
In Peten lie Piedras Negras, Altar de Sacrificios, Uaxactun, Holmul, 
Xultun, Naranjo, and Tikal, the greatest of all ancient Maya cities. 

1 A. Caso, "Calendario y Escrltura de las Antlguas Culturas de Monte Alban," Mexico, 1947. 



354 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Close to the border, in Chiapas, are Yaxchilan, Palenque, as well as 
Bonampak, whose remarkable mural paintings have been recorded by 
Sr. Antonio Tejeda F. and the Mexican artist Villagra. According to 
the evidence now available, the brilliant Classic Maya civilization 
had its origin in north-central Peten and spread outward from that 
center. 

In spite of the extreme difficulty of travel in its dense tropical jungles, 
the archeology of Peten is better known than that of any other part 
of Guatemala. This is of course due to the presence there of the 
above-mentioned and many other Classic Maya sites whose spectacular 
ruined temples and wealth of hieroglyphically inscribed stelae have, 
until very recently, almost monopolized the attention of students. 
More excavation has also been carried on there — particularly at 
Piedras Negras and Uaxactun — than in all the rest of the Republic. 
Nevertheless, a vast amount remains to be done. A^lany important 
cities doubtless still await discovery in the vast forests; others, already 
located, have only superficially been studied. Work anywhere in 
Peten would be valuable, but certain specific investigations are ur- 
gently needed. The search for and exploitation of Archaic and pre- 
Archaic remains has already been mentioned. Among the Classic 
sites. Altar de Sacrificios, a very large and evidently long-occupied 
city, especially calls for attention because of its situation at the junc- 
tion of the Pasion and Salinas Rivers, which makes it probable that 
it received trade from north-central Peten, from the Usumacinta 
cities, and, via the Salinas drainage, from the highlands. Excavations 
at Altar de Sacrificios should yield much-needed information as to 
cultural and chronological relations between the various lowland 
Classic centers and between them and various centers in Quiche, 
Huehuetenango, and Alta Verapaz. Another strategic point is Lake 
Peten where, at Tayasal, are Classic ruins and where, presumably on 
the present site of modern Flores, the Itza remained independent and 
practiced the ancient Alaya culture until the end of the seventeenth 
century. 

It is to be hoped that Til^al may some day be cleared and main- 
tained as a national park. This city, as has been said, was the greatest 
of all Maya cities. Its scores and scores of structures of all sorts, 
many in remarkably good preservation, are dominated by steep and 
towering pyramids, each crowned by a tall roof-combed temple. If 
sufficient vegetation were removed to render the buildings visible — 
they are now literally buried in dense bush — and if a landing field 
were provided, Tikal would become one of the world's most famous 
monuments of antiquity. And judging by the wealth of fine specimens 
found at nearby Uaxactun, which was really little more than a suburb, 
the material to be recovered from tombs and caches of Tikal would be 



GUATEMALA — KIDDER 355 

of the utmost archeological and artistic importance. The work, 
however, would be long and costly. A tremendous amount of labor 
would have to go into the mere felling of the forest. And the jungle 
growths once removed, the pyramids and temples would have to be 
stabilized, for the tree roots, which in past ages have caused such 
destruction, now serve to hold and bind together the masonry of walls 
and terraces. For this reason, no project should be undertaken at 
Tikal until a thorough and definitive piece of excavation and repair 
can be assured. 

In so brief a summary as this of the archeological riches of Guatemala 
and of their scientific significance, it is impossible to do more than 
outline a few of the manifold problems of the lowland area. Those 
of the origin of Maya civilization have already been glanced at, and 
it was assumed that it arose from a local Archaic base in north- 
central Peten. The outward sweep of Alaya culture seems to have 
been comparable to that of Christianity over early medieval Europe, 
that is to say, a diffusion to already resident and probably Maya- 
speaking populations of a rehgious cult, with linlved ceremonial, 
artistic, architectural, and intellectual attributes, rather than a 
spread of people. Although this is somewhat of an assumption, it 
seems to be borne out by divergences from Peten practice in the more 
everyday aspects of material culture, such as milling stones, common 
household pottery, etc., which are to be seen in the Motagua Valley, 
at Copan, on the Usumacinta, and in Yucatan, all areas into which, 
if we have correctly interpreted the evidence of the dated stelae, 
Maya ceremonialism penetrated from the Peten nucleus. 

What stimulated the development of the extraordinary Maya cult 
and what factors conditioned its wide acceptance will probably never 
be revealed to us, but as to the life, the arts, the architecture, the 
calendar, and the hierogljT^hic writing of the Maya, we already have 
considerable knowledge, and further work in the as yet almost un- 
touched wealth of ruins in Peten and adjacent regions will yield a 
rich harvest of new information. We may also learn whether the 
entire territory occupied by peoples of Maya culture was under the 
sway of a central government, in other words whether the "Old 
Empire" was indeed an empire; whether it was loosely bound together 
in some sort of confederacy; or whether, like ancient Greece, it was 
divided into independent city states. At all events, the southern 
cities were in existence for some six centuries before they were aban- 
doned and the once populous Peten reverted to jungle. Why this 
should have occurred has not as yet been satisfactorily explained. 

So much — and it is little enough — for the lowlands of northern 
Peten. Between them and the highlands is the vast and also densely 
forested sweep of southern Peten, a httle-explored region whicii seems 
never to have been heavily populated. 



356 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

The highlands were also occupied by Maya-speakers, sturdy, inde- 
pendent folk, to judge from their present-day descendants. Culturally 
they never reached the heights attained by their lowland linguistic 
relatives. Very little is yet known of highland archeology. Sites are 
abundant, but because few of them contain well-preserved buildings, 
they have generally failed to attract the efforts of students. The lack 
of striking architectural remains was believed by Manuel Gamio to 
have been due to prevalence of earthquakes which would have ren- 
dered unsafe any masonry structure the ancients were capable of 
erecting. Stone buildings did, however, exist, particularly in the 
northwestern highlands, but none in that area carried the corbelled 
vault and, seemingly because of the difficulty of working the hard 
volcanic rocks of the highlands, none are of cut stone. The majority 
of sites therefore now consist of earth mounds that formerly supported 
temples of perishable materials, as at Kaminaljuyu; or of stone 
substructures and fragments of walls that time and weather have 
largely stripped of their original stucco facings as at Utatlan and 
Zaculeu. For this reason there has, until recently, been no ruin 
illustrating the architectural achievements of the ancient people which 
is easily accessible to the people of Guatemala and to tourists. Now, 
however, through the interest of the United Fruit Company, Zaculeu, 
former capital of the Mam nation, easily reached from Huehuetenango, 
has been excavated and many of its principal buildings restored. 

Although Guatemala highland ruins are, in their present state, un- 
spectacular, they contain materials of the greatest archeological im- 
portance because, far more than Peten, the highlands were open to 
influences from east and west as well as to actual incursions of out- 
siders. Valuable evidence can thus be gathered there, as was the 
case at Kaminaljuyu, regarding the chronological and commercial 
relations between many Mesoamerican groups. 

In the highlands, no less than in Peten and other parts of Meso- 
america, a remarkable burst of cultural energy ushered in the Classic 
Period. Kaminaljuyu was in its prime. At Nebaj, at Chalchitan 
near Aguacatan, at Zaculeu, at Zacualpa, and elsewhere are extensive 
assemblages of mounds dating from this era. It seems to have been 
a relatively peaceful time, for all the known large Classic sites except 
Zaculeu were located without reference to defensibility. Trade was 
brisk and far-reaching. Objects from central Mexico, the Gulf 
coast, the Peten, and El Salvador have been found at Kaminaljuyu; 
and, at Nebaj, pottery from Peten and jades probably carved on the 
Usumacinta. 



GUATEMALA — KIDDER 357 

Even in those early days, influences from Mexico had begun to 
appear. It may even be that there were actual migrations from the 
north. At a later time movements of people from Mexico certainly 
took place. Evidence of this is found in such legendary accounts as 
the Popul Vuh, in the presence of groups of Nahua-speaking Pipii on 
the coast, on the Motagua, and in what is now Baja Verapaz. It has 
been suggested that warlike Mexicans may have been responsible for 
the disturbed conditions and intertribal strife that occurred throughout 
the highlands between the close of the Classic Period and the coming 
of Alvarado. That such conditions existed is indicated by the fact 
that sites of that period, such as Utatlan, Chuitinamit on Lake 
Atitlan, Iximche, Chutix Tiox near Sacapulas, and many others in 
the Departments of Quiche and Huehuetenango were situated with 
an obvious eye to protection from attack. Furthermore, the Popul 
Vuh and the Annals of the Cakchiquels are full of accounts of battles 
and sieges. 

What was going on in Alta Verapaz at this time is less understood. 
Durmg the Classic Period that area received strong influence from the 
Lowland Maya, as is shown by the beautiful pottery found there. As 
to events of the later prehistoric era we know next to nothing. Queerly 
enough, there seem to be relatively few large ruin groups in Alta 
Verapaz; but almost no archeological work, even surface reconnais- 
sance, has been done. 

Although our knowledge of the highlands is scanty, we are in even 
worse case as regards the Pacific slope and coastal plain. That 
wonderfully fertile strip of country between the volcanic rampart and 
the ocean probably contains more ancient remains per square kilometer 
than any other part of the Republic. Sites, for the most part assem- 
blages of earth mounds — there seems to have been very little stone 
construction at any period — are everywhere; and, even more than the 
highlands, the coast was easily accessible to influences and migrations 
from without. There is evidence of a heavy population during Classic 
times, but little is known of Classic coastal culture, save for a rather 
late phase represented at Finca El Paraiso, in the Chuva district. A 
little work has also been done at El Baul, where there occur most 
interesting sculptures, including a colossal stone head. Other sculp- 
tures, some showing strong Mexican traits, have been found at Santa 
Lucia Cotzumalhuapa. Elsewhere, carvings in Olmec style have come 
to light. It is certain that a stock taldng of coastal remains, followed 
by excavations at sites which such a survey shows to be strategic, 
would yield a rich harvest of information, not only as to Guatemalan 
pre-history but also upon problems of continent- wide importance. 



358 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Enough has been said to make clear the vast archeological wealth of 
Guatemala. Its antiquities are a precious heritage from the past; 
they also constitute a vital chapter in the story of human civilization, 
of man's slow and painful conquest of nature, of his unremitting strug- 
gle for a better and fuller life, a struggle which began with the Stone 
Age and is still going on. 



Smithsonian Report, 1949.— Kidder 



Plate 1 




1. Alabaster Vase from a Tomb at Nebaj in the Highlands 




2. Carved Jade From a Ceremonial Cache at Nebaj 
One of the finest pieces of its kind tliat has come to liglit. 



Smithsonian Report, 1949.— Kidder 



Plate 2 




1. Air View of a Temple at uaxactun in the pi. iht^ Jlitngle 





2. General View of- uaxactun 
Restoration drawing by Tateania Proslvouriakoff. 



Smithsonian Report, 1949.— Kidder 



Plate 3 




1. The •palace." Uaxactun 
Restoration drawing by Tateania Proskouriakoff. 





> '^S^J "/ 



/ JL ^ -• V 



•I 

m 




2. TEMPLE E-7-SUB. UAXACTUN 

Restoration drawing by Tateania Proskouriakoff. 



Smithsonian Report, 1949. — Kidder 



Plate 4 




1. Excavation at Kaminaljuyu, Near Guatemala City. Showing Remains 
OF A Late Structure Covering the Well-Preserved Stairway of an Ear- 
lier One 




2. Grave of the classic Period at Kaminaljuyu 



Smithsonian Report. 1949.— Kidder 



PUATE 5 




STEUA E AT QUIRIGUA. THE TALLEST MAYA STELA KNOWN 




D 
(E 
li. 

Q 
hi 

h 

z £ 

D S 

-(J 

LU O 

I ^ 

> S 

uj a 

S 

1^ -^ 

UJ -C 

q: ^ 

< -2, 

D S 

U (^ 

J >< 

D <D 

^ -s 

N .H 

h ^ 

< -t^ 

111 -^ 



EXCAVATIONS AT THE PREHISTORIC ROCK-SHELTER OF 

LA COLOMBIfiRE ' 



By Hallam L. Movius, Jr. 

Curator of Palaeoloihic Archaeology, 

Peabody Museum, Harvard University 



[With 7 plates] 

INTRODUCTION 

The primary objective of the expedition sent out in 1948 by the 
Peabody Museum of Harvard University to eastern France was to 
attempt to date the time when an Upper Paleohthic locality in the 
Southern Jura region was occupied by our Stone Age ancestors. 
This problem, fundamental to the establishment of a reliable chi'on- 
ology for the classic sequence of Old Stone Age cultures in western 
Europe in terms of the advances and retreats of the Alpine glaciers 
(see chart, fig. 1), was approached by means of combined archeological 
and geological field work. 

The dating of archeological deposits by means of geology is based 
on a detailed study of stratified layers of sand and gravel which were 
laid down by the action of rivers flowing from the glaciated regions. 
These sand and gravel deposits were built up into the form of terraces 
by the waters which flowed from the glaciers. The latter pushed 
thousands of tons of debris — called moraines — ahead of them, and 
during the warm seasons of the year, when the ice was melting, there 
was an abundant supply of this material piled up at or near the edge 
of the ice that was available for transport by the rivers. The rivers 
in turn carried this material away, and deposited it in the base of the 
vaUeys, through which they were flowing, in the form of terraces. 

In order to find a locality where combined archeological and geolo- 
gical field work could be expected to furnish fresh facts bearing on 
the problem of Upper Paleolithic chronology, it was not necessary 
to conduct an extensive program of reconnaissance. Just before 
the first World War commenced. Dr. Lucien Mayet of the University 
of Lyon and M. Jean Pissot of Poncin (Ain) partially excavated the 
large rock-shelter of La Colombiere.^ This site (pi, 1) is located 
in the Department of Ain, some 45 miles northeast of Lyon and near 

• Keprinted by permission from Archaeology, vol. 2, No. 1, March 1949. 

« Mayet, Lucien, and Jean Pissot, "Abri-sous-roche pr6hlstorique de La Colomblere, prSs Poncin 
(Ain)," Ann. Univ. Lyon, ser. 1, vol. 39, pp. 1-205, 1915. 

866591—50 24 359 



360 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 




N 



ROCK-SHELTER OF LA COLOMBIBRE — MOVIUS 



361 




FiGUUE 2.— Map showing location of La Colombi&re and places mentioned in 

the text. 

the town of Poncin, in the valley of the Ain River (see map, fig. 2). 
It is in this region that the river emerges from the Jurassic Hmestone 
foothills of the Southern Jura onto the flat, marshy plains area, 
known as the Pays-de-Dombes. 



362 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Now, as may be clearly observed in several of the fine photographs 
published by Mayet and Pissot, the basal deposits in the La Colom- 
biere rock-shelter consist of river-laid sands and gravels that form 
part of the 20- to 23-meter terrace of the Ain (pi. 2), which has a 
wide distribution in the region. Presumably during the warm 
months of the year, Upper Paleolithic hunters moved into this section 
of the Ain Valley and actually camped on the surface of this terrace, 
which more than half fills up the area protected by the overhanging 
rock at La Colombiere. They left behind various types of flint 
implements — knives, points, scrapers, and engraving tools — as well 
as several objects with drawings of animals engraved on them, and 
the bones of the game they hunted. 

These vestiges of a Stone Age occupation are found in direct asso- 
ciation with extensive fire hearths in the uppermost levels of the 
terrace referred to above. In other words, the earliest habitation 
layers at this site, which consist of two gravel horizons (Di and D2 in 
pi. 2), are intimately and directly tied in with the final stages of 
deposition by the river. These so-called "D" layers in turn were 
separated from the overlying Magdalenian horizon ^ (indicated as B 
on the section) by a thick deposit of sterile sand, there having been 
no Solutrean occupation * here. 

The two primary objectives of the 1948 expedition of the Peabody 
Museum of Harvard University to eastern France, therefore, were: 

(a) To excavate the rock-shelter of La Colombiere, near the town 
of Poncin (Ain) ; and 

(6) To investigate the extensively developed Late Pleistocene 
terraces of the Ain Valley for the purpose of dating the main occupa- 
tion layer at La Colombiere in terms of the local glacial sequence. 

Both of these objectives were successfully accomplished. 

This work was made financially possible by a substantial grant from 
the Viking Fund of New York for which we are profoundly grateful. 
We would also like to take this opportunity of thanking the Com- 
mission of Historic Monuments, Ministry of National Education, 
Republic of France, which very generously gave its authorization for 
the expedition to undertake the excavation of La Colombiere. This 
permission was granted to the writer under the same conditions as 
those normally established for French archeologists. 

WORK OF THE 1948 SEASON 

The excavations at the rock-shelter of La Colombiere were begun 
on June 10 and completed on August 20, 1948. In this 10-week 
period the remaining archeological deposits at the site were completely 

> This layer was completely excavated by Mayet and Pissot during their 1912-13 season. 
« The type station of the Solutrean culture, Solutrfi (Saone-et-Loire) is located near Macon, less than 35 
miles due west of Poncin. 



ROCK-SHELTER OF LA COLOMBIERE — MOVIUS 363 

dug, with the exception of a test section approximately 2 meters 
square left at the request of Dr. Franck Bourdier, Regional Director 
of Prehistoric Antiquities, and a small, apparently sterile area at the 
extreme eastern end of the shelter. 

The personnel of the expedition was as follows: Dr. Kirk Bryan, 
Professor of Physiography, Harvard University; Dr. S. Sheldon 
Judson, Jr., Department of Geology, University of Wisconsin; Louis 
Dupree, Harvard University; Carleton Pierpont, Harvard University; 
and the writer. Professor Bryan was assisted in the geologic field 
work by Dr. Judson, while the writer had Messrs. Dupree and Pier- 
pont as his assistants during the digging of the site. 

The rock-shelter of La Colombiere is 46 meters long and some 12 
meters wide in the approximate center of the site below the maximum 
projection of the rock overhang. When we arrived there on the 8th 
of June 1948, not only was the place overgrown with small trees and 
shrubs, but also it was impossible to see across it, owing to the presence 
of several enormous boulders and piles of earth. The former had 
fallen from the roof of the shelter during prehistoric times; the latter 
consisted of M. Pissot's rather extensive dumps. 

When the tedious work of clearing away tliis refuse had been 
completed (pi. 3, fig. 1), the limits of the areas previously excavated 
could be established. As the result of finding the edges of the trench 
dug in 1912-13 in the eastern portion of the site, it was possible to 
identify accurately the various levels originally reported by Dr. 
Mayet and M. Pissot (compare pi. 2). During the course of these 
clearing operations, Dr. Judson successfully completed a detailed 
topographic map showing La Colombiere and the adjacent region. 

From the outset the chance that the rock-shelter had been occupied 
during the interval immediately preceding the deposition of the 20- 
to 23-meter terrace (i. e., prior to the invasion of the site by the river) 
was considered a good possibility. It was also believed likely that 
what appeared to be the top of a filled-in lower cave (see pi. 3, fig. 1) 
might jaeld evidence of an earlier, and possibly even more interesting, 
occupation. But the hoped-for lower cave failed to materialize, and 
there was no evidence whatsoever of an occupation layer underlying 
the deposits in question. 

Bedrock was finally reached at a depth of 11.85 meters, and a 
magnificent section was exposed through the tightly packed and fine- 
grained terrace deposits, which consisted entirely of sands and silts, 
with a basal layer of coarse sand and gravel (pi. 3, fig. 2, and pi. 4, fig. 2). 
Throughout, a very interesting fauna, especially rich in small verte- 
brates and also containing a few moUusks, was collected. 

Abundant soil samples were taken for analysis, and it is hoped that 
on the basis of these the presence of a microfauna, as well as pollen 
(in the silty and clayey layers), will be demonstrated. It is felt that 



364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

detailed studies of the fauna and the soil samples will yield interesting 
and important data on the environmental conditions that prevailed 
in the region during the time when the La Colombiere terrace was 
being formed. 

While the deep central trench was being driven through to the bed- 
rock at the archeological site, Professor Bryan and Dr. Judson made 
an intensive study of the Late Pleistocene deposits of the Jiu-a region 
in the vicinity of La Colombiere. This work led to an extremely 
satisfactory and convincing tie-in of the 20- to 23-meter terrace of 
the Ain with a series of well-marked end-moraines near Nantua, a 
town approximately 11 miles due northeast of Poncin. In order to 
accomplish this it was necessary to leave the Ain Valley at the town 
of Croiselet and follow the valley of the Oignin River southward to the 
Nantua Basin. In this manner it was definitely established that the 
La Colombiere terrace was formed at the time when the front of the 
glaciers was located near Nantua. This may certainly be regarded 
as a late episode during Wiirm (Fourth Glacial) times, but on the basis 
of the present evidence it is impossible to be more precise. 

As regards the Upper Aurignacian occupation layers overlying the 
20- to 23-meter terrace of the Ain at La Colombiere, it was not only 
possible to identify all the levels reported by the original investigators 
of the site (see pi. 2), but also to establish the intimate and direct 
association of them with the uppermost portion of the thick deposits 
of river-laid sands and silts so clearly exposed in the main central 
trench. Very fine sections (pi. 4, fig. 2) clearly showing this relation- 
ship were revealed in both the western and the eastern portions of 
the site. In the latter sector the main occupation layer was for the 
most part intact. Although rich Upper Aurignacian (Gravettian) 
deposits were reported by|,Mayet and Pissot in the former locus, almost 
no archeological material was found there during the course of the 
1948 season. The deposits in the eastern half of the rock-shelter, 
however, proved to be very much richer. 

As previously stated, the Magdalenian * layer was completely 
removed during the 1912-13 season by Dr. Mayet and M. Pissot; 
nevertheless a small patch of gravels that had accumulated during 
Late Pleistocene times was found in the base of a cleft in the rear 
wall of the eastern part of the site. In addition to a small collection 
of vertebrate remains, these gravels yielded the broken piece of an 
interesting broken bone object (pi. 5, fig. 1), which is possibly the 
perforated end of a so-called "baton de commandement," In any 
case, the geometric decoration — chevron pattern, crossed on one side 
by parallel fines — is typically Magdalenian. The object, which is 

' The Magdaleniivn is a prehistoric culture which attained the peak of its development during the closing 
gtagea of the Ice Age, some 10,000 years or so after the Aurignacian, 



ROCK-SHELTER OF LA COLOMBIERE — MOVIUS 365 

2% inches (6.6 cm.) long, is broken at both sides of a well-made hole, 
and it is the only example of Magdalenian art ever found at La 
Colombidre. 

In the actual Upper Aurignacian occupation layer a typical assem- 
blage of flint tools, including several Gravette points, was found at the 
extreme eastern end of the site. Furthermore, a large quantity of 
broken flints and animal bones was unearthed in the vicinity of a 
fairly extensive series of hearths that came to light in the east-central 
portion of the site. In definite and direct association with this hearth 
complex an outstandingly fine art object — a very beautifully engraved 
pebble — was discovered (pi. 5, fig. 2). 

Of the five or six superimposed animals on each surface, the ex- 
tremely naturalistic horse, shown in the upper photo in plate 6, is the 
most easily recognizable. But there are also a second horse, a very 
finely drawn reindeer (with shed antlers), an ibex, a woolly rhinoceros, 
two carnivores (possibly bear), as well as several as yet unidentified 
animals (pis. 6 and 7). It is considered to be one of the finest examples 
of an Aurignacian engraved object that has ever been found, and 
constitutes a find of great importance from the point of view of Upper 
Paleolithic art. Unfortunately it has been broken at one end. It 
has been made a national antiquity by the French Government. For 
study purposes the Ministry of National Education of the Republic 
of France has graciously permitted the expedition to bring this singu- 
larly fine object to the Peabody Museum of Harvard University. 

TENTATIVE CONCLUSIONS 

On the basis of the results achieved to date, it is possible to state 
that the earliest occupation of the rock-shelter of La ColombiSre 
was effected immediately following the deposition of the 20- to 23- 
meter terrace in the Ain Valley, an event that occurred during Late 
Glacial times, when a tongue of the main Ilh6ne Valley glacier was 
stationary at a line clearly marked by a series of end-moraines across 
the Nantua Basin. The first inhabitants of this site were people 
who possessed a very typical Upper Aurignacian (Gravettian) culture. 
At this time the river, which was incising itself into a flood plain on 
the present H-20- to -|-23-meter level, still occasionally flooded the 
site during seasons of high water. In terms of glacial chronology, 
this was during the beginning of the retreat of the late Wiirm ice from 
the Nantua moraines. On this basis, La Colombi^re is the first Upper 
Paleolithic occupation site in France to be geologically dated. 

At the time these Upper Aurignacian hunters moved into the 
Jurassic limestone uplands of the Southern Jura, cold grassy steppe 
conditions prevailed in the Ain Valley. The region supported a rich 
grazing fauna which thrived in a climate characterized by fairly 



366 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

warm summers, severe winters probably with much snow, and short 
spring and fall seasons; in other words, an environment very similar 
to that which exists today in the northern portion of Europe. 

Neither the relatively small series of flint implements recovered 
at La Colombiere, nor the total number and thickness of the fire 
hearths, in comparison with other Upper Paleolithic sites in western 
Europe, suggests that this rock-shelter was ever permanently occupied. 
Furthermore, during the wet summer of 1948 it was found that the 
roof "leaked" very badly. This unpleasant feature, coupled with the 
fact that during Late Pleistocene times weathered-off fragments of 
limestone must have been constantly falling from the top and sides 
of the shelter, would not have been an inducement to settlers to 
occupy the place permanently. On this basis, it is concluded that 
the site was used only as a temporary camping place during the hunt- 
ing season. 

Finally, why are there so many animals superimposed on the two 
surfaces of a single pebble that measures only 4% inches long, 3^ 
inches wide, and 1% inches thick (12 x 8.2 x 3.5 cm.)? In providing 
an answer to this question it seems difficult to avoid putting forward 
the suggestion that, in the eyes of the prehistoric occupants of La 
Colombiere, this pebble was probably regarded as a hunting talisman 
rather than an art object. For there are thousands of similar water- 
worn limestone pebbles strewn on the floor of the Ain Valley near La 
Colombiere. Surely, if an Upper Aurignacian artist had simply 
wanted to reproduce in the form of an outline drawing one of the 
animals his group was hunting (i. e., art for art's sake), it would be 
logical to expect him to select a new pebble with a fresh surface each 
time he desired to depict a new animal. 

Therefore, it is probable that there was some definite reason for 
superimposing so many animals on a single pebble, and on this basis 
it is felt that the only plausible explanation is to regard the object 
as having importance in connection with certain magico-religious rites 
performed in connection with the chase. Thus we can imagine that 
the pebble was initially engraved and used in a hunting ceremony. 
Since that particular himt was successful, the pebble was reengraved 
and used on subsequent occasions for the same purpose. It possessed 
magical qualities, or "mana." It is therefore tentatively concluded 
that the primary significance of this very fine object, from the point 
of view of the people who actually lived at La Colombiere during the 
closing phases of the Ice Age, was not the beautiful engravings so 
carefully executed on its surfaces, but the fact that it was the medium 
by which it was possible to commune directly with the spirits of the 
animal world for the purpose of successfully replenishing the all-im- 
portant food supply. 




o 









< iQ 



a o 

o m 



r 


L 


£ 


o 


u 


a 


in 


iT) 


O 


"^ 


^ 


VU 



UJ 


(V 


v3 


V 


3 


t! 


•3: 


<I 


<i: 




q! 


a! 




OJ 


UJ 


U 
1 


a. 


c 
a. 



3^3 



<Q *^ 



»:: ^ <a 



O 



UJ 

1 




(V. 


o 


ul 










V 


_ 


-s 


uJ 








tvf 






«t [3: 

o r~" 

(J £; 

!? ^ o 

L* q! o 
^ f— 

o c^ 

oi "J 

O iLl O 

Z H -- 

■^n z: 

cca J 

a r— 

UJ 



> 









m 



_ 

< o 

J CO 

I- d 

< » 



Smithsonian Report. 1949.— Movius 



Plate 3 




1. The site looking East 
(See explanation of plates, p. 367.) 




2. TRENCH DUG THROUGH RIVER-LAID TERRACE DEPOSl TS AT LA COLOMBIERE 

(See explanation of plates, p. 367.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1949. — Movius 



Plate 4 




1. Main Trench Near Rear Wall of Rock-Shelter 
(See explanation of plates, p. 367.) 




2. Section Near Western End of La Colombiere 
(See explanation of plates, p. 367.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1949. Movius 



Plate 5 




1. Broken Magdalenian Bone Object Found at La Colombiere 
(See explanation of plates, p. 367.) 




2. Engraved pebble Found at La Colombiere 
(See explanation of plates, p. 367.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1949. — Moviiis 



PLATE 6 





Obverse and Reverse Surfaces of Engraved Pebble Found at la 

colombiere 



(See explanation of plates, p. 368.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1949.— Movii 



Plate 7 





5 6 

Outline Drawings of Animals Engraved on pebble Found at La Colo mbi ere 

(See explanation of plates, p. 368.) 



ROCK-SHELTER OF LA COLOMBIERE — MOVIUS 367 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

On behalf of the expedition, it is my pleasure to take this oppor- 
tunity of thanlving Professor Marcel Thoral, Director of the Labora- 
toire de Geologic, Faculte des Sciences de TUniversite de Lyon, and 
Dr. Jean Viret, Director of the Museum des Sciences Naturelles, 
Lyon, for their generous assistance and kind cooperation in connec- 
tion with our investigations at La Colombiere. It is also my privi- 
lege to thank Messrs. Joe E. Cason and Eaymond H. Thompson, 
graduate students in the Department of Anthropology, Harvard 
University, for their expert help in deciphering the outlines of the ani- 
mals engraved on the La Colombiere pebble and reproduced on plates 
6 and 7 of this article. 

EXPLANATION OF PLATES 
Plate 1 

General view of the rock-shelter of La Colombiere showing the Late Pleistocene 
terraces of the Ain Valley in the vicinity of Poncin. The site, which is 46 meters 
long and some 12 meters wide, faces due south and directly overlooks the Ain 
River. 

Plate 2 

La Colombiere. Photograph taken by Dr. Mayet and M. Pissot in April 
1913, showing the stratification revealed in a trench dug in the western end of the 
site. 

Plate 3 

1. The site looking east, showing the undisturbed surface of the deposits after 
clearing. In the left foreground what appeared to be the top of a filled-in lower 
cave may be noted. 

2. A deep trench, the outer or southern half of which was 2 meters wide, was 
dug through the river-laid terrace deposits at La Colombiere to determine whether 
or not the site had been occupied prior to its invasion by the river in Late Pleisto- 
cene times. Note the rails and trucks, used for removing the excavated material, 
in the foreground. 

Plate 4 

1. Near the rear wall of the rock-shelter the width of the main trench was 
expanded to 4 meters. Bedrock was finally reached below a total thickness of 
11.85 meters of river-laid sands, silts, and gravels, of which the so-called La 
Colombiere terrace was formed. There was no evidence of an early occupation 
of the site. 

2. Section near the western end of La Colombiere showing the intimate and 
direct association of the gravelly occupation layers with the sands laid down when 
the Ain River invaded the site during the late stages of the formation of the 20- 
to 23-meter terrace. 

Plate 5 

1. Broken Magdalenian bone object perforated at one end and decorated with 
chevron pattern crossed on one side by parallel lines. 

2. The interesting engraved pebble described in the accompanying text was 
found in the main (Upper Aurignacian/Gravettian) occupation layer at La 



368 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Colombifere in direct association with an extensive hearth (diameter: 2 m.; thick- 
ness: 40 cm.), on the surface of which the meter scale is resting, as shown in the 
photograph. 

Plate 6 

The beautifully engraved pebble discovered during the 1948 season in the 
Upper Aurignacian occupation layer at La Colombifere, near Poncin (Ain). 

Upper: The obverse surface of the pebble showing a very realistic horse, which 
is by far the most easily recognizable of any of the engravings on either face. 
In addition, there is an extremely finely drawn male reindeer (with shed antlers), 
an ibex, and two carnivores (possibly bear) . The heads of the two former animals 
appear upside down on the right of the photograph. At least two other as yet 
unidentified ungulates may also be distinguished. 

Lower: The reverse surface of the pebble on which a second horse and an out- 
standingly fine woolly rhinoceros are depicted. There are also the heads of two 
other partially completed rhinoceroses, and the outline of the body and legs of 
what appears to be a cervid of some type. 

Plate 7 

Outline drawings of some of the most easily distinguished animals engraved 
on the interesting pebble found at the La Colombiere rock-shelter in an Upper 
Aurignacian context. Nos. 1-4, upper surface; Nos. 5 and 6, lower surface. 
On the basis of the exceedingly skillful and very realistic portrayal of the forms 
represented, it is at once apparent that the drawings reproduced come from the 
hands of men who knew their models intimately at first hand. In particular, the 
engravings of the horse (No. 1) and the woolly rhinoceros (No. 6) are so remarkably 
alive that there is no mistaking the subjects. Note that all four legs are shown 
in the case of Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 6, and that the hair on the neck, forelegs, and 
shoulders of the rhinoceros has been cleverly arranged so as to suggest shading. 

Figure 1 

Prehistoric archeology deals with the immense span of time between the first 
appearance of man and the beginnings of written record — a period of perhaps some 
1,000,000 years' duration. As indicated on this chart, which shows the relative 
duration of prehistoric time, during approximately 49/50ths of this period man 
was in the Old Stone Age, or Paleolithic and Mesolithic stages, of cultural 
development. These stages cover the entii'e Pleistocene or Glacial Epoch, as well 
as much of Early Post-Glacial or Recent times. During the Pleistocene the 
northern regions and mountainous areas of the globe were subjected four times 
to the advances and retreats of the ice sheets (those of the Alps are known as 
Giinz, Mindel, Riss, and Wiirm), river valleys and terraces were being formed, 
and profound changes were being induced in the fauna and flora of the Earth. 

Throughout the entire span of the Old Stone Age (including both the Paleo- 
lithic and the Mesolithic periods) man was a food-gatherer depending for his sub- 
sistence on hunting wild animals and birds, fishing, and collecting wild fruits, 
nuts, and berries. On the basis of the 'evidence obtained' to^ date, particularly 
that from western Europe, it is possible to recognize three main groups of funda- 
mental traditions employed by our Stone Age ancestors in manufacturing their 
stone implements. These subdivisions are as follows: (a) core tool traditions, 
(b) flake tool traditions, and (c) blade tool traditions. The industry found in 
1948 at the rock-shelter of La Colombifere by the Peabody Museum of Harvard 
University's expedition to eastern France belongs in the blade tool category; typo- 
logically it appears to have close affinities with what is known as the Gravettian 
stage in the Upper Paleolithic sequence of western Europe. 



RONNE ANTARCTIC RESEARCH EXPEDITION, 1946-1948 ' 



By Commander Finn Ronne, U. S. N. R. 



[With 8 plates) 



My interest in polar exploration dates from 1909, when my father, 
Martin Ronne, was selected to accompany Capt. Roald Amundsen 
to the Antarctic, on the memorable expedition on which the South 
Pole was first reached. That association continued until the great 
explorer's untimely death, after which my father went with Admiral 
Byrd on his Fii'st Antarctic Expedition, 1928-30. During all this 
time I had closely followed the detailed work involved in the planning 
and successful execution of polar expeditions. Martin Ronne died 
suddenly in Norway in 1932, in his seventy-first year. On Byrd's 
Second Antarctic Expedition, 1933-35, I had the good fortune to 
follow in my father's steps in the capacity of ski expert. 

Upon my return to the United States in 1935, I began to plan for a 
small Antarctic expedition of my own, on which we would sledge and 
map the coast line from the Palmer Peninsula to the Ross Sea area. 
I planned to be set ashore, with foiu- men and sufficient dog power, 
in the Charcot Island area by a Norwegian whaler and to be picked 
up by the whaler several months later on the Ross Sea side. However, 
an independent expedition did not prove possible at the time, and my 
modest plans eventually were merged into the United States Antarctic 
Service Expedition,** on which I acted as second-in-command of the 
east base, on Stonmgton Island, in Marguerite Bay, Palmer Land. 

EXPEDITION PLANS 

In May 1941, I obtained a commission in the United States Navy, 
in which I served until the end of hostilities. Off and on in my spare 
time I began formulating plans for an expedition to the old base of 
the United States Antarctic Service Expedition on Stonington Island, 
a location I considered well suited to geographical exploration, since 
within flying range lay the unexplored Weddell Sea coast line and 
perhaps the termination of the mountain axis of the Palmer Penmsuia. 

> Reprluted by permission from The Geographical Review, vol. 38, No. 3, 1948. 

' English, R. A. J., Preliminary account of the United States Antarctic Expedition, 1939-41, Geogr. Rev., 
Tol. 31, pp. 46<J-478, 1941. The operations from the cast base are described on pp. 469-473. 

369 



370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

I also planned to carry on an extensive scientific program of at least 
a year's duration with a small group of competent men. To eliminate 
the necessity of sending the expedition ship back to civilization, I de- 
cided to let it freeze in at a small cove close to the base ; the expedition 
members themselves would man it. Through Congressional action 
I was able to obtain from the Navy Department, on a loan basis, a 
stm-dily constructed ocean-going wooden tug (pi. 1, fig. 1). From 
the Army Air Forces, Office of Research and Development, many 
articles of equipment were obtained for testing, including three air- 
planes, two snowmobiles ("weasels"), camping equipment, and numer- 
ous types of clothing. 

Only those who have had the experience of planning and organizing 
an expedition can fully appreciate the enormous amount of work in- 
volved, especially in the matter of financial backing. I contacted 
many scientific organizations and foundations interested in Antarctic 
research, but with few concrete results. Under the auspices extended 
by the American Geographical Society of New York, and by selling 
the exclusive news rights of the expedition to the North American 
Newspaper Alliance, Inc., and with a few subscriptions from interested 
friends and a contract with the Office of Naval Research for the 
scientific results to be obtained, I was finally able to get the expedition 
under way. It was not before December 8, 1946, however, that I 
was definitely assured of the minimum required financial support. 
Through continuous hard work day and night, and spurred on by a 
strong determination to sail, we were ultimately able to assemble the 
thousands of needed articles of equipment essential for a polar 

expedition. 

UNDER WAY 

On the afternoon of January 25, 1947, we thi-ew the mooring lines 
off our ship, christened The Port of Beaumont, Texas. The road had 
been long and rough, and many obstacles lay ahead, but we were on 
our way at last. Brief stop-overs were made at Balboa, C. Z., and 
Valparaiso and Punta Arenas, Chile. To avoid the dangerous roaring 
forties with our topside weight, which included 3 airplanes, 112 drums 
of gasoline and lubricating oil, and 43 northern sledge dogs, we sailed 
in the sheltered waters of southern Chile's inland passage. On board 
ship much work was done to the three airplanes, particularly the 
Beechcraft C-45 exploratory plane, in which a complete electrically 
operated trimetrogon camera unit was installed, and also a radio 
altimeter and extra transmitters and receivers for long-range commun- 
ication. Two additional gas tanks were placed in the fuselage, so 
that the plane now had a maximum cruising time of 9 hours. 

Our passage between Cape Horn and Alarguerite Bay was fortu- 
nately very smooth, and we encountered only a relatively small amount 



ANTARCTIC RESEARCH EXPEDITION — RONNE 



371 




90" 80* 70' 60" 60* 40* 



\\\\\\\\\\\ 11////. 



Figure 1. — General map illustrating the principal explorations of the Ronne 
Antarctic Research Expedition. 



372 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

of pack ice and bergs. We anchored off our main base in Stonington 
Island on March 12, 1947 (pi. 1, fig. 1). Shortly before my depar- 
ture from the United States, I had learned through the Department of 
State that, 2 years before, the British Government had established 
a permanent base on the island in continuance of a program begun 
in 1943 under wartime secrecy. It had also established and was 
maintaining other bases on the Palmer Peninsula. Great Britain, 
through the Falldand Islands, has long laid claim to this sector of 
Antarctica, and these five bases were under the administration of the 
Falkland Islands Dependencies Survey. However, it has been the 
policy of the United States not to recognize the claim of any govern- 
ment in the Antarctic, nor has the United States Government made 
any claims of its own. 

I had knowledge that in the 6 years since the departure of the United 
States Antarctic Service Expedition in 1941 ships from several other 
countries had visited the American camp site. In 1943 the Argentine 
gunboat Primero de Mayo had visited the American base, and an 
Ai'gentine ship and two Chilean vessels had been there shortly before 
we arrived in 1947. Upon our arrival we were greeted by the British 
leader, Maj. K. S. Pierce Butler, commander of the Falkland Islands 
Dependencies Survey, 1947-48, and later we became acquainted 
with the other 10 men, who were occupying their own quarters 
constructed about 200 yards from the American camp site. As I 
investigated, I was appalled at the amount of wanton damage that 
had been done to the three large and three small buildings constitut- 
ing the American base. After much hard work the base was made 
livable again and occupied by our expedition (pi. 1, fig. 2). 

GEORGE VI SOUND TRIP 

I decided to attempt to establish an operational base at the south- 
east corner of George VI Sound, 300 miles to the south, before we 
anchored the ship in its final position for the winter freeze-in. I 
hoped to be able to set up a cache of gasoline, stores, and one of our 
two weasels at this halfway point and thus facilitate the transporta- 
tion of such heavy equipment into the field at a later date. The 
attempt did not prove successful, and we later abandoned this loca- 
tion in favor of Cape Keeler, on the Weddell Coast. However, the 
journey did reveal some new features. 

At 5 a. m. on March 23, after riding out a number of strong south- 
easterly gales with velocities of as much as 60 miles an hour, we hoisted 
anchor and steamed south along the Fallieres Coast, past Cape 
Berteaux, to the entrance of George VI Sound. A group of islands, 
which I named the Bugge Islands, were found in approximately 
69°10' S., 68°55' W. Three large islands, the largest about a mile 



ANTARCTIC RESEARCH EXPEDITION — RONNE 373 

and a half long, stretched for some 5 miles in a northeasterly direction. 
Numerous small islands were 15 to 20 feet high, and most of them 
were bare. The larger islands, however, were covered with snowcaps 
more than a hundred feet high, though bedrock was exposed at the 
water's edge. 

Thanl^s to the skillful piloting of our skipper, Commander Isaac 
Schlossbach, U. S. N. (ret.), who was also second-in-command of the 
expedition, the vessel moved steadily among the huge shelf ice and 
glacier-formed bergs that blocked the entrance to the sound. At 
4 o'clock in the afternoon we reached 69°20' S., our farthest point, 
a new record for ships navigating in this region of the Antarctic. 
To make a landing anywhere was virtually impossible. I was unable 
to see the 150-foot ice wall which marks the entrance to the sound and 
over which I had traveled in 1940, but it was obvious that these 
tabular bergs had recently broken off from the shelf ice of the sound 
itself.^ (Our plane flights several months later revealed that the 
shelf edge was discharging bergs such as those among which we were 
now sailing and that the face of the shelf had moved back 35 miles 
in 7 years.) Not only did the conditions ahead offer an immediate 
danger to our only means of transportation back to the civilized world, 
but had we continued to search for a suitable landing place farther 
south, a sudden change in the weather so late in the season might 
have blown these huge bergs in upon us and blocked exit for another 
year, The risk was too great, so I gave orders to retiu-n to the open 
Marguerite Bay. 

Our ship was moored in Back Bay, a cove a third of a mile from the 
base. As temperatures fell during the first week of May, it became 
safely frozen in the bay ice, and it remained so until the summer thaw 
of the following year partly released it from the icy grip (pi. 2, fig. 2). 

WINTER PREPARATION AND TRAIL PLANS 

The winter passed rapidly, and an immense amount of preparatory 
work had been accomphshed by the time we were ready to start the 
field program. On July 15, [ led a sledge party up to the plateau, 
6,000 feet high, 17 miles east of our base to establish a meteorological 
station. This station was manned and operated during the entire 
flying season and, in conjunction with a station later established at 
Cape Keeler, 125 miles to the south of the Weddell Sea side, made 
it possible for H. C. Peterson, our meteorologist, to forecast the highly 
variable weather with good accuracy. 

By August all three planes had been unloaded from the ship, 
assembled, and made ready. I intended to use the single-engine, 

» Ronne, Finn, The main southern sledge journey from East Base, Palmer Land, Antarctica, in Reports 
on Scientific Results of the United States Antarctic Service Expedition, 1939-1941, Proc. Amer. Phllos. 
Soc, vol. 89, No. 1, pp. 18-22, 1946. This joiuney confirmed the insularity of Alexander I Island. 



374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

650-horsepower Norseman plane, which had been especially designed 
for cold-weather work, for flying gasoline caches to various points 
along the Weddell Coast. Weeks of continuous overcast, however, 
prevented us from completing this program. In November, by the 
time the weather had improved sufficiently for the southern explora- 
tory flights, we had deposited 28 drums of high-octane gasoline at the 
Cape Keeler Advance Base. 

During the winter Major Butler and I had decided to cooperate in a 
surface field program. A joint British-American Weddell Coast sledge 
party consisting of four men, Major Butler and surveyor Douglas 
Mason of the F. I. D. S., and two members of my expedition, Walter 
Smith, navigator, and Arthur Owen, dog driver, were to cross the 
plateau by dog team to the eastern side of the Palmer Peninsula. 
They would sledge south along the Weddell Coast to Cape Knowles, 
beyond which the territory was vhgin so far as surface travel was 
concerned, though the United States Antarctic Service Expedition had 
made an exploratory flight as far south as Mount Tricorn. When the 
surface party reached Mount Tricorn, the two Americans, now forming 
the Ronne Weddell Coast party, would continue southward into the 
unknown as far as supplies would permit, in order to establish ground 
control points for our aerial mapping. So long a sledge trip without 
the aid of supporting dog-team parties would be possible because our 
Norseman plane was to deposit several caches of man and dog food 
along the route of travel (fig. 2). 

RESCUE OF BRITISH AIRMEN 

As a first step the small British Auster plane took off for Cape 
Keeler on September 15, followed by the larger Norseman plane loaded 
with 3,000 pounds of trail supplies. The smaller plane was to make 
the initial landing in the field and pick out a suitable landing area for 
the heavily loaded Norseman. The Auster did not have adequate 
radio communication and in flight imfortunately became separated 
from the other plane. When the Norseman did not sight the Auster 
at the Cape Keeler rendezvous, a search was made, but darkness and 
bad weather were approaching, and Capt. James W. Lassiter had to 
turn back. By 10 o'clock that evening a storm had set in, and the 
British plane was still missing and unreported. Accordingly, I made 
all the facilities of my expedition available to Major Butler for his use 
in searching for the missing plane. Captain Lassiter and Lt. Charles 
J. Adams made numerous unsuccessful searching flights in the over- 
cast weather during the next 8 days. On the ninth day, when hope 
was dwindling rapidly. Captain Lassiter located the three lost British- 
ers walking back on the sea ice 40 miles south of our base. We learned 
that they had actually landed at Cape Keeler on the day of the out- 
ward flight and, when they were not sighted by the Norseman, had 



Smithsonian Report, 1949. — Ronne 



Plate 1 







1. The 'Port of Beaumont. Texas," at Anchor off the Main Base, Ston- 
ington island. march 12, 1947 








2. The Main Base on Stonington Island 
Neny Island on the right. 



Smithsonian Report, 1 949. — Ronne 



PLATE 2 




1. weasel hauling the beechcraft into position for flight at the main 

Base 




.jf^^r 



2. The Ice-Locked Vessel Seen From the Glacier Next to the base 
lied Rock Ridge in the background. 



Smithsonian Report, 1949. — Ronne 



PLATE 3 




1. The Main base (Left Foreground), stonington Island 
Ship at anchor near ice cliiT. 




2. Dog Team Near the Terminal Cliffs of One of the Big Glaciers Near 

THE base 



Smithsonian Report, 1949. — Ronne 



PLATE 4 




1. AT THE Entrance to neny Trough 
Heavily crevassed glacier front. 




2. commander Ronne, W. R. Latady, and Capt. lassiter Beside the C-45 
after the long southern flights 



Smithsonian Report. 1949.-Ronne 



Plate 5 




Mew of base and neny Fjord From 10,000 Feet 



Smithsonian Report, 1949. — Ronne 



Plate 6 




1. NEW Bedford Inlet 



K-17 photograph taken late in the evenmg on the first flight south. Altitude of 
plane, 10,000 feet, height of mountain in center of picture, 4,100 feet (taken 
from ground survey). 




2. Cape Keeler, on the Weddell Sea Coast 
Advanced base used as an intermediate stop on flights into the unknown south. 



Smithsonian Report, 1949.— Ronne 



PLATE 7 



1. WRIGHT INLET. EAST COAST OF PALMER PENINSULA 

At the head is :Mount Tricorn (5,450 feet). 



\ 



2 HEAVY CLOUDS NEAR STEELE ISLAND 

The cause of our spending a night in the field and the end of our first long flight 

south. 



Smithsonian Report, 1949. — Ronne 



Plate 8 



1. Along the Southeast Coast of palmer Peninsula 
Scaife Mountains in the center. 




2. lassiter Shelf Ice. Separated by Open Water From Loose Pack Ice in 

THE WEDDELL sea 



ANTARCTIC RESEARCH EXPEDITION — RONNE 



375 




DETAIL MAP OF NBWLY 
DISCOVKRBO WBDDELL SBA AREA 

Figure 2. — Detailed route of the Weddell Coast sledge party, comprising British 



866591 — 5( 



-25 



and Americans. 



376 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

attempted to return to their base, lost their way in the bad weather, 
and crash-landed on the sea ice in Marguerite Bay. The three men 
were uninjured but were extremely weak from a diet of only 630 
calories a day each. 

FIELD PROGRAM BEGINS 

Bad overcast weather continued. On September 29 a short break 
permitted Lassiter to fly Walter Smith and C. O. Fiske to Cape Keeler 
to establish our second weather station and advance base (pi. 6, 
fig. 2). 

On September 28 the geological party, consisting of Dr. Robert L. 
Nichols and Robert H. T. Dodson, departed for George VI Sound and 
the Alexander I Island area. On October 9 the Joint British-American 
Weddell Coast sledge party left the main base for their long southern 
journey, with Smith joining them at Keeler operational base. 

During October the weather continued to be unsuitable for flying, 
though occasional breaks of a few hours enabled the two pilots to 
make quick gasoline-hauling trips to Cape Keeler. Often they had to 
remain there for days at a time because the rapidly deteriorating 
weather at the main base made the return trip impossible. Finally, 
on November 4, I flew over to the Cape Keeler base with Captain 
Lassiter as pilot. 

EXISTENCE OF ISLANDS OFF CAPE KEELER DISPROVED 

On the morning of November 7, with Lieutenant Adams as pilot, 
I took off in the L-5 airplane on a short exploratory flight eastward 
over the Weddell Sea. After his flight from Deception Island along 
the Weddell Coast in 1928, Sir Hubert Wilkins reported the appear- 
ance of islands due east of Cape Keeler. On a flight from the United 
States Anarctic Service east base in 1940, I also had the impression of 
seeing islands through clouds in this same general area. We now 
flew due east from Cape Keeler for 100 miles, to the edge of the Larsen 
Shelf Ice, with its sheer cliff disappearing into the blue water. The 
width of this open water was about 2 miles, and beyond it, since 
visibility was perfect, we could see at least a hundred miles of heavy 
pack ice covering the Weddell Sea to the horizon. At the barrier edge 
we turned due south and followed the ice cliff until we sighted Cape 
Eielson. At the south end of Hearst Island the barrier became lower 
and joined the sea ice without break. At no time during our 3K-hour 
flight did we see signs of the reported islands. This flight, coupled 
with my observations of the cloud formations while we laid over at 
the Cape Keeler base, convinced me that on certain days clouds are 
formed over the open water to the east in such a way that they at 
times give the appearance of mountainous islands. 



ANTARCTIC RESEARCH EXPEDITION — RONNE 377 

ACTIVITIES AT THE ADVANCE BASE 

By this time the complement of the Cape Keeler base had increased 
to eight men: the two permanent residents, Fiske and E. A. Wood, 
and the six in the aviation group — Lassiter, Adams, WilHamR. Latady, 
Commander Schlossbach, James B. Robertson, and myself. The tents 
had originally been pitched on the surface, but heavy drifts soon 
snowed them over. A series of interconnecting tunnels were dug to 
facilitate our life underground. 

On their way south the four men of the Joint British-American 
Weddell Coast sledge party stayed at Cape Keeler for 2 days to rest 
their dogs. In 2 weeks they had sledged 150 miles over the plateau. 

The heavy overcast weather still continued. It seemed as if we 
should be marooned forever in this "hellhole" of the Antarctic. Our 
camp was just 3 miles north of Cape Keeler, first sighted by Sir Hubert 
Wilkins in 1928 on his flight southward. The shelf ice extending 
seaward from the cape, on which our base was located, had an eleva- 
tion of about 65 feet above sea level. To the south of the cape, heavy 
pressure areas caused by moving glaciers flowing eastward from the 
high plateau extended 5 miles seaward. On my flight eastward on 
November 7, I had observed a number of lenticular holes in the shelf 
ice and a deep trough running seaward in an east-northeasterly 
direction. The elevation of the bottom of this trough was close to 
sea level, though no sea leads could be seen in it. 

On November 20, Adams, who had just flown over from the main 
base, considered that the weather was good enough for the laying of a 
much-needed cache for the southward- travehng sledge party. Pilot- 
ing the L-5, he flew ahead to pick out a landing field for Lassiter, who 
piloted the larger Norseman, heavily loaded with supplies. After 
Adams passed Cape Eielson, he could easily identify several of the 
islands shown on the United States Hydrographic Office charts. 
They were all snow-covered except the one charted as Sharbonneau 
Island. A closer investigation disclosed that this extremely black 
rock outcrop was actually a cape, being connected with the mainland 
by a high snow-covered ridge. Following the map closely, Adams 
continued south and began searching for Darlington Island. It also 
proved to be a cape. At the same time, he discovered that Hilton 
Bay was at least 20 miles deeper than had previously been thought. 
Gruening Glacier flows eastward into it from the high plateau ; to the 
south a new glacier was seen, which I named Tejas Glacier. The 
sledge party was located at Cape Knowles, and supplies were deposited 
for their use on the return journey. In overcast weather the pilots 
brought the planes in for a safe landing at the advance base. 



378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

FIRST LONG SOUTHERN FLIGHT 

On November 2 1 rifts began to appear in the overcast to the south- 
east, and by 9 a. m. we were deHghted with a cloudless sky. Weather 
reports radioed from the main base, the plateau weather station, and 
the sledge party, now 200 miles to the south of us, indicated that this 
was a perfect day for a long southern flight. The twin-engine, 
trimetrogon-equipped Beechcraft, Ed Sweeney, and the single-engine, 
cargo-carrying Norseman, Nana, had been ready for many days. 
By 9:20 a. m. the Norseman, with Adams as pilot and Schlossbach as 
copilot, was heading south, carrying five drums of gasoline as cargo. 
The heavily overloaded plane required a long run to get off the well- 
packed surface. Joyously I watched it head south with its precious 
cargo for the rendezvous in the Mount Tricorn area. Our attention 
was now turned to the Beechcraft. 

The surface temperature was — 15° F. As the engines of the Beech- 
craft were being warmed up, the fuel pressure lines from the car- 
buretors to the instruments on the dashboard were found to be frozen 
solid. Robertson was able, however, to fix them without much delay, 
and with Lassiter as pilot, Latady as aerial photographer, and myself 
as navigator the faster Beechcraft took off from Cape Keeler, an hour 
and a half after the Norseman. 

The visibility was perfect. Seaward I could see a 20-mile-wide 
strip of sea ice attached to the land, then a stretch of open water, 
and beyond that a belt of heavy pack ice which extended to the 
horizon. Mount Thompson, 5,600 feet high, was sighted close to 
Cape Eielson. To the west of our flight track, in the center of the 
Palmer Peninsula plateau, I saw several high, well-defined mountains 
south of the previously discovered Mount Andrew Jackson. These 
new mountains I named Mount Russell Owen, the Vincent Gutenko 
Mountains, and Mount Coman. They rose high above the plateau, 
and I estimated their heights to be more than 10,000 feet. Continuous 
radio contact was maintained between the two planes. Our rendez- 
vous was 3,000 feet above Mount Tricorn at the head of Wright 
Inlet (pi. 7, fig. 1). The Norseman reached there after a flight of 
3 hours and 15 minutes; the Beechcraft took only 2 hours and 30 
minutes. We had no difficulty in spotting the Norseman, and together 
the two planes flew south along the coast line at 4,000 feet (pi. 8, 
fig. 1). In a few minutes we were 15 miles south of Mount Tricorn. 
Beneath us lay a snowy inlet, extending about 10 miles in a south- 
westerly direction, with rock exposures at the head. This inlet, 
which I named Keller Inlet, could not be seen until we were directly 
over it. About 30 miles south of Mount Tricorn was another inlet, 
which, upon examination, proved to be Nantucket Inlet (map, 
fig. 2). Its northernmost headland I named Cape Fiske, its southern- 



ANTARCTIC RESEARCH EXPEDITION — RONNE 379 

most Cape Smitty, and two glaciers flowing into the inlet from the 
west Johnston Glacier and Kelsey Glacier. These glaciers showed 
only a very few crevasses where they met the inlet. Incased on both 
sides by mountains, they appeared like smooth, wide thoroughfares 
leading to the elevated land to the west. 

About 50 miles south of Mount Tricorn we suddenly came upon a 
large bay, some 55 miles deep and 25 miles wide, Gardner Bay (map, 
fig. 2). Almost in the center, and comiected with the head by a low- 
lying peninsula, was a striking snow-covered dome mountain with 
rock outcrops on the sides, Mount Austin (map, fig. 2). Three 
glaciers flowed into the bay from the high mountainous land to the 
west. Those coming in from the north I named Irvine and Wetmore 
Glaciers, and the one on the south side Ketchum Glacier. Ketchum 
Glacier was heavily crevassed. It was about 5 miles wide where it 
entered the bay, and it was joined by a tributary glacier from the 
southeast. The headland on the north side of the entrance to Gardner 
Bay I named Cape Adams, and the headland on the south side Cape 
Schlossbach. Rock outcropped on the east and south sides of Cape 
Adams and on the east side of Cape Schlossbach. Twenty-five miles 
to the northwest of Mount Austin was another mountain, its black, 
vertical cliff facing east. Mount Robertson. 

LANDING IN THE FIELD 

I decided to land both planes next to Mount Austin (3,200 feet), 
since it was easily recognizable from the air and could serve excellently 
as a flight stand-by base. Also, Adams had just reported from the 
Norseman that half the gasoline supply in his fuselage tanks had been 
used and the remainder would be needed for the return flight to Cape 
Keeler. Both planes came in for a landing less than 3 miles away from 
the sloping mountainside. The surface was so smooth and soft that 
we could not tell the exact moment when the skis touched. Once on the 
gi-ound, I began making calculations. From the speed of our plane and 
the length of time the flight had taken, it was immediately evident that 
Mount Tricorn had not been correctly located on the maps — according 
to my rough calculations, it was about 50 miles farther to the north. 

While the men were fueling the Beechcraft, I took sights with a 
bubble sextant to determine our exact location. Upon our return 6% 
hours later, I took another series of sights, which gave me an accurate 
fix and established our plane base at Mount Austin as being in 74°48' 
S., 62°50' W. Our position proved that Mount Tricorn was 55 miles 
farther northwest than had previously been thought, and it revealed 
another interesting fact. Southward from Cape Knowles, in 71° 45' 
S., the entire coast line was about 30 miles farther to the west than it 
had previously been plotted, and its configuration was considerably 
different. 



380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

We were now 250 miles farther south on the Weddell Coast than any 
human foot had ever trod before. The Beechcraft's altimeter indi- 
cated the elevation to be 300 feet above sea level. When 2K drums of 
gasoline had been transferred from the Norseman's cargo into the 
Beechcraft's wing tanks, we were ready to take off on the long flight. 
The time was 4:10 p. m, Adams and Schlossbach, with the Norseman 
plane and a trail radio, were left to stand by as an additional safety 
and emergency precaution. 

UNEXPECTED TREND OF COAST LINE 

As we headed for Cape Schlossbach, we started to climb to 10,000 
feet, so that the trimetrogon cameras could photograph the terrain 
from one horizon to the other. Visibility was unlimited as we passed 
the cape and headed due south to follow the trend of the mountainous 
coast line. A huge ice barrier could be seen disappearing over the 
horizon in a southeasterly direction. To the north of the barrier open 
water extended for 20 miles, and beyond was loose pack ice. Shortly 
after we rounded Cape Schlossbach, an island was sighted some 5 
miles from the mainland, completely snow-covered except on its south- 
west side; Dodson Island is about 12 miles in length and half as much 
in width. It was the southernmost island that we discovered. The 
opposite coast I called Oryille Escarpment. 

Unexpectedly the mountainous coast line turned westward until its 
trend became 245° true. To the right, numerous mountains of various 
heights came into view. As we continued southwestward, the moun- 
tains were spaced farther apart. More readily definable groups took 
form, sharply etched against a cloudless background of white. The 
height of the land beneath us seemed to be gradually increasing, and 
at the same time the height of the rock exposures was gradually 
decreasing, until at our southernmost point only a gradually rising 
snow-covered plateau was seen. I named the mountains and groups 
of mountains as discovered : Sweeney Mountains with Mount Edward 
in the center, Scaife Mountains, Wilkins Mountains (map, fig. 2), 
Latady Mountains, Lowell Thomas Mountains, Mount Home, Mount 
Brundage, and Mount Hassage, Mount Haag, estimated to be 11,000 
feet high, was the last newly discovered mountain peak seen; beyond 
it, in the distance. Mount Ulmer, discovered by Lincoln Ellsworth 
in 1935, loomed above the horizon. 

Our flight so far had proved that the mountain axis of the Palmer 
Peninsula gradually swings southwestward to 77°30' S,, 72° W., where 
it dies out or merges into a higher plateau that stretches southward as 
Joerg Plateau. The elevation of this plateau was found to be approxi- 
mately 5,000 feet, and it stretched to the limit of our visibility, which 
at our 10,000-foot altitude I estimated to be at least 150 miles. This 
meant that we actually saw the terrain as far as 81° S. It is my 



ANTARCTIC RESEARCH EXPEDITION — RONNE 381 

opinion that this plateau gradually rises until it connects with the 
South Polar Plateau or terminates in a range which might be a con- 
tinuation of the Queen Maud Range, to the south of the Ross Shelf Ice. 
This was the first of two major discoveries that together seem to 
eliminate the possibility of any connection between the Ross Sea and 

the WeddeU Sea. 

RETURN FLIGHT 

As we turned to head back to Mount Austin, Latady dropped the 
American flag in the name of the United States. Our flight back paral- 
leled the outward course 20 miles to the west, and an overlapping set 
of continuous photographs was taken. 

When we were within 30 miles of Mount Austin, we turned southeast 
to follow the ice barrier. An altitude of more than 10,000 feet was 
maintained throughout the flight (pi. 6, fig. 1). About 50 miles 
from Cape Adams, 5 miles inland from the edge of the shelf ice, we 
passed over a highly crevassed area, 100 feet in width, which extended 
parallel to the edge for a distance of 30 miles. The southern side we 
later found to be 200 feet higher than the outer side. Similar dis- 
tm-bances were sighted farther inland. When we had reached 
approximately 77° S., 50° W., Lassiter informed me that the gasoline 
supply was getting low and that he felt we should retm-n to our 
stand-by base (pi. 6, fig, 2). As we turned back, I noticed that the 
shelf ice seemed to continue on in the same southeasterly direction. 
There was much open water near the edge, and loose pack ice farther 
out. It seemed to me that a vessel could easily penetrate as far as the 
sheK ice itself if conditions were no worse to the north. We sighted 
Mount Austin without diflBculty and landed alongside Adams and 
Schlossbach 6% hours after taking off. Sun and moon sights were 
taken to fix our position. 

I reahzed then that another flight would be necessary to determine 
the extension of the shelf ice to the east and its connection with Coats 
Land, as explored by the German Filchner expedition in 1912. To 
accomplish this, more gasoline would be needed for refueling the 
Beechcraft. So far, the weather had provided us with few suitable 
flying days such as the one we were just finishing. I therefore decided 
that, instead of waiting in the field while the Norseman brought 
several loads of gasoline to us, it would be more efficient for both 
planes to return to Cape Keeler, refuel, and make a second trip to 
the south. Half an hour after we had landed at Mount Austin we 
were again in the air, headed north. The Beechcraft climbed to 
11,000 feet, in order that Latady might photograph the coast Une 
with the trimetrogon cameras, since he had not done so on the out- 
ward trip in order to save gasoline. Although it was 10 p. m. when 
we took off, the 24 hours of polar dayUght made it possible for him to 
get good results. 



382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

We did not see the Norseman during the return, but constant radio 
communication was maintained between the two planes. By the 
time we had reached Cape Knowles, 250 miles to the north, ground 
fog covered the entire area ahead (pi. 7, fig. 2). Close to Steele 
Island, Lassiter found an opening in the fog and quickly dove tlu-ough 
to make an emergency landing on the smooth, hard sea ice, and within 
30 minutes Adams in the Norseman had been guided in by radio. 
We camped here until 3 o'clock in the afternoon of November 22, at 
which time the meteorologist at Cape Keeler informed us that Keeler 
weather was suitable for flying. After a brief stop at Keeler, we re- 
turned to the main base, landing at 6 p. m., just 31 hours after we 
had left Cape Keeler for the southern flight. 

That evening Adams in the Norseman left again for the Keeler 
base, carrying another load of gasoline. With Fiske, Robertson, 
Wood, and Schlossbach, he was forced to remain there for several 
weeks because of continued overcast. 

SECOND LONG SOUTHERN FLIGHT 

The second long flight south was stiU foremost in my mind, but the 
weather reported on the daily schedules from Cape Keeler had been 
most discouraging — ^" snowed in," "bhzzards with strong winds," or 
"overcast with ceiling zero." Finally, on the morning of December 8, 
Keeler reported the same good weather that prevailed at the main 
base. Within an hour, Lassiter, Latady, and I were in the Beech- 
craft headed for Keeler. Adams and Schlossbach had the Norseman 
loaded with a cargo of five gasoUne drums and their emergency 
equipment and were ready to take off. The temperature was 0° F. 
and the air dead calm. The condition of the surface snow was very 
different from that on November 21, and the first three attempts to 
take off were unsuccessful. Finally, Schlossbach and all his emer- 
gency gear and two of the five drums had to be left behind. Even 
then, without the aid of any wind Adams was barely able to lift the 
plane into the air. It was the first time that the Norseman's plastic- 
shod skis had stuck to the snow. We all agreed, however, that the 
plastic-shod slds were far superior to metal-shod skis under most 
snow conditions. 

The reduced load of gas made it impossible to undertake as long a 
flight as I had intended. My original plan had been to fly due south 
from Mount Tricorn for about 3 hours, then head northeast to Moltke 
Nunatak and the shelf ice, which we would foUow back to the Norse- 
man stand-by base. Adams had previously established a cache of 
138 gallons of gasoline at Gruening Glacier for our return. 

Unlike the Norseman, the Beechcraft had no diflSculty in getting 
into the air. We chmbed to 10,000 feet immediately, and by the time 
we passed the south end of Hearst Island, Latady had the trimetrogon 



ANTARCTIC RESEARCH EXPEDITION — RONNE 383 

cameras systematically photographing the terrain below. Our flight 
track was farther inland than before, in order that he might obtain 
an additional set of overlapping pictures. The terrain beneath us 
was highly mountainous, and in places the sea ice came close to its 
rugged side. The 20-mile-wide belt of sea ice stretched south along 
the coast for 350 miles, to the great shelf ice. Numerous sea leads 
ran from the open water toward the mountainous coast, and fre- 
quently I detected seals sunning themselves on the ice. 

After a 2}^-hour flight from Keeler, the Beechcraft landed at 2:55 
p. m. off the northernmost headland of Wright Inlet, which I desig- 
nated Cape Wheeler. About 20 minutes later Adams circled overhead 
for a landing. The joint British- American Weddell Coast sledge 
party had reached Wright Inlet and re-formed as the Ronne Weddell 
Coast party. My intention was to have them stand by with Adams 
in the Norseman to guard our flight. 

Two drums of gasoline were pumped into the Beechcraft's tanks, 
our emergency gear was checked, and the trimetrogon film was made 
ready for reloading the three cameras at intervals during the flight. 
As the weather ahead looked perfect, I decided to start at once. We 
experienced no difiiculty in taking off from the sea ice where the 
sledge party had made their camp. Our course was laid due south. 

We were steadUy gaining altitude as we passed over Nantucket Inlet. 
Gardner Bay, with Mount Austin in the center, appeared to be about 
30 miles to the west. An hour after the take-off, as we were flying 
slightly away from the coastal trend, we suddenly saw a heavy over- 
cast obscuring the horizon to the south and southeast. We continued 
south for another 15 minutes in the hope that the visibility would 
improve, but instead it became much worse. Disappointing as it was, 
the only thing to do was to turn back to Wright Inlet and wait for more 
favorable weather, and 2 hours later we again landed alongside the 
sledge party. 

The overcast that we had met to the south moved slowly northward, 
and by morning the visibility was less than 5 miles. That day, the 
9th, the Ronne Weddell Coast party departed for the south. Their 
work was to obtain fixes of geographical features for correlation with 
the aerial photographs we had taken. The temperature remained 
about 0° F., and for 2 days a 40-mile wind swept over our small camp. 
We spent most of our restless time in sleeping bags, though we tried 
to take some soundings in a sea lead about 3 miles from the coast. 
Bottom was not reached with a 75-fathom line. On the evening of 
December 11 we saw that the southern horizon was beginning to clear. 

THE FINAL ATTEMPT 

At 3 o'clock the next morning, December 12, Adams, who had 
volunteered to keep an all-night weather watch, called Lassiter, 



384 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Latady, and me. He had pumped the last drum of gasoHne and 30 
extra gallons of gas from the Norseman's tanks into the Beechcraft 
and already had breakfast waiting. At 5:20 a. m. we took off, with a 
clear blue sky overhead. This time, however, we were unable to leave 
with full fuel tanks, and consequently my plan for the flight had to be 
slightly modified. Instead of flying due south for some distance, I 
decided to follow the shelf ice southeast to Moltke Nunatak and Coats 
Land, and then go south as far as our gas supply would permit. 

Twenty minutes after the take-off we flew over the dog-team party, 
still sledging south. They were taking advantage of the better snow 
surfaces during the hours when the sun was lowest. From time to 
time we passed through patches of overcast, which made us lose 
altitude. I noticed that the area of open water to the north had 
increased considerably since our flight of November 2 1 , The looseness 
of the pack ice as seen through my field glasses confirmed my belief 
that a sturdy vessel could have sailed right up to the shelf ice if condi- 
tions to the north were similar. In 78°25' S., 44° W., we crossed a 
deeply indented bay, about 20 by 20 miles, which I named Gould Bay. 
At the head of the bay was an ice fall, heavily crevassed for a width 
of about a mile or more inland. Tongues of ice protruded into the 
head of the bay and the bay itself was partly filled with small tabular 
bergs, cemented together with sea ice. It reminded me very much of 
the Bay of Whales, in the Ross Shelf Ice in approximately the same 
latitude on the opposite side of the continent. Gould Bay would seem 
to offer a suitable place for landing a wintering party. Shortly after 
we had crossed the bay, overcast skies appeared straight ahead. To 
the north and northeast, practically ice-free water could be seen to 
the horizon. There was, however, some loose pack ice next to the 
shelf ice. By taking a sun sight to obtain a line of position, and by 
dead reckoning, I estimated that we were in 78°40' S., 40° W., and 
about 50 miles west of Moltke Nunatak. Through a light haze we 
could see the easterly trend of the shelf ice. 

LAND BENEATH ICE SHEET 

Three hours and seven minutes after we had taken off, black clouds 
covered the surface beneath, and we were forced to change our course 
to 218° true. Through a distant clearing beyond the clouds we could 
see a snowy surface without visible rock outcrops. From our elevation 
we were unable to see either Moltke Nunatak or other mountains, 
and if any exist, they either are small in size or were obscured by the 
clouds. Our new course took us along the edge of the overcast. As 
this was a most important leg of our flight, I scanned the horizon with 
field glasses for a break of surface, but none was visible. At 8:50 
a. m. Lassiter informed me that one of the fuselage tanks might run 
dry at any minute, and I knew, to my sorrow, that we should have to 



ANTARCTIC RESEARCH EXPEDITION — RONNE 385 

return soon. Just then the engines missed for an instant, and Lassiter 
switched to a full fuel tanl^. Latady again dropped the American flag 
in the name of the United States, and I made this area part of Edith 
Eonne Land, which name I have given to all the newly discovered 
land from the farthest west seen on the November 21 flight to the 
farthest east seen on this flight. 

I obtained a sight with the bubble sextant, which gave me the 
approximate position of our turning point. About 12 miles from the 
edge of the shelf ice Latady obtained a reading from the radio altimeter, 
which indicated that the surface beneath us was 700 feet above sea 
level; a few minutes later another reading from the radio altimeter 
indicated that the surface was not 300 feet above sea level; and a final 
reading, at the edge, showed only 100 feet. The gradual southward 
increase in elevation of this huge ice mass was our second important 
discovery. These observations, together with the observations made 
on the November 21 flight, the obvious obstruction which accounts 
for the indentation named Gould Bay, the lines of crevasses which we 
saw at some points extending parallel with the Lassiter Shelf Ice fringe 
over a width of 15 to 20 miles inland, and the fact that as seen from 
our most southerly position, the surface of the ice seemed to rise 
steadily, leads me to believe that the Antarctic continent is a single 
unit and is not divided by a frozen body of water extending from the 
Ross Sea to the WeddeU Sea. The whole area had now been covered 
where a possible strait might exist. The line of position that I obtained 
at the barrier when the sun was 90° off the plane's heading fixed its 
location precisely. 

RETURN TO MAIN BASE 

While speeding over the shelf ice more than 900 miles away from 
our main base, we heard Kelsey come in on the radio stronger than 
ever. We also maintained contact from time to time with Cape 
Keeler and with Adams at Cape Wheeler, As we approached Mount 
Austin, the mountainous coast line loomed ahead once more, and 
Mount McElroy and Mount Nash stood well above the horizon south 
of Mount Tricorn. Latady was eager to obtain a second set of tri- 
metrogon photographs of the coast line as we continued northward, so 
we radioed Adams to take off at once for Cape Keeler. Through my 
field glasses I was able to see him taxi for a take-off as we flew over 
Mount Tricorn at 10,000 feet. Soon afterward he was lost to sight. 

When I looked southeast for the last time, I saw the 100-foot barrier 
disappear over the horizon. Behind us lay our most important dis- 
covery. We had foUowed for 450 miles the ice barrier that bounds the 
Weddell Sea on the south and had found that it connects with Coats 
Land at some distance south of 77°50' S., 36° W., where Filchner found 
an ice wall in 1912. From the trend of the shelf ice as we saw it, I 



386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

conclude that Filchner saw the north side of either a huge tabular 
iceberg or an ice tongue that has broken off 60 miles since 1912, to its 
present position. Filchner reported that he built a camp on the shelf 
ice, which he was forced to abandon less than a month later because it 
had calved and was drifting northward. I named the extent of the 
shelf ice that we had seen in honor of my pilot Captain James W. 
Lassiter. 

After some difficulty, because of the large patches of overcast 
beneath us, we located and landed at Gruening Glacier, where we 
pumped the 138 gallons of gasoline into the Beechcraft's fuel tanks. 
Meanwhile, Adams in the Norseman had gone directly to Cape Keeler 
and had landed, refueled, and taken all the persomiel there back to the 
main base. We ourselves landed at the main base at 6:05 that same 
evening. We had been in the air 12% hours, and in that time we had 
covered 1,700 miles of terrain. 

THE SLEDGE PARTIES 

On December 13 the Ronne Weddell Coast party reached the top of 
Bowman Peninsula, forming the north side of Gardner Bay. Here 
they verified my observations on the location of the bay and Mount 
Austin and made a general survey of the area. Upon their return to 
Mount Tricorn, this party again formed the joint British-American 
Weddell Coast sledge pai-ty. By utilizing the caches laid by the 
Norseman plane, they had no difiiculty in making a good distance 
daily on their way back to Stonington Island. They reached the 
base on January 22, 1948, having covered 1,180 statute miles in 105 
days on the trail. 

The geological party, consisting of Nichols and Dodson with their 
13-dog team, sledged southward over the sea ice of Marguerite Bay to 
the head of George VI Sound. Cape Nicholas on Alexander I Island 
was visited, and sedimentary rocks were found and studied there. On 
the return journey geological studies were made on Mushroom Island, 
Terra Firma Island, and the coast line northward to Neny Island. 
The men reached the main base on December 26. They had been in 
the field for 90 days and had covered 450 miles. After a few days in 
camp, Nichols, accompanied by Dodson and Latady, made a detailed 
geological study of Red Rock Ridge and the Neny Fiord area. 

MAPPING FLIGHTS ON THE WEST SIDE OF PALMER PENINSULA 

Trimetrogen flights were made on November 27 and December 3, 21, 
and 22, over the west and east sides of Palmer Peninsula both north 
and south of the main base. On the December 3 flight, over George 
VI Sound, cloudy weather prevented us from photographing south of 
the Batterbee Mountains. I still considered it would be well worth 
while to tie in Alexander I Island with the area south of the Batterbee 



ANTARCTIC RESEARCH EXPEDITION — RONNE 387 

Mountains and then connect this with the Robert Enghsh Coast. 
These areas had not been previously photographed with trimetrogon 
cameras, though Eklund and I had estabhshed the ground control 
points in 1940. In spite of the fuel shortage, which was now becoming 
acute, we managed to fill the Beechcraft's fuel tanks with high-octane 
gasoline for a last flight. 

On December 23, for the third consecutive day, the weather was 
excellent, with ceiling and visibility unlimited. We flew south past 
Mount Edgell, at the entrance to George VI Sound, and followed the 
sound to the Batterbee Mountains, where I saw and named the 8,500- 
foot Mount Ward. Mount Russell Owen, Gutenko Mountains, and 
Mount Coman were well defined above the Palmer Peninsula plateau. 
As we passed Margaret Goodenough Glacier, we changed course to 
250° true, to follow the trend of the Robert English Coast westward. 
We passed slightly south of Eldund Island, and farther to the north- 
west we could see where the Sound ice terminated in Ronne Bay 
(named in 1940 for my father, Martin Ronne). Isolated mountain 
peaks lay to the south. Had the weather been more favorable at the 
time of his flight in 1935, Lincoln Ellsworth would certainly have seen 
them. Beyond Ashley Snow Nunataks (three) we flew over an escarp- 
ment with exposed rock facing the northeast. Fifty miles to the south 
a snow-covered mountain rose to about 10,500 feet, Mount Rex; some 
60 miles west of it was Mount Peterson, tabular and about 9,000 feet, 
with six smaller peaks nearby. 

Due west of our turning point, 74° S., 79°35' W., was a partly 
snow-covered mountain of more than 9,000 feet, which I named Mount 
Tuve (approximately 74°30' S., 88° W.), another, to the northwest, 
Mount Combs. At the turning pomt the radio altimeter recorded a 
surface elevation of 3,100 feet above sea level, which was later checked 
on the ground. The surface appeared level and uncrevassed, and we 
decided to land. The plane taxied smoothly along the soft snow. 
The line of position I obtained from sun shots upon landing, when 
correlated with the fixes I obtained on my 1940 sledge journey over 
some of this area, will provide ground control for the photographs we 
took. Twelve minutes later we were again in the air, following a 
course directly toward the main base. We reached Alexander I Island 
20 miles to the west of the termination of the shelf ice of George VI 
Sound in Ronne Bay. In 71° S., 70° W., an impressive snow-covered 
range stretched in an east-west direction for about 40 miles. Sixty 
miles to the south a dark, massive range loomed majestically above the 
surrounding terrain. These two newly discovered mountain ranges 
I named respectively Colbert Range and Le May Range. 

We changed om- course almost to due north, then northwestward 
across Wilkins Strait to Charcot Island. In our flight track straight 
ahead we saw the Walton Mountains, about 4,000 feet, and Mount 



388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Paul Lee loomed high above the terrain looking westward to the 
extreme western cape of Alexander I Island. In approximately 71° S., 
75° W., I observed an ice cliff extending south from Charcot Island to 
the north coast of Alexander I Island. It appeared to be a connecting 
link between the two islands. I hope that the trimetrogon photo- 
graphs will further clarify this interesting matter. Over Charcot 
Island our radio altimeter indicated that the surface beneath was 900 
feet above sea level. 

On the smooth snow surface 20 miles to the south of the three small 
peaks of Charcot Island we made our second landing on this flight — 
the first persons to set foot on that much-discussed and elusive island. 
The stop was just long enough for me to take a few sights. The sun 
was due west, and I was able to obtain a good longitudinal line of 
position. The sloping terrain to the south made it easy for the lightly 
loaded plane to take off on the last leg of our return flight. When we 
were in the air again, I observed much open water to the west and 
north of Charcot Island. It would have been possible but difficult 
for a ship to force its way to the island. To the east I saw many sea 
leads, though huge tabular bergs were still frozen in the sea's icy grip. 

As we flew over the north end of Alexander I Island to cross the 
10,000-foot Douglas Range, the sun still shone brightly in all directions 
except the east, the direction of our flight, where there was a heavy 
overcast. At the same time Kelsey at the main base gave us the 
first of a series of warnings on the sudden and rapid approach of bad 
weather. We crossed the island in 69°30' S., by following a deep and 
wide valley for 40 miles. Tufts Valley, as I named it, contained a 
crevassed glacier that terminated on the Marguerite Bay side of the 
island. A 20-mile-long glacier, Nichols Glacier, is a northern branch 
or tributary. By the time we reached the entrance to George VI 
Sound we were flying in overcast. Lassiter descended below the 
heaviest cloud formations to an altitude of 3,000 feet, and we managed 
to continue northward. At Red Rock Ridge, 10 miles from the base, 
the weather had completely closed in around us. Fortunately, 
Lassiter was familiar with the terrain, and he guided the plane around 
the barely visible outlines of the high cliff's. At 200 feet we skimmed 
over icebergs floating in the open water off the ridge. Once a sudden 
downdraft caught the plane and forced it violently within 50 feet of 
the icy water beneath. Lassiter maintained his usual steady control, 
and a few minutes later we landed safely on the bay ice in Neny Fiord, 
4 miles from base. The weasel, summoned by radio before landing, 
helped to bring the plane to its mooring. Gusts of wind of as much as 
70 miles an hour made taxiing the plane extremely difficult. However, 
with two men riding on each wing to break the wind stream, we man- 
aged to get the Beechcraft moored in its usual position. I know of 
three men who were mighty happy to be on the ground that night! 



ANTARCTIC RESEARCH EXPEDITION — RONNE 389 

The contrast between the weather at our departure and that on our 
return after more than 8K hours of flight was striking. Once again I 
was deeply aware of the respect one must always hold for the sudden 
dangers mercilessly lurking behind the white veil that wraps this vast 
continent. 

EVACUATION AND RETURN OF EXPEDITION 

During the first week of January 1948, the three planes were dis- 
mantled and loaded aboard the ship from the bay ice. This 4-foot- 
thick ice, which had been used extensively as the runway for the 
planes, was already beginning to show signs of deterioration as a result 
of the summer thaw. Day by day it slowly rotted and weakened. 
In February strong winds with swells from the northwest broke up 
some of the ice, but on February 11,4 miles of solid ice still separated 
the ship from the open water. 

It had been my original plan to remain at the base until the middle 
of March, at which time I anticipated that the ice would have cleared 
from the Bay sufficiently to permit our return without hindrance. 
However, on February 12 1 was informed by radio that the two Navy 
ice breakers then operating in Antarctic waters would visit our base. 
By the time they arrived, on February 19, our ship, which for some 
time had been surrounded by open water was again frozen in. Al- 
though winds had been blowing almost continuously for more than a 
week, the freezing temperatures led me to believe that the cold weather 
of an early fall had already overtaken the summer thaw. I remem- 
bered only too well that in 1941 this same bay ice was not gone by 
March 22 and we were forced to evacuate the base by two hazardous 
airplane flights. The risk of having to remain another year in the 
Antarctic, if the bay ice did not go out, was too great. 

I accordingly decided to utilize the excellent opportunity offered 
by the presence of the ice breakers and to follow in their wake to the 
open sea. In this connection it is interesting to note that on April 
9, 1948, I received a communication from the Governor of the Falk- 
land Islands that stated: 

Sea ice in Marguerite Bay broke up February 28, but navigation only became 
possible March 13. Sea freezing periodically maximum thickness one inch. Two 
hundred yards strip old ice still fast between Roman figure four and Neny Island. 

Therefore, had I remained it would have been possible to have 
completed a full year of observations in the Antarctic, and to have 
returned without assistance, but this could not have been foreseen at 
the time of the ice breakers* visit. 

With no difficulty whatever, they broke through to our ship. We 
spent all that day and the following one hurriedly completing the 
loading of our equipment. One of the vessels, the U. S. S. Edisto, 
went ahead to clear a wide path. The second ice breaker, the U. S. S. 



390 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Burton Island, maneuvered into position ahead of our ship and 
steamed into open water, and we followed in its wake. 

At 4 o'clock on the afternoon of February 20, 1948, The Port of 
Beaumont, Texas rounded the stretch of ice-enclosed Stonington 
Island, Neny Island, and Red Rock Ridge and finally sailed into the 
open sea of Marguerite Bay to the west of Adelaide Island. Our 
year's work at this lonely outpost was now a part of history. For 
the third time I left the snow-covered mountains of the Antarctic 
continent behind me and turned my eyes northward to greener shores. 

SUMMARY OF ACCOMPLISHMENTS 

The accomplishments of the expedition were greater than I had 
hoped for. In a total flying time of 346 hours the three planes had 
covered 39,000 air mUes of Antarctic terrain. No fewer than 86 
landings had been made in the field. The planes had made extensive 
reconnaissances, laid caches for aviation and dog-team parties, searched 
for the lost British fliers, transported personnel and equipment to 
advanced field bases, and carried on geographical exploration and 
trimetrogon mapping. The program had netted a conservative total 
of some 250,000 square miles of terrain explored for the first time and 
a total of some 450,000 square miles of territory covered by 14,000 
trimetrogon photographs. The photographs are now being developed, 
and they will be used to make new maps. 

Data were obtained in various branches of science. Dr. Robert L. 
Nichols, head of the geology department of Tufts College, spent a total 
of 154 days in the field, making geological studies in the Marguerite 
Bay area, with the competent assistance of Robert H. T. Dodson, 
graduate student at Harvard, who sledged with him during the entire 
geological field season. Physicist Harries-Clichy Peterson's work in 
meteorology, cosmic rays, solar radiation, dew point, refraction, and 
surface radiation kept him busy for many hours of the day. He was 
ably assisted by Climatologist C. O. Fiske, both at the main base and 
when Fiske was operating the Cape Keeler advance base. Geo- 
physicist Andrew A. Thompson made continuous comprehensive 
seismographic recordings with his two sensitive instruments and also 
carried on tidal observations and investigations in terrestrial magnet- 
ism. He spent a little more than 2 weeks at Cape Keeler taking 
magnetic readings; and Lt. Charles J. Adams, when in the field 
guarding our plane flights, was able to obtain magnetic readings from 
the Mount Tricorn area. These men also gave any help needed for 
the maintenance of the planes or the camp. Results of the geological 
and geophysical investigations will be available in due course. 

E. A. Wood, Walter Smith, and Fiske operated the plateau weather 
station and the Cape Keeler advance base. Smith and Arthur Owen 



ANTARCTIC RESEARCH EXPEDITION — RONNE 391 

were the American members of the jomt British-American Weddell 
Coast sledge party and at Wright Inlet, with the two British members, 
formed the Ronne Weddell Coast party, which sledged to Gardner 
Bay and back to Wright Inlet. James B. Robertson, aviation me- 
chanic, was at Cape Keeler during the flights, and Commander Isaac 
Schlossbach, second-in-command, when not flying as copilot with 
Adams, also manned the Cape Keeler base. Lawrence Kelsey was 
untiring at the main base radio, which was the central point for cor- 
relating information from all field units. Charles Hassage, chief 
engineer of our ship, The Port oj Beaumont, Texas, in addition to 
running the camp during my absence, was always ready to help with 
the maintenance of the planes and the numerous camp chores. Mrs. 
Ronne assisted in the organization of the camp during my absences 
and acted as recorder. Nelson McClary served as ship's mate, and 
Dr. Donald McLean as medical ofRcer. Chief Commissary Steward 
Sigmund Gutenko, U. S. N., on leave of absence with the expedition, 
procured and prepared aU expedition food and assembled all trail 
and emergency food ; he also gave a hand in servicing the planes when 
time allowed him a spare moment from the galley. 

The pilots were Capt. James W. Lassiter and Lieutenant Adams, 
both assigned to the expedition on active duty by the Army Air 
Forces. Adams, as pilot of the Norseman and the L-5, hauled tons 
of essential equipment into the field and conscientiously and depend- 
ably backed up and stood by the Beechcraft's exploratory and photo- 
graphic flights. Lassiter, in addition to piloting the Beechcraft, when 
flying communicated by radio with our auxiliary bases on the WeddeU 
Coast and the main base on Stonington Island. During aU the 
Beechcraft's flights William R. Latady checked the plane's drift meter 
and passed the information on to me. As aerial photographer, he 
was fully occupied with the operation of the trimetrogon and hand 
cameras and the changing of film. When not in the air, he was base 
photographer and machinist. The navigation end of the flights I took 
care of from my vantage point in the copilot's seat, which gave me a 
splendid view of the terrain beneath and ahead. Harry Darlington, 
who was accompanied by his wife, and Jorge di Georgio, Chilean, 
completed the personnel. 

Beside carrying out the extensive program of the expedition while 
in the Antarctic, these volunteers manned and operated our sturdy 
1,200-ton wooden vessel to and from the Antarctic, a distance of more 
than 14,000 miles. 

To the men, whose initiative, cooperation, and loyalty contributed 
so greatly to the successful accomplishment of the expedition's large 
program, I give my sincere appreciation and gratitude. 

866591—50 26 



392 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

APPENDIX 

The Ronne Antarctic Research Expedition was organized with the 
support and good will of many individuals and organizations through- 
out the United States. I can mention only a few: Dr. and Mrs. 
Edward L. Sweeney of Evanston, 111., and Washington, D. C, Mr. 
and Mrs. Allan Scaife of Pittsburgh, Pa., and John Hauberg of Rock 
Island, 111., who because of their interest in exploration and science 
provided the necessary support. Without the sale of news rights to 
the North American Newspaper Alliance, Inc., a contract with the 
Navy Department for the results of research in various branches of 
science, and the many articles given me by the Research and Develop- 
ment Section of the Ai-my Air Forces, the expedition would not have 
materialized. Representative J. M. Combs of Beaumont, Tex., was 
one of our strongest and staunchest supporters, and Sir Hubert Wilkins 
gave me many helpful ideas and suggestions. Of inestimable help, 
too, were Dr. Isaiah Bowman, president of The Johns Hopkins Univer- 
sity, and Dr. Lawrence McKinley Gould, president of Carleton Col- 
lege. The American Geographical Society of New York, through its 
director, Dr. John K. Wright, extended its auspices during the days 
when I was planning the expedition. In addition, there are others, 
fai- too numerous to mention, who helped me in many ways. For 
their help I am grateful. To Capt. Harry L. Dodson, U. S. N., Dr. 
Dana Coman, and Dr. I. C. Gardner I am indebted for their untiring 
efforts to further the aims and purposes of the expedition. 

NAMES OF NEW FEATURES 

The new names given by me and applied to the map are: Cape 
Wheeler, after John N. Wheeler of New York; Kelsey Glacier, after the 
Kelsey famUy, Sacramento, Calif.; Swann Glacier, after W. F. G. 
Swann of Swarthmore, Pa.; Mount Coman, after Dr. Dana Coman, 
The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine; Waverly Glacier, 
after the seat of the Kasco Dog Food Company's mills; Keller Inlet, 
after Louis Keller of Beaumont, Tex.; Cape Fiske, after the Fiske 
family of Buffalo, N. Y.; Cape Smitty, after Walter Smith, expedition 
mate and navigator; Cape Little, after D, M. Little of Washington, 
D. C. ; Johnston Glacier, after Freeborn Johnston of Washington, D. C. ; 
Mount McElroy, after M. C. McElroy of Boston, Mass, ; Mount Nash, 
after H, R. Nash of Pittsburgh, Pa.; Mount Owen, after the Owen 
family of Beaumont, Tex.; Cape Adams, after Lt, Charles J. Adams, 
expedition pilot; Cape Schlossbach, after Commander Isaac Schloss- 
bach, second in command of the expedition; Gardner Bay, after Dr. 
I. C. Gardner of Washington, D. C; Wetmore Glacier, after Dr. 
Alexander Wetmore of Washington, D. C; Wright Inlet, after Dr. 
John K. Wright, Director of the American Geographical Society of 



ANTARCTIC RESEARCH EXPEDITION — RONNE 393 

New York; Mount Austin, after the Texas hero; Mount Robertson, 
after James B. Robertson, expedition aviation mechanic; Mount Wood, 
after E. A. Wood, ship's engineer; Dodson Island, after Capt. Harry L. 
Dodson, U. S. N.; Lassiter Shelf Ice, after Capt. James W. Lassiter, 
expedition pilot; Mount Russell Owen, after Russell Owen of the 
New York Times; Mount Haag, after Joseph Haag of Todd Ship 
Yards, N. Y.; Gutenko Mountains, after the Gutenko family of Balti- 
more, Md. ;Latady Mountains, after William Latady, expedition aerial 
photographer; Sweeney Mountains and Mount Edward, after the 
Sweeney family of Evanston, 111., and Washington, D. C; Hauberg 
Mountains, after John Hauberg of Rock Island, 111.; Wilkins Moun- 
tains, after Sir Hubert Wilkins; Scaife Mountains, after Mr. and Mrs. 
Allan Scaife of Pittsburgh, Pa.; Mount Brundage, after Burr Brundage 
of Cedar Crest College, Allentown, Pa.; Mount Home, after Bernhard 
Home of Pittsburgh, Pa.; Mount Hassage, after Charles Hassage, 
expedition chief engineer; Gould Bay, after Dr. Laurence McKinley 
Gould, President of Carleton College; Edith Ronne Land, after Mrs. 
Ronne, expedition recorder and expedition participant; Mount Ward, 
after W. W. Ward of Beaumont, Tex.; Mount Tuve, after Dr. M. A. 
Tuve of Washington, D. C; Tufts Valley, after Tufts College, Mass.; 
Nichols Glacier, after Dr. Robert Nichols' daughter, Medford, Mass.; 
Niznik Island, after the Niznik family of Baltimore, Md.; Bugge 
Islands, after the Bugge family, Molde, Norway; Mount Thompson, 
after the Thompson family of Friendship Hill Farm, Pa.; Mount 
Peterson, after Dr. Edwin Peterson of Belmont, Mass.; Mount Rex, 
after Commander Daniel Rex of Washington, D. C; Bowman Penin- 
sula, after Dr. Isaiah Bowman, President of The Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, Md.; Ketchum Glacier, after Commander 
Gerald Ketchum, U. S. N.; Tejas Glacier, after the Daughters of the 
Republic of Texas, Beaumont, Tex.; Cape Light, after Dr. Richard 
Upjohn Light, President of the American Geographical Society; 
Irvine Glacier, after George J. Irvine, Washington, D. C; Orville 
Escarpment, after Capt. H. T. Orville, U. S. N., Washington, D. C; 
Mount Lee, after Admiral Paul Lee, U. S. N.; Walton Mountains, after 
Col. R. C. Walton, U. S. Marine Corps., Washington, D. C; Colbert 
Range, after Admnal Leo Otis Colbert, Coast and Geodetic Survey, 
Washington, D. C. ; Le May Range, after Gen. Curtis Le May, A. A. F.; 
Cape Cole, after W. Sterling Cole, Representative to Congress from 
New York. 

These names have received the approval of the United States Board 
on Geographic Names. To the Board's Advisory Committee on 
Antarctic Names I am particularly indebted for promptness of 
consideration. 



THE STATE OF SCIENCE 



By Karl T. Compton 
Chairman, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Corporation 



As I contemplated the task of preparing for this occasion an evalua- 
tion of science at the midcentury, I quickly came to a conviction 
which became more firmly established as I proceeded, and which I 
shall now demonstrate to you. It is that I am inadequate for the 
task. I am reminded, by analogy, of the Negro sprinter who when 
complimented on his running of 100 yards in 9)2 seconds, replied: 
"I could run that race in 9 seconds if it wasn't for the longness of the 
distance and the shortness of the time." I am handicapped by the 
bigness of the subject and my incapacity to do it justice. 

Were I a Man from Mars, visiting our planet h la Orson WeUes, 
I should have certain advantages. In the first place I should un- 
doubtedly be very intelligent, else I could not have contrived to make 
the journey and to land safely. In the second place I could view this 
earthly scene objectively. For the attempt to stand off, in time or 
space, and survey objectively our accomplishments and our short- 
comings is a difficult one. Our sincerest efforts toward objectivity 
are unconsciously colored, not only by our own convictions and 
philosophy, but by those fields to which we have allied ourselves, so 
that the statesman tends to view everything first as a political prob- 
lem; the priest, as a spiritual one; the economist, as a social one; and 
the scientist, as a problem for his laboratory. Nor am I, as we shall 
see later, an exception to this rule. 

But for the moment, let us look at the world through the eyes of 
the Man from Mars. This, his latest invasion, is timed for the round- 
ing of the midcentury, an accounting time when one tends to review 
the past for the progress made to date and to contemplate the future 
speculatively as to what may lie ahead. 

Let us suppose our Martian had prepared himself for his trip by a 
study of history. He would first of all be struck by the long existence 
of the earth itself as a physical entity in contrast to the brief span of 
time in which man has played a significant role, an estimated 2 to 3 
biUions of years for the earth, and a brief million and a half for man. 

• Reprinted by permission from The Technology Review, May 1949, edited at the Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology. 

395 



396 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

He would be further astonished by the tiny fragment of time we call 
"history" in contrast to the endless millennia of prehistory. He 
would note that all that modern man knows of prehistoric man has 
been cleverly deduced from the mute evidence left by his ancestors, 
often hidden in caves and dried river valleys. And finally he could 
not fail to be astonished by the unequal march of history itself — the 
long eras during which man fought and struggled and moved along, 
to the slow pedestrian pace of 2 or 4 miles per hour — in contrast to 
this century in which he has accelerated his pace until it has exceeded 
the speed of sound. 

Our Martian's perusal of history would have acquainted him with 
the various stages of civilization and culture through which man has 
passed — the nomadic civilization of the early Semitic tribes, the in- 
tellectual ages of Greece and Rome, the primitive agrarian cultiu-e of 
the Middle Ages, the emergence of the crafts and guilds, the cultural 
renaissance of the Western world, and the rise of exploration and sea 
travel. And finally, he would view with some astonishment, no 
doubt, the industrial revolution of the last 100 years and its kaleido- 
scopic impact on succeeding decades. 

But he would be unprepared, I think, in his global survey, for the 
strange inconsistencies and incongruities of the modern world. Hav- 
ing observed in his study of history a slow progression through no- 
madic, agrarian, handicraft, and industrial stages of economy, he 
would likely be surprised to find examples of aU these stages still 
extant in various parts of the world. Or, if he had been particularly 
interested in the social and political emergence of man, how would he 
account for the vestigial remains of ancient tyranny, the oppressive 
burden of autocratic rule, still existing side by side with the democ- 
racies of the modern world? In short, to borrow a figure from the 
biologists, he would find our present-day civiHzation the phylogenesis 
of human history. 

We might assume that this Mid-Century Convocation on the Social 
Implications of Scientific Progress, which opens today, has convened 
for the pm-pose of explaining to the Man from Mars the achievements, 
the trends, the problems, and the anomalies of our times. And in so 
doing perhaps we shall gain for ourselves a better understanding of 
the multipHcity of forces which have a bearing on oiu- lives and so 
achieve a better orientation for the resolution of those discords that 
threaten further progress. 

For my part, I am happy to be today the special pleader for the 
role of science in modern society. For I hold that science and tech- 
nology are largely responsible for much that we find good in the world 
and are capable of being the common denominator of many things 
we seek to accomplish in the decades ahead. 



STATE OF SCIENCE — COMPTON 397 

To our visitor from Mars, I would point out that the scientist and 
engineer are busy not only in the laboratory and library but in many 
strange places on, above, and below the sm-face of the earth. On one 
of the highest peaks in America, one group of scientists measures the 
effects of cosmic radiation, while many feet below the surface of the 
earth, in a dark tunnel or at the bottom of a lake, other groups check 
on the cosmic bullets that pierce the surface of the earth. In bathy- 
spheres as strange in appearance as though they themselves had come 
from Mars, men try new fathoms of the ocean depths. And missiles 
of extraordinary shape and size hurtle hundreds of miles above the 
earth to seek new data on the upper atmosphere and the spheres that 
lie above it. So that if to our neighbor. Mars, we appear as a race 
of ants, busy with a complex and remarkable division of labor, we 
must also appear as the possessors of an extraordinary intellectual 
curiosity — examining every aspect of our tiny globe and then pro- 
jecting ourselves beyond it into the infinities of space. 

The marvels thus uncovered have been so numerous and so dazzling 
in recent years that we have come to accept each new announcement 
with a certain complacency, almost indifference, as though nothing 
were to be wondered at. Yet these things to which we adjust our- 
selves so quicMy as to be almost unconscious of change, and which 
we quickly come to count as necessities and "rights" of hfe, are often 
things which were entirely unknown to our parents or grandparents. 

It is not inappropriate then, that we should take stock, at the mid- 
century, of exactly where we do stand in scientific achievement and 
of what is yet to be accomplished. For the scientist is not apt to 
find himself in the predicament of Alexander the Great, who wept 
because there were no more worlds to conquer. We shall see, I think, 
that much needs to be done on an ever-widening scale toward meeting 
the physical needs and opportunities facing mankind and that science 
is responsive, also, to those who see in it a method of approach to the 
deeper social problems of our times. 

In assessing the status of science and society today, it is a tempta- 
tion to use as a point of comparison the middle of the last century. 
Politically, the world then turned in an aura of unrest, not unlike that 
in which we now find ourselves. The revolutions which had swept 
across central Europe in 1848 with an upsurge of liberalism and self- 
determination had been succeeded by counterrevolutions and strong 
reaction of 1849 and 1850. To those seekers of freedom who had 
sought to introduce new concepts of human rights into the ancient 
monarchies of Europe, it must have seemed that their work and sacri- 
fices had been in vain. The efforts for a democratic federation of 
states in Germany had failed; Austria had regained its autocratic 
domination of central Europe; and the progress that had been made in 
Italy had been lost in the tide of reaction. 



398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Men like Garibaldi, Lamartine, and Louis Kossuth became the dis- 
placed persons of their day, and many of them sought refuge in the 
United States. Yet though all may have seemed lost to these valiant 
hberals, the receding tide of revolution had left its mark, and the smell 
of change was in the air. 

In Great Britain, Queen Victoria had only just completed the first 
decade of her long reign. Things were relatively stable politically, 
and the industrial revolution had passed its first phase. The long train 
of miserable social conditions, which the first impact of the machine 
age had brought to the working classes, had only begun to be amelio- 
rated. But thanks to the zeal of social reformers and enlightened 
industrialists, such as Robert Owens, Britain was learning how better 
to utilize this vast new giant in its midst and, above all, was coming to 
realize that economic stability was intimately associated with well- 
being, and that increased ability to produce on the part of working 
people was basic to any improvement in their standards of living. 

It is hard for us now to realize from what depths these living stand- 
ards have risen, thanks to those applications of science which produced 
the machine age. Just prior to the introduction of steam power, men, 
women, and children labored between 14 and 16 hours a day in poorly 
equipped factories; enjoyed no transportation of any kind; lived in 
windowless and unheated homes; and could not afford the luxury of 
candlelight because candles were taxed. Even the least fastidious 
today would be horrified at the unhygienic conditions which every- 
where prevailed in the absence of even the most primitive types of 
sanitary facilities. In the long, 6-day weeks there was neither money 
nor leisure for any kind of recreation. The average number of a man's 
acquaintances during his entire lifetime was of the order of only 100. 
Intellectual and cultural activities among the poor were unheard of. 
The rate of infant mortality was enormous and estimated life expect- 
ancy was 30 years. Moves to better these conditions can be traced 
in part to the strong emotional appeal of such tales as Oliver Twist, 
Bleak House, and Martin Chuzzlewit. 

In 1850 the first industrial exposition in the world was held in the 
Crystal Hall in London under the patronage of Queen Victoria and 
the Prince Consort. 

For the United States, which abounded in its great expanses of 
unexploited land and endless national resources, there were no very 
difficult adjustments to make to get into the swing of the industrial 
revolution. It was just coming into full stride as a nation. Politically 
the sectional strife between the abolitionist North and the slave- 
holding South had come to an uneasy lull, based upon the com- 
promise of 1850. For the time being, violently partisan points of 
view were submerged by the common desire to take advantage of a 
rapidly expanding economy. 



STATE OF SCIENCE — COMPTON 399 

Arthur M. Schlesinger in his chapter on midcentury America ^ 
gives us the following picture of midcentury economy: 

The amount of capital invested in manufacturing (including fisheries and mines) 
doubled, totaling more than a billion dollars on the eve of the Civil War. First 
in order of importance was the making of flour and meal, then boots and shoes, 
cotton textiles, and lumber products, with clothing, machinery, leather and 
woolen goods forging rapidly to the fore. In 1849, for the first time, the patents 
granted for new inventions passed the thousand mark, to reach nearly six times 
that number in 1860. 

He also points out that "of the new mechanisms employed in in- 
dustry the census officials in 1860 characterized the sewing machine 
as an altogether 'revolutionary instrument.' " From where we stand 
today, it is difficult to realize that a century ago perhaps the most 
significant tool in American industry was the sewing machine. 

With respect to science and invention, the world at the last mid- 
century stood at the threshold of far-reaching and significant dis- 
coveries which were to render the ensuing century unparalleled in 
human progress. 

Whitehead has observed that the greatest invention of the nine- 
teenth century was the invention of the method of invention. He 
goes on to say, "in order to understand our epoch, we can neglect all 
the details of change, such as railways, telegraphs, radios, spinning 
machines, and synthetic dyes. We must concentrate on the method 
itself, that is the real novelty which has broken up the foundations 
of the old civilization. The prophecy of Francis Bacon has now 
been fulfilled; and man, who at times dreamt of himself as a little 
lower than the angels, has submitted to become the servant and 
minister of nature." 

In physics, at the last midcentury, the scientific world stood fu-mly 
on the solid foundation of Newtonian mechanics, unaware that just 
ahead a series of events was taking shape which would efl^ect a revolu- 
tion in traditional thinking. In electricity, the basis had been laid 
by Franklin and Volta, while Oersted, Faraday, and Henry had 
shown the relation between electricity and magnetism. Fresnel had 
established the wave theory of light, and Joule had just proven the 
equivalence of heat and work. 

But in 1850 the great evolution of the science of physics was about 
to begin. Robert A. Millikan summarized these events last year on 
the occasion of the centennial of the American Association for the 
Advancement of Science by mentioning three great advances: (1) 
the establishment by Joule, Kelvin, Mayer, and Helmholtz of the 
first and second laws of thermodynamics; (2) the quantitative proof 
of the kinetic theory of gases by Clausius, Boltzmann, and Maxwell; 
and (3) the pubfication by Maxwell in 1867 of his classic paper on 

* Political and Social History of the United States. Macmillan Company. New York, 1933. 



400 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

electromagnetism. Millikan calls Maxwell "the greatest ornament 
of his age" and points out that "Maxwell's book has created the 
present age of electricity in much the same way in which Newton's 
Principia created, a hundred years earlier, the mechanical age in 
which we are still living." 

The century drew to a close with four very great discoveries which 
have profoundly affected our own times. They are: (1) Roentgen's 
discovery of X-rays in 1895; (2) Becquerel's discovery of radioactivity 
in 1896; (3) J. J. Thomson's demonstration in 1897 of the electron 
as a fundamental constituent of all the atoms in the universe; and 
(4) the quantum theory of radiation enunciated by Planck in Berlin 
in 1900. 

During the period in which such strides were being made in physics, 
the other sciences, notably chemistry, biology, and medicine, were 
not standing still. But, whereas research in physics had enjoyed a 
steady growth for the two centuries preceding the opening of the 
nineteenth, the other sciences lagged somewhat in their development. 
This was partly because in both chemistry and biology there was a 
strong tendency to cling to the classical teachings of the past. But, 
more significantly, progress in these fields and in medicine also was 
dependent to a large extent on the tools and processes being evolved 
by modern physics. 

If one were to review even a partial list of the great names in the 
growth of chemistry prior to this century, it would be necessary to 
mention the Norwegians, Guldberg and Waage, who stated the law 
of mass action; the great Swedish chemist, Arrhenius, who advanced 
the theory of electrolytic disassociation; and the American, Willard 
Gibbs, whose phase rule contributed so much to the development of 
industrial chemistry. There would be the Russian, Mendeleev, who 
fii'st classified the elements in the periodic table, and the Polish 
Marie Curie who, with her French husband, Pierre, made the impor- 
tant discovery of radium. Von Liebig and Wohler would stand for 
organic chemistry and mention should be made of Hofmann, who 
may be regarded as the father of the German dye industry. To as- 
piring young scientists of today it should be of interest to note that 
one of Hofmann's students, W. H. Perkin, a boy of 17, is credited 
with discovering the first synthetic dye. The chemical industry in 
the United States today owes much of its start to basic work in dyes 
and synthetics which was done in Germany prior to World War I. 

The emphasis which modern industry and modern warfare also 
have laid upon physical sciences has tended to obscure somewhat in 
the public eye the less spectacular advances of biology and medicine. 
The use of atomic power for both constructive and destructive pur- 
poses has greater interest for the public imagination than that mys- 
terious process by which green plants convert the energy of the sun 



STATE OF SCIENCE — COMPTON 401 

into the substance of life. But who can say whether the answer to 
the secret of photosynthesis may not have more far-reaching effects 
on our Hves and on those of generations to come? 

Kenneth Mees, whose book, The Path of Science,^ presents a suc- 
cinct review of the growth of scientific ideas, places the beginning of 
modern biology in 1838 with the publication by two Germans, 
Schleiden and Schwann, of the cell theory. 

Biological sciences received enormous impetus from the publica- 
tion in 1859 of Darwin's Origin of Species, but Darwin died without 
ever learning of the important work of Gregor Mendel whose great 
study of heredity shed such interesting light on Darwin's theories. 
The science of genetics which rests upon the foundation so brilliantly 
laid by Mendel owes much to Belgian zoologist Beneden who dis- 
covered the double sets of chromosomes in each nucleus except the 
reproductive cells. 

It was also in this latter half of the nineteenth century that the 
great German pioneer bacteriologist, Kobert Koch, discovered the 
bacilli of anthrax and tuberculosis, that the great French chemist, 
Louis Pasteur, did his pioneering work on germs and ferments, and 
the British Lord Lister developed antiseptic surgery. 

Astronomy at the end of the nineteenth century was largely obser- 
vational, with the discovery and cataloging of stars and nebulae, 
examination of the appearance of sun and planets, and precise calcu- 
lations of orbits. Stellar spectra and brightness were measured with 
routine persistence but without interpretive theories to guide and give 
significance to the observations. 

In the foregoing sketch of science up to the beginning of our twen- 
tieth century I have made no attempt at complete coverage; I have 
even omitted entire fields of science, like geology and psychology. 
I have not discussed practical applications, like engineering and 
medicine. I have only used these few examples to serve as spring- 
boards for the jump into the twentieth century, in which scientific 
progress has forged ahead with ever-increasing acceleration and in 
which the fields of science, hitherto almost separate in their develop- 
ment, have merged more and more toward a single all-inclusive and 
all-interrelated science of the forces and materials of nature. 

The physicists and the chemists both started their twentieth- 
century research with the atom. The physicists have looked into the 
atom to discover how it was constructed and how its parts behaved. 
The chemists piled atoms together to form molecules of all degrees 
of complexity. The work of each reacted on the other, and physicists 
had to learn more chemistry and chemists more physics. And the 
discoveries of each provided new tools for both. 

« John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York, 1947. 



402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

The major interest of physical science in the first dozen years of the 
century was in the attempt to explain natural phenomena by the 
behavior of electrons under the influence of electric forces. Such 
theories were very successful for some phenomena, and had some 
very important practical applications, namely, our entire modern 
electronics industry. But the electron alone was far from adequate 
to account for the universe. 

Then Sir Ernest Eutherford proved that each atom has a heavy 
nucleus of positive electricity surrounded by electrons. Moseley in 
England proved by X-rays that these atomic nuclei are characterized 
by simple numbers: 1 for hydrogen, 2 for helium, 3 for lithium, and 
so on up to 92 for uranium — and these numbers were soon identified 
with the electric charge of the nucleus or the number of electrons 
outside it in the atom. Thus quantitative meaning was given to the 
periodic table of the chemists. Next, Bohr in Denmark and Sommer- 
feld in Germany applied the quantum theory to the Rutherford- 
Moseley atom and found the basis for explaining the spectra of light 
and X-rays. Henceforth spectroscopy became the most powerful tool 
for further atomic structure research, and such research became a 
major preoccupation of physicists in the 1920's. 

But all during this time other scientists were experimenting with 
radioactivity, an interesting and puzzling subject whose only practical 
uses had been for making watch dials luminous, and treating with 
moderate success certain types of cancer. But when Rutherford in 
1920 succeeded in transmuting one chemical element into another by 
bombarding it with fast particles from a radium source, and thus made 
real the ancient dream of the alchemists, a new era in science opened 
up. It opened slowly at fu-st, and it was not until 1931 that such a 
transmutation was effected by use of a high-voltage machine. This 
was done by two pupils of Rutherford in Cambridge University. In 
that same year Ernest Lawrence at the University of California 
invented the cyclotron, which has proved the most productive of all 
atom-smashing machines to date. Also in the same year, Chadwick 
in England discovered another very important subatomic particle, the 
neutron. And still in that same year Fermi in Italy showed that 
neutrons are extremely potent in producing atomic transmutations in 
the atoms which they strike. 

The quick result of the atomic nuclear research stimulated by these 
discoveries was the new discovery, or production in the laboratory, of 
more than twice as many new species of atoms as had been previously 
known to exist. Furthermore, whereas it was formerly thought that 
only a very few of the heaviest types of atoms were radioactive, it is 
now possible in these atom-smashing machines to produce at least one 
radioactive modification, or isotope, of every kind of chemical atom, 
and several radioactive modifications in many cases. 



STATE OF SCIENCE — COMPTON 403 

Now we jump to the fateful time, just 10 years ago, when the 
discovery of nuclear fission opened the way to the atomic bomb and 
atomic energy. In early January, 1939, two Germans, Hahn and 
Strassmann, found that an isotope of barium is produced when 
uranium is bombarded by neutroms. This news promptly reached 
Copenhagen, where it was given the true explanation as being a 
hitherto unsuspected phenomenon, nuclear fission, by two refugee 
scientists, Frisch and Lise Meitner, who had fled Germany to work 
with the great Danish physicist, Niels Bohr. 

On January 19, Bohr arrived in the United States to deliver some 
lectures, and brought with him the news of this discovery of nuclear 
fission. By January 26 this discovery had been confirmed in four 
United States laboratories, in Copenhagen, and in France, and there 
had been a scientific conference on the subject in Washington. All 
this had happened within the short space of less than one month. By 
the end of a year more than 100 scientific articles on nuclear fission 
had been published. 

Then, in 1940, the clouds of war shrouded the further developments 
in a degree of secrecy never before imposed in the field of science. 
This secrecy was at first entirely self-imposed by the scientists them- 
selves, who conceived of the military applications of nuclear energy 
before either officialdom or industry even knew of the existence of this 
new phenomenon. The project barely survived the skepticism with 
which it was initially received by many of the nonnuclear scientists 
and engineers who became concerned with it, but by the end of 1942 
its potentialities had become well established and the great Manhattan 
Project was undertaken, with close cooperation between the carefully 
selected scientific groups from the United States, the United Kingdom, 
and Canada. 

The rest of the story is now written into the history of the dramatic 
ending of World War II with Hiroshima and Nagasaki; of the efforts 
to turn atomic energy into an instrument, through international con- 
trol, for the maintenance of permanent peace; and of the current work 
under our Atomic Energy Commission to develop peacetime uses of 
atomic energy and radioactivity which are already beginning to influ- 
ence the processes of industrial production and medical practice, and 
to open entirely new fields of exploration in chemistry, geology, 
metallurgy, physiology, botany, and agriculture. On the horizon 
still uncertainly loom the possibilities of useful production of power 
for ship or aircraft propulsion and other special applications of heat 
and power. 

In this story we see the sudden merging of the results of many lines 
of investigation which had previously proceeded almost independently: 
50 years of research on radioactivity; 20 years' development of high- 
voltage machines; the equivalence of mass and energy announced by 



404 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

Einstein as early as 1905 as part of his theory of relativity; several 
decades of study of cosmic rays; 50 years' development of electronics; 
the whole modern art of chemical separation; the science of radiology 
whose impetus had come from medical applications of X-rays and 
the rays from radium; the most modern refinements of metallurgy, 
of chemical and electrical engineering. And the practical consum- 
mation of the atomic-energy objectives has called upon the highest 
skUls of engineering design and instrumentation. It is truly an 
exciting picture! 

I might have described many other scientific achievements of our 
century, such as the synthesis of complicated organic chemicals; the 
developments in aerodynamics or those like radio, radar, and tele- 
vision in the field of communications; the exciting new discoveries of 
hormones and their influence on physiological and emotional processes 
in animals and man; or the growth of the automobile industry which 
has so profoundly influenced our personal lives and our business 
operations. But I elected to dwell at length on this story of atom- 
ic energy for several reasons. It is the most striking scientific and 
technological development of our century; it best illustrates the 
methods of scientific discovery and its practical application; from it 
can be drawn many lessons, some of which I would mention. 

The first lesson is the cooperative character of scientific progress, 
depending on the stimulating interplay of ideas and the accumulation 
of facts and skills contributed by many scientists. In my survey of 
nuclear science progress I mentioned only some of the most significant 
steps in the progress, but back of it all and filling in the gaps was the 
work of some thousands of other research workers. 

A second lesson is the unpredictable and uncontrollable origin of 
the new ideas and discoveries which produce scientific progress. It 
was to emphasize this point that I mentioned the origins of the major 
discoveries which led up to the atomic-energy program. Many 
scientists from many parts of the world contributed the building 
blocks which, piled each on the ones below, completed the structure. 
The fact that it was done so quickly is explained by the quick and free 
channels of communication, often supplemented by personal acquain- 
tance, which have traditionally characterized the scientific fraternity 
the world over. It is more than tragic that any nation should seek 
to restrain the great flow of knowledge across the world or, within 
national boundaries, should seek to direct its course or make it sub- 
servient to the current politics of the state. That such a policy will 
ultimately stifle the birth and development of significant ideas is 
scarcely open to dispute. For nowhere more than in science is 
Donne's statement true "that each is a part of the maine," and the 
killing off of scientific ideas in one area impoverishes the world. 



STATE OF SCIENCE — COMPTON 405 

Engineering developments can usually be carried through in 
accordance with a plan carefully prepared in advance, and often this 
can be done most effectively by a competent self-contained group like 
a company or a bureau. But scientific discovery, in its very nature 
and as proved by experience, does not progress according to pre- 
conceived plan and is stifled if attempts are made to control the free 
initiative of the research workers or to limit the freedom of com- 
munication between them. This is one reason why most of the 
fundamental new scientific discoveries have originated in free environ- 
ment of the universities rather than in the quite properly more con- 
trolled atmosphere of industrial or governmental laboratories. When, 
however, it comes to practical applications and engineering develop- 
ments, then thorough planning and control are essential to efficiencj^. 
Thus the third lesson which I would draw is this: to the extent that 
we wish fundamental science to advance, we must maintain the 
maximum of opportunity for competent scientists to follow their 
own bent and to communicate freely with each other. 

The fourth lesson is, at first sight, in apparent contradiction with 
the last, but actually it is not. It is that teamwork has proven 
extraordinarily effective in producing results. To a certain extent, 
of course, teamwork implies control, which I have just decried. But 
what I mean by a team is a group of competent and imaginative 
project leaders whose skills and knowledge supplement each other 
and are supported by the technical assistance required to carry out 
their ideas. Such groups actually provide the maximum opportunity 
for quick initiative and for stimulating interchange of ideas. As 
science becomes more complex, or as its practical applications come 
more to the fore, the advantages of such team organization become 
more pronounced. 

The fifth lesson, which needs no amplification, is the increasing ex- 
tent to which a basic advance in theory or technique in one branch of 
science is likely to provide new concepts or new tools which can open 
up new frontiers for exploration and exploitation in other fields of 
science or art. This is not a new idea. It was for this reason, for exam- 
ple, that the Rockefeller Foundation established, under the National 
Research Council, the great program of National Research Fellowships 
which were largely effective within a decade or two in raising the 
United States from a third-rate to a first-rate world position in science. 
The Rockefeller Foundation hoped, by thus stimulating advance in 
the fundamental sciences, to uncover new avenues of approach to 
medical science — a hope that has been brilliantly justified. And 
another lesson which can be drawn comes from the realization that an 
astonishing proportion of today's leaders in American science, and of 
the project leaders who were the key men in our great scientific pro- 



406 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

gram during World War II, were men who had received their inspira- 
tion and training in independent research under this National Re- 
search Fellowship program. 

Let me now conclude this address by a look to the future. I might 
discuss this in terms of current scientific programs, I could describe 
the race between the cosmic-ray scientists who, from mountain top, 
airplane, and balloon, seek to utilize the still unknown energies of the 
cosmos to search out even more of nature's fundamental secrets of 
matter and energy, and the high-energy machine scientists who, with 
Van de Graaff generator, cyclotron, betatron, and synchrotron, are 
reproducing cosmic phenomena in the laboratory. It remains to be 
seen which group will discover the most for the fewest millions of 
dollars. This much can be said: both groups are meeting with 
exciting successes, and each stimulates and supplements the other. 

Or I could try to describe some of the opportunities for the use of 
radioactive chemical isotopes, produced by cyclotrons and atomic 
piles, as tools in other lines of research. Of this, Dr. Shields Warren, 
Director of the Division of Biology and Medicine of the Atomic 
Energy Commission, said at the eighth annual science talent dinner 
in Washington this month: 

... an event, the scope of which can be but dimly appreciated, has recently oc- 
curred in the development of atomic energy. First, a revolutionary concept in 
physics has been developed and proved and active experimentation as to its poten- 
tialities is well under way. Second, a method of tagging atoms by radioactivity 
so that chemical and biologic processes can be followed through in great detail is 
now at hand. Through this radioactivity accurate measurement of minute quan- 
tities is now feasible, for as little as one million billionth of an ounce of radio 
phosphorus may be detected. Third, advance in knowledge of biologic effects of 
radiation permits changing some hereditary characteristics in plants or animals. 

Or I could venture some speculations on the possible future role of 
synthetically manufactured hormones which, administered like 
insulin to a diabetic, could control the tendency to cancer, or produce 
a race of giants, or turn a general into a pacifist, or cure a schizophrenic. 

Or I might review the interesting theories of the universe. Is it 
finite; is it expanding; is it stiU being created; what maintains the 
heat of the stars and how old are they; what is their internal consti- 
tution and what forces and energies account for their condition? 

But such considerations are ruled out by the limitations of both my 
time and my knowledge. I shall therefore approach the future more 
as I introduced the past, in terms of some of the problems which face 
our society and in whose solution science may be able to assist. 

In view of the prodigious strides which science and technology have 
made in our century, what remains to be accomplished? From our 
own point of view the United States might appear to be at the summit 
of its industrial greatness. The young country which, in 1849, was 



STATE OF SCIENCE — COMPTON 407 

sending its first railroads across an undeveloped territory and pouring 
eager thousands of its citizens into the frantic California gold rush, 
in 1949 has spread across a continent and developed the land from 
coast to coast. Its teeming agriculture has reached new heights of 
productivity so that we have been able to feed not only ourselves but 
much of the war-torn world as well. Our industries thrive, the 
majority of our people are well employed at good wages, and the chief 
danger seems to be that we may over-extend ourselves and push 
prosperity bej^ond the point of stabihty. At a glance, this picture 
would not seem to leave much for our creative energies. 

A closer examination of the facts leaves less room for complacency. 
Not only do we have left to solve many problems of our own areas, 
but we have facing us also the inescapable fact of one world. Even 
if we were disposed to pursue our own destiny, unmindful of the rest 
of mankind, we have recognized that it is impossible to do so, and 
that our national good is strongly linked to the good of the rest of the 
world. This has been the philosophy underlying the Marshall Plan 
and of much of our postwar thinking. 

One of our principal causes of concern as scientists is the grave 
interruption that foreign science suffered by the war, and we are 
anxious for its rehabilitation. The destruction of institutions and 
implements of learning has been a source of distress to scholars 
throughout the ages, and American scientists have viewed with a 
sense of personal loss the destruction of libraries, laboratories, and 
other important tools of learning as one of the sad byproducts of war. 

We should like to see foreign science restored to its prewar vigor, 
not only in the interest of fundamental knowledge everywhere, upon 
which we and everyone can draw, but also because of the way in 
which a healthy body of science can contribute to economic and social 
recovery of all nations. 

To my way of thinl^ing, it would be a helpful and legitimate thing 
if those countries whose programs of scientific research were most 
seriously disrupted by the war would see fit to include funds for the 
rehabilitation of those programs in their requests for United States 
aid under the provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1948. I 
believe that such requests should be S3anpathetically received, since 
sound plans for economic development must rest upon technology 
supported by fundamental research. It is not difficult to envisage 
the ultimate practical good to be derived from renewed investigation 
in such fields as utilization of human resources, food and nutrition, 
medical sciences, chemistry, physics, metallurgy, geology, meteor- 
ology, hydrology, engineering, and soil mechanics. If only a small 
percentage of Alarshall-Plan funds were invested in this manner, 
there can be no doubt that rich returns of a long-range nature in 

SC6591 — 50 27 



408 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

material matters and in good will could be anticipated, beneficial 
alike to the countries concerned and to the United States. 

The purposeful employment of science and technology to aid in 
economic reconstruction following a period of disaster is no new thing. 
Louis XV established the fu'st significant school for civilian education 
in engineering as part of a program prudently directed to restoring 
French economy from the depression brought on by the extrava- 
gances of Louis XIV. In similar fashion, the great Ecole Polytech- 
nique was established in Paris in 1795 as part of the government's 
program of scientific and technical education designed to repair the 
economic ravages of the French Revolution. For a century, at 
least, L'Ecole Polytechnique was the world's outstanding center of 
pure and applied science, and profoundly influenced French social 
and economic progress. 

In Germany, where the statesmen had a peculiar appreciation for 
the practical values of technological education, this type of school 
was established in part as a recovery program from the economic 
chaos brought on by the Napoleonic Wars, and in part as an aid in 
competing with Great Britain in industry and trade. The famous 
technical schools in Germ.any became the very foundation stone of 
its industrial progress. Of them Whitehead has said: 

. . . the Germans explicitly realised the methods by which the deeper veins 
in the mine of science could be reached. They abolished haphazard methods of 
scholarship. In their technological schools and universities progress did not have 
to wait for the occasional genius or the occasional lucky thought. Their feats of 
scholarship during the nineteenth century were the admiration of the world. 
This discipline of knowledge applies beyond technology to pure science, and 
be.vond science to general scholarship. It represents the change from amateurs 
to professionals • . . 

Closer to our own day, we have the admirable example of the 
British, who, following World War I, established the million-pound 
research fund for stimulating renewed industrial activity. This 
marked the beginning of a great program of scientific research under 
private management but with governmental support which, in the 
results of fundamental research and creative invention, has been 
claimed to exceed that of the United States, at least on a per capita 
basis. 

It follows, then, that one important task confronting science and 
technology today is to assist in rescuing world-wide economy from the 
set-back suffered during World War II. This applies not only to the 
other war-devastated countries, but also to our own country where 
also the war seriously diminished the normal supply rate of new 
scientists and engineers and of new scientific discovery into those 
stockpiles of trained technologists and new ideas which should be our 
most important future asset. 



STATE OF SCIENCE — COMPTON 409 

It is to be hoped that oui* leaders of pubhc affairs, in government 
and business and the professions, will be no less farsighted than those 
statesmen of earlier days. The postwar interest in research shown 
by our military departments, the favorable prospects for a national 
science foundation, and above all the recently increased liberality of 
American industrial firms in support of fundamental research within 
and without their organizations, are all encouraging signs. 

An aspect of such problems which is in the traditional spirit of 
American altruism, but which is also of long-range bearing on our 
own welfare, was ably stated by the President in point four of his 
inaugural address when he said : 

We must embark on a bold new program for making the benefits of our scientific 
advances and industrial progress available for the improvement and growth of 
underdeveloped areas. 

More than half the people of the world are living in conditions approaching 
misery. Their food is inadequate. They are victims of disease. Their economic 
life is primitive and stagnant. Their poverty is a handicap and a threat both to 
them and to more prosperous areas. 

For the first time in history, humanity possesses the knowledge and the skill 
to relieve the suffering of these people. 

Already notable steps along such lines have been undertaken by a 
number of industrial companies which have been convinced that their 
long-term profitable business in relatively undeveloped areas is 
closely linked to the improvement in the living standards of the 
populations of these countries, for reasons both economic and political. 
Hence we see skillful programs in progress, by such companies as 
United Fruit, the oil companies and others, not only to raise wages 
but, more importantly, to apply the most modern arts of medicine 
and public health, soil utilization, seed selection and agricultural 
technique, education and recreation for improving the health, pros- 
perity, and morale of the peoples with whom they deal. The more 
of this that is done, the better and the safer the world will be. 

One of the lessons of history is that the improvement of man's 
physical and environmental well-being does much to contribute to 
the elimination of political and social um-est, and that the reverse 
promotes revolution. We know also that the constructive applica- 
tions of science do improve man's environmental well-being if the 
gains from science are fairly distributed among the people. Hence 
we see, in the program advocated by the President, not only a program 
of altruism but also of utilizing technology in the interests of political 
stability and peace. 

This subject will be given expert treatment in one of the panel 
discussions tomorrow. So, in fact, will many other goals of our current 
technological programs, about which I had originally thought of 
speaking. And I can obviously do little justice to much in my few 



410 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1949 

remaining minutes. I would, therefore, simply state my credo and 
my conclusions by quoting two paragraphs from my recent Wallberg 
Lecture at the University of Toronto: 

The people of our countries crave peace and security. They want protection 
against the perils of Nature, like floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, and droughts; 
and against man-made perils of transportation, fire, and group violence. Labor 
strives for steady employment at higher wages, shorter hours, and more com- 
fortable working conditions. They want the quality of goods to go up and prices 
to go down. People want better and more adequate housing. Those in business 
want larger profits. Governments, in our expanding civilization, need more tax 
money. Everybody wants better health. Those who think much beyond the 
present envisage ahead what I believe to be the greatest ultimate challenge to 
mankind, and that not many generations in the future. It is the problem of 
maintaining our growing populations in the face of rapidly depleted natural 
resources without descent into a final world epoch of struggle for bare survival. 

If we were to take the time to examine into all these needs and desires of men 
we would discover two facts. One is that science and engineering have positive 
contributions to make to every one of these requirements. The other is even 
more striking. I believe that technological progress is the only common denomin- 
ator to them all — the only solution which can simultaneously satisfy these state- 
ments of human needs. Laws, ideologies, economic theories, ethics, and brotherly 
love can provide orderly distribution, reduce waste, and promote good will 
among men, but they cannot create the wherewithal to satisfy all the apparently 
conflicting demands listed above. 

We must be prepared to take each step as it comes in these vast 
new fields which are open before us. The fact that all the answers are 
not immediately at hand is no reason for pessimism. It is in the 
American spirit of things to want to accomplish everything overnight, 
and in view of past triumphs of technology perhaps we may be for- 
given for being sanguine of success in this venture. In the long run, 
it is not likely that our confidence wiU be disappointed. 

In any event, today, as in every other time, the scientist still stands 
on the threshold of the unknown. Perhaps that is his greatest joy — 
what Huxley more than a half century ago called "the supreme delight 
of extending the realm of law and order even farther towards the 
unattainable goals of the infinitely great and the infinitely small, 
between which our little race of life is run." 



INDEX 



A 

Page 

Abbot, Charles G ix, 111 

Abbott, R. Tucker vi 

Accessions 17, 27, 42, 47, 87, 98, 122, 132 

Ethnology, Bureau of American 87 

Freer Gallery of Art 47 

Ivibrary 132 

National Air Museum 122 

National Collection of Fine Arts 42 

National Gallery of Art 27 

National Museum 16 

National Zoological Park 98 

Acker, W. R. B viii, 52 

Adams, Charles C 128 

Administrative accountant of the Institution (Thomas F. Clark) v 

Administrative assistant to the Secretary (Louise M. Pearson) v 

Albertin, Robert 127 

Aldrich, Loyal B., Director, Astrophvsical Observatorv ix, 113 

Allen, Arthur A 1 129 

Allen, William T vii, 23 

American Historical Association, Reports 141 

Anderson, Carl D. (The elementary particles of physics) 203 

Anderson , Clin ton P. (regent of the Institution) v, 6 

Animal behavior, More about (Ernest P. Walker) 261 

Antarctic research expedition, Ronne, 1946-1948 (Commander Finn 

Ronne) 369 

Appropriations 7, 26, 59, 107, 131, 142, 148 

Canal Zone Biological Area 131 

Institute of Social Anthropology 59 

National Gallery of Art 26 

National Zoological Park 107 

Printing and binding 142 

River Basin Surveys 59 

Smithsonian 7, 148 

Arabian-American Oil Co 22 

Arctic Institute of North America 23 

Arctowski, Henryk 111 

Arms, John Taylor 41 

Arthur lecture, Sixteenth 8 

Assistant Secretary of the Institution (John E. Graf) v, 6, 41, 129 

Assistant Secretary of the Institution (J. L. Keddy) --- v 

Astrophysical Observatorj' ix, 13, 109 

Astrophysical Research, Division of ix, 109 

Radiation and Organisms, Division of ix, 13, 112 

Report ^ 109 

Staff ix 

Atchison, Joseph A 119 

Attorney General of the United States (Tom C. Clark, member of the 

Institution) v 

Austin, Roy — 79 

Australia-National Geographic Society-Smithsonian Institution Expedition. 2 1 

Averv, E. A 1 vii 

Awl,'Aime M vi 

B 

Baldv/in, Gordon 75 

Barbeau, C. M 57 

411 



412 INDEX 

Page 
Barkley, Alben W., Vice President of the United States (member of the 

Institution) v, 4, 6, 20 

Barnes, J. T vi 

Bartsch, P vi 

Bassler, R. S vii 

Bauxar, J. Joseph 74 

Bayer, Frederick M vi 

Beach, Jessie G vii 

Beal, Gifford 41 

Beaulac, Willard L 60 

Beers, Stephen L ix, 121, 122 

Beggs, Thomas M., Director, National Collection of Fine Arts viii, 

41,46 
Belin, Ferdinand Lammot, Vice President, National Gallery of Art.Vviii, 25, 26 

Bell, Robert E 63, 80, 81 

Belote, T. T vii 

Benn, J. H vii 

Bent, Arthur C vi 

Blackwelder, R. E vi 

Blaker, M. C vi 

Bliss, Robert Woods 7, 41 

Bliss, Wesley L 74, 75 

Boone, Capt 120 

Boss, Norman H vii 

Boving, A. G vi 

Bowron, Fletcher 102 

Bowsher, A. L 23 

Brannon, Charles F., Secretary of Agriculture (member of the Institution). v 

Brew, J. O 75 

Brown, M. W vii 

Brown, W. L vi 

Buchanan, L. L vi 

Burd, William W _• 70 

Burgh, Robert F 67 

Bush, Vannevar (regent of the Institution) v, 6, 149 

Byas, W. J vi 

C 
Cain, G. S vi 

Cairns, Huntington, Secretary-Treasurer and General Counsel, National 

Gallery of Art viii, 25, 34, 40 

Caldwell, Joseph R 63, 64, 81 

Canal Zone Biological Area ix, 14, 126 

Fiscal report 131 

Improvements made 126 

More urgent needs 129 

Rainfall tables 130 

Report 126 

Scientists and their studies 126 

Cannon, Clarence (regent of the Institution) v, 6, 149 

Carey, Charles vii, 24 

Carriker, M. A., Jr 22 

Cartwright, O. L vi 

Carwithen, B. T., personnel officer v 

Cassedy, Edwin G viii 

Chace, F. A., Jr vi 

Champe, John L 85 

Cliancellor of the Institution (Fred M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United 

States) v, 4, 7, 20 

Chapin, Edward A vi 

Chase, Agnes vii 

Chief Justice of the United States (Fred M. Vinson, Chancellor of the 

Institution) v, viii, 4, 7, 20, 25 

Christensen, Erwin O 36 

Clark, Austin H vi 

Clark, Leila F., librarian of the Institution v, 135 

Clark, R. S vi 



INDEX 413 

Page 

Clark, Thomas F., administrative accountant of the Institution v 

Clark, Tom C, Attorney General of the United States (member of the M- 

stitution) V 

Clark, Walter 14, 127 

Clarke, Gilmore D 41 

Coale, George L 69,70 

Cochran, Doris M vi 

Collins, Henry B., Jr viii, 11, 5G, 57 

Collins, Lloyd 70 

Commerford, L. E., chief, division of publications v 

Compton, Arthur H. (regent of the Institution) v, 6 

Compton, Karl T. (The state of science) 395 

Conger, Paul S vii, 23 

Cooper, Gustav A vii, 23, 82 

Cooper, Paul L 72, 73, 75, 77 

Cox, E. E. (regent of the Institution) v, 6 

Crist, Raymond E 60, 61 

Crockett,' W. D vii 

Cruxent, Jos6 69 

Gumming, Robert B., Jr 75 

Curator, National Air Museum (Paul E. Garber) 117,120, 121, 122 

Cushman, Robert A vi 

D 

Dale, Chester viii, 25, 26 

Daugherty, Richard D 69, 70 

Daughters of the American Revolution, National Society of. Report 141 

Davis, Harvey N. (regent of the Institution) v, 6 

Daw, J. B 118 

Deignan, H. G vi, 21 

Densmore, Frances viii, 58, 88 

Director of the National Museum (A. Remington Kellogg) vi, 24 

Donaldson, Jesse M., Postmaster General of the United States (member 

of the Institution) v 

Donohoe, John C 79 

Drucker. Philip viii, 67, 68,69 

Duel, Thorne 71 

Dunkle, D. H vii, 23 

Duque G6mez, Luis 59 

E 

Earth, The origin of the (Thornton Page) 161 

Eastman, Dona! d 65 

Edgell, George H 41 

Editorial division, Chief (Webster P. True) v, 142 

Eggers and Higgins 38 

Eisenmann, Eugene 128 

Elder, R. A., Jr vi 

Elementary particles of physics, The (Carl D. Anderson) 203 

Ellis, Max M vi 

Elstad, V. B ix 

Engineers, Corps of 61, 62 

Erdman, Donald S vi, 22 

Establishment. The -- 5 

Ethnology, Bureau of American viii, 11, 55 

Archives 87 

Collections 87 

Editorial work and publications 12, 86, 141 

Illustrations 86 

Institute of Social Anthropology 12. 58 

Library 86 

Miscellaneous 88 

Report 55 

River Basin Surveys 11, 61 

Special researches 58 

Staff viii 

Systematic researches 55 



414 INDEX 

Pace 

Ettinghausen, Richard viii, 52, 53 

Evans, John W 110 

Ewers, J. C vi 

Executive Committee of the Board of Regents v, 149 

Members v, 149 

Report 143 

Appropriations 148 

Assets 147 

Audit 148 

Cash balances, receipts, and disbursements during fiscal year 1949. 146 

Classification of investments 145 

Freer Gallery of Art fund 145 

Gifts 148 

Smithsonian endowment fund 143 

Summary of endowments 145 

Unexpended funds and endowments 147 

F 

Fairchild, David vii 

Fenton, William N viii, 12, 57, 58 

Field, W. D vi 

Finances 7, 144 

Appropriations 7 

Finlavson, John A. and Richard M 50 

Finley, David E., Director, National Gallery of Art viii, 7, 25, 26, 41 

Fisher, W. K vi 

Fite, E. J vii 

Fleming, Robert V. (regent of the Institution) v, 6, 149 

Fontaine, Russell E 127 

Forsythc, W. E 109 

Foshag, W. F vii 

Foster, G. M., Jr., Director, Institute of Social Anthropology viii, 12, 59 

Franks, Sir Oliver < 4 

Eraser, Dorothv E 79 

Frederickson, David A 64 

Freer Gallery of Art viii, 11, 47 

Attendance 11, 50 

Changes in exhibitions 50 

Collections 47 

Docent service and other staff activities 51 

Honorary duties 54 

Library 50 

Publications 50, 141 

Repairs to the collections 49 

Report 47 

Reproductions 50 

Special visitors 51 

Staff viii 

Friedmann, Herbert vi 

(The breeding habits of the weaverbirds: a study in the biology of 

behavior patterns) 293 

G 
Garber, Paul E ix, 117 

Gardner, Mai. Gen. Grandison ix, 115 

Gardner, P. V viii, 45 

Gazin, C. L vii, 23 

Gazin, Elisabeth H vi 

Gellatly collection 7 

George, Walter F. (regent of the Institution) v, 6 

Glance, Grace E vi 

Goodrich, Lloyd 41 

Graf, John E., Assistant Secretary of the Institution v, 6, 41, 129 

Graham, D. C vi 

Greene, Charles T vi 

Ground-water investigations in the United States (A. N. Sayre) 219 

Guatemala, The archeological importance of (A. V. Kidder) 349 

Guest, Grace Dunham viii 



INDEX 415 

H 

Page 

Hale, Maj. Gen. Willis 55 

Hale telescope, The 200-inch, and some problems it may solve (Edwin 

Hubble) 175 

Hall, Robert L 79 

Handley, Charles O., Jr 22 

Harrington, John P viii, 11, 56 

Harris, R. K 82 

Harrison, J. H ix 

Hartman, Frank A 127 

Heizer, Robert F 69 

Henderson, E. P vii 

Hess, Frank L vii 

Hewes, Gordon W 85 

Holden, F. E vii 

Holder, Preston 85 

Holmberg, Allan 60 

Hoover, William H ix, 110, 111 

Houseknecht, Byron W 67 

Housewright, Rex 82 

Howard, J. D., treasurer of the Institution v 

Howard, L. O vi 

Howell, A. Brazier vi 

Hubble, Edwin (The 200-inch Hale telescope and some problems it m.ay 

solve) 175 

Hughes, Jack T 72, 75 

Hunnevv^ell, Frank W 128 

Hunsaker, Jerome C. (regent of the Institution) v, 6 

Hurst, C. T 66 

I 

Illg, P. L vi 

Imlay, Ralph W 23 

Institute of Social Anthropology viii, 12, 58 

International Exchange Service viii, 12, 89 

Foreign depositories of governmental documents 90 

Foreign exchange agencies 95 

Interparliamentary exchange of the official journal 93 

Packages received and sent 89 

Report 89 

Isto, Neil J : 79 

J 

James, Macgill, Assistant Director, National Gallery of Art viii, 25 

Jellison, W. L _ vi 

Johnson, David H vi, 21 

Johnson, Frederick 75 

Johnson, Louis, Secretary of Defense (member of the Institution) v 

Judd, Neil M vi 

K 

Kainen, J vii 

Kay, J. LeRoy 79 

Keddy, J. L., Assistant Secretary of the Institution _ v 

Kellogg, A. Remington, Director of the National Museum vi, 24 

Kellogg, Charles E. (Modern soil science) 227 

Kellogg, Paul 129 

Kelly, Isabel 60 

Keppel, David 35 

Kestner, F. B., photographer v 

Ketchum, Miriam B viii 

Keyes, Charles R 71 

Kidder, A. V. (The archeological importance of Guatemala) 349 

Killip, E. P vii, 22, 128 

Kivett, Marvin F 72,76,77 

Knight, J. Brookes vii 



416 INDEX 

Page 

Kowal, R. Joseph 127 

Kramer, Andrew ix 

Kress, Samuel H., President, National Gallery of Art viii, 25, 26 

Krieger, H. W vi 

Kroeber, A. L 58 

Krug, Julius A., Secretary of the Interior (member of the Institution) v 

Kubler, George 60 

Kunze, Marjorie ix 

Kurtz, Col. Frank 120 

L 

Lachner, E. A vi 

La Colombi^re, Excavations at the prehistoric rock-shelter of (Hallam L. 

Movius, Jr.) 359 

Landry, Col. Robert B 4 

Lane, James W 35 

Langlois, A. C 129 

Leapley, W. T vi 

Leonard, E. C vii 

Lewton, F. L vii 

Librarian of the Institution (Leila F, Clark) v, 135 

Library 15,36,45,50,86, 132 

Bureau of American Ethnology 86 

Freer Gallery of Art 50 

National Collection of Fine Arts 45 

National Gallerv of Art 36 

Report : 132 

Smithsonian 15, 132 

Link, Anna M viii 

List, R. J 109 

Llano, George A vii, 23 

Loeblich, A. R. Jr . vii, 23, 82 

Loening, Grover ix, 120 

Longnecker, Phil W 128 

Lowe, Frank O., Head Keeper, National Zoological Park ix 

Lundelius, Ernest L., Jr 79 

Lundell, C. L 23 

Lundy, W. E 129 

M 

Male, W. M ix 

Mann, William N., Director, National Zoological Park vi, ix, 108 

Manning, C. L vii 

Manship, Paul 7, 41 

Marble, J. P vii 

Marshall, George C, Secretary of State (member of the Institution) v, viii 

Marshall, W. B vi 

Martin, G. J viii 

Mayer-Cakes, William 80 

McBride, Harry A., Administrator, National Gallery of Art viii, 25 

McClure, F. A vii, 23 

McConnell, Samuel K 6 

McGregor, John C 71 

McKenzie, Gordon F 79 

McQuiren, Mr 79 

Mellon, Paul viii, 25, 26 

Members of the Institution v 

Menzel, Dr 110 

Metcalf , George 72, 76 

Miller, Carl F 63 

Miller, Gerrit S., Jr vi 

Miller, Maj. Gen. Luther D 4 

Miller, N. M vi 

Miller, Robert R 21 

Mitchell, S. A 9 



INDEX 417 

Pape 

Mitman, Carl W ix, 125 

Mohr, Albert 64 

Moldenke, H. N 128 

Moldenke, Mrs. H. N 128 

Mongan, Elizabeth 33, 34, 35 

Moore, J. Percy vi 

Morrison, Joseph P. E vi 

Morton, C. V vii 

Mosher, S. M vii 

Mosser, Oliver E 128 

Mountford, Charles P 21 

Movius, Hallam L., Jr. (Excavations at the prehistoric rock-shelter of La 

Colombi6re) 359 

Murray, A. C vii, 23 

Myer, Catherine Walden, fund 10 

Myers, George Hewitt 41 

N 

National Air Museum ix, 13, 114 

Accessions 122 

Advisory Board ix, 115 

Curatorial activities 117 

Exhibition 117 

Informational services 120 

Museum site and building 116 

Planning 116 

Report 114 

Staff ix 

Storage 115, 119 

Survey 121 

National Collection of Fine Arts viii, 10, 41 

Deposits 42 

iTiformation service 45 

Library 45 

Loans accepted 43 

Loans to other museums and organizations 43 

Myer, Catherine Walden, fund 42 

Preservation 45 

Ranger, Henry Ward, fund 44 

Report 41 

Smithsonian Art Commission 41 

Special exhibitions 46 

Staff viii 

Withdrawals by owners 43 

National Gallery of Art viii, 10, 25 

Accessions 27 

Acquisitions committee 26 

Appropriations 26 

Attendance 10, 27 

Audit of private funds of the Gallery 40 

Care and maintenance of the building 39 

Committee of expert examiners 39 

Curatorial activities 33 

Educational program 36 

Exchanges of works of art 28 

Executive committee 25 

Exhibitions 31 

Finance committee 36 

German paintings, custody of 37 

German silver, custody of 38 

Index of American Design 33, 37 

Library 36 

Loaned works of art returned 29 

N ew construction 38 

Officials viii, 25 



418 INDEX 

National Gallery of Art — Continued Pa&e 

Organization 25 

Other activities 40 

Other gifts 40 

Paintings 27 

Photographs 28 

President Truman's inaugural reception 37 

Prints and drawings 28 

Publications 34 

Report 25 

Restoration and repair of works of art 34 

Rosenwald collection 32 

Sculpture 28 

Traveling exhibitions 32 

Trustees viii, 25 

White House furniture, custody of 38 

Works of art loaned 30 

Works of art on loan 29 

National Geographic Society 9, 11, 21, 55 

National Geographic Society- Yale University-Smithsonian Institution 

Expedition 22 

National Museum vi, 9, 16 

Changes in organization 24 

Collections 16 

Exploration and field work 21 

Publications 23, 138 

Report 16 

Staff vi 

National Park Service 61, 62 

National Zoological Park ix, 12, 97 

Accessions 98 

P)irths and hatchings 103 

Depositors and donors and their gifts 99 

Exhibits '. 97 

Feeding the animals 105 

Finances 107 

Maintenance and improvements 105 

Needs of the Zoo 107 

Report 97 

Staff ix 

Status of the collection 108 

Visitors 106 

Newman, M. T vi 

Newman, Stanley 60 

New Zealand, a botanist's paradise (Egbert H. Walker) 317 

Nicol, David vii 

O 

Oberg, Kalervo 59 

Oehser, Paul H vi 

Officials of the Institution v 

Oliver, L. L., superintendent of buildings and labor v 

Oliver, S. H vii 

Orr, Kenneth G 71 

Osborne, Homer Douglas 68, 69, 70 

P 

Pacific Science Congress, Seventh 22 

Page, Thornton (The origin of the earth) 161 

Palmer, M. Helen viii 

Palmer, T. S vi 

Pearce, F. L vii, 23 

Pearson, Louise M., administrative assistant to the Secretary v 

Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co 149 

Pendleton, L vii 

Perry, K. M vii 



fecre'ts ferdtv^mindt- 



INDEX 419 

Page 

Perry, S. H vii 

Perrygo, W. M 22, 129 

Personnel officer (B. T. Carwithen) v 

Peterson, L. W vi 

Peterson, M. L vii 

Phillips, Duncan viii, 25, 26 

Photographer (F. B. Kestner) v 

Pichetto, Stephen S 34 

Pierson, Donald 59 

Pittier, Henri vii 

Plywoods-Plastics Corp 22 

Pope, John A., Assistant Director, Freer Gallery of Art__ viii, 51, 52, 53, 54 
Postmaster General of the United States (Jesse M. Donaldson, member of 

the Institution) v 

Potter, S. L ix 

Powers, Maj. Gen. E. M 115, 120 

Precise time, The determination of (Sir Harold Spencer Jones) 189 

President of the United States (Harry S. Truman, Presiding Officer ex 

officio of the Institution) v 

Presiding Officer ex officio of the Institution (Harry S. Truman, President 

of the United States) v 

Price, Vice Adra. John D 118 

Price, Leonard ix 

Price Waterhouse & Co 40 

Pride, Rear Adm. A. M ix 

Property, supply, and purchasing officer (Anthony W. Wilding) v 

Publications ' 14, 23, 34, 50, 61, 86, 136 

Appropriation for printing and binding 142 

American Historical Association 141 

Bureau of American Ethnology 86, 140 

Annual Report I 86, 140 

Institute of Social Anthropology 61, 86, 140 

Daughters of the American Revolution, National Society 141 

Distribution '. 136 

Freer Gallery of Art 50, 141 

Occasional Papers 50, 141 

National Gallery of Art 34 

National Museum 23, 138 

Annual Report 139 

Bulletins 140 

Contributions from the United States National Herbarium 140 

Proceedings 139 

Report 136 

Smithsonian 14, 136 

Annual Report 137 

Miscellaneous Collections 136 

Special 138 

Publications, division of, chief (L. E. Commerford) v 

Q 

Quartermaster General, Office of the 13, 112 

R 

Radiation and Organisms, Division of 13, 112 

Ranger bequest 10 

Reclamation, Bureau of 61, 62 

Reed, F. C vii 

Reeside, J. B., Jr vii 

Regents, Board of v, 6 

Executive committee v, 149 

Report 143 

Members v, 6 

Proceedi ngs 6 

Rehder, Harald A vi 

Richards, Charles M 34,35 



420 INDEX 

Page 

Hichardson, Capt. Holden C 118 

Eiddell, Francis A 64, 69, 70 

Riddell, Harry S., Jr 69, 70 

Ripley, S. Diflon 22 

River Basin Surveys viii, 11, 61 

Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr., Associate Director, Bureau of American Eth- 
nology, and Director, River Basin Surve.ys viii, 11, 55, 63 

Robinson, H. E J 76 

Roebling, John A 6 

Rogers, G. L vii 

Rohwer, S. A vi 

Ronne, Commander Finn (Ronne Antarctic research expedition, 1946-48) _ 369 

Rowe, John H 60 

Rudd, V. E vii 

Russell, J. Townsend vi 

S 

Saltonstall, Leverett (regent of the Institution) v, 6 

Sawyer, Charles, Secretary of Commerce (member of the Institution) v 

Sayre, A. N. (Ground-water investigations in the United States) 219 

Schaller, W. T vii 

Schmitt, Waldo L vi 

Scholander, Per F 14, 127 

Schrader, Franz 127 

Schrader, Sally Hughes 127 

Schultz, Leonard P vi 

Schumacher, E. G viii 

Schwartz, Benjamin vi 

Science, The state of (Karl T. Compton) 395 

Searle, Mrs. Harriet Richardson vi 

Secretary of Agriculture (Charles F. Brannon, member of the Institution).. v 

Secretary of Commerce (Charles' Sawyer, member of the Institution) v 

Secretary of Defense (Louis Johnson, member of the Institution) v 

Secretary of the Institution (Alexander Wetmore) v, viii, 1, 6, 15, 25, 128 

Secretary of the Interior (Julius A. Krug, member of the Institution) v 

Secretary of Labor (Maurice Tobin, member of the Institution) v 

Secretary of State (George C. Marshall, member of the Institution) v, viii, 25 

Secretary of the Treasury (John W. Snvder, member of the Institution) __ v, 

viii, 25, 26 

Setzler, Frank M vi, 21 

Setzer, Henry W vi, 22 

Seymour, Charles. Jr 34, 35 

Shalkop, Robert 80 

Shapley, Fern R 35 

Shaw. Herman 117 

Shepard, Donald D 25 

Shih-hsiang Wang 51 

Shiner, Joel L 70 

Shippee, J. M 72, 73, 77 

Shoemaker, C. R vi 

Sirlouis, J. R vii 

Smith, A. C vii 

Smith, Carlyle S 84 

Smith, Lyman B vii, 22 

Smithsonian Art Commission 6, 10, 41 

Snyder. John W., Secretary of the Treasxiry (member of the Institution) _ v, viii, 26 

Soil science, Modern (Charles E. Kellogg) 227 

Solecki, Ralph S 63, 64 

Soper, Cleve C 14, 127 

South American Botanical Congress, Second 22 

Speicher, Eugene E 1 7, 41 

Spencer Jones, Sir Harold 9 

(The determination of precise time) 189 

Spitzer, Lyman, Jr. (The formation of stars) 153 



INDEX 421 

Page 

Staff V, vi, viii, ix 

Astrophysical Observatory ix 

Bureau of American Ethnology viii 

Canal Zone Biological Area ix 

Freer Gallery of Art viii 

International Exchange Service ix 

National Air Museum ix 

National Collection of Fine Arts viii 

National Gallery of Art viii 

National Museum vi 

National Zoological Park ix 

Scientific vi 

Smithsonian v 

Stanlev, Wendell M. (Recent advances in virus research) 213 

Stanton, T. W vii 

Stark, Robert 82 

Stars, The formation of (Lyman Spitzer, Jr.) 153 

Stefansson, Vilhjalmur 56 

Stephenson, Robert L 82, 83 

Stevenson, John A vii 

Stewart, Richard 128 

Stewart, T. Dale vi, 22 

Stirling, Matthew W., Director, Bureau of American Ethnology viii, 

11 55 88 I'^S 

StirUng, Mrs. Matthew W '_._'_ ' 128 

Stone, Marshall 128 

Stout, William B ix 

Strobel, Robert C ix, 121, 122 

Stubbs, Burns A 53 

Summary of the year's activities of the branches of the Institution 9 

Superintendent of buildings and labor (L. L, Oliver) v 

Swallen, Jason R vii, 23 

Swanton, John R viii, 88 

Swingle, W. T vii 

Switzer, G. S vii 

T 

Talbert, D. G ix 

Taylor, Frank A vii 

Taylor, Marvin C 7 

Taylor, W. W., Jr vi 

Thacker, Colin 66 

Thomas, Miss E 129 

Thomas, G. S vii 

Time, The determination of precise (Sir Harold Spencer Jones) 189 

Time in evolution (F. E. Zeuner) 247 

Tobin, Maurice, Secretary of Labor (member of the Institution) v 

Tourtelot, Harry A 79 

Treasurer of the Institution (J. D. Howard) v 

True, Webster P., Chief, Editorial Division v, 142 

Truman, Harry S., President of the United States (Presiding Officer ex 

officio of the Institution) v 

Tucker, M. W viii 

200-inch Hale telescope. The, and some problems it may solve (Edwin 

Hubble) 175 

Tye, Frank 118 

V 

Vandenberg, Gen. H. H 115 

Vaughan, T. W vii 

Vice President of the United States (Alben W. Barkley, member of the 

Institution) v, 4, 6, 20 

Viking Fund 57 



422 INDEX 

Page 
Vinson, Fred M., Chief Justice of the United States (Chancellor of the 

Institution) v, viii, 4, 7, 20, 25 

Virus research, Recent advances in (Wendell M. Stanley) 213 

Visitors 8, 11,27, 50, 51, 106 

Freer Gallerv of Art 11,50, 51 

National Gallery of Art 10, 27 

National Zoological Park 106 

Smithsonian buildings 8 

Vorys, John M. (regent of the Institution) v, 6 

W 

Walcott, Frederic C 6 

Walker, Egbert H vii, 22 

(New Zealand, a botanist's paradise) 317 

Walker, Ernest P., Assistant Director, National Zoological Park ix 

(More about animal behavior) 261 

Walker, John, Chief Curator, National Gallery of Art viii, 25, 34, 36 

Walters, Vladimir 14, 127 

Waring, Antonio J., Jr viii, 88 

Watkins, C. M vi 

Watkins, W. N vii 

Weaverbirds, The breeding habits of the: a study in the biology of behavior 

patterns (Herbert Friedmann) 293 

Wedderburn, A. J., Jr vii 

Wedel, Waldo R vi, 22, 72, 75 

Weir, Marie 129 

Weiss, Helena M vi 

Wenley, A. G., Director, Freer Gallery of Art viii, 7, 41, 53, 54 

Wenner, David J., Jr 80 

Wetmore, Alexander, Secretary of the Institution v, vi, 

viii, ix, 1, 6, 7, 15, 22, 25, 41, 128 

Wheeler, Richard P i 63, 71, 73, 77, 81 

White, Theodore E 73, 75, 77, 79 

White, Wallace H 6 

Wike, Joyce 85 

Wilding, Anthonv W., property, supply, and purchasing officer v 

Wlllcy, Gordon R viii, 12, 58, 59 

Williams, D. G., Chief, International Exchange Service viii, 96 

Wilson, Lester 82 

Wilson, Mrs. M. S vi 

Withers, Arnold M 66 

Withrow, R. B ix, 112 

Wittry, Warren L 79 

Won-vong Kim 51 

Woodard, William 67 

Woods, L. P vi 

Wright, Milton 3, 4, 20 

Wright Brothers' aeroplane of 1903 3, 20, 114, 117 

Presentation of, to the United States National Museum 3, 20, 118 

Y 

Yale University 22 

Yundt, Gary L 65 

Z 

Zakoji, Hiroto 70 

Zetek, James, Resident Manager, Canal Zone Biological Area ix, 131 

Zeuner, F. E. (Time in evolution) 247 

o 



II 




