•.>^ )) j> ^> jae> z> 






^5fe> 3:> 






, ,, j> .,r> . > J 





















-> 2> ■> >- 



3> > ^^ J^I> » 









s> 


:2> 


a> 


3> 


[> 


3> 


I> 


JS> 


I> 


_3> 


> 


3S> 


► 


-» r> 


-> 


^St> 


2> 


:s> 



>> > >>> >^>J^^> 



1>3 > 


















> > > > ^ ^^ - 

Z> 3 i> r> > >. ^ - 






^> - "->>:»> '■ 5:> : 












^>2> >):> ^»^ 3.^> 












21>3^ J>:>^ 



j>:?a*a> 









:»3 



> > 



3^ 






' >>^ J> X> J> ^» ^' 



:> 5>o .>>r> !>:>: 






?^^^ 








1 


yj > '> ) ~ 





51^ 






> > 






r>>»^ 






>>y.'>J-':> :>1j> 



3) L> O > t> 



3:. >>:, 
:» XT 



^^^^ ?.:? 



=^>5>1> ^"^--^ 






> »> j>— — ^- 
3 :> >>v--r- 









■ 3> ':» .>>-^ "^ :-> ^^ ^^ - 
j> ^.v. ,3,> ■:> ^^,',,^ ->> >::> ^ ' -^ 






3 i> >>>^ 



^>JK>:> ^^-^ x>J> ^>^ 

- :»3>x> x>^ ^>^ .^^^4 

>^> > >> >'^ >>s» > 












ANNUAL REPORT 



OF THE 



BOAKD OF REGENTS 



OF THE 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



SHOWING 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION 
OF THE INSTITUTION 



FOR 



THE YEA^R 18 8 2 



yrr 



WASHINGTON: 
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 

1884. 



[FORTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION.] 

Congress of the United States. 
In the House of Representatives, 

February 20, 1883. 
Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurrinf/), That fifteen thousand 
five hundred and sixty copies of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the 
year 1882 be printed ; two thousand five hundred copies of which shall be for the use 
of the Senate, six thousand and sixty copies for the use of the House of Representa- 
tives, and seven thousand copies for the use of the Smithsonian Institution. 
Attest : 

Edw. McPherson, 

Clerk. 



In the Senate of the United States, 

March 2, 18S3. 
Resolved, That the Senate agree to the foregoing resolution of the House of Repre- 
sentatives. 

Attest : 

F. E. Shober, 
Acting Secretary. 



LETTEE 

FROM THE 

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



ACCOMPA2JYING 



amu.1 rcort of m Board of Regent. oftKat imU«tionfor tU year 



^'- ' • 1882. 



Jaotaet 22, ISSS.-Ordered to be printeil. 



SMiTHSomAN Institution, 
Washington, D. C, January 19, 1883. 
c.™ • In accordance with section 5593 of the Eevised Statutes of the 
TTn^^d StZ I haTe the honor in behalf of the Board of Kegents to 
It a to Con^eL the annual report of the op— s expend.tures, 
and condition of the Smithsonian Institntion for the ye"' l^S^ 
'IZe the honor to he, ver. respectfully, ^oa-^^f -' ™^; 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 

Hon. J. W. Keifer, 

Spealcer of the House of Representatives. 

xn 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 

THE YEAR 1882. 



SUBJECTS. 



1. Proceedings of the Board of Eegeuts for the session of January, 
1883. 

2. Eeport of the Executive Committee, exhibiting the financial affairs 
of the Institution, including a statement of the vSmithson fund, the re- 
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1882, and the estimates for 1883. 

3. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations 
and condition of the Institution for the year 1882, with the statistics of 
collections, exchanges, &c. 

4. General ax)pendix, comprising a record of recent i)rogress in the 
principal departments of science, and special memoirs, original and 
selected, of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the institu- 
tion, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. 



CONTENTS 



Pago. 

Resolution of Congress to print extra copi es of the report ii 

Letter from the Secretary, submitting the Annual Report of the Regents to 

Congress iii 

General subjects of the Annual Report iv 

Contents of the Report v 

List of Illustrations viii 

Regents of the Smithsonian Institution x 

Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Regents xi 

Report of the Executive Committee for the year 1882 siv 

Condition of the funds January 1, 1883 xiv 

Receipts for the year s:iv 

Expenditures for the year ^^ 

Estimates for the year 1883 xv 

National Musuem appropriations by Congress xvi 

Appropriations for Ethnology xvi 

Appropriations for Exchanges x""i 

Members ex officio of the "Establishment," and Regents of the Institution ... xix 

Officers and assistants of the Institution, and of the National Museum xx 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The Smithsonian Institution 1 

Introductory 1 

The Henry Statue 1 

New Regents of the Institution 2 

Meetings of the Board of Regents 2 

Finances 3 

Condition of the fund, January, 1883 3 

Buildings - 3 

Smithsonian building 3 

' Steps taken toward having the east wing remodelled and fire-proofed. 4 

National Museum building 5 

Armory building 6 

Laboratory of Natural History 7 

Need of an additional Museum building 7 

Meetings of Scientific Bodies 10 

Routine work of the Institution 11 

Administration H 

Correspondence H 

Researches and Explorations 11 

Greenland 13 

Labrador 13 

Arctic Ocean 14 

Alaska 1** 

Saint Michael's 1^ 

V 



VI CONTENTS. 

Pago. 

Report of the Secretary.— The Smithsonian^ Institution— Continued. 
Eesearches and Explorations : 

Nushagak 16 

Kodiak 16 

Commander Islands 16 

Oregon and Washington Territory 17 

California IB 

Lower California 17 

New Mexico, and Arizona 18 

Interior of the United States 18 

Florida -• 18 

Eastern portion of the United States 19 

West Indies 19 

Mexico 19 

Central America 19 

South America 21 

China and Japan 21 

Publications 21 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge 21 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 22 

Twenty-second volume 22 

Twenty-third volume 22 

Bulletins of the National Museum 25 

Proceedings of the National Museum 27 

Smithsonian Annual Report 27 

Contents of Report for 1881 27 

Astronomical announcements by telegraph 27 

Exchanges 31 

International exchanges 31 

Government exchanges 33 

Library 33 

Additioas for the year 35 

Necrology 35 

Mrs. Henry 35 

Dr. G. W. Hawes 36 

Joseph B. Herron 38 

Lewis H. Morgan 39 

Henry Draper 39 

Joseph D. Putnam 39 

Francisco Sumichrast 40 

Miscellaneous 40 

The Mercer Bequest 40 

Naval cadets 41 

Special objects received 43 

National Museum 44 

Bureau op Ethnology 44 

United States Geological Survey 47 

United States Fish Commission 49 

General objects and results 49 

Fish hatching 52 

Bulletin of the Fish Commission 55 

Fisheries census 55 

The London International Fisheries Exhibition 56 



CONTENTS. VII 

Page. 

Appendix to the Report of the Secretary 57 

Correspondence on Astronomical Announcements 57 

Report on Exchanges for 1882 77 

Revision of List of Correspondents 79 

Receipts for foreign transmission 82 

Receipts for domestic transmission 85 

Receipts for Government transmission B6 

Foreign transmissions 86 

Shipping agents 90 

Domestic transmissions 92 

Government transmissions 102 

List of official publications 107 

Report of Assistant Director of the U. S. National Museum for 1882 119 

Museum Library -. 121 

Publications of the Museum 121 

Department of the Curators 127 

Appendix A. List of oflScers of the Museum for 1882 167 

Appendix B. Bibliography of Museum work for 1882 167 

Appendix C. Accessions to Museum in 1882 195 

Appendix D. List of contributors to the Museum for 1882 231 

Acts and Resolutions of Congress relative to the Smithsonian Institution 

and National Museum 264 

GENERAL APPENDIX. 

I. — Record op recent scientific progress 273 

Introduction, by S. F. Baird 273 

Astronomy, by E. S. Holden 277 

Geology, by T. Sterry Hunt 325 

Geography, by F. M. Green 347 

Meteorology, etc., by Cleveland Abbe 365 

Physics, by G. F. Barker 4:>9 

Chemistry, by H. Carrington Bolton 509 

Mineralogy, by Edward S. Dana 533 

Botanj^, by W. G. Farlow 551 

Zoology, by Theodore Gill 565 

Anthropology, by O. T. Mason 633 

II. — Miscellaneous papers 675 

Papers relating to Anthropology 675 

The Guatuso Indians of Costa Rica, by Leon Fernandez 675 

Note, by J. F. Bransford 677 

Remains in White River Cafion, by R. T. Bron 681 

Remains in Iowa (Henry County), by George C. Van Allen 682 

Remains in Illinois (Carroll County), by James M. Williamson 683 

Remains in Illinois (Mississippi bottom), by Wm. McAdams 684 

Remains in Illinois (near Naples), by John G. Henderson 686 

Remains in Indiana (Franklin County), by G. W. Homsher 721 

Remains in Indiana (White Water River), by G. W. Homsher 728 

Remains in Ohio (Butler County), by J. P. MacLean 752 

Remains in Ohio (Blennerhassett's Island), by J. P. MacLean 759 

Remains in Tennessee (Carrol County), by James M. Null 768 

Remains in Georgia (Putnam County), by Benjamin W. Kent 770 

Remains in Florida, by J. Francis Le Baron ''^l 

Remains in Florida (gold and silver ornaments), by J. Francis Le Baron. 791 



VIII CONTENTS. 

Page 
MiscELLA_NEOUS PAPERS— Continued. 

Remains in Florida (Charlotte Harbor), by M. H. Simons 794 

Eemains in Maryland (Washington County), by John P. Smith 796 

Remains in Massachusetts (near Provincetown), by H. E. Case 799 

Explorations in Central America, by J. F. Bransford 803 

Abstracts from Anthropological correspondence 826 



Index to the volume 831 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Page. 
Terrestrial Electrical Currents (Meteorology, by C. Abbe) : 

Section of the Earth 423 

Mound-remains in Illinois (by John G. Henderson) : 

Fig. 1. Map 687 

Fig. 2. Section of bluffs 688 

Fig. 3. Section of mound 688 

Fig. 4. Raccoon pipe 689 

Fig. 5. Turtlepipe :. 690 

Fig. 6. Eagle pipe (a, b) 692 

Fig. 7. Oval mound 692 

Fig. 8. Diagram of mound 693 

Fig. 9. "Sun-symbol" 694 

Fig. 10. Copper axes, &c. (a, b, c, d, e) 695 

Fig. 11. Chipped knife 696 

Fig. 12. Arrow-heads (a, b, c, d) 696 

Fig. 13. Spear-heads (a,b,c) ; 696 

Fig. 14. Pipe and flaked ornament (a, b) 697 

Fig.l5. Bone awl (a,b) 697 

Fig. 16. Bono awl 697 

Fig. 17. Bone of elk 698 

Fig. 18. Bone awl 698 

Fig. 19. Chert arrow-head 698 

Fig. 20. Pyrula drinking cup 699 

Fig. 21. Earthen pot 701 

Fig.22. Pottery fragments (a, b. c, d) 702 

Fig.23. Pottery 703 

Fig.24. Mound crania (a, b, c, d, e, f) 707 

Fig.25. Mound crania (a, b, c,d, e, f) 708 

Fig. 26. Mound crania (a, b, c, d, e, f) 709 

Fig. 27. Outlines of crania 710 

Fig. 28. European objects in mound 718 

Fig. 29. Pictographs 719 

Remains in Indiana (by G. W. Homsher): 

Glid well mound 722 

Fig. 1. Copper bracelet 723 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. IX 

Page 

Eemains in Indiana — Continued. 

Fig. 2. Copper ring 723 

Fig. 3. Bone awl 724 

Fig. 4. Arrow point 724 

Fig. 5, Pottery fragment 725 

Fig.6. Burnt disk 72.5 

Fig.7. Pendant (a,b) 726 

Fig. 8. Bead 726 

Fig. 9. Chert chip 726 

Fig. 10, Slate "gorget" 727 

Remains in Ohio (by J. P. MacLean) : 

Maps a, b 753 

Map c 754 

Map d 755 

Map e 756 

Mapf 757 



REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



By the organizing act approved August 10, 1846, Eevised Statutes, 
title Ixxiii, section 5580, "The business of the Institution shall be con- 
ducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Kegents, named the 
Kegents of the Smithsonian Institution, to be composed of the Vic ^- 
President, the Chief Justice of the United States [and the Governor ot 
the District of Columbia], three members of the Senate, and three mem- 
bers of the House of Representatives, together with six other persons, 
other than members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the 
city of Washington, and the other four shall be inhabitants of some 
State, but no two of them of the same State." 



REGENTS FOB THE YEAR 1882. 

Term eSpires. 
The Vice-President : 

David Davis (jpro tern.) Mar. 4, 188.3 

The Chief Justice, Morrison E. Waite. 

United States Senators : 

George F. Hoar (from Feb. 21, 1881) Mar. 4, 1883 

Nathaniel P. Hill (from May 19, 1881) Mar. 4, 1885 

Samuel B. Maxey (from May 19,1881) Mar. 4, 1887 

Members of the House of Representatives : 

Nathaniel C. Deering Dec. 2(5, 188.3 

Ezra B. Taylor Dec. 26,1883 

Samuel S. Cox Dec. 20, 1883 

Citizens of Washington : 

Peter Parker (appointed in 1868) Dec. 19, 1885 

William T. Sherman (appointed in 1871) Mar. 25, 1885 

Citizens of a State: 

John Maclean, of New Jersey (appointed in 1868) Dec. 19, 1885 

Asa Gray, of Massachusetts (appointed in 1874) Dec. 19,1885 

Henry Copp^e, of Pennsylvania (appointed in 1874) Dec. 19, 1885 

Noah Porter, of Connecticut (appointed in 1878) Jan. 26, 1884 

Morrison R. Waite, Chancellor of the Institution and President of the Board of 

Regents. 

X 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF 
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Washington, January 17, 1883. 

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution fixing the time of the annual session on the third 
Wednesday in January of each year, the Board met to-day at 10 o'clock 
a. m. 

Present: The Chancellor, Chief Justice M. R. Waite; the acting 
Vice-President, Hon. David Davis; Hon. S. B. Maxey; Hon. N. P. 
Hill; Hon. G. F. Hoar; Hon. N. C. Deering; Hon. S. S. Cox ; Hon. 
E.B.Taylor; Rev. Dr. John Maclean; Dr. Asa Gray; General W. 
T. Sherman ; Dr. H. Oopp^e ; and the Secretary, Professor Baird. 

Excuses for absence on account of sickness were received from Hon. 
Peter Parker and Rev. Dr. Noah Porter. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. 

The Secretary presented a statement of the finances of the Institution. 

General Sherman, from the Executive Committee, presented the an- 
nual report in relation to the funds of the Institution, the receipts and 
expenditures for the year 1882, and the estimates for the year 1883. 

On motion of Dr Copp^e it was 

Resolved, That the report of the Executive Committee for 1882 be 
accepted. 

Resolved, That the income for the year 1883 be appropriated for the 
service of the Institution upon the basis of the above report, to be ex- 
pended by the Secretary with full discretion as to the items, subject to 
the approval of the Executive Committee. 

The Secretary stated that the bronze statue of Professor Henry, or- 
dered by Congress from Mr. W. W. Story, had just been received, but that 
owing to the condition of the weather, it was impossible to place it in 
position at the present time. He suggested the propriety of deferring 
the public unveiling of the statue until the next annual meeting of the 
National Academy of Sciences in April. He also stated that Mr. Story 
was now in the city, had examined the Smithsonian grounds, and fully 
approved of the site for the statue suggested by the Executive Com- 
mittee. 

On motion of General Sherman it was 

Resolved, That the 19th of April, 1883, be selected as the day for the 
ceremony of unveiling the statue of Professor Henry, and that the 
Congress of the United States, the Diplomatic Corps, the Executive 
Departments, and the public generallv be invited to be present. 



XII JOUENAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 

Dr. Maclean having called the attention of the Board to the fact that 
the sundry papers of Professor Henry on scientific subjects had not 
been published in the series issued by the Smithsonian Institution, it 
was 

BesoVved, That the Secretary be requested to have the scientific writ- 
ings of Prof. Joseph Henry collected and published. 

The Secretary presented his annual report of the operations, expendi- 
ditures, and condition of the Institution for the year 1882. 

On motion of Mr. Gox it was 

Resolved, That the report of the Secretary be referred to tlie Execu- 
tive Committee, with authority to transmit it to Congress. 

The Secretary called attention to the importance of fire-proofing the 
eastern portion of the Smithsonian building, especially as the supply of 
water was now so scanty that none could be had above the basement 
floor. The Committee on Appropriations of Congress had given assur- 
ance that the necessary amount should be granted at the present session. 

The Secretary also called attention to the growth of the Goveniment 
collections and the necessity for speedy action in relation to an addi- 
tional building for the use of the Museum and the Geological Survey. 
He presented the following bill, which had been introduced in the House 
of Kepresentatives, on the 10th of April, 1881, by Hon. Mr. Shalleu- 
berger, and was now before the Committee on Public Buildings and 
Grounds. 

Forty-seventh Congress, First Session. — H. E. 5781. 

A BILL for the erectioQ of a fire-proof building on the south portion of the Smith- 
sonian Reservation, for the accommodation of the United States Geological Survey, 
and for other purposes. 

Be it enacted hy the Senate and Rouse of Eepresentatives of the United 
/States of America in Congress assembled, That the sum of two hundred 
thousand dollars be, and hereby is, appropriated, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the erection of a fire-proof 
building on the south portion of the Smithsonian Eeservation, for the 
accommodation of the United States Geological Survey, and for other 
purposes : Provided, That the consent of the Eegents of the Smithsonian 
Institution be first obtained thereto, and that the bnilding be under 
their direction when completed : And provided further, That the building 
be erected by the Architect of the Capitol, in accordance with plans 
approved by the Director of the United States Geological Survey, the 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and the Architect of the Cap- 
itol, acting as a board therefor," 

After a very full expression by the Regents in favor of immediate 
action, on motion of General Sherman it was 

Resolved, That the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution 
recommend to Congress to enlarge the National Museum, so as properly 
to exhibit the mineral, geological, and other collections already on hand 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. XIII 

and increasing each year, by the erection of a fire-proof building on the 
southwest corner of the Smithsonian Reservation, similar in style to 
the present National Museum ; and they request an appropriation of 
$300,000 therefor, to be expended under the direction of the Eegents 
of the Institution. 

On motion of Dr. Gray it was 

Resolved, That the Chancellor, General Sherman, and the Secretary 
be, and they are hereby, authorized and empowered to act for and in the 
name of the Board of Regents in carrying into effect the provisions of 
any act of Congress which may be passed providing for the erection of 
an additional building for the National Museum. 

The Secretary informed the Board of the death of Miss Margaret 
Connor, a lady who had been employed for fifteen years in the Institu- 
tion, and reciommended an allowance of one hundred dollars to defray 
the expense of medical attendance and other expenses of her last illness, 
which, on motion of Mr. Maxey, was agreed to. 

The Board then adjourned to meet on the 19th of April, 1883, to attend 
the ceremonies of unveiling the statue of Professor Henry. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF 
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 

1882. 

The Executive Committee of the Board of Eegents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution respectfully submit the following report in relation 
to the funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Congress for the 
National Museum and other purposes, the receipts and expenditures 
for both the Institution and the Museum for 1882, and the estimates for 
the year 1883 : 

Condition of the fund January 1, 1883. 

The amount of the bequest of James Smithson deposited 
in the Treasury of the United States (act of Congress 
August 10, 1846) $515, 1G9 00 

Eesiduary legacy of Smithson, added to the fund, deposited 
in the Treasury of the United States (act of Congress 
February 8, 1867) 26, 210 63 

Addition to the fund from savings, «&c. (act of Congress 

February 8, 1867) 108, 620 37 

Addition to the fund by bequest of James Hamilton, of 
Pennsylvania (1874) 1,000 00 

Addition to the fund by bequest of Simeon Habel, of New 
York (1880) 500 00 

Addition to the fund by proceeds of sale of Virginia bonds 

(1881) $51, 500 00 

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of 
the United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent, 
per annum $703, 000 00 



Statement of the receipts and expenditures for the year 1882. 

RECEIPTS. 

Interest for the year 1882 from the United States $42, 180 00 

Balance, cash on hand January 1, 1882 25, 255 52 

Total receipts $67, 435 52 



REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XV 

EXPENDITURES. 

For operations of the Institution during the year, viz : 
Building : 

Kepairs and improvements $649 30 

Furniture and fixtures 1 345 53 

General expenses : 

Meetings of the Board 411 05 

Lighting the building 53 10 

Postage and telegraph 166 11 

Stationery , 954 49 

Incidentals, freight ice, &c 493 81 

Books and periodicals 1 793 76 

Salaries and labor 16 415 18 

Publications and researcJies : 

Smithsonian contributions 732 50 

Miscellaneous collections 4^ 939 37 

Annual report 1^ 728 03 

Explorations 3, 036 35 

Apparatus . 98 10 

Literary and scientific exchanges , 4^ 981 19 

Total expenditures $37, 798 07 

Balance January ] , 1883 $29, 637 45 

ESTIMATES FOR 1883. 

The following are the estimates of receipts by the Institution proper 
for the year 1883, and of the appropriations required for carrying on its 
operations during the same period: 

Beceipts. 

Interest on the permanent fund, receivable July 1, 1883, 
and January 1, 1884 $42, 180 00 

Expenditures. 

For building and repairs $1, 500 00 

For general expenses, including salaries 19, 000 00 

For publications and researches 12, 000 00 

For exchanges 7, 000 00 

For contingencies 2, 680 00 

$42, 180 00 



XVI REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM AND OTHER OBJECTS COMMITTED BY CONGRESS 
TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

The following is a statement of the accounts of appropriations made 
by Congress* for disbursement under the direction of the Smithsonian 
Institution. 

PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS, NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Balance available January 1, 1882 $32, 882 19 

Appropriated for fiscal year, 1882-^83 91, 000 00 

Total available $123,882 19 

Expended as per vouchers audited, in 1882 79, 058 88 

Balance available January 1, 1883, for six months ending 

with fiscal year June 30, 1883 $44,823 30 

PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS, ARMORY BUILDING. 

Balance available January 1, 1882 $1, 058 13 

Appropriated for fiscal year, 1882-'83 ....... 2, 500 00 

Total available $3, 558 13 

Expended as per vouchers audited, in 1882 2, 002 34 

Balance available, January 1, 1883, for six months ending 
with fiscal year June 30, 1883 $1, 495 79 

FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Balance available January 1 , 1882 $25, G19 06 

Appropriated for fiscal year, 1882-'83 90, 000 00 

Total available . $115, 019 06 

Expended as per vouchers audited, in 1882 84, 43G 94 

Balance available January 1, 1883, for six months ending 

with fiscal year June 30, 1883 $31, 182 12 

NORTH AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY — SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

Balance available, January 1, 1882 $8, 540 90 

Appropriated for fiscal year, 1882-'83 35, 000 00 

Total available $43, 540 90 

Expended as per vouchers audited, in 1882 23, 100 40 

Balance available January 1, 1883, for six months ending 

with fiscal year June 30, 1883 20, 440 44 



These acts are given in full in the Appendix. 



REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMIMITTEE. XVII 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES — SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

Balance available January 1, 1882 $1, 500 00 

Appropriated for fiscal year, 1882-'83 5, 000 00 

Total available $6, 500 00 

Expended as per vouchers audited, in 1882 4, 000 00 

Balance available January 1, 1883, for six months ending 

with fiscal year June 30, 1883 2, 500 00 

FIRE-PROOF BUILDING, NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Balance available January 1, 1882 $5, 317 05 

Expended as per vouchers audited, in 1882. . 5, 304 38 

Balance returned to the United States Treasury $13 27 

POLARIS REPORT. 

Balance available January 1, 1882 $3, 597 75 

Expended in 1882 1, 078 85 

Balance available January 1, 1883 $1, 918 90 

CONCLUSION. 

The Executive Committee has examined 705 vouchers for payments 
made from the Smithson income during the year 1882, and 2,169 
vouchers for payments made from appropriations by Congress for the 
^ffational Museum, making a total of 2,934 vouchers. All these bear the 
approval of the Secretary of the Institution, and a certificate that the 
materials and services charged were applied to the purposes of the 
Institution or the Museum. 

The committee has examined the account-books of the National 
Museum, and find the balances unexpended as before stated, viz: 

Preservation of collect ions $44, 823 30 

Armory building 1, 495 79 

Furniture and fixtures 31, 182 12 

to correspond with the certificates of the disbursing clerks of the De- 
l)artments of the Interior and of the Treasury. 

The balance unexi)euded of the appropriation of $8,000 made by the 
Forty-sixth Congress in 1880 for completing the preparation of the 
report of Dr. Emil Bessels of the scientific results of the Arctic expe- 
dition under the late Capt. C. F. Hall, according to the certificate of the 
disbursing agent of the Treasury Department, is $1,918.90. 
H. Mis. 2(5 II 



XVIII REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

The quarterly accounts-current, the bank-book, check-book, and jour- 
nals have been examined, and found to be correct. 

The balance to the credit of the Institution proper, on the 1st of 

January, 18S3, in the hands of the Treasurer of the United States, 

available for the current operations of the Institution, is $29,037.45. 

Eespectfullv submitted. 

Peter Parker, 

JOHX ^lACLEAN, 

TV. T. Sherman, 
Executive Committee. 

[Dr. Maclean's examination of the expenditures and vouchers was 
limited to those of the Smith.^onian Institution proper, January 15, 
1883.] 

Washington, January 17, 1883. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE " ESTABLISHMENT." 

(January 1, 1683.) 



CHESTER \ ARTHUR, President of the United States. 
D WID DAVIS, President of the United States Senate. 
MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Jnstice of the United States. 
FREDERICK T. FRELIXGHUYSEX, Secretary of State. 
CHARLES J. FOLGER, Secretary of the Treasury. 
ROBERT T. LINCOLN, Secretary of War. 
WILLIAM E. CHANDLER, Secretary of the Navy. 
TIMOTHY 0. HOWE, Postmaster-General. 
HENRY M TELLER, Secretary of the Interior. 
BENJAMIN H. BREWSTER, Attorney-General. 
EDGAR M. MARBLE, Commissioner of Patents. 



REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 

(January 1, 1863.) 



MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the^United St ates,^^^^ ^ 

DAVID DAVIS, President of the United States Senate. 
?EORGE F H^AR, member of the Senate of the United b tates 
?!?HtNIEL P HILL, member of the Senate of the United States. 
SAMUEL Im^XEY, member of the Senate of the United States 
nIthSiEL C. DEERING, member of the Hou.e of Representat.ves. 
EZRA B TAYLOR, member of the House of Representatives. 

SAMUEL S. COX, member of the House of Representatives. 

JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey. 

PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington, D. C. 

ASA GRAY, citizen of Massachusetts. 

HENRY COPPfiE, citizen of Pennsylvania. 

WILLIAM T. SHERMAN, citizen of Washington, D. C. 

NOAH PORTER, citizen of Connecticut. 



Execidive Committee of the Board of Regents. 

ToHx Maclean William T. Sherman. 

Peter Parker. John xMaclea.n. ^^ 



OFFICERS AND ASSISTANTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI- 
TUTION AND NATIONAL MUSEUM, JANUARY, 1883. 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, 

SecrHary, Director of the Institution. 
WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk. 
DANIEL LEECH, Corresponding Clerk. 



NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Director. 

G. BROWN GOODE, Assistant Director; Curator, Department of Art and Industry. 

TARLETON H. BEAN, Curator, Department of Ichthyology. 
WM. H. DALL, Honorary Curator, Department of MoUusks. 
FREDERICK P. DEWEY, Assistant Curator, Department of Metallurgy. 
JAMES M. FLINT, Honorary Curator, Section of Materia Medica. 
EDW. FOREMAN, Assistant, Department of Ethnography. 
GEO. P. MERRILL, Assistant, Section of Building Stones. 
RICHARD RATHBUN, Assistant Curator, Department Marine Invertebrates. 
CHARLES RAU, Curator, Department of Archceology. 
ROBERT RIDGVVAY, Curator, Department of Ornithology. 
CHARLES V. RILEY, Honorary Curator, Department of Entomology. 
FREDERICK W. TAYLOR, Chemist. 

FREDERICK W. TRUE, Curator, Department of MammaJs, and Librarian. 
CHARLES D. WALCOTT, Honorary Assistant Curator, Department of Invertebrate Fossils 
LESTER F. WARD, Honorary Curator, Department of Fossil Plants. 
CHARLES A. WHITE, Curator, Department of Invertebrate Paleontology. 
HENRY C. YARROW, Honorary Curator, Department of Herpetology. 
WM. S. YEATES, Acting Curator, Department of Mineralogy. 
XX 



REPORT OF PROFESSOR BAIRD, 

SECRETARY OP THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTIC^, FOR 1882. 



To the Board of Regents : 

Gentlemen : I have the honor to present herewith a report of the 
operations and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 
1882. 

As in previous years, I propose to include in the present report, in 
addition to matters pertaining strictly to the Institution, a brief account 
of the operations of the National Museum and the Bureau of Ethnol- 
ogy, which may be considered as part of the Smithsonian Institution, 
as well as of the work of the United States Fish Commission, which is 
under my charge. 

THE SMITHSOKIAN INSTITUTION 

INTEODUOTOBY. 

There are no specially distinctive or prominent facts to be mentioned 
in connection with the work of the Institution and its collateral depart- 
ments during the year 1882; although it may be said that, at no time, 
has the establishment been in better condition, whether we take into 
account the character of the work accomplished, the economy of expendi- 
ture, or the satisfactory condition of its funds at the end of the year. 

The publications of the Smithsonian Institution, or those made under 
its direction, have been of average amount ; the international exchanges 
have been more than ever extensive and important ; the scientific re- 
searches of the Institution have been extremely productive, while the 
Museum has been enriched by a greater quantity of valuable material 
than ever before. 

THE HENEY STATUE. 

I am happy to announce that the memorial statue of Professor Henry, 
the construction of which, by Mr. W. W. Story, was authorized by 
Congress on the 1st June, 1880, is finished, and in Washington. It was 
hoped that it might be delivered in time to be in position by the end of 
the year 1881. Owing, however, to certain imperfections found in the 
statue after being cast in bronze, it became necessary to reproduce it j 
and it was not until the month of November, [1882,] that it was actually 
completed and shipped. 
H. Mis. 26 1 



2 REPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The pedestal of the statue, which was made in the United States, was 
delivered in the early part of the year, but the statue itself did not 
arrive from Rome until the end of December. It is hoped that the next 
report to the Board will contain a notice of the successful erection of 
this memorial. 

THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

The original law organizing the Smithsonian Institution provides for 
vacancies of three members of the House and one member of the Sen- 
ate at the end of each Congress, the successors to be appointed by the 
Speaker of the House and the President of the Senate, respectively, in 
the ensuing December. Although no special provision is made for res- 
ignations, it would of course naturally be inferred that an appointment 
to a vacancy of this kind should be for the period of the remainder of the 
term of service of the former incumbent, as is the case in the United 
States Senate. In fact, however, with some previous vacancies occur- 
ring by death, or resignation of Senatorial position, the service was 
continued for six years, and with a result that all the Senate regencies 
became vacant at the same time. By the appointment, however, of 
Senator Hoar, on the 21st February, 1881, and of Senators Hill of (Colo- 
rado) and Maxey (of Texas) on the 19th May, of the saiae year, the nor- 
mal term of service was re-established, with vacancies occurring at inter- 
vals of two years — the term of Senator Hoar expiring with his Senatorial 
term, in March, 1883 ; of Senator Hill, in March, 1885 ; and of Senator 
Maxey, in March, 1887. 

The existing vacancies of the House members were filled by the ap- 
pointment of Hon. N. C. Deering, of Iowa ; Hon. E. B. Taylor, of Ohio; 
and Hon. S. S. Cox, of New York. 

The annual meeting of the Board was held on the 18th of January, 
1882, and was attended by all the new regents. The Chief Justice, Mr. 
Waite, referred to the loss the Institution and the whole country had 
sustained in the untimelj^ death of President Garfield, who had been 
connected with the Board of Regents with but little interruption since 
1863. 

The committee having in charge the erection of the new building au- 
thorized by Congress for the reception and exhibition of the collections 
of the Government, made a report that the work had been completed in 
a satisfactory manner and within the amount of the appropriation. The 
thanks of the Board were voted to the committee for the able and sat- 
isfactory manner in which it had discharged its duties. 

The thanks of the Board were also tendered to General Montgomery 
C. Meigs for his highly valued services as consulting engineer of the 
National Museum Building Commission, in connection with the con- 
struction of the fire-proof building for the Museum. 

Authgrity was given to the Secretary and the executive committee to 
apply to Congress for an appropriation to render the east range and 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3 

wing of the Smithsonian Institution fire-proof, in continuation of pre- 
vious appropriations for the same purpose made and applied to the 
main portion of the building. 

FINANCES. 

The report of the executive committee, which has just been presented 
to you, presents the details of the financial condition of the Institution 
proper, and a report upon the expenditure of items placed by Congress 
under its direction. The sale of the Virginia bonds mentioned in the 
last report is still believed to have been wise, and has removed all 
source of anxiety as to the stability or amount of the funds permanently 
invested from which a regular income could be depended on. With an 
aggregate fund of $703,000 in the United States Treasury, the income 
of the Smithsonian Institution amounts to $42,180. This, with a bal- 
ance on hand at the beginning of the year, has furnished the fund from 
which the expenses proper are paid. These are classified under the 
several heads of building, general expenses, publications and researches, 
and literary and scientific exchanges. 

What has heretofore been a very great item of expense — from $9,000 
to $11,000 — connected with the international exchanges, has been 
greatly reduced by the appropriation of Congress made specifically for 
that purpose. This expenditure is either directly in the interest of 
the country at large, or that of the Government bureaus and of the 
Library of Congress, and it is, therefore, eminently proper that the 
whole amount should be refunded. The Secretary of State has ac- 
cordingly asked for an appropriation of $10,000 for the coming fiscal 
year, instead of the $5,000, which is at present available. This saving 
will enable the Institution to extend its labors liberally in the direction 
of researches and publications, as well as be available for the unusually 
heavy repairs required in connection with the Smithsonian building. 

After successive additions to the appropriation for a fire-proof building 
of the National Museum the account has been finally closed by returning 
$13.27 to the Treasury. 

The available balance of the Smithsonian Institution for the expendi- 
tures of the first half of the year 1882, according to the report of the 
executive committee, amounts to $29,637.45. 

BUILDINGS OF THE INSTITUTION. 

Smithsonian Building. — Ko unusual expenditure has been required to 
keep this edifice in good order, although a certain amount of wear and 
tear has of course been necessarily provided for. Some important 
changes have, however, been made, adding greatly to the facilities for 
work. The entire basement has been put in thorough order; the floors, 
walls, and ceilings covered with a thick coat of whitewash, answering 
the double purpose of a sanitary protection and of increasing the 
amount of light; the improvement in the latter respect being very 



4 EEPOET OF THE SECEETARY. 

marked. The west basement, which has heretofore been occupied indis- 
criminately for the preservation and elaboration of the collection of 
birds and fishes, has been subdivided, and each subject confined strictly 
to its own section, much to the improvement of the service. An open- 
ing has been made from the northwestern tower of the main building 
into the second story of the adjacent corridor; and a stairway placed 
in the tower, ascending from the basement to the level of the gallery of 
the main hall, permits ready access between the three floors. The spe- 
cial object of this was to give to the curators of fishes and marine inver- 
tebrates an opportunity of using the galleries of the main hall in their 
•work of arrangement and cataloguing. The hall or corridor between 
the main central room and the western or "pottery" room has been oc- 
cupied by the collection of fishes, for which it was specially arranged. 

At the last meeting of the Board the Secretary called attention to the 
combustible and insecure condition of the eastern portion of the Smith- 
sonian building, and presented plans, prepared at his request by the 
architects, Messrs. Cluss & Schulze, which, without materially changing 
the architecture of the building, would provide largely increased accom- 
modations for offices and work-rooms, the storage of publications, the 
exchange system, &c. 

The Board unanimously adopted a resolution instructing the Secretary 
and executive committee to present the subject to Congress and request 
an appropriation for the purpose. The Secretary, in accordance with 
this instruction, sent the following letter on the 13th of March to the 
Speaker of the House of Eepresentatives : 

"By instruction of the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian 
Institution, I have the honor to transmit to Congress the following 
resolution adopted at the last meeting of the Board, January 11, 1882 ; 
and, in doing so, beg that it be referred to the appropriate committee 
of the House of Representatives and receive that attention which the 
urgency of the case requires : 

^^^ Resolved, That the Secretary and executive committee present SL 
memorial to Congress showing the importance and necessity of render- 
ing the east wing of the Smithsonian building fire-proof, requesting an 
appropriation therefor, and, if the means are furnished, to proceed with 
the work.' 

"It will be remembered that in January, 1865, a fire occurred in the 
Smithsonian building, which destroyed a large portion of the main 
edifice, with its adjacent towers, and a very large amount of valuable 
public and private property. 

"The main building was restored with fire-proof materials; but the 
east wing, composed entirely of wood and plaster, and which had es- 
caped injury, remains in its previous dangerous condition. Originally 
a lecture room, it was fitted up many years ago with apartments for 
the residence of the late Secretary and liis family. This application of 
the wing, however, was discontinued after Professor Henry's death ; 
but the rooms thus set apart are entirely unsuited to the operations of 
the establishment, and, while in every way objectionable, the timbers 
have decayed, and no arrangements are provided for proper lighting, 
heating, and ventilation. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5 

"The main building and western extension are occupied by the col- 
lections of the Government ; the east wing embraces the offices of the 
Secretary, chief clerk, corrresponding clerk, and registrar, and also ac- 
commodations for the ext-ensive operations of the department of in- 
ternational exchanges, the benefits of which accrue not only principally 
to the Library of Congress but to all the public libraries and scientific 
societies throughout the United States. The rooms are filled with the 
archives, files of correspondence, original scientific manuscripts, vouch- 
ers, the stock of Government and Smithsonian publications for distri- 
bntion at home and abroad, &c.; and their destruction by fire, to whichi 
they are constantly exposed, would be greatly detrimental to the in- 
terests of the Government and the general public. 

" In addition to this, an extensive fire in the east wing would endanger 
and possibly destroy the main portion of the Smithsonian building, the 
upper and lower halls of which contain rare specimens belonging to the 
Government, and most of which could not be replaced. 

" Congress ha^? recognized the importance and propriety of gradually 
reconstructing the interior of the Smithsonian building, in fire-proof 
materials, by making appropriations for the purpose at various times 
between 1870 and 1876 ; and the last Congress, in 1879, appropriated 
$3,000 'for providing additional security against fire in the Smithsonian 
building.' 

"It is now proposed to remodel the interior of the east wing so that, 
without disturbing its present architectural style, the internal capacity 
will be doubled by a new arrangement of floors, partitions, and roofs, 
and all the rooms be adapted to the efficient prosecution of the work of 
the Institution and the various interests intrusted to its management 
by Congress. 

" Inclosed I beg to send a copy of the report of the Board of Fire In- 
spectors (appointed by the District Commissioners) upon the condition 
of the Smithsonian building.* 

" I have the honor to ask, in the name and on behalf of the Board of 
Regents, that the following appropriation be made at the present session 
of Congress, viz : 

"For continuing and completing the fire-proofing of the Smithsonian 
Institution, $50, 000." 

National Museum Building. — The Museum building was received from 
the hands of the architects in so complete a state that but little re- 
mained to be done beyond the tinting of a portion of the walls and the 
filling up of some of the alcoves with canvas frames, &c. There is yet 
much to be done, however, in the construction of the necessary cases for 
the accommodation of collections. A large addition to the number was 
made during the year. It will require, perhaps, two more consecutive 
appropriations, of the usual amount, before all the space contained in 
the building can be suitably occupied with the necessary means of 

* "The commission to inspect buildings in the District beg leave to submit here- 
with report No. 5. 

"By invitation of Professor Baird, the east wing and connecting corridor to the 
main building of the Smithsonian Institution were visited and inspected. In this 
portion of the building are all the records and valuable documents belonging to the 
Institution. The interior is entirely of wood and illy arranged, making it especially 
unsafe and liable to accident from fire, thus endangering the entire building. As a 
matter of safety, this wing and corridor should be completely cleared out and rebuilt 
of fire-proof material, and furnished with improved modes of communication and 
egress." 



6 REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

exhibition. As heretofore, the cases have been,' for the most part, built 
by contract outside of the Museum, some in Washington, some in Phil- 
adelphia, and others in Baltimore, but a good deal of work has been 
done within the building by carpenters and other workmen employed 
by the day. 

A very great change has been made during the year in the appear- 
ance of the interior, and a very decided approach towards the general 
completion of the work accomplished. In order to accommodate the 
increasing number of books required for the use of the curators and 
students connected with the Museum, the original library room was 
connected with the one above it by means of a stairway, so that prac- 
tically two stories — the lower one with a gallery — have been provided. 
It is thought that at least 10,000 volumes can be accommodated in this 
manner. 

The accommodations for the storage of coal having been found insuffi- 
cient, the vaults under the western end of the south front of the Museum 
were more than doubled in extent during the year, and space gained 
in addition for a blacksmith's shop and machine shop. 

Armory Building. — Very important changes have been made during 
the year in the Armory building and its surroundings. This edifice 
was assigned by Congress, a number of years ago, for the special service 
of the National Museum; to which, at a later period, was added by law 
that of the United States Fish Commission. The original intent of the 
assignment was for the purpose of accommodating the collections ob- 
tained at the Centennial Exhibition in Philadelphia ; but as these were 
removed, from time to time, to the National Museum building, after its 
completion, the space gained was taken possession of by the Fish Com- 
mission. The lower story, or ground floor, was converted into a great 
fish-propagating establishment, for the hatching of shad, salmon, and 
other food fishes; and it was used, also, as a magazine for the distribu- 
tion of carp, black bass, &c. The second floor was converted into a 
series of offices, laboratories, and rooms for the messengers connected 
with the fish -transportation service. The third floor was used as a 
depot for supplies and materials of the Fish Commission; and the 
fourth story is still occuj)ied by the property of the National Museum. 

In order the better to accommodate the service of the Fish Commis- 
sion, a switch or branch railroad track was, by the permission of the 
Superintendent of Public Buildings and Grounds, and of the Commis- 
sioners of the District of Columbia, introduced into the area at the south 
of the building, on which the distribution cars of the Fish Commission 
can be kept, and loaded directly from the Armory building. Later in 
the year a shed in the shape of the letter L was built on the lot, the 
short branch being used for the cars, and the long one as a depository 
for the collections obtained from the proprietors of exhibits in the Per- 
manent Exhibition building in Philadelphia. The construction of a 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 7 

fence inclosing the interior court of the Armory j'ard gives great 
security to the large amount of valuable Government property storea 
in the main building and its annexes. 

Laboratory of Natural History. — By the transfer of Mr. T. W. Smillie 
and his photographic apiiaratus from this buildiip: to the new photo- 
graphic rooms specially ajranged in the southeas ern pavilion of the 
I^ational Museum building, it became possible to oiler accommodations 
for photographic work to the force employed by Major Powell, in con- 
nection with the Geological Survey and Bureau of Ethnology. Mr. 
Hillers, photographer, has utilized the rooms of the building particu- 
larly in the preparation of enlarged photographs of the scenery and 
the aborigines of the West for the windows of the National Museum. 
It is proposed to introduce these i^hotographs in a large number of the 
windows of the Museum building, selecting for each room the subjects 
most appropriate to its contents. 

An Additional Museum Building required. — Large and capacious as is 
the new Museum building, it has proved already inadequate to the exist- 
ing requirements of the National Museum. This building was designed 
j)rimarily to accommodate the vast number of industrial and economical 
exhibits presented to the United States by foreign Governments at the 
close of the Philadelphia Exposition of 1876. A special appropriation 
was made by Congress for their transfer to Washington and the Armory 
building in the square between Sixth and Seventh streets was assigned 
for their reception. It required nearly sixty large-sized freight cars to 
transport the mass. 

Before the building was completed in 1881, and available for its pur- 
poses, almost equally enormous additions had been made to the collec- 
tions of the various Government expeditions and of the Ethnological 
Bureau, which, together with many thousands of objects previously in 
charge of the Smithsonian Institution, but for which there was no room 
in the old building, constituted a much larger mass than was originally 
estimated. It is well known that at the close of the Centennial Exposi- 
tion a company was organized to take charge of a large portion of the 
collections exhibited on that occasion, and with these and such additional 
articles as might be obtained to establish what was known as the "Per- 
manent Exhibition" in the main Centennial building, which covers nearly 
eighteen acres. This organization, after struggling for existence for 
several years, finally became unable to continue the effort, and the col- 
lections in its charge were speedily scattered. Many of these had been 
presented to the National Museum with the understanding that they 
were to be left with the Permanent Exhibition Company' for a period of 
at least a few years. Others, however, including many of the most 
valuable series, were obtained for the National 3Iuseum through the 
efforts of Mr. Thomas Donaldson. All these collections were carefully 



8 KEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

packed under his charge and stored in a building erected by him ad- 
lacent to the Centennial building. 

An appropriation was made by Congress to meet the cost of packing, 
shipping to Washington, and storing the collections in question. About 
twenty cars were required to transport them. They are now contained 
in a wooden building adjacent to the Armory, there being absolutely 
no space for them in the National Museum. 

In addition to this a cabinet of at least double the magnitude, made 
by the Institute of Mining Engineers and deposited with the Pennsyl- 
vania Art Museum of Philadelphia, has been offered to the Govern- 
ment simply on the condition of transfer to Washington and proper 
exhibition. This is an extremely important collection, illustrating the 
mining resources and metallurgy of the United States and foreign coun- 
tries, and will constitute a most important addition to the means of in- 
struction at the command of the Government. An appropriation will 
be asked, and it is hoped obtained, for the purpose of transferring the 
collection to Washington; but some measures must be taken for its 
ultimate display. 

An even greater mass of additional material to be provided for will 
be found in the industrial collections of the United States census of 
1880, and in the collections of the United States Geological Survey. 
The census collections embrace more particularly the building stones 
of the country, the ores (especially of the precious metals), the com- 
bustibles, such as coal, petroleum, &c., and the forest timber. 

All these collections are of great magnitude, representing as nearly 
as possible a full series from all parts of the country. They are care- 
fully labelled and recorded, and will be accompanied by full descriptions. 

The building-stone collection is especially valuable, consisting, as it 
does, of many thousands of samples of marble, granite, sandstone, and 
other substances, for the most part dressed in 4-inch cubes, each of the 
faces showing a different surface and treatment. 

It is not believed that any established quarry remains unrepresented 
in this series, while many extremely valuable deposits of ornamental 
and building stones are presented therein for the first time. Prepa- 
rations are in j)rogre8s for testing the strength, resistance to torsion 
and crushing force, and economical properties of all these samples. 
The collection is now so far advanced that when a public building is to 
be erected either by the States or the General Government it will be 
possible to show specimens of all the best building stones in tlie vicin- 
ity of the locality involved, and to present all the necessary data as to 
availability, durability, cost of production, &c. Much use has already 
been made of the collection by the commissioners of State capitals, 
county court-houses, &c., as well as by agents of the General Govern- 
ment. 

The collection of ores made by the census agencies is also very ex- 
tensive, that of iron being particularly large. Nearly every iron mine 



REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 9 

of any prominence in the United States has been visited, and samples 
carefully selected, by experts. These have been analyzed under the di- 
rection of Professor Pumpelly, and reports presented as to their chem- 
ical, and metallurgical properties, and economical value. All the orig- 
inals of this research are in charge of the Smithsonian Institution, 
awaiting exhibition. The same may be said of similar researches in 
regard to the ores of all the other metals. 

The work of the United States Geological Survey, also of enormous 
magnitude — begun under Mr. Clarence King and continued under Maj. 
J. W. Powell — has resulted in the accumulation of several tons of speci- 
mens of fossils, rocks, minerals, ores, and the like. Very few of these 
can at present be exhibited for want of the necessary space. The Sur- 
vey requires a large number of experts and assistants, and is at pres- 
ent very badly accommodated. Some twenty rooms in the new Mu- 
seum building have been assigned as quarters for the Director of the 
Survey and his assistants. 

This, however, causes great inconvenience to the other work of the 
Museum, and as the survey now occupies a large building in Washing- 
ton, for which it pays considerable rental, and for want of quarters in 
"Washington is obliged to scatter its stations over various parts of the 
United States, it is thought desirable to ask Congress for an appropria- 
tion to erect a second museum building corresponding in general char- 
acter to the first, but on the opposite side of the square, along the line 
of Twelfth street. 

This building it is proposed to devote almost entirely to the mineral 
department of the National Museum ; and when completed to transfer 
to it everything of a geological and mineralogical nature, and also to 
prepare a portion of it especially for the accommodation of the Geolog- 
ical Survey, which is at present so inconveniently provided for. By 
way of economy it is proposed at first to construct what will represent 
the western side of the building, in which office-rooms and chemical 
and other laboratories can be provided for. 

It had been proposed to erect a separate building for the Geological 
Survey, disconnected from the National Museum ; but there being no 
ground available for this purpose, it was thought expedient to ask for 
an appropriation to furnish the required quarters on the Smithsonian 
reservation, which is at present ample for the purpose. 

On the 10th of April last the following bill was accordingly intro- 
duced into the House of Representatives and referred to the Committee 
on Public Buildings and Grounds. The subject is still before that 
committee, and it is impossible to state what will be its fate during 
the present session. I would recommend action on the part of the Board 
of Eegents in this connection, since long before the edifice can be com- 
pleted the need for it will become extremely urgent. 



10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

"A BILL (H, R. No. 5781) for the erection of a fire-proof building on the south por- 
tion of the Smithsonian reservation, for the accommodation of the United States 
Geological Survey, and for other purposes. 

" Be it enacted, &c., That the sum of two hundred thousand dollars 
be, and hereby is, appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, for the erection of a fire-proof building on the 
south portion of the Smithsonian reservation for the accommodation of 
the United States Geological Survey, and for other purposes : Provided^ 
That the consent of the Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution be first 
obtained thereto, and that the building be under their direction when 
completed: And provided further, That the building be erected by the 
Architect of the Capitol, in accordance with plans approved by the 
Director of the United States Geological Survey, the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution and the Architect of the Capitol acting as a 
board therefor." 

MEETINGS OF SCIENTIFIC BODIES. 

The Board of Eegents authorized the Secretary " to provide in the 
building of the new Museum such accommodations as the National 
Academy of Sciences may need at its meetings in Washington, and in 
connection with the executive committee to extend similar hospitality 
to other organizations of cognate character and importance." 

Under the authority thus conferred, meetings were held during the 
past year in the new Museum by the National Academy of Sciences 
(April 18, 1882), the American Institute of Mining Engineers (Febru- 
ary 21, 1882), and the National Dental Association (August 3, 4, 5, 1882). 

The hall of the Museum has also been used for the bi-monthly meet- 
ings of the Biological Society of Washington, and for lectures on Satur- 
day afternoons in the months of March and April, 1882, under the au- 
spices of the Anthropological and Biological Societies of Washington. 

The following is a list of these lectures : 

Introductory Address. By Maj. J. W. Powell, Director, United States 
Geological Survey. 

Scientific and Popular Views of Nature Contrasted. By Prof. Theo 
Gill. 

What is Anthropology? By Prof. Otis T. Mason. 

Contrasts of the Appalachian Mountains. By Prof. J. W. Chicker- 
ing, Jr. 

Outlines of Sociology. By Maj. J. W. Powell. 

Little Known Facts about Weil-Known Animals. By Prof. C. V. 
Eiley. 

Paul Broca and the French School of Anthropology. By Dr. Eobert 
Fletcher. 

Deep Sea Explorations. By Prof. Wm. H. Dall. 

How we See. By Dr. Swan M. Burnett. 

I would state that a formal visit was made to the Institution on the 
2d February, 1882, by the newly appointed Chinese minister, Mr. Cheng 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11 

Tsao Ju, with his staff, accompanied by Hon. Peter Parker, one of the 
Eegents. These gentlemen seemed much interested in the work of the 
establishment, and promised hearty co-operation on the part of the 
Chinese Government in the way of exchanges, contributions to the Mu- 
seum, &c. 

ROUTINE WORK OF THE INSTITUTION. 

Administration. — The personnel of the Smithsonian Institution has 
remained practically unchanged since the last report. 

Correspondence.— In all the public Departments, the correspondence 
constitutes a very large part of the office work, and the fact that the 
Smithsonian Institution has come to be, in a measure, a bureau of in- 
formation, adds greatly to the number of letters received and requir- 
ing responses. 

It is a rule of the Institution, observed from its earliest days, that 
no respectful request for information ever goes without an answer — 
either supplying what is wanted, or exj^ressing inability to do so. In 
the latter case references are frequently given, which answer the desired 
object. 

The known interest of the Institution in the subject of Anthropology 
induces many notices to be sent to it of the discovery of Indian relics, 
their characteristics, and other details; the more interesting portions 
of which are usually extracted and published in the annual report. The 
number, however, has become so great that at present it is impossible 
to give them in detail, as heretofore ; but a careful abstract is made, for 
publication in the annual report, by Prof. O. T. Mason, the editor in 
charge of this subject. 

The correspondence with all parts of the United States— largely, how- 
ever, through members of Congress — in connection with the supposed 
discovery of valuable minerals, has, as heretofore, represented a very 
considerable portion of the business. 

Applications for position in the Institution and its allied departments 
still continue to be numerous. At best there can be but very few vacan- 
cies in the administrative and laboring force, and hence it is rarely 
possible to give a favorable response to any such application, whatever 
the merit of the applicant, or however strong and satisfactory the testi- 
monials presented. The unpleasant necessity accordingly remains of 
almost uniformly declining the urgent appeals of those seeking official 
position and occupation. 

RESEARCHES AND EXPLORATIONS. 

During no previous year has the Smithsonian Institution been con- 
nected with so many different and important explorations of various 
regions, especially of America, as during that which has j ust closed ;. 
and the results of the work are of commensurate value. 



12 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Among the subjects to which the Institution has always devoted 
special attention has been that of developing a knowledge of the eth- 
nology and physical and natural history of the less known portions of 
the globe; confining, however, its attention more particularly to Amer- 
ica. There are yet so many regions to be investigated, that whatever 
fands are available for its purposes can always be advantageously em- 
ployed; and the limitations in this resppct have always been keenly 
felt. 

It is, of course, the policy of the Smithsonian Institution, in this and 
in all other subjects, to occupy no ground that is covered by other suf- 
ficient agencies ; and where the United States Government or any other 
body is at work in exploration the Institution does not interfere, except 
in so far as it can act concurrently to advantage. For the third of a 
century the Institution has worked harmoniously with the various 
branches of the Government in this connection; and by calling atten- 
tion to the importance of special inquiries, not originally contemplated 
in the official research, by securing the appointment of competent ex- 
perts, by taking charge of the notes and collections made, and assisting 
in their elaboration and preparation for publication, and in various 
other ways, it has been able to guide effort, and to secure the accom- 
plishment of its object on a very large scale. 

The number of exhibitions that the Institution has been more or less 
connected with during the period mentioned is very great, and it is 
difficult to calculate the influence that it has thus exerted in the devel- 
opment of knowledge in ethnology and natural history in general, and 
particularly in that of northern and middle America. 

Of later years the strongest ally and associate of the Smithsonian 
Institution and its work, has been the United States Signal Service; 
fij'st, under General Meyer, and next under General Hazen. Both these 
officers have always exhibited the utmost readiness to render all the aid 
in their power toward the furtherance of the objects of the Institution, 
and especially by permitting it to nominate persons to the charge of, or 
to act as assistants in, the principal observation stations who, while 
comijetent meteorological observers, were at the same time naturalists 
and able to utilize their opportunities to the utmost. The Institution 
in these cases has usually met all the expenses in addition to what was 
required for the purely meteorological service ; supplying outfit, arsenic, 
ammunition, &c., and taking charge of the collections and having them 
properly elaborated for publication. 

The previous reports of the Institution contain many references to 
this most satisfactory co-operation ; and this has been even more marked 
and efficient during 1882 than formerly ; as will be readily realized by 
the following account, in which I propose to take up the several regions, 
and show the more important work that has been done either by the 
Institution alone, or in conjunction with the Signal Service and other 
parties. 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13 

Greenland.— It will be remembered that in 1881 Lieutenant Greeley 
was sent, by the Chief Signal OflQcer, in charge of a party to establish 
an international meteorological station at Lady Franklin Bay, in lati- 
tude 81° 35' north. The party was taken to its destination on the 
steamer "Proteus," a sailing vessel chartered in Newfoundland, and was 
safely landed, with all its stores, on the north shore of Lady Franklin 
Bay, at Camp Conger. The naturalist and surgeon of the party in 
charge, Dr. Pavey, had preceded the expedition to Greenland by about 
one year, being occupied during the interval in studying the natural 
history and ethnology of the country. In 1882, with an appropriation 
made by Congress for the purpose, a relief party was organized by the 
Signal Office to carry out stores and supplies. As Dr. Pavey intimated 
his desire to return during 1882, the Institution, at the request of Gen- 
eral Hazen, selected Dr. Hoadley to fill the place, as a surgeon of 
ability and an experienced naturalist. This relief party, with the sup- 
plies and stores, left Newfoundland on the steamer "Neptune" on its 
way to Lady Franklin Bay; but, on account of the ice, was unable to 
reach its destination; and after depositing the stores on the shore 
and marking their position by intelligible indications, it returned 
to the United States. During the voyage, Dr. Hoadley was able to 
utilize the slight opportunity at his command in collecting some inter- 
esting specimens of birds and other objects of natural history. The 
commander of the party brought back a very finely constructed skin 
boat, which has been deposited by the Chief Signal Officer in the 
National Museum. 

Labrador. — A very important beginning towards the exploration of 
Labrador has been made during the year by the establishment, by the 
United States Signal Service, of an international meteorological station 
on Ungava Bay, its northern extremity. Mr. Lucien M. Turner, who has 
been connected with the service for many years in stations at St. Michael's, 
Alaska, and at many points along the Aleutian Islands, was selected 
to establish a new station on the eastern coast of the continent, and one 
that should be at a suitable distance from the Greenland station, and 
those more or less adjacent to it of the German and English Govern- 
ments. The courtesy of the Hudson's Bay Company, which had been 
so signally exhibited to the Smithsonian Institution in connection with 
the researches of Mr. Kennicott and others more than twenty years ago, 
was again displayed, in its hearty consent to make Fort Chimo, in 
Ungava Bay, the seat of the settlement in question; and Mr. Turner 
accordingly left Quebec on a schooner for Rigolette Station, where, 
taking the Hudson's Bay steamer, he proceeded to Ungava. His equip- 
ment for making collections of all kinds was very complete, and was 
also transported by the Hudson's Bay Company. He had received au- 
thority from the Institution to obtain the necessary goods at the post, 
and to secure such objects by barter with the Eskimo as could not 



14 EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

otherwise be readily obtained. The vessel returned very soon after, 
leaving Mr. Turner and his equipment; but his letters indicate his entire 
satisfection with the prospect, of ef&cient work both in meteorology and 
in natural history. We are assured by the company's ofiQcer at Fort 
Chimo of his hearty co-operation ; and are also gratified at the assurance 
that, in their season, the variety of objects of natural history is very 
great, especially of birds, with their nests and eggs. Four boxes of col- 
lections were received from Mr. Turner by way of London, and found to 
contain many articles of much interest. In accordance with the under- 
standing with Mr. Turner, the collections will all be retained, so that he 
may work them up at the proper time. 

This may be an appropriate place to mention that, before leaving the 
country, Mr. Turner completed his elaborate report upon the natural 
and physical history of Alaska, and left it in the hands of the Chief 
Signal Officer for such use as he might see fit to make of it. 

A second exploration of Labrador during the year was prosecuted by 
Mr. Winfred A. Stearns, a New England naturalist who has been in 
the habit of spending several years successively on the coast, although 
considerably farther south than the station occupied by Mr. Turner. 
That gentleman applied to the Institution for the necessary alcohol to 
preserve objects of marine zoology, and has forwarded to Washington 
a satisfactory return. A report by him on the various species of animals 
observed during his successive visits to Labrador has been presented 
to the Institution, and will shortly be published in the Proceedings of 
the National Museum. 

Arctie Ocean. — The ill-fated voyage of the Jeannette came to a close 
by the wrecking of the vessel, and the loss of two out of the three divis- 
ions into which the party was made up in the effort to reach the actual 
settlements on the Siberian coasts. Among those saved was Mr. Ray- 
mond L. Newcomb, the gentleman nominated by the Institution as 
naturalist to the expedition. Mr. Newcomb was able, in spite of all the 
privations and trials of the return, to save many of his notes and four 
specimens of one of the rarest of known birds, namely, Eoss' Gull, which 
is a small species, characterized by a wedge-shaped tail, and having, 
also, a black ring around the neck, in striking contrast with the other- 
wise white plumage. Mr. Newcomb knowing well the interest to natur- 
alists of these specimens, carried them with him, and delivered them 
to the Smithsonian Institution. They are, naturally, not in very good 
condition, but would be prizes under any circumstances. 

The disastrous history of the Jeannette, almost unexampled among 
Arctic explorations in its fatalities, does not come within my province 
to detail. 

AlasTca. — Of all the stations in this vast and comparatively unknown 
region, the most important occupied during the year is that at Point 
Barrow, situated in latitude 71^° N., the northernmost point of conti- 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15 

nental North America, and forming a part of the purchase by the United 
States from Eussia in 1867. 

In 1881 a thoroughly organized party was sent to that region by the 
Chief Signal Officer, under the command of Lieutenant Eay, with 
Dr. Oldmixon as surgeon, and Professors Smith and Murdoch as 
meteorological observers and naturalists ; the latter gentlemen having 
been nominated by the Smithsonian Institution at the request of Gen- 
eral Hazen. Both of them trained and accomplished naturalists, and 
of much experience in practical work, a great deal is hoped from them, 
as well as from the party generally, in the thorough investigation of the 
anthropology and biology of the northern coast. 

A vessel sent by the United States Signal Office to Point Barrow with 
supplies, under Lieutenant Powell, found the party in admirable condi- 
tion, and brought back a large number of very interesting specimens, 
which have already greatly increased our knowledge of the Eskimo 
and of the animal life of the region. The labor of getting settled, and 
of organizing the station, jirevented the full utilization of the occasion 
by the naturalists of the expedition. It is expected, however, that by 
the next year's return the objects secured will be of very great interest, 
surpassing even those that have already come to hand. 

Among the most noted features of the collections returned from the 
expedition are the many implements, such as hammers, chisels, scrap- 
ers, &c., made of a form of Jadite, closely allied to the precious Jad- 
ite of China and New Zealand; and many other objects of Eskimo 
workmanship are scarcely less interesting. 

Among the birds, the eggs of three species of Arctic wading birds 
constitute important novelties in the collections of the National Mu- 
seum. There were also some rare fishes, marine invertebrates, &c. 

Among the most important coRections received from Alaska during 
the year are the ethnological objects transmitted by Mr. J. J. McLean, 
Signal Service observer at Sitka. This gentleman has well utilized the 
opportunities at his command by securing several very fine collections 
both of modern and prehistoric workmanship of the Alaskan Indians ; 
adding much to the richness of the material in the National Museum. 

While engaged in his surveying work in Alaskan waters, on the Coast 
Survey steamer Hassler, Commander Henry E. Nichols of the Navy has 
continued his important service begun several years before on the Gulf 
of California, in obtaining rare specimens of animals, especially fishes. 
A large collection of marine animals, made by him, is now on its way 
from California. 

Saint MichaeVs. — No collections were received during the year from 
Saint Michael's; a station which while in charge first of Mr. Turner, 
and next of Mr. Nelson, has been so great a source of supply to the 
National Museum. It is, however, expected that a consignment of in- 
terest will be received next year. 



16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Nushagah. — This station, also one of the important points of service 
of the Signal Oflfice, is in charge of Mr. 0. L. McKay, who went there in 
1881 with the usual supply of apparatus for meteorological observation, 
and of outfit by the Smithsonian Institution. Few localities on the 
coast are more important than Bristol Bay, on which Nushagak is sit- 
uated; and it is expected that Mr. McKay will do full justice to the op- 
portunity ; having been well trained, both as an observer and collector, 
under Professor Jordan, of Bloomington, Ind. A large amount of ex- 
tremely valuable material has been furnished by Mr. McKay, those of 
most interest being the ethnological objects. Many interesting species 
of birds and their eggs, of mammals, and of fishes have also been sent. 

Some interesting collections have been received from Pribylov, one of 
the fur-seal islands, furnished by Mr. J. H. Moultou. Of these a very 
fine walrus head with tusks has been mounted by Mr. Hornaday, taxi- 
dermist of the National Museum. 

KodiaTc. — A very accomplished naturalist and collector, Mr. W. J. 
Fisher, is now established at Kodiak as tidal observer of the United 
States Coast Survey, and from him the Institution has received a num- 
ber of extremely interesting objects. These are, for the most part, 
ethnological and zoological ; and will be referred to in another part of 
this report. The most interesting acquisition of Mr. Fisher is a new 
species of petrel, which has been called (Estrelata Jisheri by Mr. Ridg- 
way, after the discoverer. 

The fishes collected by Mr. Fisher are particularly interesting ; as he 
is well versed in Pacific ichthyology, and able to make a judicious se- 
lection where it is required. 

From the other islands of the Aleutian group not much has come to 
hand in 1882; a few specimens collected in previous years only having 
been received. 

Commander Islands. — Not in any way inferior in importance to the 
other work of the year have been the results of an expedition made 
to the Commander Islands by Dr. L. Stejneger. This gentleman, an 
accomplished naturalist of Norway, visited the Smithsonian Institution 
in 1881 for the purpose of studying the collections of aquatic birds in 
the National Museum, and when this was done, offered his services to 
the Institution for any exploration that might be desired. His first idea 
was that of research in the Sandwich Islands, and next in the West 
Indies; but finally the interest of an exploration in the Commander 
Islands induced the Institution to make the necessary arrangements to 
send him to that region. It may be stated, in this connection, that 
this group of small islands is situated about 100 miles off Petropau- 
lovski on the coast of Kamchatka, and that its special interest lies 
in the fact of its originally having been the locality of the northern 
sea-cow — the Rhytina gigas — a marine mammal closely allied to the 
dugong and manatee but of enormous size, measuring 30 feet and 



BBPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17 

upwards in length, and weighing many tons. When the islands were 
discovered by the Eussians in November, 1741, the species was very 
abundant; but in a few years it was entirely exterminated, and it is 
believed to be considerably more than one hundred years since the 
last survivor perished. Quite naturally, the possession of some remains 
of this animal is a great desideratum among museums ; and until 
recently the only relics were in the museum of the Academy of Sciences 
in St. Petersburg. In completing his famous voyage over the Euro- 
pean seas, around by the Arctic Ocean and the Pacific, Professor Nor- 
denskjold, obtained at Bering Island, of the Commander group, a num- 
ber of bones of the Ehytiua, of the acquisition of which he was justly 
l)roud. Desirous of obtaining specimens of the animal for the Na- 
tional Museum, the Smithsonian Institution very gladly availed itself 
of the offer of the Alaska Commercial Company, the lessee from the 
Russian Government of the Commander Islands, to transport Dr. 
Stejneger in the vessel which carries the usual annual supplies to the 
station, and hopes soon to report success in its efforts. 

Oregon and Washington Territory. — During the year several very ac- 
ceptable transmissions of objects of ethnologj'^ and natural history, 
especially of fish ijroducts, have been made by Mr. James G. Swan, of 
Port Townsend. This gentleman's name has appeared for many years 
in the Smithsonian report, as a valued contributor, not only of materials 
but also of interesting memoirs which have been published in the Smith- 
sonian Contributions to Knowledge, and in the Annual Reports. 

Mr. Swan has been specially occupied during the year in collecting 
material for the American display at the International Fishery Exhi- 
bition, to be held in London in May next; and it is believed that his 
collection, when received, will leave but little to be desired in the way 
of a satisfactory representation of the aboriginal and other fisheries of 
Puget Sound. 

Capt. Charles Bendire, while stationed at Fort Walla Walla and at 
Fort Klamath, has continued his researches into the bird life of the 
Northwest; and, with his usual success, has secured many rare speci- 
mens of the nests and eggs of birds, as well as of their skins. 

To Captain Bendire we are also indebted for important collections of 
reptiles, fishes, and small mammals, also fossil remains of both animals 
and plants. 

California. — Mr. R. E. C. Stearns has been engaged in collecting ma- 
terial along the coast of California for the London Fishery Exhibition, 
and has also visited Puget Sound, Washington Territory, and Oregon 
in the same connection; and to him we owe some interesting collections 
of specimens in archaeology obtained in the interior of California. 

Mr. Gustav Eisen, a well-known naturalist, has also contributed some 
acceptable collections in archaeology from the vicinity of Fresno. 
H. Mis. 26 2 



18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Lower California. — The earlier volumes of the report of the Institu- 
tion contain allusions to the important work of Mr. John Xantus in the 
exploration of lower California, resulting in the discovery of a peculiar 
fauna at Cape Saint Lucas, represented by numerous undescribed spe- 
cies of birds, reptiles, fishes, &c. In the lapse of time, the collections 
made by Mr. Xantus have been greatly reduced, and it is considered 
eminently desirable to renew them. 

Mr. L. Belding, of Stockton, Cal., undertook, largely ftt his own ex- 
pense, to visit the region in question and explore it in the interest of 
the Smithsonian Institution. This was done by him with very great 
success, his work resulting in the recovery of most of the species ob- 
tained by Mr. Xantus, with a number of additions. So promising, in- 
deed, was the field, that the available time during the winter and early 
spring of 1882 was not sufficient to comi^lete the work, and he therefore 
returned again towards the end of 1882, and is now occupied in his 
mission. As Mr. Belding is a -trained naturalist, especially in the 
department of ornithology, much is expected from his researches. He 
proposes to prepare, for publication by the Institution, a methodical 
account of the vertebrate natural history of Lower California. 

Ueio Mexico and Arizona. — From New Mexico and Arizona the con- 
tributions have, as usual, been chiefly in the line of ethnology, the 
Ethnological Bureau having continued its work on a very large scale. 
A special account will be found in another part of the report of the 
work of this Bureau in the region referred to and elsewhere. It will 
be, therefore, unnecessary to do more than mention the names of Maj. 
J. W. Powell, Director of the Bureau, and Messrs. F. H. Cushing and 
James Stevenson, in this connection. 

From Mr. H. II. Eusby some interesting collections of plants and 
specimens from Silver City have been received. 

The United States Geological Survey has also collected very many 
minerals, fossils, and rocks in these Territories, all of which are for 
the present in charge of the Survey. 

Interior of the United States. — No very important explorations have 
been made in the interior of the country, other than those mentioned, ex- 
cepting the work of the Ethnological Bureau, which, as already stated, 
will be found detailed elsewhere. 

Prof. D. S. Jordan, however, has prosecuted extensive inquiries into 
the fishes of Texas, and Prof. Hay into those of the Southern States. 

Florida. — Florida has been the scene of great activity in explora- 
tion. Mr. S. T. Walker has been engaged on the western coast of the 
State, principally in collecting the archseological material; Mr. James 
Bell, of Gainesville, has furnished large numbers of birds and living rep- 
tiles; Dr. Henshall, collections of fishes; and Mr. Whitfield of reptiles. 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY. 19' 

The most important collections, however, in Florida are those of the 
fishes, made by Professor Jordan and Mr. Silas Stearns, of Pensacola, 
the latter gentleman in continuation of very many previous transmis- 
sions. Indeed, to no one are we more indebted thau to Mr. Stearns for 
a knowledge of the ichthyology of the Gulf of Mexico, his business con- 
nection with the fish and fisheries, prosecuted from Pensacola as a basis, 
enabling him to secure novelties as they preseni; themselves. Several 
papers describing a number of new species have been published by the 
Institution on the collections made by Mr. Stearns, and other species 
remain to be described. 

Eastern portion of the United States. — In the eastern portion of the 
United States the principal results have, as heretofore, been produced 
by the United States Fish Commission, the continued investigations of 
the steamer "Fish Hawk" along the continental plateau having brought 
to light many new forms of fishes and invertebrates, besides securing 
numerous rarities, as well as duplicate specimens for distribution. 

A special feature, in addition, has been the work connected with the 
acquisition of material for the display of the London Fishery Exposi- 
tion, opening in May next. An appropriation was made by Congress 
for the purpose of securing suitable illustrations of the apparatus, proc- 
esses, products, and results of the American fisheries ; but the present 
limits will not permit me to go into details, and a formal report will 
hereafter be made on the subject. 

The collections made in previous years by the Gloucester fishermen, 
have not been continued to any great extent, in view of the fact that 
the greater part of the objects coming within the limits of their work 
have been obtained, the work of the "Fish Hawk* superseding largely 
the less productive yield of the trawl and hand line. 

West Indies. — From the West Indies a few objects of much interest 
have been obtained, although no extended series. Mr. Guesde has con- 
tinued his contributions of illustrations of a very valuable collection 
of Carrib antiquities. Dr. Nicholls, of Dominica, Mr. Wells, of Grenada, 
and Mr. F. A. Ober, have all made contributions of more or less interest. 

Mexico. — The receipts from Mexico are for the most part represented 
by several collections from Prof. A. Duges, of Guanajuato. This ac- 
complished naturalist has been 'in the habit, for many years, of sending 
to the Institution specimens of animals and plants for indentification. 

It is with deep regret that I am obliged to mention, in another part 
of this report, the death of Mr. F. Sumichrast, of Tuchitan ; who has 
been, by far, our most imi)ortant coadjutor in that country. 

Central America. — The researches prosecuted in Central America, 
under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, have been of unusual 
importance in the results obtained^ both of specimens and of informa- 
tion; and of these quite a number are to be mentioned. 



20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Dr. J. F. Bransford, a surgeon in the Navy, under the auspices of 
both the Ethnological Bureau and the Smithsonian Institution, made 
a special visit to Copan by way of Guatemala, and also spent a portion 
of his time in Costa Eica and elsewhere. In his work he was able to 
secure the hearty co-operation of Mr. Keith, the engineer of the Costa 
Bica railroad, who kindly furnished some very valuable archaeological 
specimens for investigation. The collections of Dr. Bransford have 
been also of very great value, especially in objects manufactured of 
jade. Much of Dr. Bransford's work on the Gulf of Mcoya, a region 
l)reviously but little known to us, is very interesting. He is now engaged 
in the preparation of an elaborate report of his travels, which will be 
published at an early day. 

Mr. C. C. Nutting, of Illinois, was sent by the Institution to explore 
especially the fauna of the Gulf of Nicoya and Costa Rica, and with 
the help of Seiior Jos6 C. Zeledon, a long-tried collaborator of the Insti- 
tution, he was able to make some interesting collections both on the 
coast and in the interior of Costa Rica. No new species were brought 
to light, but many rare and interesting forms were secured. 

Mr. Nutting returned from the work of the winter of 1881-'82 in April, 
and went back again by the steamer of the 20th December, to continue 
bis researches on the northern border of Costa Rica and the eastern 
coast of that state and Nicaragua. 

Mr. Zeledon himself has furnished some interesting additions to the 
very large collections of Costa Rica vertebrates previously received from 
him, among them some new species of birds. 

It is but proper to state that the labors of Mr. Nutting and Dr. Brans- 
ford were very greatly furthered by the hearty co-operation of Capt. John 
M. Dow, the agent of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company at Panama, 
who has been so well known for many years as a coadjutor in all re- 
searches of a scientific nature, whether under the auspices of Americans 
or foreigners. No man is better known along the Isthmus; and a sim- 
ple request secures his assistance to scientific enterprise at whatever 
point in Central America it may be in the course of prosecution. 

Mr. Gustav Eisen, a correspondent of the Institution, formerly a resi- 
dent of California, but during the past year living in Guatemala, has 
made important researches among the antiquities of Copan, Santa Lucia, 
&c. An extended memoir by him has been prepared for i)ublication 
by the Smithsonian Institution. He has also supplied some interesting 
collections of natural history. 

The Isthmus of Panama itself has been represented by the collec- 
tions of reptiles sent by Dr. Nelson, of the English Mail Steamer serv- 
ice, and of fishes by Mr. Gilbert. 

The report upon the work of 1880 and 1881 contained an account of the 
labors of Mr. Charles H. Gilbert in the way of ichthyological investiga- 
tions along the western coast of America. This gentlemen returned to 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

Central America by the steamer of the 20th December, and expects to 
devote a number of mouths, under the auspices of Captain Dow, to tha 
investigation of the fishes of the two shores of the Isthmus. It is proper 
to say that for the co-operation which the scientific enterprises of both 
Messrs. Nutting and Gilbert have received from the Pacific Mail Steam- 
ship Company, and the amount of service rendered generally by the 
company in question in the explorations of the Smithsonian Institution, 
it is difficult to express our appreciation in words. For more than twentj^ 
years, in all successive stages of administration, it has been ready to 
respond to any reasonable request for service, not only carrying the 
agents of the Institution free of charge, but also franking the collec- 
tions transmitted by them to Washington. 

■0 

South Ammica. — From South America but little of importance has 
been received, excepting from the Geological Survey of Brazil under 
Prof. E. H. Derby. From him valuable collections of corals, fossils, «S:c., 
have been received, to be exchanged for some from the National Museum. 

Dr. Hering, of Surinam, has sent collections of living reptiles, of 
objects in alcohol, and specimens of anthropology, which have proved 
very acceptable. 

Mr. Thomas Herron, of Baranquilla, has also contributed some valu- 
able archaeological specimens. 

Mr. W. F. Lee conducted an exploration in Peru and Ecuador with 
some success during the months of July and August. He was obliged 
to discontinue work on account of the hostility of the natives, who had 
been prejudiced against explorers on account of the indiscretions of a 
collector who had preceded Mr. Lee. 

China and Japan. — The researches of Dr. Dale and Mr. P. L. Jouy, 
in China and Japan, respectively, have been continued during the year 
with very important results. Collections of great value of birds, mam- 
mals, and other objects have come safely to hand from them. Dr. Dale 
returned to the United States in the early part of the year, but Mr. 
Jouy remained in Japan and visited some comparatively little known 
portions of the country, where he found objects of very great interest. 

Nothing of special moment has been received from the Old World, 
beyond some occasional specimens of natural history exchanged with 
museums or individuals. These, with the details of the collections 
generally, will be found recorded in the list of accessions to the Na- 
tional Museum during the year. 

PUBLICATIONS. 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.— In 1860 the Institution pub- 
lished as one of the series of "Contributions to Knowledge," the regis- 
ter of meteorological observations made at Providence, E. I., by Prof. 
Alexis Caswell, extending over a period of twenty-eight and a half 
years, from December, 1831, to May, 1860. After the death of Prot^ssor 



22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Caswell, manuscript containing additional observations for sixteen years 
and a half, or to the end of the year 187G, was placed at the disposal of 
the Institution. It was accordingly decided to publish summaries of 
the entire series of observations, and the necessary reductions, arrange- 
ment, and revision were placed under the direction of Messrs. Charles 
A. Schott and E. H. Courtenay. 

The result, a condensed epitome of continuous records for forty-five 
years, of observations of the barometer and thermometer, of winds, 
clouds, rain, snow, &c., has been published during the year, forming 
a quarto volume of 38 pages, entitled "Eesults of Meteorological Obser- 
vations made at Providence, E. I., extending over a period of forty-five 
years." This will doubtless prove a useful work of reference, not merely 
for students of meteorology, but for engineers and others. 

Miscellaneous Collections. — Two volumes of this series have been com- 
pleted during the past year, Vol. XXII and Vol. XXIII. The former 
is composed of the Proceedings of the United States National Museum 
for 1880 and 1881, and forms an octavo volume of 1200 pages, with 18 
wood-cuts and 4 plates. 

The twenty-third volume is made up of the following papers: 

Bibliography of Fishes of the Pacific coast of the United States. By 
Theodore Gill. 

On the Distribution of Fishes of the Alleghany Region of South Caro- 
lina, Georgia, and Tennessee, with a synopsis of the family Gatosto- 
fnidce. By D. S. Jordan and A. W. Brayton. 

Flora of Saint Croix and the Virgin Islands. By H. F. A. Eggers. 

Catalogue of the Collection to illustrate the animal resources and the 
fisheries of the United States, exhibited at Philadelphia in 1870 by the 
Smithsonian Institution and the United States Fish Commission, and 
forming a part of the United States National Museum. By G. Brown 
Goode. 

Contributions to the natural history of Arctic America, made in con- 
nection with the Howgate Polar Expedition, 1877-'78. By L. Kumlien. 

These five articles formed Bulletins of the National Museum, Nos. 11 
to 15, and are now collected in one volume of 1003 pages. 

Mr, F. W. Clarke has prepared for the Institution another of the 
series devoted to the discussion and more precise determination of 
various constants of nature, forming the fifth contribution to that sub- 
ject published in the Smithsonian series. It is entitled "A Eecalcuiatiou 
of the Atomic Weights," and forms an octavo volume of 293 pages. It 
may be regarded as practically supplementary to the '' Digest of Atomic 
Weights," by Mr. Geo. F. Bexjker, published by the Institution in 1880, 
and of which an account was given in the report for that year. 

Une of the articles of the Miscellaneous Collections (No. 469, Smith- 
Bonian series), is a list of the foreign correspondents of the Institution, 
corrected to January, 1882. It was prepared by Mr. Geo. H. Boehmer, in 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23 

charge of the exchange system, includes about 3,000 titles, and forms an 
octavo volume of 174 pages, being No. 469 of the Smithsonian publica- 
tion. 

The various papers on anthropological subjects, contributed by Dr. 
Chas. Eau to the Smithsonian Annual Eeports, from 1860 to 1877, have 
been collected and issued in one volume, with a preface by the author 
containing notes as to changes and additions rendered necessary by re- 
cent observations and researches. 

The work forms an octavo volume of 180 pages, with 53 wood-cuts, 
and constitutes No. 440 of the Smithsonian series of publications. 

The steady increase of publications by the Institution renders neces- 
sary a frequent reissue and extension of the jjrinted list of the same. 
The last check-list (to the end of 1881) presented 438 titles, stated in 
brief, and occupying 20 pages 8vo. It was at the time designed to have 
a more complete catalogue prepared, giving the title-page of each work 
in full. Mr. William J. Ehees has accordingly undertaken the labor 
of compiling such a catalogue, in a much more thorough and satis- 
factory form than has heretofore been attempted. This list (including 
40 additional titles) has been brought down to the 1st of July, 1882. 
The whole number of titles is 478 ; and in addition to a full biblio- 
graphical description of each work, in the case of volumes which em- 
brace several independent articles (as the Contributions, Collections, 
Eeports, Bulletins, and Proceedings), the contents of each are given. 
This catalogue (of 89 pages) is followed by a classified list of all the 
separate publications, under general heads. A very full alphabetical 
index of all the articles contained in each of the publications (with 
abundant cross-references) concludes the work. The whole (including 
14 pages of prefatory information), comprises 342 pages, 8vo. In order 
to make this catalogue still more available, it is intended to supple- 
ment it with a complete subject-matter index of all the subjects treated 
of in the different publications, including the miscellaneous pai^ers fur- 
nished in the annual reports. 

A history of the rise and progress of the Smithsonian system of ex- 
changes has been prepared by Mr. George H. Boehmer, of the Institu- 
tion. The account is prefaced by a sketch of some earlier efforts at 
interchanges of a limited character, in order to show more clearly the 
distinctive features of the Smithsonian system as an agency of univer- 
sal exchange among learned societies and others, irrespective of spe- 
cial returns to itself. The history includes the work of the Institution 
with reference to the distribution of Government publications ; and 
also a notice of the organization by the Paris convention of 1875, in 
promotion of a system of international exchange of scientific and liter- 
ary memoirs, together with the proceedings subsequently taken by other 
nations in the matter. The whole forms a pamphlet of 162 pages, 8vo. 

The interest attached to Tuckahoe, or Indian bread, as a well-known 
and largely diffused article of food among the aborigines of our country, 



24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

has led Prof. J. H. Gore to make a thorough examination into the nature 
and properties of this fungus. By means of circulars of inquiry, widely 
distributed by the Institution, a considerable amount of material and 
information has been collected. This substance ig found growing in 
irregular masses of mycelium around the roots of trees — especially the 
conifers — and is met with in certain districts as far north as New Jersey 
and Pennsylvania, and even in parts of New York, and as far south as 
Florida and Texas. Professor Gore has shown that the somewhat 
varied accounts given by earlier writers result from a loose application 
of the term tuckahoe to diflFerent substances and tubers, and that the 
genuine article is destitute of starch, and, though abundant in pectinous 
matter, possesses in itself but a small nutritive value. The essay is 
comprised in a pamphlet of 13 pages. 

Since the publication by this Institution in 1862 of a work on the 
'Classification of the Coleoptera of North America," by Dr. John L. 
Le Conte, and in 1873 of a second part to the same, not only has the 
collection of specimens been largely increased by the industry of entomol- 
ogists, but many new genera previously unknown have been added to 
this large and important order or group of insects. It has therefore been 
thought desirable to have the original treatise thoroughly revised and 
brought up to the present condition of the science. This laborious work 
has been undertaken by the joint efforts of Drs. John Le Conte and George 
H. Horn; and the new edition now nearly completed, has been put in 
print as far as to page 480. Not more than a hundred pages will now 
be required to finish this extensive systematic arrangement and descrip- 
tion of the Coleoptera, and the work will be published early in 1883. 

In October of the past year, the Institution commenced the printing 
of a General Catalogue of Scientific Periodicals published in all parts 
of the world since 1665, compiled by Prof. H. Carringtou Bolton, of 
Trinity College, Hartford, Conn. The plan of this catalogue does not 
include the proceedings and transactions of societies, nor does it in- 
clude art journals or professional journals, that is, periodicals devoted 
to the subjects of law, medicine, or theology. This work originally 
brought down to the year 1874, by Prof. Bolton, it was at first supposed 
would be published by Congress under the auspices of the Congressional 
Library. The subsequent publication by Mr. Samuel H. Scudder of 
his admirable "Catalogue of Scientific Serials of all countries (includ- 
ing the transactions of learned societies), from 1633 to 1876," seemed 
for the time to supersede the work on which Professor Bolton had been 
so long engaged. As the latter, however, included the large field of " ap- 
plied" science (so called), such as the periodical literature of manufact- 
ures, agriculture and horticulture, pharmacy, and technology in general 
(not embraced in Mr. Scudder's catalogue), and as it presented the 
great advantage of a purely alphabetical arrangement instead of the 
geographical classification adopted by Mr. Scudder, the Institution 
undertook its publication on condition that it should be continued to 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25 

the year 1882. This additional labor was cheerfully undertaken by the 
author, and it is hoped that the work will be completed during the year 
1883. It will contain geographical, chronological, and subject-matter 
indexes, and also — what is regarded as a valuable feature in a biblio- 
graphical work of the kind — an appendix stating the American libra- 
ries in which any of the periodicals catalogued (and indicated by a num- 
ber) are to be found. To attain this information, circulars have been 
prepared and will be sent to some two hundred librarians (including 
twelve in Canada), explaining the project and soliciting their co-opera- 
tion in this particular. It is probable that this proposed bibliographical 
aid to scientific students will embrace references to at least a hundred 
libraries. The work when completed will form an octavo volume of 
probably somewhere between 700 and 800 pages. 

For the purpose of ascertaining the methods employed in various 
public and private ofl&ces, of indexing and filing letters and other 
papers, and of thence determining by a comparative review the most 
convenient and practical system, a circular was issued in January, 1882^ 
requesting our correspondents to furnish the institution with a detailed 
account of the method employed by each. Thankful acknowledgments 
are due to the various Government officials and to a large number of 
others who liave courteously responded to this inquiry. A large amount 
of interesting information on this subject has been thus collected, which 
will be properly digested and published by the Institution hereafter. 

The usual activity in the preparation and publication (through the 
agency of the Interior Department) of the "Bulletins" and "Proceed- 
ings" of the United States National Museum has been displayed during 
the past year. 

Bulletin No. 24 of the Museum has been issued, and consists of a 
" Check-list of North American Reptilia and Batrachia, with catalogue 
of specimens in the United States National Museum, by H. C. Yarrow^ 
M. D., honorary curator of the department of rei)tiles." This work 
may be regarded as a revision and extension of the excellent list pre- 
pared for the Museum by Prof. Edward D. Cope, and published in 1875 
in Bulletin No. 1. The material selected as a reserve stock for the Mu- 
seum, including typical forms heretofore described, those identified by 
Professor Cope in his original study of the museum reptiles, those of the 
same species found in different geograj)hical areas, and those character- 
ized by any abnormality in parts, coloration, or scale covering, forms a 
collection of over 4,000 specimens, illustrating 469 species, and is be- 
lieved to form a series unrivaled by that of any American museum. 
The large extension of material here indicated is mainly due to the dis- 
covery of new species and sub-species in California and Lower Califor- 
nia by Messrs. Gustav Eisen and L. Belding, and in Texas by Professor 
Cope and Mr. Marnock. 

The first part of the work consists of a simple " check-list" of the 469' 
species, in which an attempt has been made to introduce some kind of 



26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

uniformity in the popular designation of a species, to supersede the 
numerous local names in use, by giving an English equivalent of the 
technical Latin and Greek titles employed by naturalists. The next, 
and larger portion of the work is devoted to a specification of the locality, 
source, and nature of the various preserved examples of each species, 
with a biblographical reference to a good published description thereof. 
Following this is a " List of specimens desired by the National Museum," 
numbering in all 132, of which, however, 78 are duplicates wished for 
of examples already in the collection, leaving but 54 new species desired 
to complete the Museum series. The whole is followed by copious in- 
dexes ; 1st, to the generic and specific names; 2d, to the common names; 
3d, to the localities whence obtained; 4th, to the names of contributors; 
and lastly, the general index. This bulletin forms an octavo volume of 
254 pages. This work is to be followed by a supplementary one giving 
a careful and concise description of each species of the class. This is 
now in ijreparation. 

Bulletin Ko. 22 of the National Museum has been published during 
the year. It is entitled " Guide to the Flora of Washington and vicinity,'' 
by Lester F. Ward. The work, besides the catalogue of the flora of the 
District, with full notes, contains a sketch of the early botanical labors 
undertaken by former students, the range of the flora, notices of local- 
ities of special interest, the flowering-time ot plants, and many interest- 
ing facts relating to autumnal flowering, albinos, and double flowers, a 
statistical view of the flora, a comparison with others, notes upon abun- 
dant and scarce species, classification, common names, &c. There is also 
included a check-list of the plants for the use of those who may be form- 
ing herbaria and an excellent map of the region considered. An ap- 
pendix is devoted to directions for collecting, which gives ample instruc- 
tion for the ^preparation of an herbarium, the collection, preservation, 
and identification of plants, as well as the proper way to arrange dupli- 
cates for readily making exchanges. This is also published in separate 
form as No. 460 of Smithsonian series. A full and complete index forms 
a useful feature of the work, the whole making an octavo volume of 265 
pages. 

Another Bulletin of the National Museum, No. 11, which had been for 
a long time in the hands of the printer, was issued during 1882. It is 
entitled "Bibliography of the Fishes of the Pacific Coast of the United 
States to the end of 1879," by Theodore Gill. The author gives an 
enumeration in chronological order of the memoirs and articles of all 
kinds that have been i)ublished on the fishes of the Pacific coast of the 
United States. The Bulletin forms an octavo volume of 77 pages. 

The imi^ortant work of Mr. Samuel H. Scudder, referred to in the 
report for 1880, relative to the names which have been given by writers 
on natural history to genera, has been published in part during the 
year. It forms Bulletin No. 19 of the National Museum, and is entitled 
*' Nomenclator Zoologicus. An alphabetical list of all generic names 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

that have been employed by naturalists for recent and fossil animals 
from the earliest times to the close of the year 1879." In two parts. 
Part I. " List of Generic names employed in Zoology and Paleontology 
to the close of the year 1879, chiefly supplemental to those catalogued 
by Agassiz and Marschall, or indexed in the Zoological Record." It 
forms an octavo volume of 398 pages. 

Of the class of " Proceedings of the National Museum," volume IV 
has been published. This work, commenced in April 1881, printed by 
signatures as matter was prepared, and completed in August, 1882, 
comprises biological and other notices by S. F. Baird, T. H. Beau, 0. 
Bendire, C. H. Boyd, W. E. Carlin, W. H. Dall, F. M. Endlich, W. G. 
Farlow, C. H. Gilbert, T. Gill, W. 0. W. Glazier, G. Brown Goode, G. W. 
Hawes, E. Ingersoll, S. H. Johnson, D. S. Jordan, P. L. Jouy, G. K 
Lawrence, W. K Lockington, O. Lugger, C. L. McKay, M. A. Moore, 
A. Pirz, F. M. Plateau, J. Y. Porter, R. Rathbun, C. Rau, R. Ridgway, 
J. A. Ryder, R. W. Shufeldt, R. Smith, S. B. Smith, L. Stejneger, F. 
W. True, L. F. Ward, and C. A . White. These papers are followed by 
an appendix of 141 pages, comprising 18 circulars issued by the Museum. 
The whole forms an octavo volume of 680 pages, illustrated by 1 plate 
of 13 figures, and by 15 figures in the text. 

For several years i)ast, under the co-operation of the Smithsonian 
Institution and the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, a collec- 
tion has been made of the data obtainable as to the relative heights of 
points over the surface of the continent of North America, with a view 
to gather these together for permanent record and publication, and to 
form the groundwork of a hypsometrical map. 

This collection has been intrusted to Mr. W. L. Nicholson, topog- 
rapher of the Post-OflBce Department, who has devoted as much leisure 
time as he could command to the extensive correspondence required and 
to the co-ordination of the large mass of material gathered. But the 
engrossing nature of the duties of his ofiice, having delayed the progress 
of this work, a transfer has been made during the past year of all this 
material from the Smithsonian Institution — under whose more imme- 
diate direction the work has been ijrosecuted — to the Coast and Geo- 
detic Survey, one of whose officers may be assigned for the continuation 
of this important subject. 

Smithsonian Annual Report. — I regret to state that up to this time, the 
annual report of the Regents for 1881 has not been published. It was 
transmitted to Congress on the 1st of March, 1882, and has ever since 
been in the hands of the Public Printer. 

This work includes the usual Journal of Proceedings of the Board of 
Regents, with the reports of the Secretary, of the Executive Committee, 
and of the National Museum Building Commission. The "General 
Appendix" contains first a "Record of recent scientific progress." In- 
troduction by the Secretary; astronomy, by E. S. Holden; meteorology, 



28 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



&c., by Cleveland Abbe; physics, by G. F. Barker; chemistry, by the 
same; botany, by W. G. Farlow; zoology, by Theodore Gill, and anthro- 
pology, by O. T. Mason ; next, miscellaneous papers and abstracts relat- 
ing to anthropology, and the papers by J. Howard Gore, on tncTcahoe 
or Indian bread; and by G. H. Boehmer, on the history of the Smith- 
sonian system of exchanges; both of which have already been de- 
scribed. The whole will form an octavo volume of something over 800 
pages, illustrated with 83 cuts. 



ASTEONOMICAI. ANNOUNCEMENTS BY TELEGRAPH. 

The service undertaken by the Institution in 1863, in the interests of 
astronomical science, of acting as the central medium of reception and 
transmission of telegraphic announcements of discoveries, continues to 
be rendered, with general satisfaction to observers. It is of course 
understood that this Institution is merely the channel of an international 
exchange of astronomical research, and that it undertakes to act only 
as the intermediary between foreign and domestic observatories, though 
it has long been a desideratum to have the announcements of American 
discoveries fully distributed in our own country" — a result which has 
to some extent been effected by the constant practice of the Institution 
to have both foreign and American discoveries promptly transmitted 
to the New York and National Associated Press for immediate publi- 
cation. 

The Atlantic Cable Company and the Western Union Telegraph 
company still continue with their accustomed liberality to forward 
the Smithsonian dispatches free of charge ; an enlightened apprecia- 
tion of the public value of such researches, and a courteous and hearty 
co-operation in scientific work which should always receive our most 
thankful recognition. 

The following is the list of astronomical discoveries of minor planets 
and comets made during the past year: 

List of planetoids discovered in 1882. 



No. 


Name. 


Date. Discoverer. 


Discover- 
er's No. 


Observatory. 


o^l 


Eos 


Jan. 18 
Feb. 9 
Mar. 10 
Mar. 30 
April 19 
July 19 
Aug. 12 
Aug. 19 
Ang. 22 
Sept. 3 
Sept. 10 


Palisa 


30th. 

3l8t. 

32d. 
3:3d. 
34th. 
35th. 

8th. 
36th. 
37th. 

Ist. 
38th. 


Pola. 


099 


Lucia ...... ... 


Palisa 


Pola. 


'>93 


Rosa ... 


Palisa 


Pola. 


'>?4 


Oceana 

Henrietta 

Weringia 

Philosophia . . . 

Agatbe 

Adelina 

Athamantis . . . 
Vindobonda . . . 


Palisa 


Pola. 


'W5 


Palisa ....... . 


Pola. 


'^?6 


Palisa 


Pola. 


227 


Prosper Henry 

Palisa 


Paris. 
Pola. 


99P 


Palisa. .. ...... 


Pola. 


WO 


L. de Ball 




"31 


Palisa 


Pola. 









REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



29 



It will be noticed that while only one new planetoid was observed in 
1881 (the year of the last report), eleven have been discovered in the 
year 1882. The irregularity of numbers added to the list in successive 
years has not been observed to follow any assignable rule. The follow- 
ing table gives a synopsis of the whole range of planetoidal discovery 
by years, including the first four leading bodies of the group observed 
at the beginning of the present century : 

Whole number of planetoids yearly discovered. 



1801 1 

1802 1 

1804 1 

1807 1 

1845 1 

1846 

1847 3 



1848 . . 


...1 


1849 -. 


...1 


1850 . . 


...3 


1851 . . 


...2 


1852 . . 


...8 


1853 . . 


...4 


1854.. 


...6 



1855 4 

1856 5 

1857 9 

1858 5 

1859 1 

1860 5 

1861 10 



1862... 


... 5 


1863... 


... 2 


1864... 


... 3 


1865... 


... 3 


1866... 


... 6 


1867... 


... 4 


1868... 


...12 



1869... 


... 2 


1870... 


... 3 


1871... 


... 5 


1872... 


...11 


1873... 


... 6 


1874... 


... 6 


1875... 


...17 



1876 12 

1877 10 

1878 12 

1879 20 

1880 8 

1881 1 

1882 11 



From this table it is seen that while only 13 of these bodies had been 
detected in the first half of the century, the remaining 218 all belong to 
the past thirty-two years. Or, while the first quarter gave 4, the second 
quarter gave 9, the third quarter 144, and the last quarter gives the 
still higher rate of more than 10 per annum. Or, still more specifically 
(following the columns of the table), the first forty-seven years gave 8, 
the next seven years 25, the next seven years 39, the next seven years 
55, the next seven years 50, and the last seven years 74. 

Distribution of the discovery of planetoids. 



1 discovered in 1801, 1802, 1804, 1807, 1845, 

1848, 1849, 1859, 1881. 

2 discovered in 1851, 1863, 1869. 

3 discovered in 1847, 1850, 1864, 1865, 1870. 

4 discovered in 1853, 1855, 1867. 

5 discovered in 1856, 1858, 1860, 1862, 1871. 
€ discovered in 1854, 1866, 1873, 1874. 



8 discovered in 1852, 1880. 

9 discovered in 1857. 

10 discovered in 1861, 1877. 

11 discovered in 1872, 1882. 

12 discovered in 1868, 1876, 1878. 
17 discovered in 1875. 

20 discovered in 1879. 



List of comets observed in 1882. 



No. 


Name. 


Date. 


Discoverer. 


• 

Observatory. 


TTT 


Wells' comet 

CmU'e comet 


Mar. 17 
Sept. 7 
Sept. 13 


Charles S. Wells .. 

Mr. Finlay 

E. E. Barnard 


Albany, N. Y. 

Cape of Good Hope, S. Africa. 

Nashville, Tenn. 











The following brief notice of these interesting objects has been kindly 
furnished by Prof. Asaph Hall, of the U. S. l!^aval Observatory. 

"Comet I, 1882, was discovered by Charles S. Wells at the Dudley 
Observatory, Albany, N. Y., March 17, 1882. Observations were made 
in the southern hemisphere until July 25, 1882. No definitive orbit has 
been determined yet, but probably the orbit is nearly parabolic." [That 
is, a very elongated ellipse.] 



30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

" Comet II, 1882, was the great comet of the year. It was seen with 
the naked eye, at many places in the northern hemisphere ; but the 
first accurate observations seem to be those made by Mr. Finlay at 
the Cape of Good Hope on September 7. This comet was very 
bright, and was remarkable on account of several condensed parts that 
were seen in its nucleus, and which led to statements of a separation 
of this nucleus. But these brighter parts were always connected by 
fainter parts of the coma. It is probable that these apparent separa- 
tions have led to discordancies in the observations, which will make it 
difficult to combine the numerous positions of this comet into a homo- 
geneous system. Several elliptic orbits have been computed, the pe- 
riodic times varying from five hundred to a thousand years." 

" Comet III, 1882, was a faint object. It was discovered by Mr. E. E. 
Barnard, at Nashville, Tenn., September 13, 1882. Observations were 
made in the southern hemisphere on December 8, and probably it was 
followed longer. The orbit seems to be parabolic." 

The wide interest felt by astronomers in the Smithsonian interna- 
tional announcements of planetary and cometary discoveries is evinced 
by the number of proposals and suggestions received at the Institution, 
for increasing the range and efficiency of the service. On one hand, 
frequent applications have been made to the Institution urging that 
American discoveries should be widely telegraphed at home as well as 
abroad. On another, it has been repeatedly urged that in view of the 
comparatively ephemeral character of the appearances of most of the 
comets, frequent and prompt announcements should be telegraphed of 
observed changes of position from day to day, as well as of provisional 
computations of orbits. Yaluable as such early information would evi- 
dently be, the Institution has not been able (in the support of its other 
multitudinous interests) to incur the additional expense of such trans- 
missions. And the liberality of the various telegraphic companies has 
already been so extended beyond original purpose and proposal, that 
we can hardly, with propriety, solicit this large increase of concession. 

The " Science Observer," published at Boston, has (with a commend- 
able enterprise), in connection with the Harvard College Observatory ,^^ 
entered this field of active usefulness, and by means of "special cir- 
culars" has acceptably supplemented the work of the Institution in this- 
department. The peculiar cable code employed by the '' Science Ob- 
server" has not however commended itself for adoption by the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 

There has been some difference of opinion among astronomers as to 
the best form of presentation of the elements of position of a new comen 
or planetoid. From want of care, or of attention by some to the pub- 
lished formulae in announcing their discoveries, difficulties of interpre- 
tation have occasionally arisen. A portion of the correspondence of 
the Institution on this subject is given in the appendix to this report. 



REPORT OP THE SECRETARY. 31 



INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES. 



The Smithsonian system, so long conducted with benefit to libraries 
and individuals in this country and abroad, has received new impetus 
and extension during the past year. I have already referred to an 
elaborate history of the system, and of the efforts made to promote in- 
terchange of the literary and scientific productions of different countries, 
published by the Institution during the year, and it is only necessary 
here to present the usual statistics of the service. For a full account 
of the details of operations I refer to Mr. Boehmer's report in the ap- 
pendix. 

The total number of establishments outside of the United States with 
which correspondence and exchange have been conducted amounts to 
3,726, an increase of about 800 over the list of 1881. The number of 
packages received from Europe for distribution in the United States 
during the past year amounted to 7,187; the number of packages from 
the United States received for transmission abroad has amounted to 
19,292; making an aggregate of 26,479 packages. 

The parcels received from Europe for distribution in America ara 
generally forwarded to their respective destinations in smaller bundles, 
or in paper wrappers. The parcels received for transmission to foreign 
countries are carefully packed in boxes. Of these there were shipped 
during the past year 422, occupying a bulk of 2,950 cubic feet, and 
weighing 105,500 pounds. 

As heretofore, the Institution is greatly indebted to the lines of ocean 
steamers between the United States and other countries of the world; 
and grateful acknowledgment is due particularly to the agents of the 
following companies for the continuation of their important favors in 
the free transmission of Smithsonian packages: Anchor Steamship Com- 
pany, Atlas Steamship Company, Compagnie G6n6rale Transatlantique, 
Cunard Steamship Company, Hamburg American Packet Company, 
Inman Steamship Company, Merchants' Line of Steamers, Netherlands 
American Steam Navigation Company, New York and Brazil Steamship 
Company, New York and Mexico Steamship Company, North German 
Lloyd Steamship Company, Pacific Mail Steamship Company, Pacific 
Steam Navigation Company, Panama Eailroad Company, Steamship 
Lines for Brazil, Texas, Florida, and Nassau, N. P., White Cross Line 
of Antwerp. 

The railroad companies connecting Washington and Baltimore and 
New York have also continued their favor of special rates of charges for 
freight. These are the Pennsylvania Eailroad, the Baltimore and Oliio 
Railroad, and the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad. 

Acknowledgments are also due to the foreign ministers and consuls 
of the various Governments for their assistance in taking charge of the 
packages intended for the countries which they respectively represent 
and transmitting them with care to their destination. 



32 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 
Beceipts. 





In 1880. 


In 1881. 


In 1882. 


1. For foreign distribution : 

From Government Departments (packages) 


2,071 
3,156 

8,948 


4,326 

5,436 

3,631 

768 


6,470 
7,056 
5 119 


From Smithsonian Institution .... ...... ...... ...... 


From scientific societies 


From individuals 


647 






2. For home distribution 


14, 175 

6,670 

15,200 


14, 161 

7,890 
15,550 


19,292 

7,187 


3. For Government exchanges 


31,568 






Total receipts, packages 


36,045 


37,551 


58, 047 





Transmissions during the last eight years. 

1. FOREIGN EXCHANGES. 





1875. 


1876. 


1877. 


1878. 


1879. 


1880. 


1881. 


1882. 


Number of boxes 

Bulk, in cubic feet . . . 
Weight, in pounds . . . 


208 

1,513 

45, 300 


323 
2,261 

80, 750 


397 

2,779 

99,250 


309 

2,160 

69,220 


311 

2,177 

69, 975 


268 

1,976 

60, 300 


407 

2,800 

100,750 


422 

2,950 

105,500 



2. DOMESTIC EXCHANGES. 



Total addresses to in- 
stitutions 


329 
281 


310 

328 


392 

374 


392 
370 


444 
341 


385 
560 


600 
454 


548 


Total addresses to in- 
dividuals 


399 






Total number of par- 
cels to institutions . 

Total number of par- 
cels to individuals . 


3,619 
1,042 


3,705 
1,148 


3,868 
1,094 


4,059 
1,233 


5,786 
1,185 


4,021 
1,566 


7,086 
1,347 


7,192 
1,167 


Total number of par- 
cels 


4,661 


4,853 


4,962 


5,292 


6,971 


5,587 


8,433 


8,359 



3. GOVERNMENT EXCHANGES. 



otal number of boxes. 64 122 73 73 67 35 



98 



122 



Foreign institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian Institution. 



Africa ... 
America . 

Asia 

Australia , 



41 
173 

77 
89 



Europe 3,344 

Polvnesia 2 



3,726 





Gomparati 


m table 


of same during the last ten years. 




1873. 


1874. 


1875. 


1876. 


1877. 


1878. 


1879. 


1880. 


1881. 


1882. 


2,145 


2,146 


2,207 


2,275 


2,330 


2, 333 


2,481 


2,602 


2,908 


3,726 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



33 



Government Document Exchange, — In addition to its general function of 
intermediary between the institutions of the New World and the Old, 
the Smithsonian Institution has been for some years the agent of the Gov- 
ernment for the exchange of public documents and other official publi- 
cations, in the interest of the Library of Congress, and under the i)rovis- 
ions of law. By act of Congress, fifty copies of all publications of the 
United States Government, whether ordered for the use of Congress or 
of the Departments, are available for distribution, under the direction 
of the Joint Library Committee of the two houses of Congress, to such 
J'oreign Governments as agree to make a corresponding return. These 
returns, when received, are forwarded directly to the Library of Con- 
gress, without being entered on the records of this Institution. A 
detailed report in an appendix gives all the information ijossessed un- 
der this head, including the aggregate of such distribution, the agencies 
through which it has been effected, and the parties interested in the 
exchange. 

List of Governments to which boxes "16" and "17" were sent in 1882. 



Argeutine Confeder- 


Denmark, 


India. 


Russia. 


ation. 


France. 


Italy. 


South Australia 


Buenos Ayres. 


Germany. 


Japan. 


Spain. 


Bavaria. 


Prussia. 


Mexico. 


Sweden. 


Belgium. 


Saxony. 


Netherlands. 


Switzerland. 


Brazil. 


WiJJtemberg. 


Ne-w South Wales. 


Tasmania. 


Canada. 


Great Britain. 


New Zealand. 


Turkey, 


Ontario. 


Greece. 


Norway. 


Venezuela, 


Cliili. 


Hayti. 


Portugal. 


Victoria. 


Colombia, U. S. of 


Hungary. 


Queensland, 





Colombia, Hungary, and India were furnished with the entire set of 
17 boxes (A to li). France has received 2 sets of all the documents 
except box " 17," of which only one was sent, the practice of sending 
double sets having been discontinued. 



LIBRARY. 

The large increase in the number of books and pamphlets received in 
1881 (the total number amounting to 11,959 pieces) has been well main- 
tained during 1882, by the accession of 11,789 pieces, as detailed in the 
following statement. This, compared with the 8,570 pieces received in 
1880, represents a very gratifying increase. 

As already explained, the books and articles received by the Smith- 
sonian Institution (excepting only such as are needed for immediate 
reference by the specialists of the Institution and National Museum) 
are deposited at once in the Library of Congress, and represent a very 
large i^art of the mass there which is at present calling so earnestly for 
proper accommodation. 

Eeference has been made in a preceding report to the arrangements 
for obtaining a special library for the service of the National Museum; 
H. Mis. 26 3 



34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

the effort being made in all cases to secure duplicate copies of the trans- 
actions, monographs, &c.; one to be transferred to the Library of Con- 
gress, the other to be placed in the library in question. 

The report of Mr. True, in charge of the National Museum Library, 
shows a stock of nearly 10,000 volumes and pamphlets; nearly all du- 
plicates, as already explained, with the exception of certain works pre- 
sented by myself. In the increasing amount of routine work with which 
I am charged in the several capacities of Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution, Director of the National Museum, and Commissioner of 
Fish and Fisheries, it has become entirely out of the question to con- 
tinue those special researches in zoology, to which I devoted so much 
time in the early years of my connection with the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, and for which I had accumulated, at my own expense, a large 
number of important works. These I have now formally presented to 
the Library of the National Museum, feeling assured that they will do 
the most good in that connection. 

The most important source of supply to the Library of the National 
Museum consists in the direct exchanges of publications for those of 
foreign museums, and of scientific societies, and of specialists in natu- 
ral history. Little, if anything, however, comes in not obtained under 
similar circumstances by the exchanges of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Under the regulations of the Museum, the curators in charge of special 
divisions are permitted to withdraw from the central library all works 
relating exclusively to the departments of which they have charge. 
Mixed works, however, or those covering the scope of at least two or 
more divisions, are retained in the central library; a record of the 
transfer being kept in the central oflliee, so that an applicant for a par- 
ticular book can be directed to the office where it is to be found. 

It is very desirable that some arrangement be made by which a rec- 
ord of all books in the various public libraries in Washington can be 
kept in some central office; so that a person wishing to refer to a par- 
ticular title may have the means of knowing whether it is in the city, 
and which of several depositories may be the most convenient to him. 
This can best be done through the natural center of reference — the 
Library of Congress. 

If a law were passed making it obligatory upon the librarians of the 
various Departments, Bureaus, &c., to i^repare card catalogues accord- 
ing to the rules of the Congressional Library, and to deposit therein a 
duplicate set, they could be then collectively arranged in proper alpha- 
betical or systematic sequence, and be available for the objects in ques- 
tion. Of course this would involve a considerable amount of clerical 
labor, but a moderate appropriation might be made to meet it at the 
outset; after which the annual accretions of the libraries could easily be 
recorded without extra expense. 

The following is a statement of books, pamphlets, maps, and charts 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



35 



received by tlie Smithsonian Institution during the year 1882, and trans- 
ferred to the Library of Congress or to that of the National Museum: 



Vohimes : 

Octavo or smaller 993 

Quarto or larger 303 

Parts of volumes : 

Octavo or smaller 3, 005 

Quarto or larger - • - 5, 034 

Pamphlets : 

Octavo or smaller ■ 1> 932 

Quarto or larger 370 



Maps and charts 



1,296 



8,039 



2,302 
152 



Total 11,789 

Totals received for the last ten years. 



1873. 
1874. 
1875. 
1876. 
1877 



5,697 
5,546 
7,047 

7, 585 
8,726 



1878 -.. 8,729 

1879.. 10,203 

1880 8,570 

1881 11,959 

1882 11, 789 



It should be mentioned that the Secretary of the Interior has granted 
to employes of the National Museum the use of the library of his De- 
partment on Mondays between 2 and 4 o'clock p. m. 

NECROLOGY. 

I have to record the lamented death of Mrs. Harriet A. Henry, 
widow of Professor Henry, which took place in this city on the 25th of 
last March. This estimable lady, a native of Schenectady, N. T., whose 
maiden name was Harriet L. Alexander, was married to Prof. Joseph 
Henry, at Albany, N. Y., in May, 1830. For forty-eight years she en- 
joyed a happy domestic life, respected and beloved by all who knew 
her. The death of her honored husband in 1878 was a severe blow, 
from which she never fully recovered. 

The melancholy duty devolves upon me of announcing the death 
of two employes of the Smithsonian Institution during the past year. 
The two whose loss I have to record are Dr. George W. Hawes, curator 
of the department of mineralogy and economic geology in the National 
Museum, who died on the 22d of June, 1882; and Mr. Joseph B. Her- 
ron, janitor of the Eational Museum, who died on the 9th of April, 
1882. 

The following sketch of the life and scientific labors of Dr. Hawes 
has been prepared by Mr. F. P. Dewey, curator of metallurgy in the 
National Museum : 



36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

"George Wesson Hawes, son of Eev. Alfred Hawes and Clarissa 
P, Partridge, vvas born December 31, 1849, at Marion, Ind., where bis 
father was engaged in missionary labor. But a small portion of his 
life, however, was spent in his native place, as both his parents died 
when he was quite young, in consequence of which the family was 
broken up, and he removed to Worcester, Mass., where he was taken 
care of and brought up by kind friends. His early education and prep- 
aration for the Sheffield Scientific School was obtained in the public 
schools of Worcester. In 1865 he became a member of the Sheffield Sci- 
entific School at New Haven, where he remained two years, at the end of 
which time he went to Boston to go into business. Business life, how- 
ever, did not at all suit him, as his natural love for science and investi- 
gation and the acquirement of knowledge for its own sake was unusually 
strong, so that, despite a very flattering ofler to remain in Boston, in 
1871 he returned to New Haven, and graduated from the Sheffield 
Scientific School in 1872.* The year after graduation he was Prof. S. 
W. Johnson's private assistant in his laboratory at ISTew Haven. At 
the beginning of the college year 1873, he became assistant to Prof. 
Geo. J. Brush, and instructor in mineralogy and blowpipe in the Shef- 
field Scientific School, a position which he filled very successfully and 
uninterruptedly until 1878, and with some intermissions until the end 
of 1880. His duties in this position were very congenial to his tastes 
and allowed him to devote considerable time to his favorite studies 
and lay a permanent foundation for his after work. It was during the 
early portion of this period that microscopic lithology began to come 
into prominence, and he was among the first in this country to study 
that subject carefully and thoroughly, and so impressed was he with its 
possibilities that he made it his specialty and during the remainder of 
his life gave it his best efforts, doing all in his power to aid in its devel- 
opment. He was so successful that at the time of his death he was the 
recognized authority upon the subject in this country. In the spring 
of 1878, he went abroad and spent the summer semester at Breslau, 
under Prof. A. Von Laslaux, studying chiefly microscopic lithology. The 
winter of 1878-'79 was spent at New Haven, and in the spring of 1879 
he again went abroad and remained until June, 1880. During this visit 
he divided his time between mineralogy and crystallography at Bonn, 
with Professor Ycm Eath, and lithology at Heidelberg, with Professor 
Eosenbusch, from whom he won golden opinions. Before returning he 
took the degree of Doctor of Philosophy at the latter university. The 
remainder of 1880 was spent at New Haven, but at the end of November 
he was appointed a special agent of the tenth census to investigate the 
quarry industry of the United States, and on the 1st of January, 1881, 
curator of the geological department in the National Museum, which 
occasioned his removal to Washington, D. C. 

* The summer of 1872 was passed at Eastport, Maine, one of the party of the 
United States Fish Commission, then prosecuting its fishery investigations in the 
waters of the Bay of Fundy. 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37 

'fUp to this time his life, although quite prolific in results, had been 
mainly one of study and preparation, and very few, indeed, of his age 
could be found so well prepared to undertake extensive and far-reaching 
investigations. Upon coming to Washington the investigation of the 
quarry industries of the country, which was undertaken under the joint 
auspices of the Smithsonian Institution and the census, opened up a 
broad and almost unoccupied field for his activities, and he undertook it 
with all the earnestness and zest of one well prepared and confident of 
accomplishing much good in the increase of knowledge. The plan of this 
work as laid out by Dr. Hawes was very broad and comprehensive in its 
scope. Besides the collection, arrangement, and study of the statistics 
of the industries, it included the study and description of the occurrence 
and preparation of building stones; the collection of specimens from all 
the regions of production which, when properly dressed, should form a 
graphic representation of the natural materials of construction of the 
whole country; the thorough examination of these specimens microscop- 
ically, chemically and physically ; and, in fact, the thorough and com- 
plete study of the subject in all its branches ; so that had he lived to 
complete the work there can be no doubt that it would have been very 
fruitful of good results. His earnestness and zeal, however, led him to 
overtax himself, and it was not long before it became evident to his 
friends, although not to himself, that his health was being seriously 
undermined ; but near the end of the year even he became alarmed at 
the evident signs of consumption that had developed themselves, and 
he decided to take a respite from active work, which he did by a trip to 
Bermuda. This, however, failed to afford any relief, and he gradually 
sank after his return, until finally, as a last resort, he went to Colorado. 
But the disease was too far advanced to be checked, and he lived but a 
short time after his arrival in Colorado. The final dissolution came 
rather suddenly, as up to the day before his death he was able to be up 
and dressed and about the house. His remains were interred at Wor- 
cester, Mass., June 28. 

" The removal of one so well prepared and adapted to undertake exten- 
sive investigations is a great loss to the world of science. Had he lived 
there can be no doubt that he would have reached many valuable re- 
sults, and his untimely death was sadly deplored by all who knew him. 
Dr. Hawes's contributions to science were mainly in the line of his spec- 
ialty — microscopic lithology — and consist of some twenty articles pub- 
lished in the American Journal of Science ; three in the Proceedings of 
the National Museum ; an annual report upon geology and mineralogy 
in the Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for ] 880, and part lY 
of Volume III of the Report of the Geological Survey of New Hamp- 
shire, entitled the ' Mineralogy and Lithology of New Hampshire '. The 
latter covers 251 pages quarto, embellished by twelve plates, and is his 
mostvaluable and important completed work. It includes the results of 
the examination of between two and three hundred thin sections of rocks, 



38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Bome of which were very important and instructive. This report embodies 
the results of much field work ; containing much careful, honest labor 
and establishing the author's reijutation as a microscopic lithologist, 
which was afterwards strengthened by further studies under Professor 
Eosenbusch. Of the results achieved by Dr. Hawes in the examination 
of the building stones of the country little can be said, as it was a work 
of great magnitude, requiring a great deal of care and exertion for its 
proper inauguration, and he had barely gotten the investigation into 
good working condition when he was obliged to abandon its j)rosecu- 
tion, much against his will. Personally, Dr. Hawes was a very pleasant 
and genial man, and possessed a remarkable faculty of making warm 
friends wherever he went. Although his immediate family relatives 
were few in number and widely scattered, his death was mourned by 
a large number who had been won to him by the sterling qualities of his 
character, his truth, i)urity, unselfishness, and earnestness. The writer 
had the pleasure of being one of his first students in blowpiping and 
also of being associated with him in his work upon the building stones, 
and is abundantly able to speak of the nobleness of his character, and 
thus to bear testimony to the warm regard in which he held him." 

Joseph B. Hebron, a native of the State of Ohio, was born Au- 
gust 7, 1839, at New Cumberland, Tuscarawas County. He was en- 
gaged in the military service of his country at the period of the late 
civil war, having enlisted in 1862, in the 98th Eegiment of Ohio Volun- 
teers, at the age of 23 years. 

It was but a few months after his enrollment in the national defense 
that he took part in the battle of Perry ville, Ky., on which occasion he 
received a bullet wound through his body, the ball entering the chest 
on the left side, passing through his lung obliquely, narrowly escaping 
the heart, and out at his back on the right side of the spinal column, 
near the right shoulder blade. He unfortunately lay on the battle-field 
from Wednesday until Saturday before receiving any medical attendance. 
From the effects of this severe and dangerous wound he never fully 
recovered. He was, however, restored to a moderate degree of health 
and strength, and was able to attend to light duties. 

In 1866, on the recommendation of General J. A. Garfield and Gen- 
eral E. E. Eckley, he was appointed by Professor Henry janitor of the 
Museum at the Smithsonian Institution,, which position he held until 
his death. He was always gentle and courteous in his deportment; and 
though the injury to his lungs incapacitated him for exerting any 
special activity, or any great physical effort, he was always punctual 
and attentive to his duties. He was a member of the Society of the 
"Army of the Cumberland," and of the " Grand Army of the Eepublic." 
He was one of the Guards of Honor to the remains of President Garfield 
while they lay at the Capitol in Washington, and accompanied the 
funeral of the deceased President from this city to Cleveland. In these 
exertions he probably overtasked his strength ; for on returning to 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39' 

this city from the state funeral, he went into a somewhat rapid decline, 
and though able to walk about his house to the last day of his hfe, he 
died rather suddenly of pulmonary consumption at his residence in 
Washington, on Sunday morning, April 9th at 7 o'clock, at the age of 
43 years, after a service in this Institution of sixteen years. 

One of the collaborators- of the Institution, whose death we have to 
denlore is Lewis H. Morgan, author of a very original and elaborate 
^^Smithsonian Contribution to Knowledge." He was born in Aurora, 
Cayuga County, New York, November 21, 1818, and died at Eochester, 
N Y^ December 17, 1881. His first communication, pubhshed by the 
Institution, was a short paper comprising "Suggestions relative to an 
Ethnological Map of North America," which appeared m the Smithson- 
ian Eeport for 1861. Devoting himself to the study of anthropology, 
he published various treatises in relation to the North American Indians. 
His most important work is a discussion of " Systems of Consanguinity 
and Affinity of the Human Family," a large quarto of 616 pages, which 
forms Volume XVII of the "Smithsonian Contributions," pubhshed in 
1869 His last work, entitled " Houses and Home life of the American 
Aborigines," forms Volume IV of the Contributions to American Eth- 
nology. 

It is also my painful duty to announce the death of another esteemed 
collaborator and eminent man of science. Dr. Henry Draper, of New 
York a son of the distinguished philosopher. Dr. John Draper, and a 
member of the National Academy of Sciences. He was born m Vir^ 
ginia, May 7, 1837, and died in New York, November 20, 1882, at the 
ac^e of 45 years, in the prime of his mental activity and usefulness. He 
dbtinguished himself by his original researches in astronomy, chem- 
istry, and in celestial photography. In recognition of his valuable 
work in connection with the transit of Venus in 1874 a gokl medal 
was struck in his honor, by order of Congress, at the Philadelphia mint. 
Perhaps his most celebrated work was the difficult discovery, m 1877, 

of oxvsren in the sun. . , . j 

Like most original investigators he was a skillful mampnlator and 
artisan. He prepared for the Institution in 1864 a memoir " On the 
construction of a silvered glass telescope, fifteen and a halt inches in 
aperture, and its use in celestial photography," which was published 
Tthe "Smithsonian Contributions," Vol. XIV. This work has been 
very popular, and is recognized as the standard authority on the sub- 
iect. The demand for it has been constant, and still continues. 

In the death of Joseph Duncan Putnam, president of the Davenport 
Academy of Sciences, and one of the correspondents of the Institution, 
December, 10, 1881, a great loss has been sustained by the workers in 
natural Mstory and anthropology, particularly in the ^^^tern part of 
our country. He was a valued correspondent of the Institution and 



40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

devoted himself untiringly and unselfisbly to the advance of science 
and the elevation of public sentiment in regard to abstract research. 

In the death of Don Francisco Sumichrast, of Tonali, Mexico, on 
the 26th December, the Institution lost one of its oldest and most valued 
correspondents outside of the United States. 

This gentleman (a Swiss by birth) was occupied for many years in a 
close and critical study of the natural history of Mexico; the stations 
occupied by him being Orizaba, Tuchitan, Tonala, &g.; the Isthmus of 
Tehuan tepee having received special attention from him. 

The numerous contributions of specimens of natural history of the 
country, with notes upon their habits and characteristics, especially 
birds, mammals, and reptiles, have given to the National Museum a 
large material, and enabled the Institution to publish a number of ex- 
tremely valuable memoirs. One of these was edited by Dr. Thomas M. 
Brewer, and another by Mr. George 1:^. Lawrence, of New York. 

It is proper to state that all the assistance rendered by Professor 
Sumichrast to the Institution was done without any compensation 
whatever, and solely for the sake of securing a prompt and complete 
knowledge of the natural history of his adopted country. 

miscellaneous. 

The Mercer Bequest. — Among various noteworthy items in connection 
with the history of the Smithsonian Institution during the year 1883, 
may be mentioned the circumstance of its being made a copartner in 
the administration of a beneficiary trust, by Eev. Dr. Mercer, of New- 
port, R. I. That gentleman, dying on the 3d day of November, 1882, 
left quite a large property, a portion of which was to be paid directly to 
certain specified heirs, and the interest on the remainder to be given 
to persons mentioned during their lifetime. After the decease of these 
beneficiaries, the property was to be divided into three parts; of which 
one-third was to be administered by a Board, consisting of Harvard 
College, Tale College, and the Smithsonian Institution; together with 
three individuals mentioned, or their survivors, to establish scholar- 
ships in some institution for the education of deserving and needy young 
men. Although the money cannot be used directly by the Smithsonian 
Institution, yet there seems to be no impropriety in accepting the trust 
under the conditions named. It is not likely, however, that any occa- 
sion for administering it will arise for probably a quarter of a century 
to come. 

In the history of the Institution thus far three bequests have been 
made to it. The first was that of the residuary legateeship of the prop- 
erty belonging to Mr. Wynne, who died in Brooklyn, N. Y., the estate 
being valued at the time at from $50,000 to $G0,000. As, however, the 
daughter married, and is, as far as known, still living, with a large 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41 

family of children and grandchildren, the chances of an inheritance by 
the Smithsonian Institution are practically none. 

The next bequest was that of $1,000, made by Mr. James Hamilton, 
of Carlisle; and the third and last, by Dr. Habel, amounting, with a 
small addition made from the income of the Smithsonian Institution, 
to $500 ; or $1,500, the two combined. 

These two sums have been, in accordance with the law, paid into the 
Treasury of the United States, as an addition to the i)rincipal. 

The endowment of the Smithsonian Institution, at the present time, 
amounts to $703,000, deposited in the United States Treasury, and it is 
authorized to increase this amount to $1,000,000. A large part of the 
expenses of the Institution consists in what may be called statical items, 
such as salaries, repairs of building, &c. ; and it is very evident that 
the amount available for active operations is not at all represented by 
the annual income of the fund. It is quite probable that the increase of 
the endowment by 40 or 50 per cent, would permit the Institution nearly 
to double the work accomplished, as it would require no increase of 
force or incidental expenditure. 

Naval Cadets. — In- the American naval service, the cadets start with 
four years' study in the Naval Academy at Annapolis. They are then 
sent to sea for two years, and do not obtain the rank of midshipman 
until they have passed an examination at the end of this period, or of 
six years after their entrance. They are then sent to sea again, or 
placed on waiting orders. 

About a year ago the Navy Department made inquiry of the Smith- 
sonian Institution as to its willingness to receive six recently appointed 
midshipmen, and assign them to some duty in the Institution or National 
Museum that would enable them to take advantage of any opportuni- 
ties they might have for natural-history research during their future 
cruises, with the understanding that they were to be treated in every 
way as regular employes of the Institution, and required to do regular 
work. 

The proposition was responded to favorably and the six cadets were 
assigned respectively to the curators of Ichthyology, Marine Inverte- 
brates, Ethnology, Paleontology, Geology, and Mineralogy. The expe- 
riment, somewhat unexpectedly, has proved to be a very great success. 
The young gentlemen devoted themselves earnestly to their work, and 
became quite proficient in it. 

A course of special instruction was given in regard to the taxidermy 
of mammals and birds, which all the midshipmen attended with great 
diligence, becoming quite expert in the preparation of skeletons and 
in making excellent skins of mammals and birds. 

The two assigned to ichthyology and mariue invertebrates were de- 
tailed for service on board the Fish Commission steamer "Fish Hawk," 
where they had ample opportunity of becoming familiar with collecting 



42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

at sea ; as also with the methods and apiiliances of deep-sea dredging, 
temperature observations, &c., all, of course, directly in the line of their 
future vocation. 

The other four accompanied one or the other of Professor Powell's 
parties into the Far West, and have had every opportunity for field work. 

The results of this experiinent were so satisfactory that six more mid- 
shipmen have been detailed to the Institution, the first six to continue 
another year, making the entire course one of two years. 

The selections for this detail are made by the l^avy Department after 
conference with the Superintendent of the Naval Academy, from among 
those who, while pursuing their educational course, have shown most 
interest in scientific matters. 

The measure is extremely popular among the younger officers, although 
of course it is decried by others, who consider it an innovation in the 
established routine. 

One-special object of the experiment is to have, as a part of the regu- 
lar force of the l!*ravy, officers competent to do the scientific work for 
which it has generally been necessary to employ civilians, as also on 
any cruise to be able to utilize, to some extent at least, the opportunities 
of research which constantly present themselves to the inquirer. 

The following is an account of the work accomplished by these young 
officers, now recognized by law as "Ensigns": 

Of the class of '79, six were ordered to the Institution early in Janu- 
ary, 1882. 

Ensign E. JS. Miner chose ichthyology, made a summer cruise on 
the " Fish Hawk," resumed his studies in the fall, and was detached in 
December and ordered to the Fish Commission steamer "- Albatross." 

jE7. U. Rayden chose mineralogy, went on the U. S. Geological Sur- 
vey to Nevada, and in the winter took up the study of fossil botany. 

R. 8. Chase chose mineralogy, went on a geological expedition to 
Montana in the summer, and is now studying the same branch. 

L. M. Garret chose geology, was in Montana in the summer, and 
has resumed the same branch. 

G. G. Marsh chose ethnology, went on an ethnological exi)edition to 
Moquis, Ariz., in the summer, and has since taken up fossil botany. 

J. B. Blish chose marine invertebrates, went on the "Fish Hawk" 
in the summer, resumed the same branch in the fall, and was lately 
detached at his own request and ordered to the " Jamestown." 

Of the class of '80, six were detailed last fall. 

R. G. Dresel is studying ichthyology. 

J. B. Bernadou is engaged in the chemical laboratory in quantitative 
and qualitative analysis and assaying. 

A. A. AcJcerman is studying mineralogy. 

A. P. Niblack is studying ethnology. 

B. Wilkinson has chosen mineralogy. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43 

W. E. Safford has chosen marine invertebrates. 

Each one is engaged in the practical work of the respective depart- 
meuts in identifying, and classifying, as far as able, the collections 
received from various sources. 

Special Objects received. — Among the articles received during the year 
may be mentioned a lock of Sir Walter Scott's hair presented by Hon. 
George Ainslee, Delegate in Congress from Idaho, whose father was a 
neighbor and friend of Scott. The presentation was made through one 
of our regents, Hon. S. S. Cox. 

A fine large specimen of agate, found off Keweenaw Point, in Lake 
Michigan, near Manitou Island (which lies off the shores of ISTortheru 
Michigan) by S. H. Broughton, has been received by the Institution. It 
was left to the Smithsonian Institution by bequest of the late Mrs. 
Broughton, and was deposited by J. P. Newland, executor of Mrs. 
Broughton's will. 

Set of United States Weights and Measures. — By act of Congress, March 
3, 1881, the Secretary of the Treasury was directed to deliver to the . 
Smithsonian Institution a complete set of all the weights and measures 
adopted as standard by the United States Government. 

Naval Museum of Hygiene. — Congress having established a " Naval 
Museum of Hygiene" in connection with the Bureau of Medicine and 
Surgery of the Navy Department, we have, in accordance with the prin- 
ciple of co-operation adopted by the Institution, placed in its custody 
a large exhibit of tile and terra-cotta pipe, for sewers and traps, and 
other articles having sanitary relations. 

Manuscript Declaration of Independence. — In the report for 1880 refer- 
ence was made to the appointment of a commission, of which the Secre- 
tary of the Institution was one, to consider the restoration of the faded 
and now nearly illegible manuscript of the original Declaration of 
Independence. The subject was referred to the National Academy of 
Sciences, and 9, report was made by a special committee on the 17th 
January, 1881. Nothing however, has been done in regard to the 
matter. 

Pealeh Portrait of Washington. — In the last report of the Institution 
it was stated that a claim had been made by Mr. Titian E. Peale for a 
portrait of Washington painted by his father, Charles Wilson Peale, on 
deposit in this establishment. This claim was originally made in 1871. 
In 1873 the executive committee reported adversely to the claim, on 
the ground that sufiQcient proof of ownership of the portrait had not 
been presented. 

During the last session of Congress, however, the matter was taken 
up and investigated, and as the contesting claimants made a compromise 
the portrait was finally purchased by the Library Committee of Con- 
gress, and it is now the property of the United States. 



44 KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



NATIOiTAL MUSEUM. 

The work of organization of the departments of the Museum has been 
carried on vigorously during the past year. For a full account of all 
its operations I would refer to the report of Mr. G. Brown Goode, the 
assistant director, given in the ai)pendix to this report. The fullness 
of this account seems to render any resumS of the operations and present 
condition of the Museum unnecessary here. 

BUEEAU OF ETHNOLOGY. 

The appropriation made by Congress for the prosecution of ethnolog- 
ical researches among the North American Indians, under the direction 
of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, was continued, and the 
work remained in charge of Maj. J. W. Powell. 

Field Work. — A large amount of field work was accomplished during 
the year. The general excavation of mounds was placed in the charge 
of Prof. Cyrus Thomas, with several assistants, through whose exertions 
large collections were made, chiefly in the Mississippi Valley. 

Dr. Edward Palmer has continued his explorations in Tennessee and 
in Arkansas along the Mississippi, White, and Arkansas Eivers. A 
short time was devoted to examination of the mounds and other works 
in Southwestern Indiana. 

Mr. F. S. Earle was engaged a short time in examining and locating 
the mound groups of Southeast Missouri, and in opening mounds and 
stone graves in Southern Illinois. 

Mr. James D. Middleton, after Mr. Earle withdrew, continued the 
work in Southern Illinois until stopped by the cold, when he was trans 
ferred to the South, and is now in Alabama. 

Col. P. W. Norris entered upon the work in August, his field of labor 
being the west bank of the Mississippi, from Dubuque, Iowa, to the Ar- 
kansas line. 

Hon. William M. Adams has been engaged to work up the mounds 
in Madison County, Illinois, including the Cahokia group. He had 
already completed the map of them and commenced opening them when 
the cold weather stopped him. 

The result of operations so far may be summed up briefly as follows : 

A very good and valuable collection, almost exclusively of mound 
relics, consisting of pottery, stone implements, clay and stone images, 
clay and stone pipes, plates of mica, gorgets, shell ornaments, engraved 
shells, fragments of copper ornaments, fragments of wooden ornaments, 
fragments of matting, pieces of burned clay which have been stamped, 
an ancient Catholic medal of brass, a brass Chinese medal or coin (the 
two latter are surface finds, the first found on a mound in Southern 
Illinois, the other on the site of an old French fort in Arkansas), quite 
a number of crania and tibiae. The collection of pottery is quite large 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45 

and includes representatives of all the types hitherto found in the 
mounds except one of Ohio and one of Iowa. 

The most important results appertain to the mounds and works them- 
selves. The statement in the Smithsonian Report of 1872 in reference 
to the Elephant mound is confirmed; the Seltzertown mound is proven 
to be a myth; at least no sign of it could be found on examination. 

The mounds and graves on the Wabash are found to be, to a con- 
siderable extent, of Indian origin, and comparatively modern, as shown 
by the articles of European manufacture found in them and by the 
mode of burial. 

Dr. Palmer had with him for a month an excellent artist who has 
furnished a number of very valuable drawings of mounds and other 
works. From these it is noticed that the mounds of Arkansas are in 
many cases quite large and of the truncated pyramidal form, often ter- 
raced. Artificial canals and lakes, such as described by Garcilasso and 
the Gentleman of Divas, are found in Northeastern Arkansas. Sfeveral 
of the hard clay floors of the large houses of the aborigines, as described 
by Le Tonti, Joutel, and others, have been found in the very section 
visited by these travelers. 

An inclosure of considerable size, including mounds and house sites, 
precisely such, even to minute details, as that examined by Professor 
Putnam, near Lebanon, Tenn., has been discovered in Southern Illi- 
nois. 

On the whole, the results, considering the time the parties have been 
at work, are very satisfactory, and will have a very important bearing 
on the question. Who were the mound builders, and what is the age 
of the mounds 1 

Professor Thomas made an examination of some groups of mounds in 
Southern Illinois and Southeastern Missouri. 

Further successful explorations were conducted in New Mexico and 
Arizona, under the immediate superintendence of Mr. James Steven- 
son. Mr. Victor Mindeleff was in charge of a party which made ex- 
tensive collections in the province of Tusayan, in Arizona, supple- 
menting the large collections obtainei I in previous years from twenty 
or more pueblos in New Mexico. The collections obtained by these 
expeditions have been deposited, with proper arrangement, in the Na- 
tional Museum, and have been catalogued and described. The field 
work, with special reference to linguistic research, has been performed 
by Mr. James C. Pilling, who visited several missions along the St. 
Lawrence and Ottawa Elvers, examining many manuscripts and pro- 
curing numerous titles in connection with linguistic bibliography ; by 
Mrs. Erminnie A. Smith, who continued studies on the Iroquoian dialects 
at St. Kegis, Caughnanaga, &c. ; by Mr. A. S. Gatschet, who, among the 
Shetimasha and other tribes in Louisiana, and by Eev. J. Owen Dorsey, 
who, among the Kansas in Indian Territory, studied the respective lan- 
guages. 



46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The visitors to the three last-named regions also pursued other 
branches of ethnic research, including social organization, traditions, 
and customs ; and Dr. W. J. Hoffman was engaged in investigations 
in gesture language and jDictographs among the several Indian tribes 
of California and Western Nevada. The highly valued researches of 
Mr. r. H. Gushing among the ZuGi pueblos have been continued, sev- 
eral months of the year, however, being occupied by his conducting a 
delegation of six of those Indians to the East, a course which was im- 
portant to his further success. 

Publications. — Several publications have been issued by the Bureau 
during the year, as follows : 

The First Annual Eeport, embracing the fiscal year 1879-'80, the con- 
tents being : On the evolution of language, by J. W. Powell 5 Sketch of 
the mythology of the IS'orth American Indians, by J. W. Powell ; Wy- 
andot government, by J. W. Powell ; On limitations to the use of some 
antliFopologic data, by J. W. Powell ; a further contribution to the 
study of the mortuary customs of the North American Indians, by Dr. 
H. 0. Yarrow ; Studies in Central American picture writing, by Prof. 
E. S. Holden ; Cessions of land by Indian tribes to the United States, 
by C. C. Royce; Sign language among North American Indians, by 
Col. Garrick Mallery ; Catalogue of linguistic manuscrii)ts in the library 
of the Bureau of Ethnology, by J. C. Pilling ; Illustration of the method 
of recording Indian languages, from the manuscripts of Messrs. J. 
O. Dorsey, A. S. Gatschet, and S. E. Eiggs. 

Vol. lY, Contributions to North American Ethnology, containing: 
Houses and house-life of the American aborigines, by Lewis H. Mor- 
gan. 

Vol. V, Contributions to North American Ethnology, containing: 
Observations on cup-shaped and other lapidarian sculpture in the Old 
World and in America, by Charles Eau; On prehistoric trephining and 
cranial amulets, by Dr. Eobert Fletcher, U. S. A. ; A study of the man- 
uscript Troano, by Cyrus Thomas, with an introduction by Dr. D. G-. 
Brinton. 

The papers prepared for the press and in whole or part printed dur- 
ing the year, though not issued therein, are as follows : 

To appear in the Second Annual Eeport : Myths of the Iroquois, by 
Erminnie A. Smith ; Animal carvings from the mounds of the Missis- 
sippi Valley, by Henry W. Henshaw; Navajo silversmiths, by Dr. 
Washington Matthews, U. S. A. ; Art in shell of the ancient Ameri- 
cans, by William H. Holmes ; Illustrated Catalogue of the collections 
obtained from the Indians of New Mexico and Arizona in 1879, by 
James Stevenson ; Illustrated catalogue of the collections obtained 
from the Indians of New Mexico in 1880, by James Stevenson. 

About 500 pages were put in type of Mr. James C. Filling's Biblio- 
graphy of American linguistics, containing many fac-similes of titles, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47 

syllabaries, &c. Part 1 of Vol. II of Contributions to North American 
Ethnology, consisting of the Klamath-English dictionary, by Mr. A. S. 
Gatschet, with grammatical notes, was put in type ; also over 500 pages 
of Eev. J. Owen Dorsey's (j'egiha language, and 400 pages of Eev. S. 
D. Eiggs' Grammar and dictionary of the Dakota language, which will 
appear in Volumes 6 (in three parts) and 7 (in two i)arts) of the last- 
mentioned series. 

The papers prepared and intended for the Third Annual Eeport are 
as follows: Introduction to the study of tribe government, by J. W. 
Powell, as an introduction to the three following papers, viz : The Mus- 
koki confederacy, by J. W. Powell j The government of the Omahas, by 
Rev. J. Owen Dorsey ; and the government of the Zuiiis, by F. H. Gush- 
ing ; Introduction to the study of pictographs, by Col. Garrick Mallery ; 
On certain Maya and Mexican MSS., by Prof. Cyrus Thomas ; The art 
of weaving among the Navajos, by Dr. Washington Matthews, U. S. A. ; 
An illustrated catalogue, by W. H. Holmes, of Mr. James Stevenson's 
collection from Zuui and Walpi ; and two other miscellaneous collec- 
tions. Mr. Gatschet has also furnished a paper on the chief deities of 
the American Indians. 

Work not yet sufficiently complete for immediate publication has 
been continued by Mr. Gatschet in the synonymy of the tribes of North 
America; by him and Colonel Mallery, on an ethnographic chart of the 
distribution of those tribes when first met by Europeans; by Mrs. Er- 
minnie A. Smith, on a vocabulary and grammar of several Iroquoian dia- 
lects; by Mr. H. W. Henshaw, on Indian industries; by Dr. H. C. Yar- 
row in completion of his monograph on Mortuary Observances; and by 
Prof. O. T. Mason, on Indian industries. Colonel Mallery has been en- 
gaged in comiDleting a monograph on sign language, and collecting the 
materials for another on pictograi:>hs, these two closely connected subjects 
comprising the direct visible expression of ideas, of which the signs are 
transient and the pictographs the ijermanent expressions. Mr. Victor 
Mindeleff prepared a relief model of the pueblo of Zuili, on the scale 
of one (1) inch to five (5) feet, which is now in the National Museum 
and is an object of great interest. 

During the year many linguistic MSS. were received from various 
collectors. 

UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SUEVEY. 

In accordance with the practice of the Institution to supply an an- 
nual account of the work of the United States Geological Survey, the 
following brief summary, is given, furnished by the courtesy of its 
Director, Maj. J. W. Powell: 

Of the three phases which the field work of the Survey assumes, 
the collection of representative rocks, minerals, and fossils is more 
directly and manifestly contributory to the Institution and the Museum 



48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

under its care, thau the topograpliic and stratigraphic work ; but the 
wliole possesses interest as being part of a common endeavor to develop 
and disseminate scientific truth. 

Among the operations of the Survey that may be cited in this cou- 
neetion are the following: 

Field studies upon the much discussed Laramie group have been 
prosecuted in Eastern Montana and Northeastern Dakota, covering 
particularly a belt of about 80 miles along the Upper Missouri, and up- 
wards of 100 miles adjacent to the Yellowstone, resulting in large col- 
lections and important stratigraphic data. Similar combined strati- 
graphic and paleontologic investigations have been in progress upon 
the paleozoic series of the Eureka and Pine River districts of Kevada, 
with a view to the more certain determination of the stratigraphy of 
those important mining regions. The exploration of the interesting 
ancient lake deposits of the Great Basin has been continued, the silts 
of the ancient Lake Lahontan being the special subject of study. The 
Permian and Carboniferous strata of Northern Arizona, in the vicinity 
of Kanab, have been further examined, and important collections made 
from them. 

One of the more significant subjects of exploration was furnished by 
the Grand Caiion group, an immense series of 12,000 feet thickness, 
now demonstrated to lie between the upper Cambrian and the crystal- 
line Archaean rocks. Beside critical stratigraphic work, a large collec- 
tion, involving a problematic organic form, was made, which yet awaits 
exhaustive study. The investigations in the great mining districts of 
Colorado and Nevada have been continued, with a view to supplement- 
ing and perfecting the data previously gathered and the extension of the 
work to new ground. 

Investigations have likewise been in progress upon the great metal- 
liferous series of the Lake Superior region, including the practical com- 
pletion of the work upon the copper-bearing formation, as at present 
planned, and the commencement of that upon the iron-bearing series. 

In the interior basin, a special study of the great moraines that mark 
the limit of the second glacial advance, and constitute datum lines 
of great importance in glacial studies, has been in progress, and 
about 3,000 miles of an essentially continuous morainic chain are now 
mapped. 

In addition to these more comprehensive studies, special collectors 
have been in the field, gathering fossils from localities of exceptional 
richness, or from critical and decisive horizons. Among these have 
been the collections of Tertiary fossils, especially vertebrates, trom 
Oregon, and of Jurassic and Eocene remains from Wyoming. A special 
effort has also been made to secure a full representative collection from 
the marine Tertiary beds of the Lower Mississippi Valley. 

Triangulation and topographic work, preparatory to geologic inves- 
tigation, has been prosecuted in the quicksilver districts of New Alma-^ 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49 

den, New Idria, Knoxville, and Sulphur Bank, California, and also in 
the northern part of that State. Similar work has been done in West- 
ern Kew Mexico, in Southern Montana, in Central Colorado, in Western 
and Northwestern N'evada, and in the Appalachian region. In the last 
district, portions of Southwestern Virginia, Eastern Kentucky, Western 
North Carolina, and Eastern Tennessee have been covered by primary 
triangulation and topographic contours. 

Some minor investigations have received attention, and an unusual 
amount of office and laboratory work, upon previously gathered material 
and in preporation for further studies, has been in progress. 

UNITED STATES FISH COMMISSION. 

General Object and Rcstilts. — Twelve years ago the United States 
Fish Commission was established by law of Congress, and under a pro- 
vision authorizing the President to select a Commissioner from among 
the civilian employes of the Government, to serve without additional 
pay, I was chosen and have continued to hold the position ever since. 
The work, commencing on a very small scale in the year mentioned, 
has broadened until it has now become the most important and ex- 
tensive of its kind in the world; and it is hoped that the practical 
results gained have vindicated the propriety of the initial experiment 
as well as of continuing the work to such a period of time as the case 
may require. 

First as Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and then 
as its Secretary, it has been my duty to show to the Board of Regents 
the occasion and reason for the occupation of a considerable portion of 
my time, and thus to add not an uninteresting chapter to the report of 
the Smithsonian Institution. 

A detailed report of the doings of the Commission is published an- 
nually by order of Congress; that of each year constituting a vol- 
ume of nearly one thousand pages, with a considerable number of illus- 
trations. In addition to this a Bulletin of the Fish Commission has 
been authorized by Congress, to contain short articles of information 
and instruction in reference to matters of fish culture and the fisheries. 
This is restricted to five hundred pages annually ; and this, with the 
annual report, forms an annual contribution to practical science on the 
part of the United States Government of nearly fifteen hundred pages. 
For the more speedy dissemination of the information furnished in the 
Bulletin, it is distributed to specialists in fish culture and the fisheries, 
and to the leading newspapers, so that the facts come fresh from the 
press, and are largely reproduced in the serial literature of the day. 
Two volumes of the Bulletin (for 1881 and 1882) have now been pub- 
lished. 

The Smithsonian report for 1881 gave an account of what had been 
done by the United States Fish Commission during that year, and the 
H. Mis. 26 i 



60 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

general facts for 1882 are not materially different, except to some extent 
in regard to the scale of operations. 

By act of Congress the work of the Commission is divided into two 
subjects: (1) the investigation into the condition of the fishery and the 
«earch for improvements in tlie methods and jiroducts of the fisheries; 
-and (2) the multiplication and dissemination of the more important 
species ; the first representing what is known as the inquiry branch oi 
the Commission, and the second that o( propagation. 

As the subject of the investigation of the fisheries wfis that first in- 
trusted to the Commission by Congress in 1871 — that of the multiplica- 
tion of fish not being authorized until the succeeding year — it has gon- 
^erally been customary to take up the two divisions in that order. The 
method of this inquiry has been to visit successively the i)rincipal 
points along the coast of the United States where research can be pros- 
ecuted, establishing stations for a season to study ver^^ carefully the 
nature and distribution of the animal life, the character of the water as 
to temperature, salinity, currents, &c., and the general tacts in regard to 
methods of prosecuting the fisheries. In this manner, in the course of 
successive years, the minute details or conditions of the marine life of 
the Atlantic coast, and to a considerable extent that of the Pacific and 
the Gulf of Mexico, have been worked out either through the establish- 
ment of the stations referred to or by sending special experts of the 
Commission for the purpose. The general results of these investigations 
are to be found partly in the published reports of the Commission, 
partly in those still in press, and to a very large degree in the special 
reports prepared by the Commission for the census of 1880, A quarto 
report, ordered by Congress and now in press, will contain a large 
amount of original information in regard to the natural history and con- 
dition of the fishes and useful invertebrates of the ocean, lakes, and 
rivers, illustrated by numerous well-executed figures. 

The approximate completion of the inshore research has allowed the 
<3ommission to undertake more fully an examination of the deep seas; 
and a systematic survey is now being made of the grounds where fish- 
esrmen have hitherto plied their vocation, with a view of determining 
the extent and condition of the fishing banks, and also to find out what 
additional localities heretofore undiscovered yet remain to reward the 
labors of the " toilers of the sea." Much success has already been experi- 
enced in this latter respect, and new and extensive ranges for the prose- 
cution of their vocation have been opened up. It is believed, however, 
that much yet remains to be done, and it is ho]>ed that in succeeding 
years areas of important fishing ground of grent extent will be brought 
to light, especially in the South Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico. 

For the better prosecution of this latter research Congress authorized 
the construction of a first-class sea-going vessel, and in March, 1882, 
the contract was awarded to Messrs. Pusey & Jones, of Wilmington, 
Del., for an iron vessel 200 feet long on the water line, 27 feet beam, and 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51 

of about 1,000 tons of displacement. Lieut. Z. L. Tanner, U. S. jS"., at 
the time in charge of the steamer " Fish Hawk," was assigned to the duty 
of the superintendence of its construction, and subsequently to its com- 
mand. The vessel was actually completed in December, 1882, and 
started on its trial trip to Washington on the last day of the year, ar- 
riving in Washington a few days later. This trip, while bringing to 
light some points in which alterations and improvements were neces- 
sary, i^resented a very remarkable success in all essential respects, the 
boat being extremely stable in the sea-way and promising to answer 
admirably the purpose of her construction. 

After receiving in Wilmington the necessary alterations the vessel 
returned to the Washington navy-yard, and is now being fitted out for 
her first trip off the Middle Atlantic coast. It is proposed to devote the 
early spring to the special investigation of the movements and habits 
of the mackerel and menhaden, with a view of facilitating the search 
for these fish on the part of the many fishing vessels of the Atlantic 
coast. 

The establishments of the Commission, summer by summer, at differ- 
ent points on the coast have been already referred to. As this inshore 
survey may be considered as practically completed, it was thought desir- 
able to establish a permanent station at some convenient point on the 
coast, from which the vessels of the Commission could extend their re- 
searches to distant points of the ocean, and to which they could return 
for the delivery of their collections and material, and for a permanent 
harbor. Weed's Holl, on the south coast of Massachusetts, was chosen 
for this purpose, as it otfera a convenient center at which to carry on the 
work of hatching the sea fish, such as the codfish, the mackerel, hali- 
but, and other species on a large scale. For this purpose a point on the 
Great Harbor was selected, on which it is proposed to construct the neces- 
sary buildings. There being no appropriation by Congress available 
for the purpose, liberal friends of science, desirous of seeing the Com- 
mission established at Wood's Holl, contributed the necessary funds 
to purchase the land and presented it to the United States ; and in ad- 
dition to this a large tract of ground forming a part of the water line 
was presented by Mr. Joseph S. Fay, so that the control of the Commis- 
sion was assured over all parts of the shore of the Great Harbor where 
there was any danger of erection of buildings or factories likely to emit 
poisonous refuse inimical to the work of the Commission. It is hoped 
that the next report will chronicle the successful occupation of this 
station for the purpose in question. 

By the courtesy of the Light-House Board, the laboratory buildings on 
the light-house wharf at Wood's Holl were made use of, as in previous 
years; and the "Fish Hawk," under command of Captain Tanner, 
made numerous visits to the adjacent off-shores, bringing in many inter- 
esting collections. The most noteworthy result was the ascertaining of 
what appeared to be the entire destruction of the tile fish (leferred to 



52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

in the last report) over a large part of its uorthern range; this in con- 
sequence, as is supposed, of the killing of the fish by cold currents ex- 
tending beyond their usual limitations. This suspected destruction was 
suggested by the discovery of millions of these fish found dead and 
floating out in mid-ocean without any apparent indication of disease. 

The usual scientific research was continued during the summer at 
this station, and, as heretofore, large numbers of duplicate specimens of 
natural history were collected for distribution to the colleges and acad- 
emies throughout the country. Of these, two hundred sets are in prepa- 
ration and will be distributed to that number of applicants. This policy 
on the part of the Commission and the Smithsonian Institution is thor- 
oughly appreciated by friends of education throughout the country as 
furnishing material for instruction iu the way of objects themselves, and 
making it unnecessary to depend upon imperfect figures and descriptions. 

The work of the Commission in the way of propagation of food-fishes 
was continued in 1882 on a scale larger than that of previous years. 
The general work of the season may be considered. as commencing with 
the shad in April, ar 1 was carried on for the most part with the two 
stations of Washington and Havre de Grace as centers. On the Poto 
mac Kiver the practice of the Commission is either to keep men perma- 
nently stationed at the difi'erent landings or to send them every day to 
attend to the haulings of the seines, so that the ripe fish may be taken 
as they are brought in, the eggs stripped from them and immediately 
fertilized by the milt from accompanying males. The eggs are then 
either transferred to the "Fish Hawk," as a floating station, or sent 
to the hatching station at the navy-yard, or to the central station in 
Washington, heretofore known as the Armory. 

Near the close of the season of shad-hatching on the Potomac the 
*'Fish Hawk" was sent to the Susquehanna River at Havre de Grace, 
to renew her work. What is known as Battery Station, the permanent 
establishment of the Commission, about five miles below Havre de 
Grace, was also in full operation. Here the experiment was first made 
by the Commission of catching its own shad by hauling a seine from 
Battery Island. The result was very satisfactory and gives much prom- 
ise for the future. The experunent was also initiated of placing partly 
unripe fish in a pond on the island until the eggs were sufficiently ma- 
tured to permit their being stripped. 

The young shad as taken at the stations mentioned were forwarded 
by the special cars of the Commission to different parts of the United 
States and were planted in many rivers which it is hoped will iu time 
become the seat of important fisheries, this distribution including both 
the fresh-water herring and shad. The total number of shad taken and 
distributed during the season amounted to over 30,000,000. This added 
to nearly 170,000,000 hatched and distributed in previous years rei)re- 
sents a very important aggregate,-^boui 200,000,000 of shad planted 
in suitable waters. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53 

A formal reqne*^t from a large number of the members of the legis- 
lature of New York, made through the Hon. Frank Hiscock, for the ser- 
vice of the Fish Commission in adding to the supply of shad in the 
Hudson River, was responded to by sending an entire car-load of the 
young fish and depositing them in the vicinity of Albany. 

Next in importance to shad, and perhaps of even greater promise for 
the future is the carp, the distribution of which has continued on a 
very large scale. It has seemed almost impossible to supply the demand, 
coming as it does, from every county of every State in the Union. All 
the resources of the Commission are taxed from the first of October 
until the first of April or even May in sending out the fish in response 
to requests, and very many thousands of ponds are now stocked with 
this fish. Its distribution is made partly by express, partly by sending 
a certnin number in charge of special messengers ; but the most impor- 
tant mode is by shipment in cars especially constructed for the Commis- 
sion for the purpose. In these as many as 20,000 carp can be loaded 
at a time and carried with perfect safety even i s far as California and 
Western Texas, the fish being delivered to applicants who have been 
authorized to apply for them. So far it has been impossible to meet 
the demand, and it will probably be many years before the carp are 
so thoroughly introduced as to render further action of the Commis- 
sion unnecessar3\ The calls are loud, and equally strong from Wash- 
ington Territory, Texas, and Florida as they are from points much nearer 
home. It is quite safe to say that more than 15,000 ponds have been con- 
structed in the United States especially for the purpose of receiving the 
fish l)red by the Commission. The promise of the carp as an article of 
food is very great, and the fish is considered entitled to rank among the 
domesticated animals and to be capable of as profitable cultivation as 
poultry or pigs, feeding as it does on the same vegetable matters and 
making a considerably larger amount of flesh with the same materials. 

The operations in connection with the California salmon have not 
been carried on, on as large a scale as usual, in view of the fact that the 
fish does not seem adapted to the Eastern waters. A few have been 
distributed east of the Rocky Mountains, but the experiment has proved 
less satisfactory than had been expected. The several millions plaeed 
every year in the Sacramento River have, however, maintained the 
abundance in that stream to a remarkable degree j and it is believed 
that at no time since the occupation of the country by the Americans 
has the yield been greater. 

The work with the Penobscot salmon has continued to be very satis- 
factory. A large number of fish hatched out have been planted for the 
most part in the streams of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massor 
chusetts, Connecticut, New York, and Pennsylvania, in waters believed 
to be best adapted to them. The supply of the salmon in the rivers of 
Maine, formerly almost exhausted, has greatly increased and is rapidly- 
assuming very large proportions. The other States, less adapted, as 



54 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

they are, to the growth of the fish, will doubtless yield a fair average 
or result. The land-locked salmon — a favorite variety of fish — is also 
bred in large numbers and distributed for the most part in lakes in the 
States mentioned, as also in Minnesota, Michigan, Iowa, and other por- 
tions of the West. 

The economical importance of the whitefish of the Great Lakes is 
fully recognized by the Commission, and the measures begun a few 
years ago to multiply it have been largely expanded during the year. 

The State of Michigan has been the seat of operations in this direc- 
tion, and the work is in charge of Frank N. Clark, at Northville, Mich. 
To this station for several years the eggs collected in the adjacent lakes 
have been brought, and developed to a degree — either hatched out 
entirely or prepared for shipment to other points. During 1882 a second 
station was established at Alpena, Mich., and about 70,000,000 of eggs 
collected in the two establishments. These are now in process of hatch- 
ing, and while a consideiable number will be distributed to various 
parts of the United States, by far the greater portion will be planted in 
Lakes Michigan, Huron, Erie, and Ontario, where they cannot but ex- 
ercise a material influence upon the supply. 

The California trout has also received the attention of the Commission. 
The idea of multiplying it in the East was first suggested by Mr. Seth 
Green, of the New York commission, who sev^eral years ago took a 
number of the fish to Caledonia Spring, from California, and has since 
been distributing them in behalf of the State. As the benefits of this 
work were confined to the State of New York, it was thought best for the 
Commission to extend them, and several years ago a station was estab- 
lished on the McCloud River, a few miles from the California salmon 
station, and sub-stations were also started in connection with the estab- 
lishment of Mr. Clark at Northville, and at the Virginia State hatchery 
at Wytheville. By this means of multiplication it is expected that large 
numbers of the eggs and young fish will in time be available for dis- 
tribution. 

The special merits of the California trout consist in its rapid growth 
and in its ability to resist extremes of temperature which would be fatal 
to the ordinary brook trout. 

Very little beyond experimental work was done with the codfish in 
1882. At the suggestion of Mr. E. G. Blackford, of New York, an eftbrt 
was made to utilize the living spawn of cod brought into the Fulton 
Market during the late autumn and winter; but the impurity of the 
water of East River was such as to render it impossible to carry on the 
work on a large and successful scale. A considerable number of eggs, 
however, were taken and fertilized, and the fish in large part planted in 
the Chesapeake Bay as an experiment in stocking that body of water. 
As soon as the hatching station at Wood's Holl is completed, it is pro- 
posed to lesume this work on a very extensive scale by catching the 
nearly ripe fish and placing them in basins at the station until they are 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55 

mature, when the eggs will be stripped and hatched in the exception- 
ally pure water of the harbor. 

As iij previous seasons, the Commission has to acknowledge the udI- 
versal favor with which it has met on the part of presidents, managers^ 
and superintendents of railways and steamboats, the various branches 
of the Government and individuals generally. The formal acknowledg- 
ments and details of this courtesy will be found in the report of the Com- 
mission. The usual experiments have also been made of the transmis- 
sion of the eggs of salmon, whitefish, and other species of fish to various 
portions of Europe, in return for which we have received specimens of 
Salmonidse as well as some of the later and improved varieties of Ger- 
man carp. 

Bnlletiii of the Fish Commission. — During the last session of Congress- 
an act was passed (approved February 14, 1881) instructing the Public 
Printer to print and stereotype, from time to time, the regular number 
of 1,900 copies of any matter furnished him by the United States Com- 
missioner of Fish and Fisheries, relative to new observations, discover- 
ies, and applications connected with fish-culture and the fisheries, to be 
capable of being distributed in parts, and the whole to form an annual 
volume or bulletin not exceeding 500 pages. The edition of this annual 
work is to consist of 5,000 copies, of which 2,500 are for the use of the 
House of Representatives, 1,000 for the use of the Senate, and 1,500 for 
the use of the Commissioner. 

Fishery Census of 1880. — The reports of 1880 and 1881 contain details, 
in regard to the co-operation between the United States Fish Commission 
and the Census of 1880, under charge of Superintendent Francis A» 
Walker, in collecting the statistics and history of the fisheries of the 
United States in past years up to the present time. The result has been 
the accumulation of a large mass of important information of very 
great value. 

The report of 1881 gives an account of the special work of the gen- 
tlemen employed for this purpose, and during the year 1882 the reports 
mentioned below were published, leaving quite a number still to appear 
as among the series of special reports of the Census. 

A number of other reports on fishes, of much interest but of less. 
relationship to the work of the Census, were presented to Congress by 
the Commission, and their publication ordered in a series of quarto- 
volumes. Of these the first is well advanced and will be out in the 
course of the year 1883. It is more particularly occupied by an ac- 
count of the economical and natural history of the food-fishes and 
invertebrates of the country, with the necessary illustrations. 

Another of these reports will include figures and descriptions of aU 
the obsolete as well as more modern forms of apparatus for the pursuit, 
capture, and utilization of the inhabitants of the waters, together with- 
a very minute account of the apparatus of the whaler. 



56 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The great London International Fisheries Exposition. — The success of 
the Berlin Fishery Exhibition in 1880, and those of Norwich in 1881 
and Edinburgh in 1882, induced a number of gentlemen in England to 
propose an exhibition in London in 1883, that should far surpass any of 
its predecessors. The necessary arrangements were made, and invita- 
tions extended to the United States to participate. This was favorably 
responded to by an enactment of Congress appropriating $50,000 for the 
purpose, and requiring the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fish- 
eries, under the direction of the Secretary of State, to take the necessary 
measures toward participation by the United States in the display in 
question. The work of preparation was placed in the hands of Mr. Gr. 
Brown Goode, who, with the help of the gentlemen who have been trained 
for the work by the Census investigations, and of the assistants in the 
National Museum, and the United States Fish Commission, made everj' 
possible effort to secure a satisfactory competition on the part of the 
United States. Much important material was already on hand, partly 
gathered for the Fisheries Exhibition at Philadelphia in 1870, partly 
for that of Berlin in 1880, and to a considerable extent representing 
the general and incidental gatherings of the Fish Commission. 

The exhibition in question will open early in May, 1883, and it is 
hoped that the report of the result will be as satisfactory to the pride 
of every American as was that of the Exhibition at Berlin already re- 
ferred to. 

Respectfully submitted, 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 



APPENDIX TO THE SECRETARY'S REPORT. 



COREESPOXDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 

In presenting^ a portion of the correspondence of the Institution with 
leading astronomers, relative to methods suggested for rendering the 
telegraphic announcement of astronomical discoveries as free from am- 
biguity as possible, it seems proper to preface these extracts with a 
brief notice of the form previously adopted by European observatories 
in communicating such information between themselves. The Smith- 
sonian system of transatlantic or cable telegraphy, introduced in 1873, 
may be regarded as essentially an extension of this earlier and more 
local practice. In acknowledgment of the active zeal and assistance of 
Dr. C. H. F. Peters, of the Clinton Observatory, in establishing the 
Smithsonian enterprise, much deference has been paid to his judgment 
in all doubtful questions. 

Letter from Prof. F. KarlinsM, director of the observatory in Cracow^ 

November 23, 1865. 

(Published in the Astronomisehe Nachrichten, Vol. 65, cols. 31, 32.) 

It will perhaps not be superfluous if some form should be given in the 
Astronomisehe Nachrichten, in which we can unite in the telegraphic 
announcement of astronomical observations, in order that the informa- 
tion may be condensed and still be perfectly and generally intelligible. 
Our signs ° ' ", as well as h. m. s., can, of course, not be telegraphed, 
but to write them out in full makes the dispatch too long. The con- 
version of the times of observation as expressed in hours, minutes, sec- 
onds, into decimal parts of the day, as well as the expression of right 
ascension and declination in degrees and decimals, can easily lead to 
errors, and further necessitates areconversiorrafter the reception of the 
dispatch. To me it seems that it would be simplest if we agree to give 
not only the mean local time of observation but also the right ascension 
and declination by means of 7 or 8 places of figures, of which the first 
two indicate the number of the hours or degrees of declination, the next 
two the number of minutes, the next two the number of seconds, and 
the remaining figure the number of tenths of a second. 

The words "right ascension" and "declination" may be entirely 
omitted and replaced by " northerly," " southerly." 

Thus, for example : 

"Altona Sternwarte 85 November 22 Krakau 0604597 scheinbar 
00430620 nordlich 0247240 Karlinski" would be translated as follows : 

57 



58 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 

"November 22d, G^ 4™ 59.7^ Cracow meau time. Minor planet No. 85^ 
Apparent right ascension 0^ 43" 6.20^ Apparent declination +2° 47/ 
24.0"." 

And this would be entirely expressed in twelve words. Thus, there 
would remain still eight words for other items, such as the daily motion, 
brightness, &c., if the whole dispatch is to be kept within twenty words. 

However, I leave the perfecting of this form entirely to your views, 
without desiring to push any project of my own. 

Notification by the Imperial Academy of Vienna, December 6, 1809. 
(Published in tbe J stronomische Naclirichten, No. 1785, col. 142.) 

The telegrams by which the Imperial Academy announces the dis- 
covery of a new comet to the various observatories will hereafter be 
written in an abbreviated form and in general according to the ])roposi- 
tion of Professor Karlinski. 

The dispatch will contain: first, the word comet then the name of the 
discoverer ; next the date will be given and then the local mean time of 
the position in four consecutive figures, of which the first two indicate 
the hour and the last two the minute, so that the missing tens for the hour 
as well as for the minutes will be indicated by zeros. Then the place 
of the discovery will be given, followed by the right ascension in arc, ex- 
pressed by means of five figures, of which three indicate the degrees 
and the next two the minutes, while the missing tens and hundreds 
will be, as before, shown by the zeros. 

Then follows an interval, and, after it, the polar distance represented in 
five figures, of which three indicate the degree^s and the last two the 
minutes, and in which again all the missing figures have their places 
filled by zeros. The motion, to be finally given, is always understood 
to be daily motion in minutes of arc, first the motion in right ascension 
and next that in declination, each to be preceded by the sign or word 
plus or minus. 

The conclusion of the dispatch is to be formed of some words that 
refer to the external aj>pearance of the celestial body. If, still, an addi- 
tional figure follows them, this will describe the diameter of the comet 
in minutes of arc. 

The dispatch will be signed " Akademie." For example, the following 
telegram from the Academy : 

Comet Tempel three November nought nine nought nine nought 
nought Marseilles three four one nought five. Nought seven five four 
four bewegung plus six minus twenty four helle kern five Akademie" 
would be translated as follows : 

" Comet discovered by Tempel. On the 3d November, at 9^^ 0'" Mar- 
seilles meantime, the position is right ascension 341° 5' and north polar 
distance 75° 44'. The daily motion is +0' in right ascension and — 24' 
in polar distance. Bright nucleus. Diameter of the comet, 5'. 

(Signed) Imperial Academy of Vienna." 



CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 59 

Letter from the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, October 15, 1879, to the 
/Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Sir : In the telegrams announcing the discovery of comets and minor 
planets, for which we have to thank you, the Astronomer Royal has 
frequently found a difficulty as to the date of discovery and the date 
to which the position given refers. The former is of less importance, but 
the uncertainty as to the latter has frequently caused much delay in 
picking up a quick moving body such as a comet. 

The Astronomer Eoyal would therefore suggest that the day of the 
month, and Washington mean time, to which the position giv^n refers, 
should be in every case inserted just before the R. A. and Dec. (the 
magnitude being put at the end of the telegram to avoid confusion). 

Thus the telegram just received would run (supposing the position of 
the planet to be given for Oct. 13, 14** Washington mean time) : " Planet 
Peters Clinton thirteenth fourteen hours one nought north one twenty 
motion five south eleventh." 

The Astronomer Eoyal trusts that you will not find any difficulty in 
making this small addition, which will greatly increase the value of the 

announcements. 

I am, sir, &c., 

W. H. M. Christie. 

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution to Dr. G. H. F. Peters {Clintonf 
N. J.), Navember 4, 1879. 

Dear Sir: The Astronomer Royal of England asks that hereafter, 
jn astronomical announcements, the hour of discovery in Washington 
time be given. 

The Naval Observatory here requests that local time of discovery be 
stated, and that seconds of right ascension be always given. 

What would you advise us to instruct observatories in these particu- 
lars? 

Very truly, yours, 

S. F. Baird. 

Letter from the Litchfield Observatory of Hamilton College ( Clinton, N" 
Y.), November 8, 1879, to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Dear Sir: In reply to yours of 4th inst., regarding the demands of 
observatories for certain changes in the dispatches of planet discoveries^ 
I take the liberty to make the following remarks. These remarks are, in 
substance, the same I wrote a short time ago to Prof. Tietjen, of the 
Berlin Observatory, who proposed as a desideratum similar alterations. 

First, as to that the hour of discovery be stated, by which 1 8npi)ose 
the time for the position communicated is meant, the answer is that such 
is done and has been done always in our dispatches. It is included in 
the way prescribed (but overlooked or forgotten) in the programme that 
was issued at the time by the Smithsonian Institution (Smith. Miscel. 



60 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 

Coll'ns, 263). There Art. lY states distinctly: "The right ascension 
and declination in the dispatch will be understood to give the position 
(by j)roper motion approximately reduced) for the midnight follotcing the 
date of the dispatch, Washington time for American discoveries, Green- 
wich time for European." 

If this be borne in mind, it seems unnecessary to burden the dispatch 
by additional figures, indicating a local time. 

Still further, it seems unnecessary to add the daily motion in right 
ascension. This, for the minor planets between Mars and Jupiter in 
opposition, we know is always negative — the planets are retrograde — 
and the numerical value of it will be in the neighborhood of 45^ or 50^. 
Taking into account the distance from the equator, the position of the 
ecliptic, and the motion in declination, a little reflection will easily 
decide whether to assume a smaller or a larger value sufficiently near 
for knowing the run in a day or two. 

The request of giving with the right ascension also the second of time 
assumes that the discoverer himself knows it, that he has followed up 
the planet for at least 24 hours, and hence the motion has become known 
to him with accuracy. But this is usually not the case, as on the other 
hand it is desirable that the discoverer make the announcement im- 
mediately after the first night. The daily motion, consequently, is con- 
cluded from single comparisons extending perhaps over an hour, 
whereby the unavoidable errors are multiplied by a factor greater than 
24. The seconds added to the right ascension, therefore, would be only 
illusory. 

When the nearest fall minute is given, so that the uncertainty is ^ 
minute, this seems indeed also sufficient for recognizing the planet. It 
will be among the stars that are in a field of ]5', and by studying with a 
little patience the configuration of these stars, the one searched for will 
soon betray itself by its change of place. The apparent motion in right 
ascension, in most cases, is far surpassing that in declination, so that 
the inconsistency in giving the declination to a minute of arc and the 
right ascension to a minute of time only is not so great as might seem. 
Nevertheless, if found desirable, it is possible to narrow the limits of 
nncertainty in the right ascension to one-sixth by the addition of only 
one word more in the dispatch, giving the nearest round tenth number 
of seconds. And this is the only alteration I should be willing to rec- 
ommend in the form of the dispatch. 

To resume, I suggest, then : 

1. The local time (or its equivalent) is to be presented and looked for 
as before, in conformity with Art. IV of the Smithsonian programme. 

2. To give the daily motion in right ascension seems superfluous. 

3. After the minute of right ascension to be inserted one of the words, 
" t«n," " twenty," " thirty," " forty," or " fifty," indicating the round tenth 
of seconds (if no word follows, the second is understood to be zero). 



CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 61 

Thus, taking the example in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 
referred to, it might read : 

^' Planet twenty three thirty five ten north, &c.," i. e., in 231" 35™ 10» 
of right ascension, &c." 

Besides the convenience to observers, also consideration ought to be 
had to the telegraph companies that convey messages free of charge. 
The first application to the Atlantic Cable Company and which was 
granted, was made, I remember, for about 10 words in each dispatch 
and for 12 dispatches as a maximum in the year. When, of late, both 
of these figures usually have been transgressed we owe the more thanks 
to the liberality of the company silently acquiescing. But this should be 
the more reason to use the privilege granted with modesty; (Professor 
Tietjen proposed even that a second dispatch after 3 or 4 days follow the 
first;) and I believe the form stated in the Smithsonian programme (with 
the slight modification now suggested above) as precise and as complete 
as can be desired. 

Permit me, dear sir, to take this occasion for reiterating the assurance 
of the gratitude the astronomical world bears towards the Smithsonian 
Institution for the acceleration of intercourse— and believe me, &c., &c., 

C. H. F. Peters. 

Letter from the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, November 26, 
1879, to Mr. W. H. M. Christie of the Royal Observatory, Greemciih. 

Dear Sir: In answer to your esteemed favor of October 15 we beg 
to say that by the original programme adopted by telegraphic announce- 
ments of astronomical discoveries, the position given in the dispatch is 
understood to be that for the midnight following the date, Washington 
time for American and Greenwich for European discoveries. This 
seemed to us to render it unnecessary to state local time of discovery. 
We however referred the matter to Professor Peters, who takes the 
same view as ourselves. 

Very respectfully, 

S. F. Baird. 

Letter from the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, December 22, 1879, to the 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Sir: With reference to your letter of November 26 respecting tele- 
graphic announcements of discoveries the Astronomer Koyal requests 
me to say that there seems to have been a little misapprehension as to 
what he desired. 

Our diflSculty has arisen from the frequent absence of any data what- 
ever on the telegram, and even where this is given from an ambiguity 
as to whether civil or astronomical reckoning is intended. (This am- 
biguity occurred in the last two telegrams respecting comets discovered 
by Lewis Swift— in the last the position given appears to have referred 



62 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 

to the date of discovery instead of to the midnight following the date 
of the dispatch five days later.) 

If you could kindly give the date of the dispatch our difficulty would 
be entirely removed, it being understood that the convention that the 
position given should refer to the following Washington midnight will 
be carried out in the case of comets as well as of minor planets. 

As mentioned in my former letter, the date of discovery is of less im- 
portance and may well be omitted. 

W. H. M. Christie. 

Letter from the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution., December 3, 1879, 
to Lord Lindsay, Dun Echt Observatory, Aberdeen, Scotland.. 

Dear Sir: I am in receipt of your circular of the 1st of November, 
asking for the transmission of information respecting the occurrence of 
comets and other astronomical phenomena ; and I beg to inquire whether 
the present arrangements, established some years ago by my predecessor, 
Professor Henry, do not answer your purpose. These consisted in an 
arrangement with the inland and ocean telegraph companies, by which 
all discoveries of this kind made in America were transmitted by the 
Smithsonian Institution to certain observatories in Europe, from which 
it was supposed they would be forwarded to the more important ob- 
servatories within their respective districts. 

In return, these same observatories transmit similar information to 
"Washington, which is then sent to a specified list of establishments 
here and also published in the telegraphic dispatches of all the daily 
papers in the country. 

As you will observe, the observatory at Greenwich receives these dis- 
patches from Washington for Great Britain, and I would suggest that 
arrangements be made with the Astronomer Royal for immediate trans- 
mission of all such information to your observatory. 

Everything noteworthy in the line of astrohomical discovery is at 
once sent to him. 

K you prefer to have a dispatch direct to Aberdeen, I will see what 
can be done in regard to it, although the telegraph companies, which 
perform this service gratuitously, only allow us one station in each 
country. 

Very respectfully, 

Spencer F. Batrd. 

Letter from the Observatory, Dun Echt, Aberdeen, December, 1879, to the 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Dear Sir: I am instructed by Lord Lindsay to thank you for your 
letter and inclosure of December 3, in reply to the Dun Echt circular 
of November 1, asking for information respecting the occurrence of 
comets, &c. 



COKRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 63 

Eel'erring to your letter his lordship wishes me to explain that the 
scheme which he is endeavoring to carry out is the collection of notices 
of discoveries of the character indicated from the whole world, in order 
to distribute them directly amongst observers in the British Islands. 
In doing so it is intended to supply information to every owner of a 
telescope in these islands who communicates an address for the purpose, 
more especially to all those amateurs who may not be in communication 
with a government observatory. I may add that, in this special en- 
deavor to aid the owners of small observatories. Lord Lindsay pub- 
lished and distributed the summary of Struve's Mensuree Micrometricae, 
a work which has already greatly facilitated the observation of double 
stars, nor has it been found useless in observatories of the first rank. 
In proof of this, it may be mentioned that it served as a working list 
for the admirable labors of Professor Pickering and his adjuncts at 
Harvard College in sidereal photometry. 

From the papers you inclose it is evident that the arrangements of 
the Smithsonian Institution guarantee the certain intercommunication 
of astronomical discoveries between the United States and five European 
government observatories. This still leaves a large field unoccupied, 
nor does it seem to provide at all (at least in Europe) for the distribu- 
tion of information from the transmitting end. I would point out, for 
example, that the news of Schmidt's new star in the Swan was but very 
imperfectly distributed in Europe. Although Dr. Schmidt telegraphed 
to Herr v. Littrow, at Vienna, within three hours of the discovery on 
November 24, 1876 (see Astronomische Nachrichten No. 2113), we first 
learned of the star's existence from a daily paper at the close of Decem- 
ber. The Astronomische Nachrichten published the first account on De- 
cember 23, and, in fact, the earliest observation possible at Dun Edit 
was on January 2, 1877. In Astronomische Nachrichten No. 2115 Dr. 
Yogel says that the first news reached him at Berlin on December 3. 

From this it would seem that the European part of the Smithsonian 
scheme is not at present adapted for the distribution of news on this 
side of the Atlantic, and hence it arose that Lord Lindsay was not aware 
that the telegrams of the Smithsonian Institution embraced more than 
the discoveries of minor planets, with a partial recognition of other and 
possibly more generally interesting phenomena, or that they were in- 
tended for general distribution. 

Apart from this, the information reaches the bulk of observers in these 
islands through occasional notes in the public journals, but very rarely 
in their telegraphic summaries. Nor are such notes always accepted; 
e. g., it is well known that the "Times" declined all the earher com- 
munications respecting the new star in the Crown. 

These reasons led Lord Lindsay to devise a plan for distributing intel- 
ligence directly amongst British observers by posted circular, leaving it 
to corporations or individuals to do the same in other countries if the 
plan was found worthy of extension. Already the plan has been prom- 



64 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 

ised the aid of astronomers in many countries, and a similar and co- 
operating scheme is starting in France. Stress is laid on the distribution 
of information by special circular (or telegram, if particularly desired), 
as it is found impossible to rely on the daily papers. 

Trusting that these explanations will show that the Dun Echt scheme 
is in no way calculated to take up ground already occupied by the 
Smithsonian Institution. I am, 

Very respectfully, 
Kalph Copeland, 
Astronomer at Dun Echt. 

Letter from the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, January 14, 1880, 
to Prof. C. H. F. Peters, Clinton, N. Y. 

Dear Sir : In consequence of the difficulty experienced by mauy 
astronomers in interpreting telegraphic announcements of astronomical 
discoveries, we desire to publish in the forthcoming report of this Insti- 
tution a circular on this subject, which shall prevent ambiguity and 
misunderstanding in the future. 

We therefore inclose a coi)y of the original circular, as prepared by 
yourself, and request that you will insert therein such additions, cor- 
rections, and explanations as experience has shown to be necessary. 

We also send a letter in the same connection, from the Royal Obser- 
vatory, Greenwich, which we beg you will return with suggestions for 

its proper answer. 

Yours very truly, 

S. F. Baird. 

Letter from the Litchfield Observatory of Hamil: on College, Clinton, iV. Y., 
January 21, 1880, /o the Smithsonian Institution. 

Dear Sir : 1 have, as you requested, considered thedifierent points of 
the programme for telegraphic dispatches, and, in the suggestions which 
I submit on the annexed pages as a substitute for pp. 7 and following, I be- 
lieve that the wishes expressed by various astronomers, especially those 
of Greenwich, are fully embodied. The closing sentence I addetl in re- 
membering the inaccuracy of Mr. Swift, by which both assistant Paul of 
the Washington Observatory and myself lost a whole night in fruitless 
searches for that comet. However, I beg you to strike out or correct as 
you please. 

If, in your answer to Mr. Christie, you refer to your forthcoming 
circular, which will meet the demands of the Greenwich Observatory, I 
think they will be satisfied. With reference to the query about astro- 
nomical and civil reckoning, I think the expedient I suggested of using 
simply the name of the week-day (e. g., "Wednesday") will prove satis- 
factory, while it adds only one word to the dispatch. 

C. H. F. Peters. 

[Accompanying this are the additions to the Smithsonian circular, 
which have been incorporated in the revised edition.] 



CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 65 

Acknowledgment from the Smithsonian Institution, January 27, 1880, to 
Prof. C. H. F. Peters, Clinton, m Y. 

Dear Sir : Please accept our thanks for yours of January 21 rela- 
tive to changes in circular of announcement of astronomical dispatches. 

Very truly yours, 

S. F. Baird. 

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution, February 16, 1880, to Prof. O. 
H. F. Peters, Clinton, N. Y. 

Dear Sir : The dispatch from the Astronomer Eoyal of England 
appears not to follow the convention for telegraphic announcements 
afiording another instance of the ambiguity to which we have before 
alluded and which we wish to correct. 

As received by us, it reads : 

"Gill telegraphs from Cape Town, comet, twelfth February, 0858 cape 
12311, motion plus 235, minus 20. Astronomer Royal." 

The 0858 cape we think refers to time of discovery and the 12311 to 
be a mistake of the operators. 

Yours very truly, 

Spencer F. Baird. 

Letter from the Litchfield Observatory of Hamilton College, Clinton, JST. T., 
February 19, 1880, to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Dear Sir : You are right; there is certainly a mistake in the dispatch 
from Cape Town about Gill's comet, five figures having been omitted, 
but it is impossible to say which — either those indicating the E. A. or 
those of the North Polar Distance. The telegram, as communicated in 
your letter received this morning, and which is in the cipher-system 
proposed years ago by Littrow (but hardly applicable in this country, 
where by law every figure must be written out in words), can be inter- 
preted in the two following ways: 

Comet 12th February S^ 58^^ mean time Cape, E. A. 123o.ll, K P. D. 
[5 figures omitted], motion + 235' =3^55' in E. A. — 20' in N. P. D. 

Comet [etc.] E. A. [5 figures omitted], N. P. D. = 123° 11' {i. e., Dec!. 
— 33° 11') motion, etc. 

Probably some telegrapher between Cape Town and Greenwich or 
Greenwich and Washington got tired of sending ten consecutive fig- 
ures; and indeed this system of dispatches has been a source of contin- 
ual blunders, so that Lord Lindsay (whose assistant Mr. Gill was, before 
he went to take charge of the Cape Observatory) did wrong in reviving 
it. The system adopted by the Smithsonian Institution was discussed 
with the late Professor Littrow, Professor Bruhns, of Leipzic, and others, 
and has worked to satisfaction so far. It will be still more acceptable 
to all when the additions lately discussed are introduced, and I would 
recommend (which, perhaps, also, is your intention) to issue the amended 
H. Mis. 26 5 



GQ COERESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 

scheme in tlie form of a circular to the principal observatories interested 
in it (perhaps sending a number of copies for distribution to Greenwich, 
Paris, Berlin, and Vienna). 

C. H. F. Peters. 

Letter from Dr. B. A. Gould, at sea, steamship " City of Montreal,^' 
August 27, 1880, to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

My Dear Professor : I have been about six weeks in Germany, 
France, and England, and have everywhere found the astronomers 
greatly perturbed in the matter of astronomical telegrams regarding 
comets, planets, &c., which, they tell me, almost unfailingly go wrong, 
no matter how great the care with which they are sent. 

Finally, the Germans have agreed upon a system to which they have 
secured the assent of Admiral Mouchez at Paris, and of the Astron- 
omer Ecyal. And they have asked me to communicate with you on 
the subject and obtain your assent, which I told them you would surely 
give, since the European astronomers are all of accord. 

It consists of three i^rincipal points : 

First. That instead of several transatlantic telegrams to different 
observatories, the Smithsonian should send only one, viz, to Professor 
Krueger, the new director of the observatory at Kiel and editor of the 
Astronom,. Nachricliten. He undertakes to communicate the same tele- 
gram instantly to all the European astronomical centers, at the expense 
of the Astronomische Gesellschaft, if necessary. 

Secondly. That a second similar telegram should be forwarded next 
day, or as soon as a second observation of the body has been obtained, 
thus making only two transatlantic telegrams in all. 

Thirdly. That for these telegrams a special code should bfe used, 
"which they have sent me, and which they all recommend. - - - 

B. A. Gould. 

Proposed mode of transmitting notices of the discovery of comets, as- 
teroids, <&c., across the Atlantic. 

1. Only one dispatch to be sent at a time. This, if for Europe, to be 
addressed to Professor Krueger at the observatory in Kiel ; if for Amer- 
ica, to Professor Baird, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

A second telegram, however, to be sent as soon as a second observa- 
tion has been obtained. Thus only two dispatches in all. 

2. All numerical data to be expressed by a word for each figure, with 
out regard to its value as dependent upon its position. Thus " 58" to 
be telegraphed as " five eight," " 12" as " one two," ''30" as " three 
nought," &c. 

3. All places which would ordinarily be left vacant when the num- 
ber is written in figures must be filled up by the word '^ nought:^ Thus 
for the right ascension P 5™.3 would be written " nought one nought five 
three" or for B.A. 19^ 3™ the dispatch would be sent " one nine nought 



COREESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 67 

three nought " (the tenths of minutes being given for right ascensions, 
but not for other data, as per section 5). 

4. Time of observation to be given in round hours of Greenwich 
mean time, preceded by day and month, and never in any other way. 
Thus an observation on October 12, at 13^ Gr. M. T., would be announced 
" one two October one three;" or Novembers, 7^ Gr. M. T. as " three No- 
vember nought seven." In this way the time of observation which is to 
be given first of all will be expressed by the name of the month pre- 
ceded by one or two numbers, and followed always by two. 

5. Right ascension to follow the date and be given hj five figures ex- 
pressing hours, minutes, and tenths of minutes, in time, preceded by the 
word " ascension." 

6. Declinations to be given by four words expressing degrees and 
minutes, preceded by the word " north" or " south." 

7. Daily motion in R. A. to be given in minutes and tenths of minutes 
of time, preceded by the word " plus" or " minus." 

8. Daily motion in Decl. to be given in minutes of arc, preceded by 
the word " north" or " south." 

9. Magnitude, if given, to be preceded by the word " mag." 

Thus, in ordinary cases, the essential numerical data will be con- 
tained in twenty-four words. 

EXAMPLE. 

" Comet discovered by Swift, Oct. 12. Place, B. A. = 2^ 23™.7 and 
Decl = -f 35° 2' at 7^ Green w. M. T. Motion— 1^.2 in B. A. and -f 8' 
in Decl. 12th magnitude." 

DISPATCH. 

" Comet Swift one two October nought seven ascension nought two 
two three seven north three five nought two minus one two north eight 
mag one two." 

Professor Krueger (editor of the Astronom. JSFachrichten) undertakes to 
repeat the dispatch throughout Europe at cost of the Kiel observatory 
or of the Astronomische Gesellschaft. The Paris and Greenwich ob- 
servatories, as well as all the German ones, accept the arrangement. 

AcJMOicIedgment from the Smithsonian Institution, October 30, 1880, to 
Dr. Benjamin A. Gould, 18 Pemberton Sqtcare, Boston. 

Dear Dr. Gould : Tour letter, headed "At Sea, City of Montreal, 
August 27, 1880," reached me this afternoon, the 30th of October, at 
apparently a loug interval, if the date is correct. 

I write very hurriedly to express my gratification at the prospect of 
seeing you again in Washington, and to say that I of course desire to 
follow the wishes of astronomers at home and abroad in the matter of 



68 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 

the telegrams. 1 would, however, like to have Dr. Peters, of Clinton, 
and the astronomers of the observatory here concur in the change ; but 
when you visit Washington all this can be arranged. 

Very truly, yours, Spencer F. Baird. 

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution, November 11, 1880, to Prof. C. 
H. F. Peters, Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y. 

Dear Sir : I inclose herewith a i^roposition for the modification of 
the present plan of the exchange of telegraphic announcements between 
the United States and Europe. Will you kindly give me your views at 
the earliest possible moment ? We have in type a new circular ou this 
subject, and of course wish to correct it, should it be desirable. 

The proposition submitted, which Dr. Gould has just sent us, is the 
result of a conference with the leading astronomers of Europe. 

Truly yours, Spencer E. Baird. 

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution, November 24, 1880, to Prof. C. 
H. F. Peters, Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y., with inclosure. 

Dear Professor Peters : Will you kindly send me at your early 
convenience that promised criticism and memorandum in regard to the 
accompanying proof of the circular, and all the suggestions of change 
brought up by Professor Gould ? I wish to close this business as soon 
as possible, with your kind assistance. 

Yours, truly, Spencer F. Baird. 

Letter from the Litchfield Observatory of Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y., 
November 25, 1880, to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Dear Sir: I hasten to answer yours of 11th instant in regard to 
the telegraphic exchange system of astronomical discoveries. I found 
it here after my return from New York (delayed by a few days' visit 
at West Point), and, in order to be brief, I can touch only upon the more 
essential points. 

Of the three points made in the letter (written bj^ Dr. B. A. Gould) 
of which you send me a copy, the first gives, as the reason, economy in 
the number of trans-atlantic dispatches. I must wonder, after I had 
explained twice before during the last year to the astronomers at Berlin 
that as far as I know only one message passes the Atlantic and is dis- 
tributed then in Europe to the five central stations, that, without evi- 
dence to the contrary, this again is used as an argument for having ther 
dispatches from the Smithsonian Institution sent to only one European 
central station, and this to be (as if of course) in Germany. When 
Dr. Gould's letter asserts that '' the European astronomers are all of 
accord" he says too much for, from a letter of Professor Foerster on the 
subject (found here likewise at my return) it appears that Vienna does 
not consent; that Pulkowa seems to have been not even asked, and it is 



CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 69 

not quite clear besides under what aspect the matter has been presented 
at Paris and Greenwich, and how far these agree with the proposed 
change of jDrogramme. But after all, what is there objectionable to 
sending the communications from the Smithsonian Institution not to 
Germany only, but also, as heretofore, to Greenwich, Paris, Vienna, 
and Pulkowa? I remember when, on a visit to Washington, I laid the 
first proposition before j'our illustrious predecessor, I had named only 
Greenwich, because the nearest place, to send the dispatches to, and 
it was Professor Henry who suggested to insert besides, Berlin, Paris, 
and Vienna, to which later was added Pulkowa. Fortunately, from our 
stand-point on this side of the ocean, we have a broader and more equi- 
table view of scientific life in Europe, free from national jealousies. 

As to the second point suggested in Dr. Gould's letter, I cannot deny 
that sometimes a second communication about the same object of dis- 
covery (not the next day, but rather after the lapse of three or five days) 
would be very welcome, though in most cases such a repetition would 
not be of very great utility. Professor Foerster puts it on the ground to 
make sure against a mistake in the first dispatch. But then, if the two 
should not agree? Vv^ould he then desire even three dispatches (as bank 
accountants take the sum three times when the first two give it differ- 
ent). While the cable company with great liberality did concede a lim- 
ited (and later frequently surpassed) number of words and of dispatches 
per year, it seems hardly proper to ask a duplication of the favor, as 
long as it has not been clearly shown that such duplication is of abso- 
lute desirability. 

Thirdly, as to the code to be used, I do not see in the slightest what 
objection can be made to that adopted by the Smithsonian Institution. 
It was the result of a consultation with the late Professor Littrow at 
Vienna, was in the main set up by Professor Bruhns and myself at Leip- 
zic, and approved at the time by the astronomers at Berlin. The new 
edition of your circular of instructions embraces the modifications and 
suggestions which you had received from various sides, and Professor 
Airy, as you will remember, expressed himself satisfied. Professor 
Pickering, as well as myself, has carefully compared the scheme with 
the one now presented by Dr. Gould. I cannot find that it is an im- 
provement in^recisio/i to say for example "one two" for "twelve," "two 
nought" for "twenty," or always "nought three" for simply "three," 
&c. Looking at the economy of words. Dr. Gould's scheme requires 
twenty-four, the Smithsonian (even with the additions now introduced) 
at the utmost only sixteen — a difference of considerable and (for the 
cable) essential importance. 

Dr. Gould says of his code, " which they all recommend," I am sure 
that what all desire and recommend is only a uniformity of the code in 
use. The Smithsonian code, being far superior in precision, also more 
economical and now perfected by the suggestions of experience, will 
readily be accepted. The difl&culty has been that some astronomers 



70 COKRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 

either have not carefully enough read the articles of the programme, or 
had forgotten them. The complaints that have come to my knowledge 
from abroad have all been in regard to certain comet announcements 
telegraphed from this side, and not worded in accordance with the rules 
of the programme. On the other hand I had to remind the Berlin astron- 
omers (and also those at the Washington observatory) that the time 
for the i^osition is the "following midnight," while they mistook for it 
the hour and minute of sending from Washington, added by the teleg- 
rapher. The circular which you have prepared will prevent for the 
future these and similar mistakes. 

0. H. F. Peters. 

Letter from the Litclijield Observatory, Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y, 
December 21, 1880, to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Dear Sir : I have sent to the " Astronom. Nachrichten, " as yon per- 
mitted me to do, an article in explanation and elucidation of the form 
of dispatches we have used, and of the additions that have been made 
in the new edition. 

As you have still under consideration the publication of this revised 
programme (I infer so from your last letter), I inclose here a compari- 
son, which shows that our form requires only 16 words, while that pre- 
sented by Dr. Gould requires 26 [or, more correctly, 27] ; and it is to 
be remarked besides that the latter never can have less, because the 
" noughts " always must be inserted, while ours has usually less than 16 
words. 

Yours, very truly, 

G. H. F. Peters. 

EXAMPLE. 

Comet discovered by Swift Oct. 12. Place B. A. = 2 hours 23 min- 
utes 7 and decl = -f So© 2' at 7 hours Green, m. t. Motion — 1 minute 
.2 in right ascension and -f 8' in decl. — 12th mag." 

DISPATCH. 

"Comet Swift [one two October nought seven ascension nought] two 
twenty [two] three forty [seven] north [three] thirty live [nought] two 
[minus one two] north (* ) eight [mag.] [one two] twelfth Tuesday." 

The dispatch as here proposed has 26 words — 27 if written by the 
rules — while in our form it requires only 16 in all. 

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution, November 30, 1880, to Sir George 
B. Airy, director of the Observatory, Greenwich, England. 

Sir : Herewith we send you a proof copy of a revised circular in re- 
gard to the telegraphic announcement of astronomical discoveries, which 

* Nought, by rule. 



CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 71 

gives — with a few slight modifications — the system of condensed mes- 
sages which has been in practical use for seven years. 

We also inclose a draft of a modified plan proposed to us for the 
same object, and beg that you will carefully examine both documents 
and advise us, as soon as may be convenient, in regard to the propriety 
or expediency of exchanging the one for the other. 

Very respectfully, &c., 

Spencer F. Baird. 

Letter from the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, London, December 22, 1880 
to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Lnstitution. 

Dear Sir : I have waited a few days before answering your letter 
of November 30 for better consideration of the proposed plan for tele- 
graphic announcements of observations. 

It appears to me, and I am entirely supported in this opinion by Mr. 
Christie, that it will be a great improvement of the former plan, and we 
heartily recommend it for adoption. 

Yours, faithfuUy, 

G. B. Airy. 

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution, November 29, 1880, to the Earl 
of Crawford and Balcarres, Bun Echt, Scotland. 

Sir : Inclosed please find a circular we have just prepared in regard 
to the telegraphic announcement of astronomical discoveries which 
gives — with a few slight modifications — t*he system of condensed mes- 
sages which has been in use for seven years. 

We also inclose a draft of another plan proposed for the same object, 
and beg that you will carefully examine the same, and give us your 
views, as early as may be convenient, regarding the advisability of it» 
substitution for the former plan. 

"Very truly yours, &c., 

Spencer F. Baird. 

Letter from the Observatory Bun Echt, Aberdeen, January 7, 1S81, to the 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Sir : Eeferring to your letter of November 29, 1880, 1 may say that our 
experience at Dun Echt shows that telegraphic announcements of astro- 
nomical discoveries should represent the actual known facts of the case 
in a way to which the majority of the senders and receivers of the mes- 
sages are accustomed. Thus the message should take the form of an 
observation as usually published, the name, date, and place being given. 
Any reduction of the time to a meridian other than that of the observa- 
tion or any prediction of a future place of the object are equally to be 
deprecated as likely to introduce errors.* 

* The possibility of making a blunder in the simple operation of referring the time 
to another meridian or of failing to recognize the somewhat improbable nature of a 



72 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 

Besides, by giving the B. A. to the nearest tenth of a minute of time 
and the declination to the nearest minute the observation is available, in 
the case of a comet for combination to find an appr<jKimate orbit. This 
form, too, gives the dispatches a permanent value. 

I give the following partly in confirmation of what I think the best 
features of the proposed systems and partly as suggestions that may 
probably be of use. 

The greatest clearness seems to be obtained by giving numbers as 
spoken thus : "12" should be " twelve" and not '-one two" 

I would suggest that the day of the month counted astronomically 
be absolutely distinguished from the rest of the message by giving it 
the ordinal form. Thus "October 12 " would be "twelfth October." 

For a like reason the motion in declination might be given as " north- 
ward" or " southward." If the length of a telegram is estimated by the 
number of words in it and not by their length, it would seem desirable 
to exi:)ress " magnitude " in full and not by " mag," which a telegraph 
clerk would probably coufound with "may "or May." 

Again, if "nought" is objected to why not use "cyj)her" as being in 
more frequent use than "zero." If the daily motion in B. A. and Bed. 
is not given, would it not be better to use the words " preceding" and 
"following" or their symbols "p" and "f," in place of "west" and 
" east," which latter in practice refer to the horizon and not to the equa- 
tor. Thus " uf " would represent " northeast." But the daily motions 
in B. A. and Decl. admit of greater precision. 

A complete message would thus contain the word " comet" or "planet," 
the discoverer's name, the day (expressed as above) and month, the 
hour in local mean time and the place. The right- ascension to the 
nearest tenth of a minute of time, the declination to the nearest minute 
preceded by the word "north" or "south." Kext, the daily motion in 
M. A. also to the tenth of a minute of time with the sign "plus" or 
*' minus " then the daily motion in minutes of arc " northward " or " south- 
ward," and lastly, the magnitude or any other j)articulars likely to aid 
the search. 

Thus: 

" Comet Swift twenty-fifth October seventeen Rochester twenty-one 
fifty-niue cypher north fifty-one twenty-five minus twenty-one two 
northward fifty-seven magnitude ten." 

"Would mean — 

" Comet discovered by Swift on October 25th at 17'' Rochester mean 
time in right ascension 21^' SO'^.O and declination + 51^ 25'. Daily 
motion — 21™.2 and -f 57'. As bright as a star of the tenth magnitude." 

This form of message, although slightly longer than others that have 

dispatch when so transformed, is shown in the example given in the "Proposed Mode 
of Trausraittiug, &c." where the comet Swift (presumahly discovered at Rochester) 
must either have been found at 2 p. m. or the longitude have been applied with the 
\rrong sign. 



CdR^ESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 73 

been proposed, has the advantage of giving a complete approximate 
observation. 

In conclusion, whatever form the dispatches may take, it seems an 
admirable jiroposal that for transmission across the Atlantic they shall 
all pass between two responsible persons ; in this way only does it 
seem possible to prevent the useless distribution of messages which are 
obviously unintelligible. 

Ceawford & Balcarres. 

Letter from the editor of the ^^ Science Observer ^^ {and Corresponding Sec- 
retary of the Boston Scientific Society, Boston), February 4, 1881, to the 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Dear Sir: The announcement in Monthly Notices Vol. XLI, No. 2, 
that a letter concerning a somewhat new method for the transmission 
of comet discoveries to your Institution across the cable, has caused 
quite a discussion among the members of the Boston Scientific Society, 
who are now discussing the matter in all its lights. Lack of informa- 
tion on one or two points have been diificulties in the way, and if you 
can inform us on these subjects you will greatly favor us. These points 
relate to the transmission over the cable. It is customary for Govern- 
ment messages to be composed of letters and figures, which, by keys 
at both ends, may be translated into the vernacular. Knowing this to 
be the case, we would respectfully inquire whether comet announcements 
in the past have been sent in words or in figures, thus: 

Comet Swift twelfth Oct. seven twenty-three seven &c «&c, or 
Comet Swift 12 Oct 7 2, 3 7 &c «&c 

And furthermore, we would like to know whether the new arrange- 
ment contemplates the transmission of the words or the figure charac- 
ters. 

Sincerely yours, 

John Eitchie, Jr. 

Letter from the Smithsonian Institution, February 16, 1881, to John 
Eitchie, Jr., corresponding secretary of the Boston Scientific Society. 

Dear Sir : In reply to your letter of February 4, relative to the sys- 
tem of telegraphic announcement of astronomical discoveries, I beg to 
say that the present Smithsonian system and the proposed substitute 
contemplate the use of words only. One dispatch has been received by 
us expressed according to Karlinski's code ; but in all the other an- 
nouncements, the data communicated have been given in words. 
Inclosed we send you copies of the circulars referred to. 

Yery truly yours, 

Spencer F. Baird. 



74 COKEESPONDENCE ON ASTEONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 

Letter from the editor of the ^^ Science Observer,''^ Boston, May 13, 1881, to 
the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Dbae Sm : It is with pleasure that I am able to call your attention 
to the success of a scheme devised by Mr. S. C. Chaudler, jr., aud my- 
self for the transmission by cable of astronomical intelligence. It has 
just been successfully tested by transmission both ways, of the elements 
and ephemeris of Swift's comet, and I append a scheme showing how 
an announcement would look according to both codes. 

Yours, &c., 

J. ElTCHIE, Jr. 

Announcement of Swift's comet per "Science Observer" code: 
12 3 4 5 6 7 

comet Swift conge ratify torsim smart-money tolerate 

According to present (European) code: 

Comet Swift may zero one zero two zero five ascension zero zero zero 
zero north three seven two five plus zero three south one* two. 

[Translation.] 

Comet Swift, May 1, 2^ 5"^; R. A. 0^ 0°>; declination K 37° 25' 5 daily 
motion + 3°» E. A. ; — 1° 2' declination. 

Should words 4, or 4 and 5, in the "Science Observer" code, or words 
5, or 5 and 6, or words 4, or 4 and 7, be made unintelligible in trans- 
mission, the message would still be as intelligible and the comet as 
easy to find as was the case before the present European code was 
adopted, while the loss of word 2 would be of no consequence, being 
merely the name of the discoverer, and word 3 the time of discovery is 
as a rule so well determined by the date of message that its loss would 
not be of detriment to the general sense. By loss I mean the mutila- 
tion of a word so as to render it unrecognizable as is sometimes the 

case in ocean telegraphy. 

J. ElTCHIE, Jr. 

Letter from the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, May 10, 1881, to 
Mr. J. ElTCHIE, Jr., editor of the " Science Observer,^'' Boston. 

Sik: This Institution hails with satisfaction every attempt at en- 
larging the channels, and at increasing the fullness and accuracy of 
scientific information. It is possible that for the purpose of cable trans- 
mission of the details of an astronomical ephemeris, an arbitrary signal 
code (as suggested by you) may have some advantages; though it must 
not be concealed that it also presents some disadvantages; the complica- 
tion both of preparation and of translation increasing with the number 
of elements to be communicated. 

With the spread of astronomical knowledge and interest, and the 

*I am in some doubt about tliis figure as I have net the code hy me. 



CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 75 

growth of desires and needs for more minute information respecting 
sudden or transitional phenomena, improved methods and formulas will 
doubtless be correspondingly developed. 

For the present purposes of this Institution the system it has adopted 
will (with probably some slight improvement) prove sufficient. 

Yours, very respectfully, 

Spencer F. Baird. 

Letter from the Litchfield Observatory of Hamilton College^ Clinton, Oneida 
County, New Yorlc, April 28, 1882, to the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution. 

Dear Sir: At the meeting of the International Astronomical Society 
at Strasburg in September last, the matter of telegraphic communica- 
tions of astronomical discoveries was considered. In the committee ap- 
pointed upon this subject, after some discussion about the " Phrase-Code" 
of the (Boston) " Science Observer," it was agreed that the code of the 
Smithsonian Institution (Misc. Coll., 263), be recommended for general 
use — at least for the present. A resolution to that eflect was adopted 
by the Society (S. Eeport in Viertelgahrschrift, vol. 16, page 285 and 351). 
But there was a strong feeling expressed against the manner in which 
most of the telegrams of comet discoveries, sent through the Smithsonian 
Institution, lately had come to hand in Europe. They were worded 
without the slightest regard to the Smithsonian programme, therefore 
unintelligible, and worse than no information at all, by reason of causing 
fruitless painstaking to astronomers searching for the object. 

Unwilling that astronomers abroad should be led to throw the blame 
thereof upon the Smithsonian Institution, I take the liberty to suggest 
that you would refuse to forward dispatches of the kind, if they are not 
made out in conformity with the Smithsonian programme. This pro^ 
gramme has been distributed so largely throughout the United States (in 
the Smithsonian Annual Keports and as a circular), that any amateur dis- 
coverer who desires to avail himself of the channel of communication 
so liberally offered by the Smithsonian Institution can hardly be ig- 
norant of it. Any delay, therefore, will be his own fault, if he neglects 
following the prescribed form. 

Yours, very respectfully, 

C. H. F. Peters. 

Letter from the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, May 10, 1882, to- 
Prof C. H. F. Peters, of the Litchfield Observatory, Clinton, K Y. 

Dear Sir : In reply to your favor of April 28, I am gratified that 
the astronomical convention at Strasburg has api)roved of the Smithson- 
ian code for telegraphic announcements. With regard to the irregulari- 
ties noticed, it may be said that very few of the dispatches received by 
this Institution comply fully and literally with the published programme. 



76 CORRESPONDENCE ON ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS. 

Thus, notwithstaDding that Article IV, section 6, specifies the very con- 
cise and explicit statement of the day of the week for the date, a majority 
of notices rec( ived substitute the day of the month. It is difficult, 
therefore, to carry out your suggestion that we should refuse to forward 
dispatches not in exact form. 

Before going to press with our long-delayed astronomical telegraph 
circular, I will trouble you with extracts from a single additional re- 
sponse to our request for suggestions, asking from you the favor of 
your consideration and judgment on it. 

Copy of extract from a communication received from the Observatory 
at Dun Echt, Scotland, and dated January 7, 1881. 

[Inclosure.— The principal portion of the latter from Lord Lindsay- 
Earl Crawford.] 

On the foregoing extract, I venture to make the following queries : 

1. Is there not some force in the suggestion to employ date of ohser. 
nation rather than prospective date and predicted place? 

2. Is there any advantage in designating R. A. in hours, minutes, and 
tenths^ over the present form in hours, minutes, and sixths (or seconds 
in tens) ? 

3. Might it not be well to write the motion in declination, as north- 
ward or southivard, in full ? 

4. To avoid any risk of misapplication, might it not be well to write 
in full "tenth magnitude"? 

5. Is not the word ^^zero^^ really preferable to either "nought" or 
■^'cipher"? 

Your frank opinion and decision on these points will be very accepta- 
l)le, and I may say will be finally adopted. 

Yours, very respectfully, 

Spencer F. Baird. 

The publication of the revised edition of the Astronomical Telegraph 
Circular was delayed by various circumstances ; among which was a 
contemplated plan for telegraphing American discoveries to our own 
observatories as well as to those abroad. This had been urged by a 
large number of American astronomers ; the correspondence on which 
subject it is unnecessary here to publish. Prof. E. C. Pickering (of the 
Harvard Observatory), under date of January 13, 1882, strongly recom- 
mended, in addition to this, the adoption by the Institution of the cipher 
code of Messrs. S. C. Chandler and John Ritchie, of the Science Observer. 
This whole matter still remains under advisement. 



EEPORT ON SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES FOR 1882. 
By Geoege H. Boehmer. 

The growth of the business of receiving and transmitting the scien- 
tific and literary exchanges of the Institution has necessitated a change 
in the method of recording and managing the same ; the plans of opera- 
tion, satisfactory some half a dozen years ago, being no longer available 
without entailing increased trouble and considerable confusion in trac- 
ing the history of transactions. 

With increase of duties has arisen the need of more complete organi- 
zation; and during the past year a system of double entry, or of debit 
and credit accounts, has been adopted. These accounts are arranged 
in the form of card-catalogues, representing the societies in correspond- 
ence with the Institution ; and upon these cards each society is debited 
for the books forwarded to it, and is credited for the receipts as commu- 
nicated in return by formal announcement. 

This experiment has of course greatly increased for the time the 
amount of work required from the limited assistance allotted to this de- 
partment, but in return it gives an increased command over the results, 
and a much greater facility and economy of time in making references 
and comparisons. 

By this plan, on the arrival of an invoice of parcels or boxes from 
any establishment in the United States, for foreign distribution, ac- 
companied (as required by the established rules) with a list of the inten- 
ded recipients, to each of these is prefixed the number assigned to it in 
our printed list of foreign correspondents, and the same are entered on 
the proper cards, giving the date of reception, the name of the sender, 
and the number taken from the entry in the invoice book (representing 
the whole transmission considered as a single transaction), in which 
book all receptions are first daily entered in their consecutive order. 

The books or parcels receive the same numbers and are then laid 
away in bins, each of which represents a certain city or cities or part of 
them, in any given country. A sufl&cient number of books having ac- 
cumulated to justify a sending to any country^ the card -catalogue serves 
as a basis from which the invoices for the respective societies are made 
up. This is done in advance, and while the books are being removed 
from the bins and made up in bundles. In this manner sendings which 
required a week, on the old plan of making up the invoices from the 
parcels on hand, while being assorted and jjacked, may now be com- 
pleted in two days. 

This system has been introduced in the exchanges with Great Britain 

77 



78 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

and Ireland and with Germany and Austria-Hungary, and is found to 
work so well that its adoption for all other countries is deemed advis- 
able. Such a course, however, will require the detail of two assistants 
exclusively for this purpose; but, considering that the receipts during 
the past year averaged 90 parcels per working day — exclusive of 31,568 
parcels for the Government — the work required will be such as to keep 
them both well employed. 

The duty of the assistant in charge of the card- catalogues does not 
cease here, but includes the entry to the credit of the respective socie- 
ties, of any acknowledgments of the receipt of parcels sent them through 
this office, while the duties of the receiving clerk include the verifying 
and distributing of all incoming exchanges. 

Another feature introduced during the year is a form of duplicate in- 
voice which is to be mailed to every recipient within the United States 
and British America, of exchange parcels from abroad, to be returned 
to the Institution and transmitted as occasion offers to the sender of 
the respective parcels. 

During the past year over eight thousand parcels were sent out un- 
der the system of domestic exchanges, requiring this number of entries 
in the book of transmission. Each parcel had to be addressed and prop- 
erly wrapped. This domestic branch of the service required the writ- 
ing of nearly 13,000 letters of advice and invoices, and the directing of 
the parcels and envelopes. All this work has been performed by the 
entire force at intervals between foreign transmissions. Great punctu- 
ality, of course, cannot possibly, be expected in each case, and it is 
respectfull}- recommended that one assistant be ai)pointed exclusively 
for these duties. 

The arranging and sending off of the foreign exchange, and the duties 
pertaining to the transmission of Government document exchange should 
be intrusted to one assistant, to the exclusion of any other duty. 

One of the most important works begnn during the past year is that 
of completing the sets of Smithsonian publications furnished to foreign 
societies. Several attempts have been made at different times to supply 
such deficiencies, and circulars have been sent out on different occasions 
requesting the foreign establishments to report the number of Smlth- 
sonian volumes in their respective libraries. 

In connection with this work, a thorough examination of the number 
of publications in the Smithsonian library, of the societies applying for 
completion of our sets of publications, is required, for an equitable ap- 
portionment. The preliminary steps to this have been taken, but the 
magnitude and importance of the work, and the pressure of other busi- 
ness, have made it impossible to complete the undertaking. 

It has been the aim of the assistants of this Department not to allow 
any accumulation whatever in the current work, and although with the 
limited force it required great exertion, still the close of the year finds 
, the service unincumbered by any work of the previous year. 



EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



79 



List of correspondents. 

Mention was made in the report for 1881 of the sending of a circular 
to all scientific establishments in correspondence with the Institution, 
asking for corrections and additions of any addresses of public libraries, 
learned societies or scientific bureaus of Governments. The Institution 
also requested secretaries of societies to furnish a list of the names and 
addresses of persons actively engaged in scientific or literary investiga- 
tions, together with the particular branch of learning to which each was 
devoted, with a view of facilitating communications and exchanges 
with specialists in all parts of the world. Another item of information 
desired related to the literary productions and the libraries of the re- 
spective establishments. 

Prompt responses having been very generally made to this circular, 
a new list of foreign correspondents was prepared and issued in the 
early part of the year, showing an increase of almost 600 new societies 
over the list published in' 1878. Copies of this new list were sent to all 
corresponding establishments, and, as a result of further corrections 
since the date of publication, an "addition sheet" for the year 1882 is 
herewith presented : 



Africa : 

Algeria 

Cape Colonies 
Egypt 



Ame^ca : 

British America 

Central America: 

Guatemala 

Mexico 

West Indies 

Soutli America: 

Argentine Confederation 

Brazil 

Chili 

Colombia 

Ecuador 

Peru 

Venezuela 

Asia : 

India 

Japan 

Java 

Australia : 

New South Wales 

Queensland '. 

Victoria 



38 



10 



Europe : 

Austria-Hungary 45 

Belgium 11 

Denmark 3 

France 50 

Germany 172 

Great Britain : 

England 395 

Scotland 20 

Ireland 9 

Wales 9 

Greece 1 

Italy 17 

Netherlands 5 

Norway 1 



Portugal 

Roumania... 

Russia 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Total ... 



758 
818 



80 



REPOET ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



Card catalogues. 

The information received from the foreign establishments in reply to 
the circular relative to the preparation of a new list of foreign corre* 
spondents served in the preparation of three card catalogues, of which, 
one is to represent a list of scientific persons together with the partic- 
ular branch of learning to which they are devoted. The second one is 
to represent an account kept, with each establishment, of the Smith- 
sonian publications on hand, as reported by the librarians, and shows 
the successive sendings. As an illustration the card for the British 
Museum, London, England, is given: 

No. 1819. 



Country. 


City. 


Name of establishment. 


Eneland 


London 


British Museum. 









'd 


Books in library January 1, 1881. 












1 

cS 

CO 


Total. 


Smithsonian publica- 
tions. 


Smithsonian publications sent. 




® 


S.C. 


M.C. 

1- 5 

8-17 


R. 


Date. 


S.C. 


M.C. 


R. 


Miscel- 
lane's. 


1753.. 


1,300,000 


1-22 


1846-54 

1856-78 


1881, May 15 

1882, April 10 
1882, Dec. 29 


23 


18-22 


1879 
1880 
1855 


# 


, 




6.7 


- - - • •• 



The third card catalogue represents a general account of all trans- 
actions of exchanges for any one establishment. For the sake of illus- 
tration we will again select the card for the British Museum, London, 
England (No. 1819, of the list of foreign correspondents) : 



England. 



No. 1819. 



London. 



Date. 



Sender. 



Sent. 



Acknowl- 
edged. 



1882. 
Jan. 28. 



March 



1 Engineer (1209) 

3 New York Academy of Sciences 

1 Miiseo Mexico 

1 Census Office 

1 Buffalo Society 

1 Wisconsin Geology, vol. 3 and atlas . 
Inclosures : 

A. W. E. O'Sliaugenessy 

A. Butler 

S. Bwd 



P'ck. 1410... 



May 18, 1882 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 81 

England. No. 1819. London. 



Date. 



1882. 
March. 

May 1 
May 



June 20. 

27. 
Julv 20. 
Aug. 22. 

23. 

Oct. 3. 

6. 

Sept. 30. 

Oct. 10. 

18. 



Sender. 



luclosures : 

H. Woodward 

R. Owen 

Smithsonian Report, 1880 

1 Boston Athenajum (140) 

1 Boston Academy (140) 

1 Naval Observatory (143) 

■1 Museo Mexico 

1 American Philosophical Society (209) - , . 

1 Saint Louis Academy (205) 

1 Census ; 6 Congressional Directory (133) 

1 Agricultural Department ( 162) 

1 Prof. N. H. Winchell (271) 

1 Minnesota Academy (286) 

1 Boston Society (356) 

1 Engineer Bureau (365) 

1 Naval Observatory (366) , 

1 New York Academy (399) 

1 Boston Academv (403) , 

1 Buiialo Society (395) 

1 Washburn Observatory (408) , 

1 Dr. John Mason (436) , 



Sent. 



Mar. 14, 1882 
May 15, 1882 



May 24, 1882 



Nov. 15, 1882 



Acknowl- 
edged. 



June 23, 1882 



Sept. 14, 1882 



In order to fully understand this card, it must be mentioned that each 
lot of books sent to the Smithsonian Institution for transmission accord- 
ing to directions forms one single entry inthe in voice book of incoming 
exchanges, in which the daily receptions are entered consecutively. The 
number of this entry is noted on the list of addresses (which has to 
accompany each sending, specifying the nature and contents of the 
respective parcels) and on the parcels themselves. This numberwill be 
found on the above card catalogue, appended to the name of the sender, 
thus simplifying inquiry into the nature of the sending, should it become 
necessary. 

Rules relative to scientific and literary excKanges. 

In consequence of the great inconvenience occasionally experienced 
by this office from indiscriminate sendings to it, for foreign transmis- 
sion, of exchange packages, without specification of contents or any list 
of addresses, involving an increase of work and the risk of misunder- 
standings, the following rules regarding the scientific and literary ex- 
change have been adopted, and they are now rigidly adhered to. 

1. Transmissions through the Smithsonian Institution to be confined 
exclusively to books, pamphlets, charts, and other printed matter sent 
as donations or exchanges^ and not to include those procured by purchase. 
The Institution and its agents will not receive, for any address, ap- 
paratus and instruments, philosophical, medical, &c. (including micro- 
scopes), whether purchased or presented; nor specimens of natural 
history, except where special permission from the Institution lias been 
obtained. 

S. Mis. 26 6 



82 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGi:S. 



2. A list of the addresses and a statement of contents of each sending 
to be mailed to the Smithsonian Institution at or before the time of 
transmission. 

3. Packages to be legibly addressed, and to be indorsed with the name 
of sender and the contents. 

4. Packages to be enveloped in stout paper, and securely j)asted or 
tied with strong twine — never sealed with wax. 

5. No package to a siugle address to exceed one half of one cubic foot 
in bulk. 

6. To have no inclosures of letters. 

7. To be delivered to the Smithsonian Institution or its agent free of 
expense. 

8. To contain a blank acknowledgment, to be signed and returned 
by the party addressed. 

9. Should returns be desired, the fact is to be explicitly stated on or 
in the package. 

10. Unless these conditions are complied with, the parcels cannot be 
forwarded by the Institution. 



RECEIPTS. 

1. For foreign transmission. 





1882. 


1881. 


Whence received. 


CO 


"S 


£ 

o 
cS 
Pi 


+5 


fee 

« 

C« 

PLI 


4^ 

•l-H 


a. From Government Depart- 
ments: 
Adj utant-General's Office . . . 
Agricultnral Department . . . 
Burean of Education, Inte- 


1 

389 
2 

2,081 

9 

1,005 

1,000 

24 

334 

2 

345 

1 

15 

122 
1 

783 


4 
1,682 

48 

14, 356 

68 

2,095 

1,062 

76 

2,847 

102 

1,701 

3 

97 

30, 500 

8 

2,528 


























rior Department. 

Bureau of Ethnology, Inte- 
rior Department. 

Bureau of Statistics, Treas- 


















ury Department. 
Census Office . 










Comptroller of Currency 

District Commissioners 


















Engineer Bureau, War De- 










partment. 

Geological Survey of the Ter- 
ritories. 

Geological Surveys west of 
100th meridian. 

Hydrographic Office, Navy 
Department. 

Interior Department (exclu- 
sive of Bureaus). 

Library of Congress 

Lio'ht-House Board, Treas- 


















































ury Department. 
Naval Observatory 











REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

RECEIPTS — continued. 
1. For foreign transmission. 



83 





1882. 


1881. 


Whence received. 






Ph 


1 


03 

fcJD 

cS 

o 




a. From Government Depart- 
ments : 

Navy Department (exclusive 
of Bureaus). 

Signal Oflfice, War Depart- 
ment. 

Surgeon-General's OfBce .... 

Treasury Department (ex- 
clusive of Bureaus). 

United States Fisli Commis- 


1 
114 

4 

1 

213 

1 
10 
12 


5 

1,312 

40 
3 

730 

3 

604 

244 










































sion. 
United States Marino Hos- 










pital Service. 
United States National Mu- 










seum. 
War Department (exclusive 
of Bureaus). 










6,470 
7,056 


60, 118 
13, 447 


4,326 
5,436 


22,903 
17, 499 


h. From Smithsonian Institution. 


7,056 


13,447 


c. From scientific societies: 

Academy of Sciences, Daven- 
port, Iowa. 

Academy of Sciences, New 
York City. 

Academy of Sciences, Saint 
Louis, Mo. 

Academy of Natural Sci- 


175 

376 
261 
236 

52 
134 

18 
108 
211 

59 

35 
1,272 

23 
1 

25 
687 

5 

286 


196 
310 
378 
262 

36 
339 

41 
168 

72 

150 

291 

1,562 

40 
110 

50 
1,587 

25 

880 


























ences, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Academy of Natural Science, 










Minnesota. 
American Association for the 










Advance of Science. 

American Entomological So- 
ciety. 

American Geographical So- 
ciety. 

American Journal of Arts 


























and Sciences. 
American Medical Associa- 










tion. 

American Philological Asso- 
ciation, 

American Philosophical So- 
ciety. 

American Statistical Asso- 


























ciation. 
Augustana College, Rock 

Island, 111. 
Board of Public Charities, 


















Pliiladelphia. 
Boston Academy of Arts and 

Sciences. 
Boston Athenaeum 


















Boston Society of Natural 
History. 



















84 



EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

RECEIPTS — continued. 
1. For foreign transmission. 





1882. 


1881. 


Whence received. 


i 


fcC 


IB 

M 
o 

Ph 


i 


m 


bO 

• r-i 


c. From scientific societies: 

Buffalo Society of Natural 

Sciences. 
Cincinnati Observatory 


232 

83 
170 
264 

81 

5 

1 

47 

3 
1 

1 

1 

2 

264 


73 

54 
236 
360 

80 

69 

2 

146 

44 
17 

8 

67 

88 

360 


















Essex Institute, Salem, Mass. 










Geological Survev, Wisconsin 










Historical Society, Philadel- 










phia. 
Johns Hopkins University, 

Baltimore. 
Michigan Horticultural So- 


















ciety. 
Museum of Comp. Zoology, 

Cambridge. 
Peabodv Museum, Cambridge 


















Public Librarv, Boston 










Secretary of State, Illinois.. 










Secretary of State, Michigan. 










Geological Survey, Michigan. 










Washburn Observatory, 












5,119 


8,101 


3,631 


6,816 


d. From individuals : 

Barclav, James 


51 

97 

3 

1 
2 
3 


21 
2 
7 
142 
7 
4 
9 
3 

38 

12 

7 

100 

40 

21 
2 
2 

14 
3 
4 
170 
100 
3 
3 
5 
4 

20 
3 
1 
6 
1 

17 

403 

1 


Bean, Dr. T. H 










Bernhardt, Dr. P. W 










Bessels, Emil 










Brown, Martin J 










Collins, Captain 










Collins, F. S 










Curley, James 










Curtiss, A.H 










Dall, C. H 










Dement, H. D 










Dow, J. M 










Earll, E. E 










Eatou, Dan. C 










Ferguson, T. B 










Gill, Dr. T. N 










Goode, G. Brown 










Gra J', Prof. Asa 




1 




Haines, Mary P 










Hasselqui.st , A 










Heriug, C. J 










Hewson, A 










Holden, E. S 










Holden, Mrs. M. C 










Horn, Geo. H 










Hough, F. B 










Hough, E. B 










Howard, L. A ... .. 










IngersoU, Ernest 










Kuhluian, Mr 1 










Lesquereux, L 2 

Mason, Dr. John G9 


















Mills, Hemy 1 




i 





REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 85 

RECEIPTS— continued. 
1. For foreign transmission. 





1882. 


1881. 


Whence received. 


aj 
u 


1 


« 


4^ 




43 

s 


d. From individuals: 

Mohr, Chas .. 


1 
1 
1 

1 

250 

24 

1 

1 

1 

60 

2 

1 

49 


5 

21 

4 

2 

180 

43 

1 

15 

2 

337 

35 

9 

165 










Nicholson, W. L 










Phillips, Henry, jr.. ... .. 










Pickiuau, B .. . . .... 










Poore, B. Perley 










Ran, IProf. Charles 










Ridgway, R ..... .. 










Riley, Prof. C. V 










Schott, Chas. A 










Stevenson, J.J 










Worthen, A. H 










Willey, Henry 










Winchell, N. H 














647 


2,054 


768 


2,937 






Total 


19,292 


83, 720 


14, 161 


50, 155 











2. ^or domestic transmission. 

The receipt of exchanges for domestic transmission during the year 
was 8,67G parcels, of which 1,471 were contributed by home institutions 
and 7,205 by establishments abroad, as follows : 





1882. 


1881. 


Country. 


No. of 
boxes. 


No. of 
parcels. 


Weight. 


No. of 
boxes. 


No. of 
parcels. 


Weight. 


From Argentine Confederation . . 
From Australia 


2 
2 
5 
2 
4 
1 
13 
»44 

59 
2 
3 
3 

7 
1 
2 
2 


211 

199 

495 

2 

65 

5 

584 

2,698 

1,510 

111 

342 

315 

300 

47 

156 

165 


Pounds. 

1,112 

378 

1,480 

200 

385 

20 

2,833 

9, 322 

12, 746 

460 

1,344 

370 

1,770 

84 

950 

200 






Pounds. 








From Belgium 








From Central America 








From Denmark 








From East Indies 








From France 








From Germany 








From Great Britain 








From Holland 








FFom Italy 








From Mexico 








From Norway 








From Russia 








From Sweden 








From Switzerland 
















Total 


152 


7, 205 


33, 654 


Ill 


7,890 


33, -291 







* This number includes two boxes lost at sea, the first accident known to occur to any cases of 
exchanges between Germany and the United States. 



86 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

3. For Government transmission. 



Whence received. 



1882. 



From EnglaBd, for Library of 
Congress 

From Germany, for Library of 
Congress 

From France, for Library of Con- 
gress - 

From Pnblic Printer, 631 parcels 
of official documents, each con- 
taining 50 copies 



Total. 



No. of 
boxes. 



18 



Pack- 
ages. 



16 
1 
1 

31, 550 



31, 568 



Weight 



2,420 
130 

200 

26, 000 



28, 750 



1831. 



No. of 
boxes. 



Pack- 
ages. 



15, 550 



15, 550 



Weight. 



In the report for 1881 special attention was called to the large in- 
crease in the reception of exchange parcels, which in that year reached 
22,051,exclusive of 15,550 copies of Government documents for distribu- 
tion by the Smithsonian Institution to foreign Governments. This 
number, although very large in comparison with previous years, has 
been exceeded during the present year (1882) by about twenty per cent. ; 
the number amounting to 26,479, exclusive of 31,568 copies of Govern- 
ment publications. They were received from the following sources: 



1. For foreign transmission : 

(a.) From Government Departments 
(6.) From Smithsonian Institution .. 

(c.) From scientific societies 

(d.) From individuals 

Total 

2. For domestic transmission 

Total 

3. For Government exchanges 

Total 



Pack- 



6,470 

7, 056 

5,119 

647 



19, 292 

7,187 



26, 479 
31, 568 



58, 047 



Pounds. 



60, 118 

13, 447 

8,101 

2,054 



83, 720 
30, 904 



114, 624 

28, 750 

143, 374 



TRANSMISSIONS. 

1. Foreign transmissions. 

The year 1882 began and ended without any accumulation of ex- 
changes in this office, and all the transmissions made during the same 
represent the actual receipts. 

The total number of boxes sent during the year is 422, which is an 
excess of 15 boxes over the year 1881, and is the highest on record. Of 
these 422 boxes, 298 contain books, and 2 boxes specimens sent by 



EEPOET ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



87 



the National Museum, In tbe year 1881, with 407 boxes, only 264 con- 
tained books, while 45 entire boxes of specimens were sent by the 
National Museum and Fish Commission. 
The transmissions of 1882 compare with former years as follows : 





1875. 


1876. 


1877. 


1878. 


1879. 


1880. 


1881. 


1882. 


Boxes 

Bulk, iu cubic 

feet. 
Weight, in lbs . 


208 
1,503 

45, 350 


323 
2,261 

80, 750 


397 
2,779 

99,250 


309 
2,160 

69,220 


311 
2,177 

69, 975 


268 
1,976 

00, 300 


407 
2, 800 

100, 750 


422 
2,950 

105,500 



In all cases the number of boxes given in this report includes the 
boxes sent under the system of Government document exchange to the 
various Governments specified in the special report apj)ended, and the 
transmissions to Canada, which will be found specified in the detailed 
report on domestic exchanges. 

The 422 boxes sent during the year 1882 were distributed as follows: 



/ 

Country. 


43 

O 


i 

O 4) 

a 


o 


Africa : 

Algeria , 




1 

3 
1 

2 


1 


Cape Colonies 




3 


Liberia 




1 


Egypt 




2 








America : 




7 


7 


Biitisb. America 


4 
2 


2 
3 

2 
2 
1 

1 
1 

1 

i 
1 

2 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 


6 


Mexico 


5 


Central America : 

Costa Rica 


2 


Guatemala 




2 


Nicaragua 




1 


West Indies: 

Barbadoes 




1 


Cuba 




1 


Guadeloupe 




1 


Hayti 


2 


2 


Jamaica 


1 


Trinidad 




1 


South America: 

Argentine Confederation 


4 


6 


Bolivia 


1 


Brazil 


2 

2 

17 


4 


Chili 


3 


Colombia, United States of 


18 


Guiana 


1 


Ecuador 




1 


Peru 




1 


Uruguay 




1 


Venezuela 


2 


3 








35 


27 


62 



88 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



Country. 


■+3 
§ 

® s 

o 


"3 CO 

O Q 

a 


'3 
o 


Asia: 

China....... 




3 
3 

2 


1 


India 


17 

2 


20 


Japan . 


4 








19 


8 


27 


AUSTKAXASIA : 

New South Wales 


2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 


2 
2 
1 
1 

1 
3 


4 


New Zealand 


4 


Queensland 


3 


South Australia 


J 


Tasmania 


3 


Victoria 


5 






Austria-Hungary 


12 

17 

2 
2 
3 

10 
2 
2 


10 

9 

9 

3 

43 

68 

57 

3 


22 

26 




11 


Denmark 


5 


France 


46 


Germany 


78 


Great Britain 


59 


Greece 


5 


Iceland ( with Denmark) 




Italy.... ..' 


2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 


14 
5 
3 
4 
6 
5 
6 
9 
3 


16 


Netherlands 


7 


Norway 


5 




6 


Russia 


8 




7 


Sweden 


8 




11 


Turkey 


5 








56 


247 


303 


POLTKESIA : 




1 


1 








Recapitulation. 
Africa 




7 
27 

8 

10 

247 

1 


7 


America 


35 
19 
12 
56 


62 


Asia 


27 


Australasia 


22 


Europe 


303 


Polynesia 


1 








Total 


122 


300 


422 







Transportation companies. 

The agents of a number of transportation companies have continued 
to grant free freight on the boxes and packages bearing tlie Smithsonian 
stamp. These companies are: 



EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 89 

' Anchor Steamship Company (Henderson & Bro., agents), New York. 

Atlas Steamship Company (Pirn, Forwood & Co., agents), New York. 

Bland, Thomas, New York. 

Cameron, R. W., & Co., New York. 

Compagnie G6n6rale Transatlantiqiie (L. de Bebian, agent). New 
York. 

Cunard Royal Mail Steamship Line (Vernon Brown & Co., agents), 
New York. 

Dallett, Boulton & Co., New York. 

Dennison, Thomas, New York. 

Hamburg- American Packet Company (Kunhardt & Co., agents), New 
York. 

Inman Steamship Company. 

Merchants' Line of Steamers, New York. 

Netherland -American Steam Navigation Company (F. Cazeaux, agent). 
New York. 

New York and Brazil Steamship Company, New York. 

New York and Mexico Steamship Company, New York. 

North German Lloyd Steamship Company (Oelrichs & Co., New 
York, and Schumacher & Co., Baltimore). 

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York. 

Pacific Steam Navigation Company, New York. 

Panama Eailroad Company, New York. 

Eed Star Liue (Peter Wright & Sons, agents). New York. 

White Cross Line (Funch Edye and Co.), New York. 

In addition to the above transportation companies, a number of for- 
eign consuls have consented to receiv^e and transmit Smithsonian ex- 
changes for their respective countries as follows : 

Carlos Carranza, New York, to Argentine Eepublic. 

Charles Mackall, Baltimore, to Brazil. 

C. de Castro, New York, to Chili. 

Hypolito de Uriarte, New York, to Spain and Cuba. 
Francis Spies, New York, to Ecuador. 

D. W. Botassi, New York, to Greece. 
Jacob Baez, New York, to Guatemala. 
M. Eappo, New York, to Italy. 
Samro Takaki, New York, to Japan. 
Juan N. Navarro, New York, to IMexico. 
Christian Bors, New York, to Norway and Sweden. 
Henrick Braem, New York, to Denmark. 
Gustav Amsink, New York, to Portugal. 



90 



EEPOET ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



The following is the shipping list at present used in the transmission 
of the Smithsonian exchanges : 



Country. 



Algeria. 



Argentine Confederation 

Antigua 

Austria-Hungary 

Belsrium 



Brazil 

British America 
BritisLi Guiana.. 
Cape Colonies .. 



Chili 

China 

Colombia, United States of. 

Costa Kica 

Cuba 

Denniarli: 

Dutch Guiana 

East India 



Shipping agent. 



Ecuador. 
Egypt... 
Finland ., 

France ... 
Germany . 



Great Britain. 

Greece 

Guatemala . . . 

Hayti 

Iceland 



Italy 

Japan 

Liberia 

Madeira 

Malta 

Mauritius 

Mozambique . 

Mexico 



Netherlands 

Netherland Indies 
New Caledonia . . . 



New South Wales. 

New Zealand 

Peru 

Philippine Islands 

Polynesia 

Portual 

Queensland 



Russia. ... 
St. Helena. 



Compagnie Gen^rale Transatlantique, New York. Trans- 
fer made by the French Commission of Exchanges in 
Paris, France. 

Consul Carlos Carranza, New York. 

Thomas Dennison, New York. 

North German Lloyd, Baltimore. 

Red Star Line, New York: White Cross Line, New 
York. 

Consul Charles JIackall, Baltimore. 

Baltimore and Ohio Express Company. 

Transfer made in Loudou by Smithsoniau agent. 

North German Lloyd to Smithsonian agent, London, 
England. 

Consul C. do Castro, New York. 

Salter & Livermore, New York. 

Consul-General Lino de Pombo, New York. 

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York. 

Cousul-Genei-al Hipoli'o de Uriarte, New York. 

Consul Henrick Braem, New York. 

Thomas Bixby & Co., Boston, Mass. 

North German Lloyd to Smithsonian agent, London, 
England. 

Consul Francis Spies, New York. 

S. L. Merchant & Co. New York. 

North German Lloyd, Baltimore, to F. A. Brockhaus, 
Leipzig, Germany. 

Compagnie Generale Transatlantique, New York. 

North German Lloyd, New York or Baltimore. 

Hamburg- Americau Packet Company, New York. 

North German Lloyd, Baltimore or New York. 

Ciiuard Royal Mail Steamship Line, New York. 

D. W. Botassi, consul New York. 

Consul Jacob Baez, New York. 

Atlas Steamship Company, New York. 

Consul Henrick Braem, New York. Transfer made by 
Smithsonian agent in Copenhagen, Denmark, 

Consul-General M. Raffo, New York. 

Consul Samro Takaki, New York. 

America Colonization Association, Washington, D. C. 

North German Lloyd to Smithsoniau agent in London, 
England. 

Consul Juan N. Navarro, New York. 

Consul R. C. Burlage, New York. 

North German Lloyd to Gordon & Gotch, London, Eng- 
land. 

R. W, Camerou & Co., New York. 

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 

Jose]Dh S. Spinuey, New York. 

Spanish consul, San Francisco, Cal. 

Consul Severauce, San Francisco, Cal. 

Consul Gustav Amsink, New York. 

North German Lloyd, Baltimore to Queensland Depart- 
ment, London, England. 

Hamburg-American Packet Company, New York. 
Transfer made by Russian consul-general, Hamburg. 

North German Lloyd to Smithsonian agent, London, 
England. 



REPORT OX THE OPEEATIO^'S OF EXCHANGES. 



91 



CouatrT. 



SMpping agent. 



SoQth Australia j R- W. Cameron & Co. , X^ew York. 

Spain ' Consul Hipolito de Uriarte, New York. 

Strait Settlements ( North German Lloyd to Smithsonian agent, London, 

j England- 
Sweden and Xonray I Consul Christian Bors, New York. 

Switzerland North German Lloyd to Consul von Heymann, Bremen, 

i Germany. 

Syria ; Presbyterian Rooms, New York. 

Tasmania j North German Lloyd to Crown agents for the colonies, 

I London, England; or G. W. Wheatley «fc Co., 156 

i Leadenball street, London, England. 

Turkey j Ottoman Legarlon. Washington, D. C. 

Turk's Island I Wilson & Asmus. New York. 

V Consul W. H. T. Hughes. New York. 

la [ Dallett, Boulton ■&. Co.. New York. 

^,a E. W. Cameron &, Co., New York. 



.XTEES OF DISTBIBCTIOX. 



Argentine Republic. 
Austria-Hungary . .. 
Belgium 



Brazil 



British America 

British Guiana 

Cape Colonies 

Chdi 

China 

Colombia, United States of. . 

Costa Rica 

Cuba 

Denmark 

Dutch Guiana 

East India 

Ecuador 

Egypt 

Finkind 

France 

Germany 

Great Britain 

Greece 

Guatemala 

Hayti 

Iceland 

Italy . 

Japan 

Liberia 

Madeira 

Malta 

Mauritius 

Mozambique 

Mexico 

Netherlands 

Netherland Indies , 

New Caledonia 

New South Wales 

New Zealand , 

Norway 



Commission Francaise des lEchanges Intemationanx, 
Paris, France. 

Museo Publico, Buenos Ayres. 

Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipzig. 

Commission Beige des Echanges Intern ationanx, Brus- 
sels. 

Brazilian Commission of International Exchanges, Rio 
Janeiro. 

McGill College, Montreal ; Geological Survey, Ottawa. 

Observatory. Georgetown. 

William Wesley, London, England, 

Universidad, Santiago. 

United States consul-general, Shanghai. 

National Library (Commission of Exchanges), Bogota. 

Universidad. San Jose. 

R. Universidad, Habana. 

K. D. Videnskabernes Selskab, Copeiihagen. 

Koloniaale Bibliotheek, Surinam. 

William Wesley, London, England. 

Observatorio, Quito. » 

Institnt Egyptien. Cairo. 

F. A. Brockhaus, Leipzig, Germany. 

Commission Francaise des ^changes Intern ationatix, 
Paris. 

Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipzig. 

William Wesley, London. 

Bibliotheque Nationale, Athens. 

Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais, Guatemala. 

Secretaire u'£tat des Rflations Ext^rLeures, Port-au- 
Prince. 

Islands Stiptisbokasafn. Reykjavik. 

Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome. 

Minister of Foreign Affairs, Tokio. 

Liberia College, Monrovia. 

William Wesley, London, England. 

William Wesley, London, England. 

William Wesley, London, England. 

William Wesley, Loudon, England. 

El Museo Nacioual, Mexico. 

Bureau Scieniifique Central Neerlandais, Harlem. 

Bataviaa'sche Genootschap van Kunsten en Weten- 
schappen. Batavia. 

Gordou tSc Gotch. London, England. 

Royal Society of New South Wales, Sydney. 

Colonial Museum. Wellington. 

K. N. Fredericks Universiteter, Christiania, 



92 



KEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES 



Country. 


Shipping agent. 


Philippine Island 


Royal Economical Society, Manila. 
Royal Hawaiian Agricultural Society, Honolulu. 
Escola Polytecnica, Lisbon. 

Governineut Meteorological Observatory, Brisbane. 
Commission Ruase des iSchanges Internationaux (Im- 
perial Public Library), St. Petersburg. 
William Wesley, London, England. 
Astronomical Observatory, Adelaide. 
Real Academia de Cieiicias, Madrid. 


Polynesia 


Portugal 


Queensland 


Russia 


St. Helena 


South Australia 


Spain 


Strait Settlements 


William Wesley, London, England. 

K. S. Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm. 

Eidgen. Bundes Cauzlei, Bern. 


Sweden ...... 


Switzerland 


Tasmania 


Royal Society of Tasmania, Hobartton. 
Scientific Association, Port of Spain. 
Public Library, Grand Turk. 
University, Caracas. 
Public Library, Melbourne. 


Trinidad 


Turk's Island 


Venezuela 


Victoria 







2. Domestic transmissions. 

List of packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe and distributed to the 
following named institutions and individuals in the United States and British America. 



ALABAMA. 

Tuscaloosa : 
Geological Survey of Alabama. .. . 

Montgomery : 
State Library 



ABKANSAS. 



Little Rock : 
State Library... 



CALIFORNIA. 

Mount Hamilton : 
Lick Observatory 

Berkeley : 
University of California 

Sacramento : 

Agassiz Institute 

Agricultural and Horticultural So- 
ciety 

Irrigation Survey 

Medical Society 

State Agricultural Society 

State Library 

San Francisco : 

Alta California 

Bancroft Pacific Library 

California Academy of Sciences 

California Historical Society 

Corporation of the city of San Fran- 
cisco 

Geographical Society of the Pacific 
Geographical Survey of California. 



3 
1 
1 
1 
5 

1 

1 

112 

3 

2 
2 
2 



Governor of the State 

Health Department 

Lick Astronomical Department Uni- 

versi ty of California 

Mercantile Library Association 

Microscopical Society 

Office of the Lick Trust 

COLORADO. 



Denver : 
Governor of the State. 
Territorial Library. .. 



CONNECTICUT. 

Hartford : 

American Philological Association. 

Connecticut Society of Natural 
History 

Hartford Medical Library 

Historical Society of Connecticut.. 

Library Young Men's Institute 

Middletown : 

Wesleyan University 

New Haven : 

American Journal of Arts and 
Sciences 

American Oriental Society 

Connecticut Academy of Arts and 
Sciences 

New Haven Colony Historical Soci- 
ety 



57 
29 



136 



KEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



93 



Obser^^atory of Yale College 5 

Sheffield Scientific School 5 

State Board of Agriculture 1 

Winchester Observatory 1 

Yale College 32 

Newington : 

Private Observatory 1 

DELAWARE. 

Wilmington : 

Delaware Historical Society 1 

DISTKICT OF COLUMBIA. 

Georgetown: 

Georgetown College 5 

Observatory of Georgetown College. 2 
Washington : 

Agricultural Department 124 

Anthropological Society 6 

Army Medical Museum 4 

Belgian Legation 3 

Board of Health 15 

Botanic Garden 1 

Ceusus Bureau 49 

Chinese Legation 20 

Chief Signal Office, U. S. Army.... 67 

Coast and Geodetic Survey 74 

Cohimbian University 2 

Cosmos Club 1 

Education, Bureau of 57 

Engineer Bureau, U. .S. Army 38 

Entomological Commission 16 

Fish Commission 15 

French Legation 1 

Geological Survey of the Territo- 
ries 261 

Geographical Surveys West of the 

100th Meridian 39 

Hydrographic Office 12 

Index Medicus 4 

Indian Commissioners 1 

Interior Department (exclusive. of 

bureaus) 17 

Land Office 34 

Library of Congress 216 

Light-House Board 4 

Marine Hospital Service 5 

Medical Association (American) ... 55 

Medicine and Surgery, Bureau of.. 1 

Mint Bureau 1 

National Academy of Sciences 152 

National Museum 82 

Nautical Almanac office 14 

Navfil Observatory 99 

Navigation, Bureau of 1 



Navy Department (exclusive of bu- 
reaus) 2 

Ordnance Bureau, U. S. Army 3 

PatentOffice 68 

Smithsonian Institution 1091 

State Department 20 

Statistical Bureau of Treasury De- 
partment 51 

Surgeon-General, U. S. Army 127 

Treasury Dej)artment (exclusive of 

bureaus) 11 

War Department (exclusive of bu- 
reaus) 11 

Washington Philosophical Society. 20 

FLORIDA. 

Saint Augustine : 
Historical Society of Florida 1 

GEORGIA. 

Savannah : 

Historical Society of Georgia 3 

State Library 1 

ILLINOIS. 

Aledo : 
Mercer County Scientific Associa- 
tion 1 

Carbondale : 
Southern Illinois Normal Univer- 
sity 1 

Chicago : 

Academy of Sciences 76 

American Antiquarian 2 

Astronomical Society 1 

Board of Trade 1 

Chicago Times 1 

Corporation of the city of Chicago. 2 

Dearborn Observatory 10 

Historical Society 2 

Museum of Natural History 2 

Natural History Society 1 

Public Library 8 

University of Chicago 1 

Galesburg : 
Lombard University 1 

Madison : 
American Pomological Society 6 

Normal: 
State Laboratory of Natural His- 
tory 6 

Rockford : 
Rockford Scientific Society 1 

Rock Island: 
Augustana College 1 



94 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



Spriug field : 
Geological Survey of Illinois. 
State Library 



INDIANA. 

Evanston : 
Northwestern University , 

Indianapolis: 
Bureau of Statistics and Geology . 

Geological Survey of Indiana 

State Board of Agriculture 

Richmond : 
Scientific Association 

Greencastle : 
Indiana Asbury University 

Bloomington : 
Indiana University 



IOWA. 

Ames: 
State Agricultural College 

Davenport : 
Academy of Natural Sciences 

Decorah : 
Norwegian Lutherftn College 

Des Moines: 

Geological Survey of Iowa 

Governor of the State 

Historical Society 

State Library 

Dubuque : 

Dubuque Observatory 

Iowa Institute of Science and Arts. 

Fort Dodge : 
Private Observatory 

Iowa City: 

Iowa Weather Service 

Private Observatory 

University of Iowa 

State Historical Society of Iowa . . 



Baldwin City : 
Baker University 

Lawrence : 

Kansas Historical Society 

State University 

Topeka : 
Kansas Academy of Sciences 
Kansas Historical Society 



KENTUCKY. 

Frankfort : 
Geological Survey of Kentucky. 

Lexington : 
Kentucky University 



1 

65 

2 

3 
5 
2 
1 

1 
1 



Louisville : 

Corporation of the city 

Historical Society of Kentucky. 

LOUISIANA. 

Baton Rouge : 
State University 

New Orleans: 

Academy of Sciences 

Corporation of the city 

Fiske Free Library 

State Library , . 

State University 



MAINE. 

Brunswick : 

Bowdoin College 

Historical Society of Maine 

Norway : 
High School and Academy 

Portland : 
Portland Society of Natural His- 
tory 

Saco: 
York Institute 

Waterville : 
Colby University 

MARYLAND. 

Annapolis : 

Saint John's College 

United States Naval Academy 

United States Naval Academy Ob- 
servatory 

Baltimore : 
American Journal of Chemistry... 
American Journal of Mathematics . 

City Library 

Corporatiou of the City 

Johns Hopkins University 

Maryland Academy of Sciences 

Maryland Historical Society 

Peabody Institute 

Philological Association of Johns 
Hopkins University 

MASSACHUSETTS. 

Amherst : 

Amherst College 

Observatory of Amherst College... 
Boston : 

American Academj of Arts and Sci- 
ences 

American Gynecological Society... 

American Oriental Academy 

American Social Science Associa- 
tion 



39 
2 
1 
1 
1 



3 
14 



13 
1 
1 



3 

7 
1 
2 

26 
3 
9 

20 



185 
4 
2 



EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



95 



American Statistical Association .. 14 

American Unitarian Association.. . 1 

Appalachian Mountain Club 1 

Arcliajological Institute of America. 1 

AtlienoBum 3 

Boston Hospital 1 

Boston Post 2 

Boston Public Library 26 

Boston Scientific Society 2 

Boston Society of Natural History. 226 

Bowditch Institution 1 

Bowditch Library 3 

City Library 1 

Commonwealth of Massachusetts.. 1 

Corporation of the city 2 

Handel and Hayden Society 1 

Legislature of Massachusetts 1 

Massachusetts Agricultural College 1 
Massachusetts Historical and Gene- 
alogical Society 11 

Massachusetts Horticultural Soci- 
ety 1 

Massachusetts Institute of Tech- 
nology 5 

Medical and Surgical Journal 18 

New England Historical and Gen- 
ealogical Society 2 

Public Free Library 3 

Science Observer 3 

State Board of Agriculture 1 

State Board of Health 7 

State Library 16 

Cambridge : 

American Philological Association. 1 

Atlantic Monthly 1 

Etymological Club ' ' Psyche " 4 

Geological Survey of Massachusetts 1 

Harvard College 48 

Harvard College Observatory..... 19 

Museum of Comparative Zoology.. 93 

Peabody Museum 8 

Cambridgeport : 

Private Observatory 1 

Jamaica Plain : 

Bussey Institution 13 

Salem : 
American Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science 50 

Essex Institute 85 

Peabody Academy 81 

South Had ley: 
Mount Holyoke Seminary Observa- 
tory 1 

Williamstowu : 

Astronomical Observatory 1 



Worcester: 
American Antiquarian Society 11 

MICHIGAJSr. 

Ann Arbor : 

Geological Survey of Michigan 10 

Observatory 9 

Society of Agriculture 2 

University of Michigan 4 

Battle Creek: 

High School Observatory 1 

Coldwater: 

Michigan Library Association 2 

Detroit : 

Historical Society of Michigan 1 

Detroit Observatory 1 

Public Library 1 

State Agricultural Society 3 

Grand Rapids: 

State Agricultural Society 3 

Lansing: 

Lansing Scientific Society 4 

State Agricultural College 1 

State Board of Agriculture 8 

State Board of Health 22 

State Library 2 

State Medical Society 5 

Ypsilanti : 

State Normal School Observatory.. 1 

MINNESOTA. 

Duluth : 
Scandinavian City Library 1 

Minneapolis: 
Geological Survey of Minnesota... 1 

Minnesota Academy of Sciences... 7 

University of Minnesota 4 

Northfield : 
Carloton College Observatory 1 

Saint Paul : 

Academy of Natural Sciences 1 

Chamber of Commerce 1 

Historical Society of Minnesota ... 8 

Minnesota State Library 1 

MISSISSIPPI. 

Oxford : 
Observatory of the University of 

Mississippi 1 

Jackson : 
Mississippi State Library 1 

MISSOURI. 

Columbia : 
Laws Observatory 2 



96 



EEPOKT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



Glasgow : 
Morrison Observatory 

Jefferson : 
Missouri Historical and Philosplii- 

cal Society 

State Board of Agriculture 

State Library 

Kansas City : 
Kansas Review 

Rolla: 

Geological Survey of Missouri 

School of Mines 

Saint Louis : 

Academy of Sciences 

Corporation of the city 

Emigration Society 

Mercantile Library 

Missouri Historical Society 

Peabody Academy 

Public Library 

Public School Library 

Republican 

Washington University 

Wasliington University Observa- 
tory 

MONTANA. 

Lincoln : 
Nebraska State Library 



NEBRASKA. 



Omaha : 
Nebraska Historical Society. 



NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

Concord: 
New HampsMre Historical Society. 

Hanover : 

Dartmouth College 

Shattuck Observatory 



NEW JERSEY. 

Elizabeth : 
Elizabeth Observatory 

Hobokeu : 
Stevens Institute of Technology . . 

Mount Holly : 
Burlington County Lyceum of His- 
tory and Natural Sciences 

Newark : 
New Jersey Historical Society 

New Brunswick : 
Geological Survey of New Jersey. . 
New Jersey Natural History So- 
ciety 



10 

7 

16 
2 
1 

10 
7 
5 
4 
6 
1 
5 



1 

9 

1 

2 

12 

1 



Princeton : 
Museum of Geology and Archaeol- 
ogy 1 

College of New Jersey 17 

Halsted Observatory 2 

John C. Green School of Science 

Observatory 1 

Observatory of Princeton College . 2 

Trenton : 

State Board of Agriculture 1 

State Library 1 

NEW MEXICO. 

Santa F6 : 
Historical Society of New Mexico . 1 

NEW YORK. 

Albany: 

Albany Institute 18 

Adirondack Survey 5 

Dudley Observatory 23 

Mercantile Library 1 

New York Medical Society 5 

State Agricultural Society 10 

State Commissioners 1 

State Library 52 

State Museum 8 

State University 8 

Alfred Centre : 

Alfred Observatory 1 

Brooklyn : 

Brooklyn Library 1 

Corporation of the city 1 

Private Observatory 2 

Long Island Historical Society 2 

Buffalo : 

Buffalo Historical Society 2 

Buffalo Practical School 1 

Buffalo Society of Natural Sci- 
ences 75 

Private Observatory of Henry Mills. 1 

Private Observatory of James W. 

Ward 1 

Clinton : 
Litchfield Observatory of Hamilton 

College -' 7 

Cornwall: 

The Cornwall Library 1 

Ford ham : 
Private Observatory of W. Meikle- 

liam 1 

Hastings : 

Private Observatory 1 

Ithaca : 
Cornell University 18 



EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



97 



New York : 

Academy of Medicine 2 

American Chemical Society 10 

American Ethnographical Society. 2 

American Ethnological Society G 

American Geographical Society 104 

American Inslitute 5 

American Institute of Architects. .. 2 
American lustitiite of Christian 

Philosoi)hy 2 

American Metrological Society 6 

American Philological Association. 2 
American Society of Civil Engi- 
neers 2 

Anthropological Institute 1 

Astor Library 42 

Columbia College 7 

Columbia College Observatory 2 

Commissioners of Emigration 2 

Corporation of the City 2 

Coopt-r Institute 1 

Engineering auil Mining Journal.. 8 

Halls, Journal of Health 1 

Health Department 2 

Historical Society of Now York 1 

Lenox Library 2 

Mayor of the city 3 

Med ical Journal and Library 2 

Medical Kecorder 3 

Mercautile Library Association 2 

Metropolitan Museum of Arts 1 

Museum of Natural History 25 

New York Academy of Sciences 132 

New York Haudels Zeitung 2 

New York Herald 5 

New York Historical Society 8 

New York Literary and Philosoph- 
ical Society 2 

New York Medical Journal 9 

New York Medical Record 4 

New York Times 12 

New York Tribune 3 

Observatory, Central Park 10 

Popular Science Monthly 1 

Presbyterian Review 2 

Private Observatory of L. M.Ruth- 
erford 2 

Public Health Association 4 

School of Mines 8 

Scieutitic American 2 

United States Sanitary Commission. 9 

University of New York 8 

Phelps: 

Red House Observatory 1 

Poughkeepsie : 

Society of Natural Sciences 1 

H. Mis. 26 7 



Vassar College 3 

Vassar College Observatory 1 

Riverdale : 
Private Observatory of W. Meiklo- 

ham 1 

Rochester : 

Warner Observatory 1 

Schenectady: 

Union College 6 

Tarry town : 
Private Observatory of Chas H. 

Rockwell 1 

Troy: 

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.. 3 

Scientific Society 2 

William Proudfit Observatory 1 

Utica: 

State Lunatic Asylum 1 

West Point: 

United States Military Academy . 11 

West Point Observatory 1 

Willets Point: 

Field Observatory 1 

OHIO. 

Ashtabula : 

Anthropological Society 8 

Cincinnati : 

Academy of Fine Arts 1 

Astronomical Society 1 

Cincinnati Enquirer 1 

Cincinnati University 3 

Corporation of the city 1 

Historical and Philosoph'l Society. 2 

Mechanics' Institute 2 

Mercautile Library 1 

Observatory 24 

Public Library 9 

Society of Natural History 22 

Cleveland : 

Academy of Natural Sciences 2 

Board of Health 2 

Kirtland Society 1 

Columbus: 

Geological Survey of Ohio 2 

Horticultural Society 10 

Private Observatory 1 

State Board of Agriculture 38 

State Libraiy 2 

Gambier : 

Kenyon College 1 

Hudson : 

Hudson Observatory ..„ 1 

Linwood: 

Private Observatory 1 



98 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



Oberlin : 

Oberliu College 1 

Urbaiiu : 

Central Ohio Scientific Association. 1 

Yellow Springs : 

Antiocli College 1 

PENNSYLVANIA. 

Allegheny : 

Allegheny Observatory 10 

Bethlehem : 

Lehigh University 4 

Carlisle: 

Carlisle Society of Literature 1 

Easton : 

Institute of Mining Engineers 11 

Lafayette College '3 

Pardee Science School 1 

Germantowu : 
Friends Free Library and Reading 

Room 1 

Harrisburg : 
Medical Society of Pennsylvania. . . 1 
Second Geological Survey of Penn- 
sylvania. 9 

State Agricultural Society 1 

State Library 2 

Haverford : 

Haverford College Observatory 3 

Media : 
Delaware County Institute of Sci- 
ence 1 

Philadelphia : 

Academy of Fine Arts 3 

Academy of Natural Sciences 199 

American Entomological Society.. 31 

American Naturalist G 

American Pharmaceutical Associa- 

tinn 11 

American Philosophical Society . .. 154 

Board of Health 1 

Board of Public Education 3 

Board of State Charities 3 

Board of Trade 4 

Central High School 2 

Central High School Observatory.. 2 

Corporation of t ho city 2 

Franklin Institute 58 

Geological Survey of Pennsylvania. 3 

Girard College 1 

Historical Society of Pennsylvania. 14 

Library Company... 5 

Library of Pennsylvania Hospital. 3 

Medical Times 14 

Mercantile Library 3 

Museum 1 



Numismatic and Antiquarian So- 
ciety 3 

Observatory 1 

Observatory of Girard College 4 

Penn Monthly 2 

Philadelphia House of Refuge 2 

Philadelphia Press 1 

Philomathean Society 1 

Polytechnic Bulletin 1 

State Medical Society . . . : 1 

University of Pennsylvania 5 

Wagner Free Institute 13 

Zoological Society 19 

Pittsburgh: 

Mercantile Library 2 

Wilkes BaiTe : 
Wyoming Historical and Geolog- 
ical Society 1 

KIIODE ISLAND. 

Providence: 

American Naturalist 13 

Athenaeum 2 

Brown University 4 

City Registrar's Office 1 

Rhode Island Historical Society.. . & 

Seagrave Observatory 1 

State Registrar of Births, Marriages, 

and Deaths 1 

SOUTH CAROLINA. 

Charleston : 
Literary and Philosophical Society 
of South Carolina 1 

South Carolina Historical Society . 1 

TENNESSEE. 

Knosville : 
Philomathesian Society 1 

Lebanon : 
Cumberland University 1 

Nashville: 

Private observatory 1 

Tennessee Historical Society 1 

TEXAS. 

Chapel Hill : 
Soul^ University 1 

VERMONT. 

Barnet : 
A''ermont Historical and Antiqua- 
rian Society 1 

Burlington : 

Fletcher Free Library 1 

University 1 

Castleton : 
Orleans County Society of Natural 

Sciences 40 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



99 



Montpelier : 
State Library 2 

VIRGINIA. 

P. O. University of Virginia: 
University of^Virginia 7 

Hampton : 
Hampton College 1 

Lexington: 
Virginia Military Institute 1 

Richmond : 

Historical Society 1 

Medical College 1 

Medical Society 2 

State Library 3 

Virginia Historical and Philosoph- 
ical Society 1 

Williamsburg: 
Eastern State Lunatic Asylum 1 

WEST VIRGINIA. 

Wheeling : 
Natural History Society 2 

WISCONSIN. 

Beloit : 
Geological Survey of Wisconsin 5 

Inmausville : 
Scandinavian Society 1 

Madison : 

State Agricultural Society 19 

State Historical Society 7 

Washburn Observatory 13 

Wisconsin Academy of Sciences 60 

Wisconsin University 1 

Milwaukee : 

Academy of Sciences 1 

Natural History Society 34 

Neenah : 
Scandivanian Library Association. 4 

WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 

Olympia : 
Territorial Library 1 

WYOMING. 
Cheyenne: 
Territorial Library 1 

BRITISH AMERICA, 

Hamilton (Ontario): 
West Canada Scientific Association. 1 

Kingston (Ontario): 

Botanical Society of Canada 2 

Kiugs College 1 

London (Ontario): 
Canadian Entomological Society.. 1 

Montreal (Quebec): 
Canadian Medical Record 1 



Canadian Medical and Surgical 

Journal 4 

Canadian Naturalist 3 

Entomological Society 1 

Geographical Society 1 

Government of Canada 5 

Herald 1 

L'Union M^dicale de Canada 1 

McGill College 3 

Medical Association of Canada 1 

Natural History Society 21 

Numismatic and Antiquarian Soci- 
ety 1 

Soci^td d'Agriculture du Bas Can- 
ada 1 

Ottawa (Ontario) : 

Academy of Natural Sciences 2 

Department of Agriculture 1 

Field Naturalists' Club 1 

Geological Survey of Canada 18 

Library of Parliament 3 

Observatories in the Dominion 1 

Quebec (Quebec) : 

Chronicle 1 

Geographical Society 3 

Historical Society 1 

Historical and Natural History So- 
ciety 1 

Laval University 2 

Library of the Province of Quebec . 1 

Literary and Historical Society ... 10 

Literary and Philosophical Society. 3 

Naturaliste Cauadien 5 

Observatory 1 

Parliamentary Library 1 

Toronto (Ontario :) 
Board of Agriculture of Upper Can- 
ada 1 

Botanical Society 1 

Canadian Eutomologist 3 

Canadian Institute 27 

Canadian Journal 2 

Canadian Journal of Medical Sci- 
ence 1 

Canadian Naturalist 3 

Department of Marino and Fisher- 
ies 1 

Entomological Society 3 

Evening News 1 

Geological Commission of Canada . 1 

Library and Historical Society 2 

Magnetic Observatory 1 

Meteorological Office 3 

Meteorological Observatory 1 

Parliamentary Library 1 



100 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



Public Library 3 

Tlio Globe 3 

University of Toronto 2 

University College 1 

NEW BRUNSWICK. 

Fredericton : 

University of New Brunswick 1 

St. John : 

Natural History Society 1 

Life Association of Canada 1 



NEWFOUNDLAND. 

St. John's : 
Geological Survey of Newfound- 
land 

Legislative Library 



NOVA SCOTIA. 

Halifax : 
Nova Scotia Institute of Natur.al 
Sciences 



General summary. 



(a.) Societies: 

Alabama 

Arkansas 

California 

Delaware 

Colorado 

Connecticut , 

District of Columbia . 

Florida 

Georgia 

Illinois 

Indiana 

Iowa. 

Kansas 

Kentucky 

Louisiana 

Maine 

Maryland 

Massachusetts 

Micbigan 

Minnesota 

Mississippi , 

Missouri 

Montana 

Nel>raska 

New Hampshire 

New Jersey 

New Mexico 

New York 

Obio 

Pennsylvania 

Rhode Island 

Sonth Carolina 

Tennessee 

Texas 

Vermont 

Virginia 

West Virginia 

Wisconsin 

Washington Territory 

Wyoming 

British America 

(5.) Individuals 

Total 



No. of 

addresses. 



2 
1 

21 
1 
2 

IG 

47 
1 
2 

21 
7 

14 
5 
4 
6 

r> 

12 

r^o 

i« 

<» 

2 

ID 

1 

1 

W 

1:{ 

1 

87 

2f> 

49 

»> 
4 

2 
4 
1 
5 
9 
1 

10 
1 
1 

60 



548 
399 



947 



No. of 
parcels. 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



101 



The decrease as compared with 1881 in the parcels sent under do- 
mestic exchanges is due to the fact that the statistics of that year in- 
clude a large number of parcels left over from 1880. At the close of 
the year 1881, however, all accumulations had been worked off, and not 
one package remained on hand, so that the figures in the present re- 
port represent the actual receipts and transmissions for this year only. ^ 
The receipt of packages for 1881 was 7,890, and for the present year 
8,359, thus showing an actual increase of 4G0 parcels, that is, a little 
above the average increase (400 per year) for the past ten years. 

The total number of packages transmitted compares with former 
years as follows : 





1873. 


1874. 


1875. 


1876. 

310 

328 


1877. 


1878. 


1879. 


1880. 


1881. 


1882. 


Total addresses of institntions 

Total addresses of individuals 


463 
2(30 


462 

288 


320 

281 


392 

374 


292 
370 


444 
341 


385 
560 


600 
454 


548 
399 


Total iTumberof parcels to institntions 
Total number of i)arcels to iudividuald 


3,87C 
906 


3, 221 
1,105 


3,019 
1, 042 


3, TOO 
1,148 


3,868 
1,094 


4, 059 
1,233 


5,786 
1,185 


4, 021 
1,566 


7,086 
1,347 


7.192 
1,167 


Total number of parcels 


4,782 


4, 326J 4, 601 


4,853 


4,962 


5,292 


0,971 


5,587 


8,433 


8,359 



Recapitulation. 



Total addresses of institutions. 
Total addresses of individuals. 



548 
399 



Total number of addresses 947 



Total number of parcels to institutions 7, 192 

Total number of parcels to individuals 1, 167 



Total number of parcels 8, 359 

The history and condition of domestic exchanges, from their com- 
mencement to the present time, are exhibited in the following table: 



Year. 


Received for the Smithsonian library. 


For institutions and 
individuals in the 
United States and 
British America. 




Volumes. 


Parts and 
pamph- 
lets. 


Maps and 
engrav- 
ings. 


Total. 


Addresses. 


Packages. 


1846-1850 


470 

549 

1,481 

1,440 

926 

1,037 

1,356 

555 

723 

1, 022 


624 

618 
2,106 

991 
1,4()8 
1,707 
1,834 
1,067 
1,695 
2, 540 


4 


1,098 
1,167 
5, 336 
2, 556 
2, 828 
2,770 
3, 330 
1,760 
2,540 
3,602 






1851 






18.')2 


1,749 
125 
434 

26 
140 
138 
122 

40 


96 
160 
149 
219 
189 
193 
243 
293 


037 


1853 


1 052 


1854 


'987 


1855 


1 445 


18.50 


1 245 


1857 


1,273 


1&j8 


1 539 


1859 


1,933 



102 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



Year. 



1860 

1861 

1862 

1863 

18^4 

1865 

1866 

1867 

1868 

1869 

1870 

1871 

1872 

1873 

1874 

1875 

1876 

1877 

1878 

1879 

1880. 

1881 

1882 

Total 



Received for the Smithsonian Library. 



Volumes. 



271 
831 
611 
910 
823 
7(57 
243 
557 
770 
234 
113 
936 
262 
889 
8(53 
120 
017 
889 
263 
94;) 
143 
867 
296 



38, 173 



Parts and 
pamph- 
lets. 



4,180 
1,945 
3, 309 
3,479 
2,754 
3, 256 
4, 509 
3,946 
3, 605 
4,089 
3,890 
3,579 
4,502 
4,354 
4,521 
5,813 
6, 193 
6,511 
7,392 
8,071 
7, 275 
9,904 
10, 341 



132, 128 



Maps and 

eugrav- 
iuffs. 



220 
120 

55 
200 
109 
183 
121 
328 
134 
232 
179 

82 
198 
454 
162 
114 
375 
326 

74 
183 
152 
188 
152 



7,119 



Total. 



For institutions and 
individuals in the 
United Slates and 
British Amefica. 



Addresses. 



5, 671 

2,886 
5, 035 
4,589 
3, 6815 
4,206 
5, 873 
5,831 
5, .509 
5, .555 
5, 182 
4,597 
5, 962 
5,697 
5, 546 
7,047 
7,585 
8,726 
8,729 
10, 203 
8,570 
11,959 
11,789 



177, 420 



335 

274 
273 
273 
299 
345 
329 
347 
436 
501 
567 
573 
587 
6~9 
750 
610 
644 
768 
662 
785 
945 
,0.54 
947 



Packages. 



1,908 
1,406 
2,111 

1,522 
2,482 
2, 368 
2,703 
971 

2, 304 
4, 130 

3, 705 
3, 952 

4, 635 
4,782 
4, 326 
4, 661 
4, 853 
4,962 
5, 292 
6,971 
5,5«7 
8, 433 
8,359 



14,233 



103, 124 



3. Government transmissions. 

On the 2d day of March, 1SG7, the following resolution was passed 
by Congress, to provide for the exchange of certain public documents : 

^''Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States in Congress assembled, That fifty copies of all documents liereafter 
printed by order of either house of Congress, and fifty copies additional 
of all documents printed in excess of the usual number, together with 
fifty copies of each publication issued by any Department or Bureau of 
the Government, be placed at the disposal of the Joint Committee on 
the Library, who shall exchange the same, through the agency of the 
Smithsonian Institution, for such works published in foreign countries, 
and especially by foreign Governments, as may be deemed by said com- 
mittee an equivalent, said works to be deposited in the Library of Con- 
gress." 

A primary object of this movement was to secure as regularly and 
economically as possible all reports and other documents relative to the 
legislation, jurisprudence, statistics, internal economy, technology, &c., 
of all nations, so as to place the material at the command of the com- 
mittees and members of Congress, heads of Bureaus, &c. 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



103 



The first transmission under this system was made in 1873, and this 
and the subsequent shiiiments are exhibited in the following table : 



Year. 


1,873. 


1874. 


187.5. 


1876. 


1877. 


1878. 


1870. 


1880. 


1881. 


1882. 


Total. 


Boxes 


2 


18 


64 


122 


73 


73 


67 


35 


98 


122 


■ 674 



The receipts from the Public Printer during the year 1882, under 
this act of Congress, were 50 copies each of 631 distinct publications, 
representing 31 ,550 copies. The specified list of these documents will 
be found appended. 

The total receipts, for the year, together with some of last year's ac- 
cumlation, form 2 additional boxes for each complete set, which now 
represents 17 large boxes of about 2G() pounds each. 

Distribuiion of Government exchangea. 



Country. 



Arsieritino Confederation 

Bavaria 

Belvium 

Di azil 

Luenns Ayres 

Canada (Ottawa) 

Cauatla ( i'orontu) 

Chii 

Colombia, United States of 

Dmnwik 

East India 

I'lanco : 

(Si.'cond sot) 

G e' man V (osc lusi ve of kingdoms specifically 

Ddmed) 

Gieat Uiitain 

Greece 

E ayti 

Ilun<iary 

Italy..: 

Japan 

]U c:;ico 

Kctlicikinds. 

Now South Wales 

!Kow Zealand 

Koi way 

I'ortULial 

Prussia 

Queensland 

lUissia 

Saxony 

S<otl;.nd 

Soul h Australia 

Spain 

Sweden 

tswit zerland 

Tasmania 

Tui key 

Venezuela 

"Victoria 

Wurtemberg .' 



1875 
1878 
1875 
1875 
187G 
1874 
1874 
1875 
188'.' 
1879 
1S82 
1875 
1879 

1874 
]87fi 

1877 

irjc 

1882 
1881 
1874 
1875 
1875 
187U 
1&7C 
187:-j 
1875 
187C 
1876 
1881 
1870 
187U 
187G 
1870 
1875 
1870 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1879 



1875 
1878 
1875 
1875 
1870 
1874 
1874 
1875 
1882 
1879 
1882 
1875 
1875 

1874 
1870 
1877 
1876 
1882 
1^81 
1874 
1875 
1875 
1870 
1870 
I^73 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1881 
1870 
1876 
1870 
1876 
1875 
1870 
1870 
1875 
1870 
1876 
1879 



1875 
1875 
1875 
1875 
1870 
1874 
1874 
1875 
18-2 
1879 
1882 
1875 
1879 

1874 
1876 
1877 
187G 
1882 
1881 
1874 
1875 
IS?:, 
1876 
1870 
1870 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1881 
1^76 
1870 
1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1875 
1876 
1876 
1879 



1875 


1875 


1878 


1878 


1875 


1875 


1875 


1875 


1870 


1876 


1874 


1874 


1874 


1875 


1875 


1875 


1882 


1882 


mi) 


1879 


1882 


1882 


1875 


1875 


1879 


1879 


1874 


1876 


1870 


1876 


1^77 


1877 


1876 


1876 


1882 


1882 


1881 


1881 


1874 


1874 


1875 


1874 


1875 


1875 


1876 


1876 


1870 


1876 


1876 


1876 


1875 


1875 


1870 


1870 


1870 


1876 


1881 


1881 


1876 


1876 


1876 


1876 


1870 


1870 


1^70 


1876 


1875 


1875 


1870 


1876 


1876 


1870 


1875 


1875 


lh76 


1870 


1876 


1870 


1879 


1879 



to 


i> 


K 


i«( 


© 


o 


n 


« 


1875 


1877 


1878 


1878 


1875 


1876 


1875 


1870 


1876 


1876 


1875 


1876 


1875 


1876 


1875 


1870 


1882 


1882 


1879 


1879 


IS- 82 


1882 


1875 


1877 


1879 


1879 


1876 


1876 


1870 


1876 


1877 


1877 


1876 


1877 


1882 


1882 


1881 


1881 


1875 


1870 


1875 


1870 


1875 


1876 


1870 


1870 


1876 


1870 


1876 


1876 


1875 


1876 


1870 


1876 


1876 


1876 


1881 


1881 


1870 


1876 


1870 


1876 


1876 


1870 


1876 


1876 


1875 


1876 


1876 


1876 


1876 


18i6 


1875 


1876 


1876 


1877 


1870 


1876 


1879 


1879 j 



1877 
1878 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1882 
1879 
1882 
1877 
1879 

1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1882 
1881 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1881 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1879 



1877 
1878 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1882 
1879 
1882 
1877 
1879 

1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1882 
1881 
1877 
1^77 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1881 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1879 



104 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

Distribution of Government exchanges— CoutmueA. 



Argentine Confederation 

Ba va ria 

Bflgium 

Bntzil 

Bueuos Ayres 

Canada (Ottawa) 

Canada (Ontario) 

Cliili 

Colombia, United States of 

Denmark 

East India 

Franco 

(Second sot) 

Germany (exclusive of specifically-named 

kin;;dom9) 

Great Dritain 

Greece 

Ilayti 

H angary 

Italy 

Japan 

Mexico 

Uet lierlands 

Kew South Wales 

Now Zealand 

Korway , 

Portugal 

Prussia 



Queensland 

Kussia 

Saxony 

Scotland 

South Australia. 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Tasmania 

Turkey 

Venezuela 

Victoria 

"Wuitemberg 



Totalof boxes. 



1878 
1878 
1878 
J878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1882 
1879 
1882 
1878 
1879 

1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1882 
1881 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1881 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
187a 



1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1882 
1879 
1882 
1878 
1879 

1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1882 
1881 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1881 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1878 
1879 



1879 
1879 
lh79 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1882 
1879 
1^82 
1879 
1879 

1879 
18,"'0 
1879 
1879 
1882 
1881 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1881 
1870 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 
1879 



1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1882 
1880 
1882 
1880 
1880 

1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1882 
1881 
1880 
1880 
1880 



18(-V^ 1 



1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1881 
1880 



1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
1880 
18S0 
1880 



1881 
1 81 

1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
18><1 
1882 
1881 
1882 
1881 
1881 

1881 
le8l 
1S81 
1881 
1882 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 



1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 



1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 



1881 
1881 
1881 
18?<1 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1883 
1881 
1882 
1881 
1881 

1881 
1881 
1H81 
18.-1 
18S2 
1881 
1S81 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 



1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 
1881 



1882 
1882 

1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 

1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 



1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 



1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 



1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 



1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 
1882 






17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
16 

17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
12 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 



674 



Three Governments were added to the list during the year, namely: 

1. Hungary ; depositing the documents with the Priisidium des Konig. 
Ungarischen Ministeriums, Budapest. 

2. United States of Colombia; books to be deposited in the National 
Library, Bogota. 

3. East Indies; deposited with the Secretary of State for India, Cal- 
cutta. 

The first instalments of 10 boxes each were made to Hungary, June 
10, 1882; Colombia, October 20, 1882; East India, October 20, 1882. 

In 1879 the French Commission of International Exchange requested 
that an additional set of Government publications be sent to France, 
to be distributed among the various Government departments and bu- 
reaus, who in return were to furnish their publications for the use of the 
United States Government Bureaus, while the original set was deposited, 
together with its continuations, in the aSTational Library. This practice, 
however, has been abandoned now, at the request of the French com- 
mission, and it has been suggested that, should the various Government 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 



105 



Bnreans desire an interchange of their respective pnblications, they 
should do so directly' without drawing from the allowance set aside by 
law for the exchange among Governments. f 

The followiug tables show the Government who at present exchange 
their publications with the Government of the United States, together 
with the establishment designated for the reception of the books and 
the shipping agents who have charge of the transmission of the boxes 
to their respective distributions: 

Governments in exchange with the United States Government. 



Governments. 



Establishments designated for the reception of Gov- 
ernment oxcliaufies. 



Argentine Confederation . . , 

Bavaria 

Belgi um...i 

Brazil 

Buenos Ayres 

Canada 

Cbili 

Colombia, United States of. 

Denmark 

East ludia 

France 

Germany 

Great Britain 

Greece 

Hayti 

Hungary 

Italy 

Japan 

Mexico 

Netborlands 

New South Wales 

New Zealand 

Norway 

Portugal 

Prussia 

Queensland 

Russia 

Saxony 

South Australia 

Sjiain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Tasmania 

Turkey 

Venezuela 

Victoria 

Wiirtemberg 



Minister of Foreign Aflfairs, Buenos Ayres. 

Kouigliche Bibliothek, Munich. 

Biblioiheque Royale, Brussels. 

Commission of Internatioual Exchanges, Rio Janeiro. 

Government, Buenos Ayres. 

Parliamentary Library, Ottawa. 

Legislative Library, Toronto. 

Musdo Nacional, Santiago. 

National Library, Central OfiQco of Exchanges, Bogota. 

Kongeligo Bibliotheket, Copenhagen. 

Secretary of State for India, Bombay. 

Commission Frangaise des fichangcs Internationanx, 
Paris. 

Bibliothek des Deutschen Reichstags, Berlin. 

British Museum, London. 

Bibliotheque Nationale, Athens. 

S<Scr6taire d'fitat des Rdlations l5xt6rieures, Port-au- 
Prince. 

Priisidium des KGniglich Ungarischen Ministerium, 
Budapest. 

Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emauuelo, Rome. 

Minister of Foreign Aii'airs, Tokio. 

Government, Mexico. 

Library of the States General, The Hague. 

Parliamentary Library, Sydney. 

Parliamentary Library, Wellington. 

Foreign Othce, Christiania. 

Government, Lisbon. 

Kouigliche Bibliothek, Berlin. 

Goverimient, Brisbane. 

Commission Itusse des ^changes Internationaux, Bib- 
liothfequo Imp6riale Publique, St. Petersburg. 

Kouigliche Bibliothek, Dresden. 

Government, Adelaide. 

Government, Madrid. 

Government, Stockholm. 

EidgenossenschtiBundes Canzlei, Berne. 

Parliamentary Library, Hobarton. 

Government, Constantinople. 

University Library, Caracas. 

Public Library, Melbourne. 

Kouigliche Bibliothek, Stuttgart. 



106 EEPORT ON THE OPEEATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

Shipping agents of Government exchanges. 



County. 



Argentine Confederation . . . 
Bavaria 

Belgium 

Brazil 

Buenos Ayres 

Canada 

Chili 

Colombia, United States of 

Denmark 

East India 

France 

Germany 

Great Britain 

Greece 

Hayti 

Holland 

Hungary 

Iraly 

Japan 

Mexico 

Nevp South Wales 

New Zealand 

Norway 

Portugal 

Prussia 

Queensland 

Russia 

Saxony 

South Australia 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Tasmania 

Turkey 

Venezuela 

Victoria 

WUrtemberg 



Agent. 



Carlos Carrauza, Cousul-General, New York. 

North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co., agents), Bal- 
timore. 

Red Star Line (Peter Wright & Sons), New York, and 
White Cross Liue (Funch, Edye & Co.), New York. 

Charles Mackall, Vice-Consul, Baltimore. 

Carlos Carrauza, Cousul-General, New York. 

Baltimore and Ohio Express Company. 

C. de Castro, Consul-General, Now York. 

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York; Consul- 
General Ramon Ulloa, San Francisco, Administrator 
Principal de Hacienda Nacional, Panama. 

Henrick Bra6m, Cousul-General, New York. 

North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore, 
transfer made in the office of the Secretary of State 
to India, London. 

Compagnio Gdueral6 Transatlantique (L. de B^bian^, 
New York. 

North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore. 

North German Lloyd (Schumacher &, Co.), Baltimore. 

D. W. Botassi, Consul-General, New York. 

Atlas Steamship Company (Pim, Forwood & Co.), 
New York. 

Hensel, Bruckmann & Lorbacher, New York. 

M. Kaffo, Cousul-General, New Y(U"k. 

Samro Takaki, Consul-General, New York. 

Juan N. Navarro, Consul-General, New York. 

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 

R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 

Christian Bors, Consul General, Ni-w York. 

Gustav Auisink, Cousiil-Geueral, New York. 

North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore. 

North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore, 

transfer made by the Ageut-Geueral for Queensland, 

Qneeusland Department, London, England. 
Hamburg-American Packet Company (Oelrichs & Co.), 

New York, transfer made by the Imperial Russian 

Consul-General iu Hamburg, Germany. 
North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore. 
R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 
Hipolito de Uriarte, Consul-General, New York. 
Christian Bors, Cousul-General, New York. 
North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore, 

transfer made by Swiss Cousul-General H. von Hey- 

maun, Bremen, Germany. 
North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore, 

transfer made by the Crown Agents for the Colonies, 

Colonial Office Building, Downiug street, Loudon, 

England. 
Turkish.Legatiou, Washington, D. C. 
C. G. de Garmeudia, Cousul-General New York. 
R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 
North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 107 

List of official publications sent to foreign governments in 1882. 

AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT. 

Annual Report 1879. G21 p. and pi. 8°. Cloth. 

Co-operative Experiraentins as a Means of Studying the Effects of Fertilizers, and the 

Feeding Capacities of Plants, by W. A. Atwater. 33 p. 8^. Paper. 
Special Reports of the Agricultural Department : 

No. 40. The Condition and Needs of Spring Wheat Culture in the Northwest, by 
. Hon. C. C. Andrews, of Minnesota. 99 p. 8". Paper. 

No. 41. Report upon the Estimated Production of Cereals in the United States 
for 1881. 8 p. 8°. Paper. 

No. 42. Report upon the Condition of Winter Grain, and upon Numbers and Con- 
dition of Farm Animals in the United States. April, 1882. 82 p. 8'^. 
Paper. 

No. 43. Report upon the Condition of W^inter Grain, the Progress of Cotton and 
Corn Planting, the Rate of Wages and Labor, and Results of Tile 
Draining. May, 1832. 20 p. 8°. Paper. 

No. 44. Report upon the Acreage and Condition of Cotton, the Condition of all 
Cereals, and the Area of Spring Grain. June, 1882. 15 p. 8°. Paper. 

No. 45. Report upon the Area and Condition of Corn, the Condition of Cotton 
aud of Small Grains, Sorghum, Tobacco, &c. July, 1882. 33 p. 8°. 
Paper. 

No. 46. Report upon the Condition of Corn and Cotton, of Spring Wheat, Fruits, 
&c.; also Freight Rates of Transportation Companies. August, 1882. 
54 p. 8c. Paper. 

No. 47. Climate, Soil, and Agricultural Capabilities of South Carolina and Geor- 
gia, by J. C. Hemphill. C5 p. 8^. Paper. 

No. 48. Silos and Ensilage: A Record of Practical Tests in several States and 
Canada. 70 p. 8°. Paper. 

No. 49. Report upon the Condition of Corn and Cotton, of Potatoes, Fruits, &c. ; 
also Freight Rates of Transportation Companies. September, 1882. 
8°. Paper. 

No. 50. The Dissemination of Texas Fever of Cattle and how to control it. 1882. 
8°. Paper. 

No. 51. Report upon the Yield and Quantity of Small Grain, the Condition of Corn 
and Cotton, of Potatoes, Tobacco, &c. ; also Freight Rates of Trans- 
portation Companies. 58 p. 8°. Paper. 

No. 52 Report on the field per Acre of Cotton, Corn, Potatoes, and other Field 
Crops with comparative Product of Fruits; also Local Freight Rates 
of Transportation Companies. Nov., 1882. 109 p. 8'-'. Paper. 

Florida: Its Climate, Soil, Productions, and Agricultural Capabilities, by Jas. H. 
Foss. 98 p. 8°. Paper. 

Proceedings of a Convention of Agriculturists held in the Department of Agricult- 
ure from January 10 to January 18, 1882. 204 p. 8°. Paper. 

NATIONAL BOARD OF HKALTH. 

Annual Reports of the Board of Health for the years 1879, 1880, 1881, 1882. 
Bulletin, vol. 3, Nos. 1-52. 4°. Paper. 

vol. 4, No. 1. 4°. Paper. 
Supplement Nos. 16-19. 4°. Paper. 

UNITED STATES CONGRESS. 
Congressional Directory: First Session Forty-seventh Congress. Second edition. 8°. 

Paper. Corrected to June 28, 1882. 176 p. 8°. Paper. 
Congressional Record: Forty-seventh Congress. Vol. 13, parts 1 to 7, and Index. 

(8 vols.) 4'^. Half Russia. 



108 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

Memorial Addresses: 

Ambrose E. Burnside, January 23, 1882. 8°. Cloth. 
Matthew H. Carpenter, January 26, 1882. 119 p. 8^. Cloth. 
Evarts W. Farr, December G, 1880, 54 p. 8°. Cloth. 
Fernando Wood, February 28, 1881. 40 p. 8°. Cloth. 
House of Representatives: 

Constitution, Manual, and Digest, Rules and Practice, first session Forty-sev- 
enth Congress, compiled by Henry H. Smith. 443 p. 8°. Cloth. 
Executive Documents, Forty-sixth Congess: 

Foreign Relations, No. 1, Part 1. 1,093 pages. 8°. Sheep. 

Ordnance Report No. 1, Part 2. 400 pages. 8°. Sheep. 

Engineer Report. 3 vols. 8°. Sheep. 

Commissioner of Education, 1879. 8°. Sheep. 

Chief Signal Office Report, 1879. 8°. Sheep. 

Report of Secretary of Treasury. 8°. Sheep. 

Paris Universal Exposition. 5 vols. 8°. Sheep. 

Ofi'ers for carrying the mails. 8°. Sheep. 

Public Land Commission. 8°. Sheep. 

Navy Department and Post-Offico Reports. 8°. Sheep. 

Reports of Commissioners of the District of Columbia, 1880. 536 p. 8°. 
Sheep. 

Account of the United States Treasurer, &c. 

No. 1, parts 6, 7, and 8. (Ex. Docs. Nos. 8-22, 52 to 89). 3 vols. 8°. Sheep. 

Nos. 24 to 45, except 33. 1 toI. 8°. Sheep. 

Vol. 18, Nos. 9-66, except 12, 13, 42, 47, 55. 1 vol. 8°. Sheep. 
House Miscellaneous Documents : Second and third sessions Forty-sixth Con- 
gress. Vols 1. and 4. 8°. Sheep. 
House Reports, Forty-eixth Congress. 3 volumes. 8°. Sheep. 
United States Senate : 

Paper connected with the naval appropriation bill, for the use of the Senate 

Committee on Appropriations. 21 p. 8'-'. Paper. 
Senate Documents : Second session Forty-fifth Congress. Report of the United 

States States Coast and Geodetic Survey. 194 pages. 23 pi. 4°. Sheep. 
Senate Documents: Third session Forty-fifth Congress. Report of the United 

States Coast Survey for the year ending June 30, 1878. 306 pages, map and 

appendices. 4°. Sheep. 
Senate Documents : Second session Forty-sixth Congress : 

Vol. 1, Nos. 1- 53. 8°. Sheep. 

Vol. 2, Nos. 54-104, except 59. 8°, Sheep. 

Vol. 5, Nos. 181-216, except 208 and 209. 8°. Sheep. 
Senate Documents : Third session Forty-sixth Congress and special session March 
4, 1881. 

Vols. 1 and 3. 8°. sheep. 

Vol. 2, part 1 (1,105 p.), part 2 (951 p.). Private Land Claims. 8°. Sheep. 
Senate Executive Documents: Second session Forty-sixth Congress. 

Nos. 1-50, except 17. 8°. Sheep. 
Senate Journal : First session Forty-seventh Congress and special session October 

10, 1881. 1750 p. 8°. Sheep. 
Senate Reports : Third session Forty-sixth Congress. Nos. 726 to 935. 2 vols. 8^. 

Sheep. 

COURT OF CLAIMS. 

Cases decided by the Court of Claims, with abstracts of decisions of the Supreme Court 
in Appeal Cases: 

Vol. 16. 698 p. 8°. Paper. 
Vol. 17. 499 p. 8°. Paper. 



I 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 109 

History, Jurisdiction and Practice of the Court of Claims of the United States, by 
Win. A. Richardson, LL. D. 29 p. b^. Paper. 

INTERIOn DEPARTMENT. 

List of Congressional documents from the Twentieth to the Forty-sixth Congresses, 

inclnsivo. G3 pages. 8°. Paper. 
Official Register of the United States: 

Vol 1. Legislative, Executive, and Judicial. 87G pages. 4°. Cloth. 
Vol 2. The Post-OiSce Department and Postal Service. 892 p. 4°. Cloth. 
List of the additions made to the Library of the Interior Department from February 

1, 1881, to September 19, 1882. 4 p. 4°. Paper. 
Bureau of Education: 

Circulars of Information : 

No. 1. Organization of Training Schools for Nurses. 

No. 2. Proceedings of tlie Department of Superintendence, 1882. 

No. ;}. The University of Bonn. 

No. 4. Industrial Art in Schools. 

No. 5. Maternal Schools in France. 

No. G. Technical Instruction in France. 
Bulletins: 

Instruction in Morals and Civil Government. 

National Pedagogic Congress of Spain. 

Natural Science in Secondary Schools. 

High Schools for Girls in Sweden. 
Annual Report for 1880. 
Uuiteil States Entomological Commission: 

Bulletin No. 7. Insects injurious to Forest and Shade Trees, by A. S. Packard, 

jr. 275 p. 8°. Paper. 
Unite<l States Geological Surveys Office: 

Geology of the Henry Mountains, by G. K.Gilbert. Second edition. 170 p. 4 

l)!ates. 4°. Cloth. 
R gulatiousof the United States Geological Survey, 1882. 51 p. 8°. Paper. 
Moiiograi)hs of the United States Geological Sur"«'ey. Vol. 
The Tertiary History of the Grand Canon District, by C. E. Dutton. 264 p. 4®. 

Paj)er. 
Atlas to vol. 2. 

Annual Report of the Director, 1880-81. 588 pages, 61 plates, 1 map. 8°. Paper. 
Office of Indian Alfairs: 

Laws and Regulations regulating the Trade v^ith Indian Tiibes. January, 1, 

1882. 13 p. 8°, Paper. 
Annual Report for 1882. 
Ceneral Land Ollice: 

Instructions to Special Agents of the General Land Office, issued June 20, 1882. 

16 p. 8°. Paper. 
Unitctl States Swamp Land Laws: Regulations and Decisions thereunder. April 

18, 1882. 15 p. 8°. Paper. 
Coal Land Laws and Regulations thereunder. July 31, 1882. 7 p. 8°. Paper. 
United States National Museum: 

Bulletin 11. Bil)liography of Fishes of the Pacific Coast of the United States 

to the end of 1679, by Theodore Gill. 64 p. 8°. Paper. 
Bulletin No. 22. Guide to the Flora of Washington and Vicinity. 264 p. 8°. 

Paper. 
Proceedings of the United States National Museum. Vol 4. 1882. 
United States Patent Office : 

Decisions of the Commissioner of Patents, 1831. 537 p. 8°. Paper. 



110 KEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

United States Patent Office — Continued. 

United States Statutes concerning the Registration of Trade-marks and Labels, in- 
cluding the acts of March 3, 18S1, August 5, ldS2, and sections 3, 4, 5 of the 
act of June 18, 1874, with the rules of the United States Patent Office relat- 
ing thereto. Edition of October 1, 1882. 16 p. 8°. Paper. 

Rules of Practice in the United States Patent Office. Revised April 15, 1882. 92 
p. 8°. Paper. 
United States Pension Office: 

Instructions to Examining Surgeons for Pensions, 1882. 10 p. 8°. Paper. 

A Digest of the Laws of the United States governing the Granting of Army and 
Navy Pensions and Bounty Laud Warrants; Decisions of the Secretary of the 
Interior and Rulings and Orders of the Commissioner of Pensions thereunder. 
272 p. 8°. Paper. 

Roster of Examining Surgeons appointed under the authority of the Commissioner 
of Pensions. 140 p. 8°. Paper. 

General Instructions to Special Examiners of the United States Pension Office, 
1882. 44 p. B"^. Cloth. 

Treatise on the Practice of the Pension Bureau governing the Adjudication of 
Army and Navy Pensions, being the Unwiitten Practice formulated by Calviu 
B. Walker, Deputy Commissioner of Pensions. 129 p. 8^. Paper. 

NAVY DEPARTMENT. 

Register of the Commissioned, Warrant, and Volunteer Officers of the United States 
Navy, including the Officers of the Marine Corps and others. January 1, 1882. 
208 p. 8°. Paper. 
Register corrected* to July 1, 1882. 81 p. 8°. Paper. 
Reports of Officers of the Navy on Ventilating and Cooling the Executive Mansion 

during the Illness of President Garfield. 13 p. 8". Paper. 
Statistics relating to the Navies of the World. IG p. 8°. Papei'. 
Bureau of Equipment and Recruiting: 

Instructions relative to Enlistments, Discharges, &c., of the United States Navy, 
1882. 72 p. 8°. Paper. 
Bureau of Navigation : 

Navy Scientific Papers No. 7. Turning powers of ships. 8°. Paper. 

Navy Scientific Papers No. 8. Observations for dip. S'^. Paper. 

Notes on Navigation, by Commander Harrington. 8°. 

Treaties and Conventions between the United States and other Countries, 1873- 

1881. 8°. 
International Code of Signals (corrected edition). 8°. 
American Practical Navigator (Bowditch), revised edition. 8°. 
Useful Tables (Bowditch), revised edition. 8°. 
Hydrographic Office: 

Hydrographic notices for 1881, Nos. 64, 66, 67-85 and index. 8°. Paper. 

for 1882, Nos. 1-60. 8'='. Paper. 
Notices to mariners for 1881, Nos. 72, 85, 86, 87, 89, 93-108 and index. 8°. Paper. 

1882, Nos. 1-106. 8°. Paper. 
List of charts published during the quarter ending March 31, 1882. 8 pages. 8°. 

Paper. 
List of charts published during the quarter ending June 30, 1882. 7 pages. 8°. 

Paper. 
List of charts published during the quarter ending Seiitember 30, 1882. 7 images. 

8*^. Paper. 
Charts published during the year: 
No. 347. Jamaica. 
No. 349. Harbors of Jamaica. 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. Ill 

Hydrograpliic Office — Continued. 

Cliarts published during the year: 

No. 456. Gulf of Yeddo. 

No. 906. Wrangel Island. 

No. 907. Rodgers Harbor. 

No. 908. Rodgers Track. 

No. 911 a. Ciicumpolar chart. 

No. 911 h. Circumpolar chart. 

No. 912. Arctic Sea. 

No. 887. Amazon River, sheet 1. 

No. 307. Havana, Cuba. 

No. 888. Amazon River, sheet 2. 

No. 889. Amazon River, sheet 3. 

No. 890. Amazon River, sheet 4. 

No. 891. Amazon River, sheet 5. 

No. 892. Amazon River, sheet 6. 

No. 893. Madeira River, sheet 1. 

No. 894. Madeira River, sheet 2. 

No. 348. Port Royal, Kingston Harbor, Jamaica. 

No. 823. South Pacific Ocean, eastern sheet, lower part. 

No. 823 a. South Pacific Ocean, eastern sheet, upper part. 

No. 622. Coast of Mexico. 

No. 920. Port Malaga, Spain. 
Nautical Almanac : 

American Naiatical Almanac for 1885. 
American Nautical Almanac for 1886. 
American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac for 1885. 

Supplement to the American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac for 1881-1884. 
Astronomical Papers of the American Ephemeris, part 6. 
Astronomical Papers of the American Ephemeris, Vol. I. 
Bureau of Steam-Engineering : 

Rej)ort of the Board on the Mallory Steering and Propelling Screvr as applied to 

the United States torpedo-boat "Alarm." 
Report on the vedette boats constructed for British and French navies by the 

HerreshoflSIanufacLuring Company. 
Annual Report for 1882. 
Admiral's Office : 

Annual Report. 
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery: 

Annual Report 1880. 
Bureau of Provisions and Clothing : 

Pay-table of the United States Navy. New edition. 
Bureau of Yards and Docks : 
Annual Report for 1832. 
Naval Observatox'y : 

Astronomical and Meteorological Observations for 1878. 4<^. 

Appendix 1, 1878 : Monograph of the Centre! Parts of the Nebulas of Orion. 230 p. 

43 illustrations. 4°. 
Appendix 2, 1878 : Longitude of the Observatory of the John C. Green School of 

Science, Princeton, N. J. 54 p. 4^. 
Meteorological Observations for 1878. 18 p. 4°. 

Appendix 1. V for 1879. Parallax of A Lyra3 and 61 Cygni. 64 p. 4°. 
Instructions for observing the Transit of Venus, December 6, 1882, prepared bv 

the commission authorized by Congress. 50 p. 4 plates. 4°. 



112 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

POST-OFFICE DEPAIITMENT. 

Letters of the Postmaster -General transmitting to the President a letter of special 
counsel and tbo report of Post-Office Inspectors Tidball and Sballcross upon 
fraudulent bonds accompanying certain bids and contracts for carrying tbo 
United States Mail. 85 p. 8°. Paper. 

Regulations to take etfcct January 1, 1883, for tbo guidance of postmasters in tbe 
transaction of tbe international money-order business between tbe United 
States on tbe one band and Belgium and Tasmania respectively on tbe otber. 

8 p. 
Topograpber's OtTlce ; 
Post Route Maps: 
No. 21. Utab. 

No. 23. lilontana, Idabo, and Wyoming. 
No. 2G. Oregon and Wasbingtou. 

PUBLIC PRINTER. 

Annual Report for tbo fiscal year 1882. 

STATE DEPARTMENT. 

Commercial Relations of tbo United States. 
No. 14. December, 1881. 
No. 15. January, 1882. 
No. IG. February, 1882. 

No. 17. Marcb, 1882. ' 

No. 18. April, 1882. M 

No. 19. May, 1882. * 

No. 20. June, 1882. 
No. 21. July, 1882. 
No. 22. August, 1882. 

SUPREME COURT. 

Rules of tbo Supreme Court of tbe United States and Rules of Practice for tbo Circuit 
and District Courtsof tbe United States in Equity and Admiralty Cases and Ordera 
in Reference to Appeals from Court of Claims. Revised and corrected. 74 p. 
8°. Paper. 

United States vs. John W. Dorsey ei al. 152 p. 8°. Paper. 

TREASURY DEPARTMENT. 

Annual Report of tbe Secretary for 1882. 

Annual Report of tbe Secretary for 1882, witb tables.. 

Finance report of tbe Secretary for 1882. 

Statement of Balauces, Appropriations and Expenditures for 1881. 

Combined Statement of Ibe Receipts and Disbursements of tbo United States for the 

year ended June 30, 1881. 
Digest of Appropriations for 1883. 
Digest of Navy Appropriations for tbe year 1883. 
Estimates of Deticieucies in Appropriations for 1882. (House Executive Document 

No. 33, Forty-seventb Congress, first session.) 
Estimates of Appropriations for 1884. 
Revised Estimates, Treasury Department. 
Claims allowed under Balauces of Exhausted Appropriations. Act Juno 14, 1881. 

(House Executive Document No. 2G, Forty-seventb Congres-s, first scHsiou.) 
Claims allowed under act of July 4, 18G4. (House Executive Document No. 23, 

Forty Hseventb Congress, first session. ) 



EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 113 

Laws relating to National Banks. 
Laws and Executive Orders relating to Alaska. 

Receipts and Expenditures of the United States for 1875, 1876, 1877. 
Synopsis of Department Decisions, December, 1881, to November, 1882. 
Report on Mineral Waters, by Special Agent Tichenor. 

Report on the Tariif and Customs Laws and Administration, by Special Agent Tich- 
enor. 
Report on the Silver Profit Fund, by William Sherer. 
Report on Drawback on Sugars, by Special Agent Chamberlin. 
The National Loans of the United States from July 4, 177G to June 30, 1880, by R. A. 

Bayley. 
Comparative Rates of Wages in the United States and Foreign Countries. (Senate 

Executive Document No. 173, Forty-seventh Congress, first session.) 
Statistical Abstract No. 4. (House Executive Document No. 133, Forty-seventh Con- 
gress, first session.) 
Biographical Sketch of the life of Rear-Admiral John Rodgers, United States Navy. 
Report on Pleuro-pneumonia by Treasury Cattle Commission. (Senate Executive 

Document No. 106, Forty-seventh Congress, first session.) 
Rejiort of Commission on the Condition of Winder's Building. 
Decision of the Supreme Court of the United States on Sugar in re Merritt vs. Welsh 

et al. 
Report of the United States Assay Commission. 
Report on the Division of Stationery, Printing, and Blanks, Secretary's Ofiice, by the 

Committee appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury. 
Supervising Special Agent of the Treasury Department, Annual Report for 1882. 
Supervising Architect : Annual Report for 1882. 
Bureau of Engraving and Printing : Annual Report for 1882. 
Bureau of the Mint: Annual Report for 1882. 
Inspector-General of Steam- Vessels : 

Annual Report for 1882. 

Revised Rules and Regulations. 

Manual of Laws and Regulations. 

Laws governing the Inspection of Foreign Passenger Steam-Vessels. 

Proceedings of the Thirtieth Annual Meeting of the Board of Supervising Inspect- 
ors 1882. -Parts 1 and 2. 
Bureau of Statistics : 

Annual Report for 1882. 

Annual Report for 1881, parts, 1 and 2. 

Statements Nos. 1-17 of the Annual Report for 1882. 

Statements Nos. 26-34 of the Annual Report for 1882. 

Advanced Statement of Immigration into the United States for the fiscal year 1882. 

List of Merchant Vessels of the United States for the fiscal year 1882. 

Report on the imports, exports, immigration, and navigation of the United States: 
Second quarter, Third quarter, Fourth quarter, 1881-'82. 
First quar er 1882-'83. 

Preliminary Report on Foreign Commerce of the United States for the fiscal year 
1882, including report for June, 1882. 

Statement of the Foreign Commerce of the United States: 

December, 1881. January, 1882. February, 1882. March, 1882. April, 1882. 
May, 1882. July, 1882. August, 1862. September, 1882. October, 1882. 
November, 1882. 

Summary Statements of the Imports and Exports of the United States : 
November, December, 1881. January to October, 1882. 
Life-Saving Service : 

Annual Report of the Superintendent for the fiscal year 1881. 

Rules and Regulations of the Board on Life-Saving Appliances. 
13. Mis. 26 8 



114 EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

First Comptroller of the Treasury : 

Annual Report. 
Second Comptroller of tlio Treasury: 

Annual Report. 

Decisions of the Second Comptroller relative to the pay of officers of the Army 
nnder act of March 2, 1867. 
Commissioner of Customs : 

Annual Report of the Commissioner for 1882. 

List of the principal officers of the Customs Service. 
Register of the Treasury : Annual Report of the Register for 1882. 
First Auditor of tho Treasury : Annual Report for 1882. 
Second Auditor of tho Treasury : Annual Report for 1882. 
Third Auditor of the Treasury : Annual Report for 1882. 
Fourth Auditor of the Treasury : Annual Report for 1882. 
Fifth Auditor of the Treasury : Annual Report for 18«2. 
Sixth Auditor of tho Treasury : Annual Report for 1882. 
Treasurer of the United States : 

Annual Report for 1882. 

Annual Report on the sinking fund deht of the District of Columbia for the - 
fiscal year 1881. 

Annual Report on the sinking fund debt of the District of Columbia for the 
fiscal year 1882. 
Assistant Treasurer of the United States : 

Catalogue of blank books and blanks used in the office of the Assistant Treas- ■ 
nrer of the United States in New York City. •» 

Comptroller of the Currency : 

Annual Report for 1882. 

Annual Report for 1882, with appendix. 
Internal Revenue : 

Annual Report for 1886. 

Annual Report, with tables. 

Collection of circulars, specials, decisions, and circular letters. 

Report on the condition of the Internal-Revenue Service for the fiscal j ear 1882. 
Revenue Marine: List of officers of the Revenue Marine Service. 
Light-House Board : 

Annual Report of the Chairman, 1882. 

Official announcement of the death of Rear- Admiral R. H. Wyman, Chairman of 
the Board. 

Laws relating to the Light-House Establishment passed at the first session of 
Forty-seventh Congress. 

Light-House List Atlantic, Gulf, and Pacific co.asts of the United States. 

Light-House List Northern Lakes and River coasts of the United States. 

List of buoys, beacons, &c. : First to Twelfth Light-House District. 
United States Coast and Geodetic Survey : 

Summary of the Annual Report of the Superintendent for 1882. 

Tide Tables Atlantic coast of the United States. 

Tide Tables Pacific coast of the United States. 
Marine Hospital Service : 

Annual Report of the Supervising Surgeon-General for 1882. 

Report on Yellow Fever in Texas. 

Medical Officers and Assistant Surgeons of the Marine Hospital Service. 

WAR DEPARTMEKT. 

Official Army Register, January, 1882. 398 pages. 8°. Paper. 
Records of Officers and Soldiers Killed in Battle and Died in Service during the Florida 
War. 64 p. 8°. Paper. 



EEPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 115 

War of the Rebellion : Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies. Series 

I. Volnmes 4 and 5. 4°. Cloth. 
Alphabetical Catalogne of the War Department Library (including Law Library), 

Authors and Subjects, 1882. 325 p. 4°. Paper. 
Report of an inspection of the Artillery School at Fort Monroe, Virginia, May, 1882. 

27 p. 8°. Paper. 
Regulations of the Army of the United States, and General Orders in force on the 17tli 

of February, 1881, with an appendix containing all military laws in force Feb- 
ruary 17, 1881, not contained in this code. 1,385 p. 8°. Paper. 
Adjutant-General's Office : 

Report of Lieut. Gen. P. H. Sheridan of his Expedition through the Big Horn 
Mountains, the Yellowstone National Park, &c. 34 p. 2 maps, 8°. Paper. 

Laws, Rulings, and Decisions GoverningtheMilitary Crime of Desertion, compiled 
by Fred. F. Wilson, 1882. 80 p. 8°. Paper. 

Subject-index to the General Orders of the War Department from January 1, 
1861, to December 31, 1880, compiled by Jeremiah C. Allen. 506 p. 8° 
Paper. 

General Orders : 

For 1881, Nos. 77, 78, 80, 81, 82, 84-89, 92, 93, and index. 
For 1882, Nos. 1 to 120. 

Orders for 1881, Nos. 67-70, and index. 8°. Paper. 
1882, Nos. 1 to 66. 8'\ Paper, 
Bureau of Military Justice : 

Annual Report of the Advocate-General for 1882. 
Chief Signal Office : 

Professional Papers No. 1. Solar Eclipse. 

Professional Papers No. 3. Auroas. 

Professional Papers No. 4. Tornadoes. 

Professional Papers No. 5. Time Balls. 

Instructions to Voluntary Observers of the Signal Service. 108 p. 8°, Paper. 

Daily Bulletin of Synopses, Indications, and Facts October, 1877. 
Engineer Bureau : 

Extracts from the Reports of Decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States 
concerning navigable waters, repaying proprietors, bridges, boundaries be- 
tween States, eminent domain, title to certain lots in Washington City, con- 
tracts, compiled by John G. Parke, Lieut. Col. of Engineers, 1882. 264 p. 
8°. Paper. 

Professional Papers, No. 23 : Report upon Experiments and Investigations to De- 
velop a System of Submarine Mines. 444 p. 4°. Paper. 

Decrease of Water in Springs, Creeks and Rivers, by Gustav Wex, translated by 
Major G. Weitzel, United States Army. 57 pages. 8°. Paper. 

Translations of Treatises on Improvements of Non-tidal Rivers, by Maj. William 
E. Merrill. 4°. 129 p. 

Contributions to the Theory of Blasting or Military Mining, translated by Capt. 
C. W. Raymond. 

Annual Report 1881. 3 vols., with maps. 8°. Cloth. 

Professional Papers No. 24 : Report on the Primary Triangulation of the Lake 
Survey, by Lieut. Col. C. B. Comstock. 4°. Cloth. 

Laws of the United States relating to the construction of bridges over the naviga- 
ble waters of the United States from March 2, 1805, to March 3, 1881, compiled 
under the direction of Lieut. Col. John G. Parke. 

Compilation of Opinions of Attorneys-General relative to acquisition of lands, 
contracts, &c.. Vols. 1 to 16 inclusive, compiled under the direction of Lieut. 
Col. John G. Parke. 

Annual Report for 1882. 3 volumes. 8°, Cloth, 



116 REPOET ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

Headquarters of the Army : 

Map illustrating the defense of Savannah, Ga., and the operations resulting in 

its capture by the Army commanded by Maj. Gen. W. T. Sherman. 
Map illustrating the operations of the Army under command of Gen. W. T. Sher- 
man; in Georgia, from May 5 to September 4, 1864. 
Annual Report, 1882. 
Ordnance Bureau : 

Ordnance Notes 173. Machine Guns — Their status in warfare. 

174. Italian 100-tou Gun. 

175. Dephosphorization of Iron and Steel. 

176. Vent Punch and Gimlet. 

177. Friction Primers for Cannon. 

178. Flank Defense. 

179. Infantry Equipments. 

180. Krupp's Ballistic Tables. 

181. Photography — Gunpowder Analyses. 

182. Field Artillery. 

183. Modern Rifles. 

184. The Attack on Armor-clad Vessels by Artillery. 

185. Cartridges — Friction Primers. 

186. The National Defenses of England. 

187. Modern Ordnance. 

188. Telescopic Sight. 

189. Army Wagon Transportation. 

190. Mechanical Motion. 

191. Report of Sea-coast Artillery Practice. 

192. Metrical into United States Measures. 

193. The Le Bouleug6 Chronograph. 

194. Field Gun Carriage. 

195. On the Metallurgy and Manufacture of Modern British Ord- 

nance. 

196. On the Application of Solid Steel to the Manufacture of 

Small-arms, Projectiles, and Ordnance. 

197. Notes on the Manufacture of Small- arms, &c., at the Royal 

Small Arms Factory. Enfield Loch. 

198. Machine-guns, and how to use them. 

199. Small-arm Firing. 

200. Range and Position Finding — Past and Present. 

201. Report on Cranston's Safety Lighting Attachment for Lan- 

terns for the Life-saving Service. 

202. The Folger-Michelson Densimeter. 

203. The Progress in Naval Artillery from 1855 to 1880. 

204. Firing Investigations of the Steel Works of Frederick Krupp, 

made at the Meppen Firing Ground. 

205. The Question of Heavy Guns. 

206. Fire Upsetting Machine. 

207. Torpedoes — Their disposition and radius of destructive 

eifect. 

208. Recent Experiments with a 11-inch Compound Armor Plato 

at Shoeburyness. 

209. A proposed Armament for the Navy. 

210. Type of Armored Vessel and Cruiser best suited to the needs 

of the United States. 

211. The United States Steamer Alarm. 

212. Chemical Theory of the Combustion of Gunpowder. 



REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 117 

Ordnance Bureau — Continued. 

Ordnance Notes 213. The Development of Armor as applied to Sliips. 

214. Preservation of Wood. 

215. The Employment of Torpedoes m Steam-launches against 

Men-of-war. 

216. The Supply of Ammunition to Infantry on the Field of Battle 

217. Wallace's Intrenching Tool. 

218. The Interior Economy of a Prussian Regiment. 

219. A Short Narrative of the Afghan Campaigns of 1879-'80-'81, 

from an Engineer's point of view. 

220. Magazine Rifles. 

221. Krupp Experiments. 

222. Explosives: Notes on Nitro-Glycerine. 

223. Bombardment of Alexandria by the English July 11, 1882. 

224. Rifled Howitzers and Mortars. 

225. Deviations of Small-arm Projectiles. 

226. Fortress Warfare. 

227. Training of Garrison Artillery, &c. 

228. Determination of the Value of " C." Didiou's Formula. 

229. Steel for Structures. 

230. The Theory of the Gas Engine. 

231. Instructions for use of the Frankford Arsenal. Hand tools 

for unloading Cartridges. 

232. Some Considerations respecting Desertion in the Army. 

233. The Theoretical Rifle (El Fusil Racional). 

234. Some Thoughts about the Future of our Army. 
Notes on Construction of Ordnance : 

1. Resistance to D6culla8ement (unbreeching) in Breech-Loading Cannon. 

2. Recapitulation of Experiments on Cast-steel Hoops. 

3. Plan of Gun Construction ; Cast Iron strengthened with Bauds of cold-ham- 

mered or coldrrolled Steel. 

4. Mechanical Tests on the Resistance of Metals. 

5. Verification of the Hooping for Cannon in the Italian Service. 

6. The resistance of Hollow Cylinders and of Cannon ; new studies. 

7. The resistance of Hollow Cylinders and Cannon ; new studies. 

8. Trials of Expanding Sabots for Projectiles ; Rifle Muzzle-loading Mortars. 

9. Resistance of Metallic Tubes, Simple and Compound, with application to the 

Construction of Cannon. 

10. Resistence of Simple and Compound Metallic Tubes with application to the 

Construction of Cannon. 

11. Special Elasticity ; Experiments to determine its Value and Deductions con- 

cerning its application for increasing the Advantages derived from the 
Use of Hoops in Gun Construction. 

12. Treatment of Steel. 

13. Fabrication of Cannon in France. 

14. Experiments on Hooping 9" .45 guns. 

15. Physical Properties of Metals. 

Pay Department : Annual Report for 1882. 
Quartermaster-General's OflSce: 

Fuel for the Army, 1882. 

Uniform for the Army, 1882. 

Specifications for means of transportation of paulins, stoves, ranges, lamps, and 
fixtures for use in the United States Army in 1882. 

Annual Report for 1882. 



118 REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF EXCHANGES. 

Subsistence Department : 

Notes on bread making, permanent and field ovens and bake houses, prepared by- 
direction of the Commissary-General of Subsistence, by Maj. George Bell, C. 
S., U. S. A., with extracts from notes on ilour by the same officer. 143. p. 8°. 
Paper. 
Annual Report, 1882. 

Army Ration : Issue and convertion tables. 
Surgeon-General's Oflfice: Index Catalogue of the Library. Vol.3. 4°. Cloth. 
United States Geographical Surveys West of the One Hundredth. Meridian : 

Final Report Vol. 3, Supplement : Report upon Geological Examination in South- 
ern Colorado and Northern New Mexico. 420 p. 36 p. appendix. 4°. Cloth. 



I 



REPOET OF THE ASSISTANT DIEEOTOR OF THE UNITED 
STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM FOE 1882. 

Prof. Spencek F. Baied, 

Director of the United States National Museum : 
Sir : I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the work of 
the Museum for the year 1882, in which are included certain sugges- 
tions relative to the administration of the Museum, which may at some 
future time, either in their present form or with modifications, be recom- 
mended for adoption. 

Yery respectfully, 

G. BEOWN GOODE, 



Assistant Director. 



U. S. National Museum, January 1, 1883. 



With the beginning of the year 1882 systematic work in the reorgan- 
ization and installation of the collections may be said to have been 
fairly commenced. Although something had been accomplished in the 
three or four months prior to the above date, the work was, for the most 
part, experimental. The year 1882 may, therefore, be regarded as the 
first year of the occupation of the new building. 

On January 1, 1882, was issued Circular No. 1, containing a plan of 
organization and regulations. This pamphlet contains 58 pages, and 
in it are defined the limits of each department of work, the duties of every 
officer, and the routine to be followed in each kind of administrative 
work.* 

This code of regulations has been systematically enforced during the 
year with consequent important improvement in the efficiency of each 
department. 

Cases. — Much thought and time have been expended in making experi- 
ments for the purpose of ascertaining what forms of cases are most suit- 
able for the exhibition of our collections. Old patterns have been modi- 
fied and new ones invented. A detailed account of these experiments, 
and their results, will be submitted at some future time. Four thousand 
five hundred and eighty-six cases and boxes of various patterns have 
been received, as specified in the accompanying schedule. They have 

* See Appendix to Proceedings United States National Museum, Vol. IV, following 
page 534. 

119 



120 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

been, as a rule, constructed by contract after the specifications had been 
submitted for competition to a number of reliable firms in Washington, 
Baltimore, and Philadelphia. The glass has been imported free of 
duty, the locks and other hardware purchased of manufacturers, and 
the finishing of the wood-work, the setting of the glass, and the fitting 
up of the interiors with shelves, and otherwise preparing them for the 
reception of specimens, have been done by a force of men working in the 
Museum building, paid by the day or job, as was found in each par- 
ticular instance to be more economical and satisfactory. 

The adoption of a peculiar style of case, known as the "unit-box," 
for the exhibition of many classes of objects, has rendered it necessary 
to emi)loy a number of mechanics in mounting the specimens for dis- 
play. In this work several women have been employed, who have 
proved to be industrious and skillful. 

The following is a list of cases in use in the Museum and for the 
most part received during the year : 

Case A (3. 3). Pier uprights, 8' 6" x 3' 3" x 9' 28 

B (4. 4). Floor uprights, 8' 6" x 4' 4" x 7' 11 

B (3. 3). Floor uprights, 8' 6" x 3' 3" x 7' 30 

C (1. 3). Door screens 8' 6" x 1' 3" x 7' 25 

C (2. 2). Door screens, 8' 6" x 2' 2" x 7' 28 

D (1. 3). Sliding screens, 8' 6" x 1' 3" x 7' 55 

D (2. 2). Sliding screens, 8' 6" x 2' 2" x 7' 11 

E. Flat screens 53 

F (1. 2). Fold screens, half pillar 11 

G. Slope screens 1 

H. Table uprights 21 

I. Unit tables 91 

J Jz J4. Unit drawers 2, 490 

K. Unit boxes 1,606 

L. Wall uprights 4 

N. Gothic alcoves 18 

O. Basement drawer-storage 6 

P. Sectional library cases 14 

Q. Standard shelf-stacks 29 

E. Standard pigeon-hole stacks 30 

S. Quarter tables 22 

Trophy cases 1 

Costume cases - 1 



4,586 



Labels. — Similar experiments have been made in regard to labels, 
many different styles of type and colors of paper and methods of ar- 
rangement having been tried. It has been found necessary to employ 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 121 

a printer to operate the presses belonging to the Museum, and his serv- 
ices have been particularly valuable in this work of experimenting. 
One of the chief obstacles to the labeling of the collections has been 
the uncertainty as to what form of label should be used, while another 
difficulty, equally embarrassing, has been experienced in endeavoring to 
decide exactly how much descriptive matter might properly and effect- 
ively be printed on a given label. Nearly 1,200 objects have, however, 
been finally labeled, and this work is rapidly advancing. 

Fitting up Laboratories. — Several of the curators' laboratories have 
been fitted up with storage cases and furniture, and are now better sup- 
plied with conveniences for work than ever before. Among these may 
be specially mentioned those in the departments of birds, fishes, mol- 
lusks, insects, invertebrate fossils and fossil plants; and the increased 
facilities for work thus afforded to the several curators cannot fail to be 
productive of great general advantage to the Museum. 

Monthly Reports. — During the year each curator and chief of depart- 
ment has submitted to the Director a monthly report of the operations 
of his department. 

Storage and Archives. — The Eegistrar, Mr. S. C. Brown, has had in 
charge the Department of Registry and Storage, his duties being the 
keeping of the registry books, the reception and assignment of packages, 
the packing and unpacking of boxes, and the acknowledgment of dona- 
tions. He has also had in charge the department of archives. The 
storage rooms have been entirely rearranged and a card-catalogue of 
their contents prepared, and the records of the year have been carefully 
kept, in accordance with the requirements of the new code of regulations, 
besides which considerable progress has been made in the work of arrang- 
ing in a similar manner the accumulations of past years. The rules for 
the administration of collections, as specified upon pages 25 and 26 of 
the "Plan of Organization," already referred to, have been faithfully put 
upon trial by the Eegistrar, and have been found thoroughly practicable 
and much to the advantage of the general service of the Museum. 

Library. — The Librarian, Mr. Frederick W. True, has successfully 
carried out the regulations and specifications issued in the "Plan of 
Organization, " on pages 37 and 38. The establishment of the central 
and sectional libraries has been perfected, and a complete card cata- 
logue prepared. 

The Library is now estimated to contain 5,800 books and 5,500 pam- 
phlets. 

The Library room has been remodeled and enlarged during the year, 
and will now accommodate conveniently at least 10,000 volumes. Fuller 
details may be found in the report of the Librarian. 

Fublications.—V olwmoi IV of the " Proceedings of the National Mu- 
seum" for 1881, has been published, under the editorship of Dr. T. H. 
Bean. It is a book containing 534 pages, with an appendix consisting 



122 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

of eighteen circulars (in all 1415 pages), explanatory of tbe work pro- 
posed for the Museum. A list of these circulars is here appended. 

Pages. 

No. 1. Plan of organization and regulations 58 

No. 2. Circular addressed to friends of the Museum 2 

No. 3. Circular in reference to petroleum collections 2 

No. 4. Circular concerning the department of insects 1 

No. .5. Establishment and officers 2 

No. 6. Classification and arrangement of the materia medica collections. By 

James M. Flint, surgeon, United States Navy 2 

No. 7. A classification of the forms in which drugs and medicines appear and 
are administered. By James M. Flint, surgeon, United States 

Navy 7 

No. 8. Memoranda of collectors of drugs for the materia medica section of the 
National Museum. By James M. Flint, surgeon. United States 

Navy 2 

No. 9. Circular in reference to the building-stone collection 9 

No. 10. Two letters on the work of the National Museum. By Barnet Phil- 
lips 10 

No. 11. A provisional classification of the food collections. By G. Brown 

Goode 18 

No. 12. Classification of the collection to illustrate the art of taxidermy 2 

No. 13. Outline of a scheme of Museum classification. By G. Brown 

Goode 4 

No. 14. Circular requesting material for the Library 3 

No. 15. The organization and objects of the National Museum 4 

No. 16. Plans for the installation of collections 2 

No. 17. Contributions and their acknowledgment 1 

No. 18. List of publications of the United States National Museum 12 

Bulletin 19 of the Museum, consisting of Mr. Samuel H. Scudder's 
" Nomenclator Zoologicus," has been published during the year ; also 
Bulletin 11, consisting of Prof. Theodore Gill's " Bibliography of the 
Fishes of the Pacific Coast; " Bulletin 22, consisting of Mr. Lester F. 
Ward's " Guide to the Flora of Washington and Vicinity ; " and Bulle- 
tin 24, consisting of Dr. H. 0. Yarrow's " Check-List of North Ameri- 
can Eeptilia and Batrachia," complete the list of those published in 
1882. Bulletin 23 has been sent to press. Bulletins 16 and 20 have 
been passing through the press during the year, but have not yet been 
issued. 

Dr. Bean has prepared a list of tbe publications of the Museum, with 
indexes. This has been printed in Circular 18, and is of great aid in 
the consultation of the matter which has been published by the Museum 
during the last seven years. It has not yet been found practicable to 
issue, from time to time, as provided for in Section C of the " Plan of 
Organization," the list of accessions to the Museum, although the de- 
sirability of such a publication as this is growing constantly more ap- 
parent. 

Duplicates and Exchanges. — During the year 1882 there were only 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 123 

three of tlie departments of the Museum that attempted any regular 
distribution of specimens, viz : 

SpecimeDs. 

Department of birds 32 packages, 597 species 892 

Department of invertebrates . . 30 packages 9,986 

Department of minerals 30 packages, 793 species 995 

A total of 92 packages 11, 873^ 

There were also sent from the Museum to individuals and collectors in the 
field 312 packages, consisting of single specimens, small lots, and collecting 
materials, aggregating 518 specimens 518 

Making in all 12, 391 

During the year, 102 applications for specimens were received from 
museums, schools, and individuals ; and of these and previous applica- 
tions on file, 98 have been supplied in whole or in part. 

The total number of specimens distributed prior to the close of 1882 i& 
about 435,000. 

Property and Supplies. — Operations in this department have been 
greatly facilitated during the year by the introduction of two impor- 
tant measures. 

There is now only one order-book, which is kept in the office of the 
Assistant Director, and no supplies, however small, can be obtained 
without the filing of a formal requisition specifying the probable cost of 
the articles required. The requisitions approved are numbered to corre- 
spond with the serial numbers in the order-book, and are filed away for 
reference. Every expenditure is thus placed on record, and the sum 
total of the prices entered on the order-book, together with the amount 
of the regular pay-roll, will, at the end of any month, indicate exactly 
the amount of liabilities for the month. A requisition for the hire of 
a laborer for half a day is treated in the same manner as that for a 
large order of goods. 

In addition to this, a property clerk has been appointed to take the^ 
charge of unpacking and cataloguing every article of furniture or supply 
received, of issuing the same upon "house requisitions," and of prepar- 
ing a semi-annual report, thereby relieving the Superintendent of the 
labor and responsibility of this work. 

Mr. 0. W. Schuermann was appointed property clerk on July 1, 1882, 
and has been efficient in his work. He has submitted perfect invento- 
ries of all articles in the several buildings, and also statements of th& 
exact quantity of each kind of article received during the year, bal- 
anced by a report of the quantity of each article now in stock and the 
exact disposition of such articles as have been issued upon requisition.. 

The property clerk has also been charged with the duty of inspect- 
ing and reporting upon each article of furniture and all supplies pur- 
chased for the Museum. 

Accounts. — As heretofore, all accounts have been administered under 
the direction of the Chief Clerk of the Smithsonian Institution, and all 



124 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

payments liave been made through his office. The question of receipts 
and expenditures will not be discussed in this report, since it is in- 
cluded, as hitherto, in the report of the Executive Committee of the 
Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Buildings and Labor. — Under the administration of Mr. Henry Horan, 
superintendent of the buildings, the watchmen, mechanics, and the 
laborers have rendered exceedingly efficient service. The published 
regulations * have been put into effect, and found not only practicable, 
but of great advantage in promoting the efficiency of all departments. 

There are now upon the permanent roll in this department one 
superintendent of buildings, two assistant superintendents of buildings, 
one engineer, one assistant engineer, three firemen, three carpenters, 
two painters, one mason, twelve watchmen, four janitors, twenty labor- 
ers, four messengers, and two cleaners. 

In addition to the permanent force, several mechanics, chiefly car- 
penters, have been working, under the direction of the superintendents, 
on the construction and fitting up of cases. It has been found more 
economical and satisfactory to build cases in this way than to put them 
out by contract, but lack of room has rendered it impossible to do this 
■except in a few instances. The regular employees of the Museum have, 
as in former years, been required to wear a simple uniform. The clean- 
liness of the building and its preservation in good repair, as also the 
general public-comfort service, have been efficiently attended to. 

The safety of the collections has been more carefully guarded during 
this year than hitherto. The numerous private doors in the old build- 
ing have been closed, and a watchman is now stationed at every en- 
trance. No persons, except officers of the Museum, are allowed to 
•carry packages out of the buildings without a written pass, and no 
one is allowed to carrry umbrellas or canes into the exhibition halls. 
These rules have caused considerable dissatisfaction, both among em- 
ployees and visitors; but in my opinion strict custody is absolutely 
necessary for the safety of the collections. Even now it is impossible 
to keep people from handling and disfiguring objects which are not 
-covered with glass ; and on Saturdays and other holidays it is necessary 
to employ a considerable portion of the laboring force in guarding un- 
oovered objects in order to prevent visitors from carrying them away 
piecemeal. One of the worst annoyances with which we have to con- 
tend is the mania of the " relic-hunter," who, devoid of all conscience, 
does not hesitate to break off and carry away with him pieces of any 
objects that may come within his grasp, especially such as are the more 
interesting on account of historical associations. The more precious 
the objects, the greater is his greed for the possession of fragments. 

The number of persons employed in guarding and caring for the 
building seems, at first sight, unnecessarily large, and it certainly is a 

* "Plan of Organization and Regulations," Article CXL (on requisitions), Appendix 
T!(o. 1 to Proceedings of United States National Museum, Vol. iv. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 125 

cause of great regret that it should be necessary to expend so much of 
the appropriation in this manner; but experiments, made with a view- 
to reducing the number of this body, have forced me to the conclusion 
that it should be increased rather than decreased. 

Electric Service. — The electrical service is being slowly perfected, under 
the supervision of Mr. W. J. Green, electrician. Extensive systems of 
telephones in the several buildings, as well as at the residences of three 
or four of the chief executive officers, have aided in facilitating business, 
and have enabled us to dispense almost entirely with messenger boys. 

I here present a description of the electrical service as at present 
arranged. In the electrical room of the National Museum are the fol- 
lowing articles of apparatus : 

One 50-drop telephone switch-board, with 34 connections, 14 of which 
are in the National Museum, 9 in the Smithsonian building, and 11 out- 
side. There are 5 ordinary electric lamps, and 2 electric lamps for pho- 
tographic purposes, with dynamo-electric machine and resistance-box. 
There is also a 100-drop annunciator, to which are connected 300 win- 
dows and 85 doors throughout the Museum building; 1 large watch-clock 
for recording on paper dials the time signals which the watchman turns 
in from the 12 clock stations throughout the building as he makes his 
patrol; and one alarm box of the district Telegraph Comijany. In the 
Smithsonian building there are 9 clock stations, controlled in the same 
manner as those in the Museum building, and also a special telephone 
connection with the city. 

Preparation of Specimens. — The work of the preparators has been ex- 
tensive and important. Mr. Joseph Palmer, chief modeller, has been 
engaged during a large part of the year in mounting the skeleton and 
cast of a humpback whale, 32 feet in length, which now stands in the 
south main hall. This is the largest cast of an animal that has yet been 
made, and is unique in conception. Viewed from the left side, the visitor 
sees the cast of a whale in the attitude of swimming through the water. 
Standing on the right he sees the concavity and inner outline of the 
half cast, in which against a suitable background is mounted the articu- 
lated skeleton of the animal. Mr. Palmer has also made during the 
year a number of casts of smaller whales and of fishes, and his assistant, 
William Palmer, has devoted several months to making a papier-mach6 
cast of the model of the town of ZuOi, which was preijared by Mr. Min- 
deleff under the direction of the Bureau of Ethnology. Mr. Wm. T. 
Hornaday was appointed chief taxidermist on March 16, 1882. Among 
the important objects mounted by him during the year are a young 
African elephant, a polar bear, and a cinnamon bear. Mr. Henry Mar- 
shall, taxidermist in the department of birds, has mounted about 450 
specimens in a very satisfactory manner. Mr. A. Zeno Shindler, artist, 
has been employed almost entirely in repainting the collection of fish 
casts. 

Mr. J. Hendley has devoted much time to repairing broken speci- 



226 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

mens, and during the past five months has been employed in making 
dummies for the display of various costumes in the possession of the 
Museum. 

Accessions. — The number of packages received by the Eegistrar dur- 
ing the year was 10,045, of which 5,401 were cases and parts of cases 
paid for from the "furniture and fixtures" appropriation, while 1,287 
were received through Mr. Thomas Donaldson from the permanent ex- 
hibition on the Centennial grounds at Philadelphia, having been trans- 
ported hither in December in seventeen freight-cars. The remaining 
3,357 were packages received in the ordinary course of administration. 

Number of Visitors. — Since the 8th of February the janitors at the 
doors of both buildings have registered the number of visitors by means 
of a tally machine, and it has been ascertained that the average daily 
number of visitors to the Museum building has been 535, and to the 
Smithsonian building, 488. The total number of visitors for the year, 
calculated upon this basis, has been, for the Museum, 167,455; for the 
Smithsonian building, 152,744. 

Lectures. — During the year the Biological Society has held its meet- 
ings regularly in the lecture-room of the Museum, and two courses of 
lectures have been delivered in the same apartment. 

The first of these, the Saturday lectures, under the direction of a com- 
mittee of the Biological and Anthropological Societies, were given on 
Saturday afternoons in March and April. These lectures, eight in num- 
ber, were attended by audiences of 500 to 900 people. In December a 
course of "young folks'" lectures, under the same auspices, was begun, 
and twelve lectures were delivered. These were attended chiefly by 
teachers and advanced scholars of the public schools and seminaries of 
the city. Many of these lectures were illustrated by specimens from 
the Museum, or have had a definite bearing upon its work, and it is 
hoped that they have increased its popularity and efficiency. 

The first lectures were delivered in the northwest range, which was 
fitted up with considerable care as a lecture-room ; but it was soon dis- 
covered that this was not large enough to accommodate the audiences 
in attendance, and accordingly the west-north range, which is 26 feet 
longer, was fitted up, and the old lecture-room abandoned. 

The Extent of the Museum. — An attempt has been made by the curators 
of the several departments to estimate the total number of specimens 
in the Museum. This estimate is at present only a partial one, but it 
may not be amiss to quote its results for the departments which are 
sufficiently organized to permit it. 

Specimens. 

Department of antiquities 35, 512 

Department of mammals 8, 265 

Dejiartment of birds 44, 354 

Department of reptiles 26,258 

Department of fishes 50, 000 

Department of mollusks (catalogue entries, it being impossible to estimate 

tbe number of specimens) 33, 375 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 127 

Specimens. 

Department of insects about 1,000 

Professor Riley's private collection 150, 000 

Department of marine invertebrates Impossible at present to estimate. 

Department of fossil invertebrates Impossible at present to estimate. 

Department of minerals Impossible at present to estimate. 

Department of rocks and bnilding-stones; in reserve series 9,075 

Department of metallurgy and economic geology Impossible to estimate. 

DEPARTMENT OF ANTIQUITIES. 

The arrangement of the collections in the department of antiquities, 
under the administration of Dr. Charles Rau, is, as it has been for some 
years past, more perfect than in any other in the Museum. To this 
department will eventually be devoted all of the upper exhibition hall 
in the older Museum. At present the upright floor-cases and more 
than half of the wall cases are filled with specimens belonging to the 
department of arts and industries, the implements and manufactures of 
partly civilized races of the present day. These are being removed as 
rapidly as possible to the new Museum. 

The unexpected delay in transferring the ethnological and industrial 
materials to the new Museum has retarded Dr. Rau's contemplated re- 
arrangement of portions of this collection in the upright floor-cases 
A few, however, have been emptied, and in these, special mound collec- 
tions have been placed, with excellent effect. 

During the coming year (without question) an additional number of 
these cases will be emptied, thereby providing space for a much more 
striking presentation of the relics of prehistoric man than at present. 

Embarrassment has also been caused by the fact that prehistoric 
objects and modern ethnological and industrial material have hitherto 
been entered indiscriminately in the same register, and that, with the ex- 
pansion of the scope of the Museum and the separation of modern and 
ancient material in the two buildings, these combined catalogues are 
very inconvenient. The work of making a duplicate copy of the cata- 
logue has already been begun. 

Dr. Eau reports the following as the number of specimens at present 
under his charge: Total, 35,512, of which 21,217 are on exhibition, 7,748 
are in the reserve series, and 6,547 are duplicates. 

The total number of accessions has been 3,509, of which 2,554 were 
acquired by gift, 353 by exchange and purchase, 511 from explorers em- 
ployed by the Smithsonian Institution, and 141 by deposit. Two lots 
of duplicates, containing, respectively, 27 and 171 specimens, have been 
distributed. 

Four papers have been published by the curator of this department 
during the year, and in the "Proceedings" of the Museum, volume iv, 
was printed a list of his publications relating to anthropology which 
appeared between 1859 and 1882 — fifty-two titles in all. 

Dr. Rau has been engaged during the year in the preparation of an 



128 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

extensive illustrated work upon prehistoric fishing in Europe and North 
America. 

DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND INDUSTRIES. 

When, in 1857, the Smithsonian Institution assumed the custody of 
the collection of the United States Exploring Expedition, together with 
the miscellaneous material which had gathered around this nucleus, a 
great quantity of material was transferred to the Smithsonian building 
which has not to this day been classified and placed upon exhibition. 
The rapid growth, especially during the past decade, of the collections 
illustrating the ethnology of North American Indians, and especially 
of prehistoric objects from this continent, has absorbed the attention of 
all who were interested in this department of the Museum. A year ago 
the majority of the foreign ethnological objects were, on account of lack 
of room, packed up or crowded together in a too limited amount of case- 
room. At the close of the Centennial Exhibition the Museum received 
from foreign Governments great quantities of material exhibited at 
Philadelphia, which, while possessing an undoubted ethnological inter- 
est, could not in many instances be displayed in the manner usually 
adopted in ethnological museums. 

The material received from Philadelphia in 1876 was for several years 
stored in the Armory building. On completion of the present Museum 
building, and before the collections could be transferred to it, it became 
necessary to decide by what method the stored material (other than 
zoological, botanical, geological, or mineralogical) could be most effect- 
ively classified for purposes of study and exhibition. 

After a careful consideration of the methods of the large museums of 
Europe, the officers of the Museum agreed that the ordinary classifi- 
cation by races or tribes would in this case be less satisfactory than a 
classification based upon function. 

In the report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1881, pages 117-122, 
and also in circular No. 13, of the National Museum, the Assistant Direc- 
tor presented a provisional outline of a plan of classification for the Mu- 
seum. This classification, while its purpose was to embrace every kind 
of object which could possibly be exhibited in the Museum , was especially 
full in those parts which related to the arts and industries, forty-nine 
out of the sixty-four primary classes relating to this group of museum 
material. The general idea of the classification, as there explained, is 
that the collections should constitute a museum of anthropology, the 
word "anthropology" being applied in its most comprehensive sense. 
It should exhibit the physical characteristics, the history, the manners 
past and present of all races civilized and savage, and should also illus- 
trate human culture and industry in all their phases; the earth, its 
physical structure, and its products are to be exhibited with special 
reference to their adaptation for use by man. The so-called "natural 
history" collections are grouped in separate series, which are to be 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 129 

arranged in accordance with the well-tried methods prevailing in natural- 
history museums, and which would, of course, occupy a very large por- 
tion of the space and the attention of a majority of the staff, as at pres- 
ent constituted, but which, at the same time, should illustrate and 
supplement the collections in industrial and economic natural history. 

Some experiments have already been made with reference to the feas- 
ibility of this i)lan of arranging the exhibition series, but I am not yet 
prepared to recommend its final acceptance. 

The adoption of this plan would necessitate the grouping together, in 
continuous series, of objects which had never before been placed side by 
side in any museum. If the evolution of any given industry or class of 
objects is to be shown, the series should begin with the simplest types 
and close with the most perfect and elaborate objects of the same class 
which human effort has produced. 

In the textile industry, for instance, at one extreme is shown the simple 
whorl of stone or terra cotta, used by savage or t<emi-civilized man, to- 
gether with the archaic representative of the same, surviving among 
rural members of the most highly civilized races ; these being supi)le- 
mented by the threads and the simple woven fabrics produced by them ; 
on the other hand, the steam spinning' apparatus and the power and 
Jacquard looms. 

Much attention has been devoted during the year to experiments for 
determining the manner in which the idea of this classification can best 
be carried into effect. It is not possible within the limits of this report 
to describe what has been done. In fact a full account of them at pres- 
ent would be premature. The practicability of the scheme can best be 
judged of by an examination of the one or two groups, such as the 
materia medica collection, the collection of musical instruments, and the 
portion of the costume collection, which are already partly installed. 

The department of arts and industries with the growth of the Museum 
will naturally be divided into a number of independent sections, each 
under the charge of a curator. In its present partially organized condi- 
tion it is under the special charge of the Assistant Director, The sec- 
tion of materia medica has, however, been entirely under the control of 
Dr. James M. Flint, TJ. S. IS"., detailed for this service by the Surgeon- 
General of the Navy. Mr. J. King Goodrich has since the first of 
November been acting as assistant, devoting particular attention to the 
arrangement of the musical instruments and the costumes, while Mr. 
A. Howard Clark has been engaged in the reorganization of the section 
of fisheries. The section of building- stones and stone- working has re- 
cently been assigned to Mr. George P. Merrill. 

This department at present occupies nearly all of the northern half of 

the Museum building. No assignment of space has been made to 

special subjects. The extremely flexible system of cases which has been 

adopted permits us to arrange the collections in very small subdivisions. 

H. Mis. 26 9 



130 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The unit of bulk is a glass-covered box 24 by 30 inches. When sixteen 
of these boxes are filled with specimens and labelled, they are grouped 
together by sliding them into place in a specially prepared frame^ 
When several of these groups have been arranged, if a different order of 
sequence seems preferable, the work of re-arrangement can easily be ac-- 
complished by giving a few words of instruction to a mechanic, who* 
changes the position of the unit boxes in the screens. We thus have an 
immense advantage over those museums which have fixed cases of 
large dimension, and which must needs, therefore, assign from the 
first a definite amount of space to each class of objects. Our policy has 
been to mount objects in the unit boxes as rapidly as small groups could 
be brought together, the only limitation being that objects derived from 
different races or nations should not be mingled in the same box. By 
this means, if at any time a rearrangement by race criteria seems de- 
sirable for any special purpose, it can be effected without difficulty. For 
instance, let us suppose that all the objects in the department of arts 
and industries had been arranged according to function — all the pipes 
together, all the weapons together, all the foods together and all the 
games and amusements together. If the Eskimo or Japanese objects 
are to be studied or lectured upon, it is simply necessary to go through 
the halls, and to mark upon the glass front of each small unit case with 
French chalk, to withdraw these unit boxes from the screens, and to 
close up the gaps by sliding the unit boxes closer together and removing 
the screens, which are thus thrown out of use. 

It is, of course, impracticable to arrange everything in the unit boxes^ 
Many other similarly flexible systems of installation are employed which, 
will be described in a future report. 

In the above remarks I have attempted simply to explain the princi- 
ple of our methods. 

At the end of the year about 500 unit boxes had been filled, and about 
500 labels had been printed. The work of preparing descriptive labels 
is very laborious, and the subject of labels has received almost as much 
study during the year as that of cases. 

It is impossible at present to form any estimate whatever of the ex- 
tent of the collections in this department. There are over 60,000 entries 
in the ethnological catalogues. A large number of these relate to pre- 
historic objects which are not assigned to the department of arts and 
industries, while great quantities of objects still remain unentered. A 
great quantity of others properly belonging to this department are en- 
tered in the catalogues of the department of mineralogy and other 
departments of the Museum. 

The number of entries during the year in the catalogue, exclusive of 
archaeological specimens, has been 7,875. At the close of another year 
the curator hopes to present a careful estimate of the condition and 
capabilities of the department. 



tlEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 131 



DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. 

Mr. Frederick W. True, assistant curator, has been acting as curator 
of this department since January 20, 1882, at the same time perform- 
ing the duties of librarian. 

The south main hall of the new Museum has been fitted with exhi- 
bition cases for the reception of the mounted mammals, and also with 
a considerable number of storage cases of the unit-table pattern for tli© 
reserve series of skins. The room at the west end of the south balcony- 
is used as a laboratory for this department, and the room on the third 
floor above it has been assigned for the storage of the alcoholic series. 
These rooms are very small, and it has been found necessary to make 
use of a part of the south balcony in addition. 

Since the mammal hall has been ready for occupation, the entire 
time of the curator and one or two assistants has been devoted to trans- 
ferring the collections from the old Museum and to their rearrange- 
ment. Little attention having been paid to the mammal collections 
since 1876, it has been found necessary to devote much time to bring- 
ing up, arrearages of work, and to inspecting and relabeling almost 
every specimen. This work has been very efficiently inaugurated by 
Mr. True, who has also nearly completed a preliminary card-cataloguo 
of the collection arranged alphabetically under genera. 

A very effective lireliminary display of the mounted mammals has 
been made, and studies have been prosecuted and experiments made iu 
preparation for a system of full descriptive labels. 

The osteological section of the mammal collection still remains in the 
east gallery of the lower hall of the old Museum. 

The cast of a humpback whale, elsewhere referred to, has within the 
past month been finally placed at the south end of the mammal hall. 

The number of specimens is estimated by the curator to be 8,265, 4,660 
being skins, of which 689 are mounted and on exhibition, 3,535 in the 
osteological series, and 70 in the anatomical series. 

On page 130 of last year's report may be found the census of the col- 
lection of mounted mammals. The number of entries for the past year 
in the mammal catalogue has been 293; iu the osteological catalogue, 
139. 

One paper based upon the material of this department has been pub- 
lished by its curator, who has, however, also printed several contribu- 
tions to other departments of science. 

DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS. 

There has been great activity in the department of birds, notwith- 
standing the fact that it has been impossible for the curator, Mr. Eidg- 
way, to make any changes iu the appearance of the exhibition series. 
The mounted birds are now displayed on the main floor of the lower 
hall of the old Museum and in a part of its western gallery, but the 



132 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

cases are crowded so fully tliat no e£fective display can be made until 
the cases in the eastern gallery are emptied of the osteological collec- 
tion which they now contain. The cases in this hall are all old and 
somewhat unsuitable, and it is hoped that before long they may be re- 
constructed. The number of mounted specimens is so great that their 
rearrangement is an undertaking of great magnitude, especially since 
it involves the transfer of a large proportion of them from the old fash- 
ioned white perches, to which they are now fastened, to the improved 
pattern recently adopted. It also involved the rewriting and reprinting 
of a majority of the exhibition labels, changes in ornithological nomen- 
clature having of late years been very considerable. Rearrangement, 
therefore, means an immense amount of work, and Mr. Ridgway has 
refrained from undertaking it until the whole of the hall assigned to 
ornithology shall be at his disposal. The birds in the exhibition cases 
are, however, arranged iu systematic order, with the exception of those 
in one case. Much has been done also in the way of weeding out from 
the exhibition series surplus specimens and those which are faded or 
badly mounted, the latter being replaced by newly-mounted speci- 
mens of excellent workmanship. It is but fair to say that the curator 
of birds would have accomplished much more in this department of his 
work, had not the fitting up of the new Museum absorbed so much of 
the time of our force of mechanics and preparators. 

His time has been no less usefully spent in the rearrangement of the 
study series, which is nearly eight times as large as that upon exhibi- 
tion. This series is arranged in " Salvin " cabinets and other recepta- 
cles in the southern half of the west basement and in the two upper 
rooms of the south tower, the lower of which has since 1870 been used 
by the curator of birds for a Iti boratory. The necessary inspection of 
the collections occupies much time, since they fill 347 drawers, in which 
they are often arranged in small trays, three or more layers deep. An 
important improvement introduced into this' department has been to 
line the drawers containing the birds with heavy carbolized paper, as 
l^rotection against insects. This same carbolized paper of thinner text- 
ure has been used to great advantage in wrapping and packing skins 
sent in by collectors from remote localities, especially when part of the 
transportation has been bj^ sea. 

The collection of eggs which, as is well known, is, so far as ISTorth 
American species are concerned, the most complete iu the world, is 
stored in various receptacles in the west basement and in the drawers 
of table cases in the ornithological hall. Plans are being made for new 
cabinets, in which this great collection shall be arranged. 

Mr. Eidgway makes the following report upon the present condition 
and general needs of the collection : 

Number of specimens. — Tlie collections belonging to the department of birds are at 
present divided into nine separate lots or series as follows : 
1. The reserve series of smaller North American birds, including the orders Passeres 



KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 133 

(except larger Corvidfe), Macrocliires (except Hummiug-birds), aud Picarise (except 
genera Campephilus and Hylolomiis). These are stored in walnut cabinets in the up 
per room of the south tower. 

2. The reserve collection of smaller Neotropical birds, including the order Passeres 
(except Corvida3 and larger Cotingidije), the Humming-birds (with which are in- 
cluded also the North American species), and smaller Picidai (Woodpeckers). These 
are temporarily packed in tin herbarium cases in the main upjier room of the south 
tower. 

3. The reserve series of smaller old world land-birds, arranged in a walnut cabinet 
in the top room of the south tower. 

4. The reserve series of larger birds, arranged systematically, and including chiefly 
Gallinaceous birds, water-birds, and birds of prey, but also the larger Corvida} and 
CotingidjB, the genera Campephilus and Rylotomus, and all of the Neotropical as well 
as old world Picarioe (except Picidae) and Parrots. This, the most bulky portion of 
the collection, is stored in twelve large cabinets of the "Salvin" model (measuring 8 
feet in length by 4 feet in breadth and height), and seventeen large chests, and other 
cases, in the west basement. 

5. The exhibition series in the museum cases. 

6. Mounted specimens intended for the exhibition series, but not yet put on stands 

7. The duplicate series, stored chiefly in the west basement. 

8. The collection of alcoholic specimens, intended for anatomical investigation, also 
in west basement. 

9. Collections in storage, not yet acted upon. 

A summary of the number of specimens contained in these separate series, as de- 
termined by a careful inventory concluded December 30, 1882, is as follows: * 

Specimena. 

1. North American reserve series 8, 899 

2. Neotropical reserve series 8,733 

3. Old World reserve series 1,294 

4. Reserve series of larger birds 8, 259 

Total reserve skin series 27, 185 

5 and 6. Exhibition series (including 161 specimens not yet put on stands) . . 5, 779 

8. Alcoholic series 1,524 

Total reserve series 34,488 

7. Duplicate series 9, 356 

9. Unassorted collection (in storage) 510 

Total number of specimens in the collection 44, 354 

Storage. — The bird collections of the Museum are stored as follows : 

The North American reserve collection of smaller hirds in ten walnut cases, fitted with 
open drawers and loose-fitting sash doors ; two of these cabinets measuring 53 inches 
long, 26 inches wide, and 38^ inches high ; the others measuring 37|, 26, and 36^ inches, 
respectively. 

The Old Wo7-ld reserve collection of smaller hirds iu one case similar to the larger sized 
ones containing the North American collection. 

The Neotropical reserve collection of smaller birds (except Humming-birds), in eighty- 
one old Japanned-tin herbarium cases, 19 inches long, 13 inches wide, and 6 inches 
thick. 



* The discrepancy between this statement of the extent of the bird-collections and 
that contained in tne Assistant Director's report for 1881, is explained by the fact that 
the latter was based merely upon a rough estimate, it being impracticable at the time 
to make an actual inventory. 



134 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The reserve Humming-Urd collection, in a galvanized -iron chest, 30J inches long, 21 
inches wide, and 20i inches high. 

The reserve collection of larger birds (not classified geographically) in twelve large " Sal- 
vin" cabinets, each 8 feet long, 4 feet wide, and4 feet high, with closed, interchangeable 
drawers; and in seventeen large chests measuring 46| inches long, 29^ inches wide, 
and 21| inches high. 

Tlie duplicate collection in various drawers, chests, and boxes, or wherever room can 
bo found. 

Desiderata. — It having been the policy of the Museum to make a specialty of Ameri- 
can ornithology, the chief desiderata are in consequence principally among foreign 
birds. The collections of the Museum embrace, however, tolerably good collections 
from Europe, New South Wales, New Caledonia, Polynesia, and Kerguelen Island. 
But from Africa, Asia (except Japan and parts of Eastern China), New Guinea, the 
East India Islands, Philippines, Tasmania, Madagascar, and the various islands of 
the Indian, South Atlantic, and Antarctic Oceans, the Museum possesses little or noth- 
ing; while the birds of New Zealand, Western and Northern Australia, the Sandvdch 
Islands, and Japan, are are very incompletely represented. The most desirable Old 
World birds are of course those of the eastern portion of the Palaerctic region (Siberia, 
Kamtschatka, Japan, etc.), the close zoological relationship between that region and 
North America requiring a careful and complete comparison of specimens from the 
two regions, not only in the case of species common to the two (circumpolar species), 
but also of representative species and genera. 

There are also still many important desiderata among Neotropical birds, which it is 
highly desirable should be secured as soon as practicable. A full list of these desi- 
derata has been published in the "Proceedings" of the National Museum (vol. 4, pp. 
165-203). The total number of Neotropical species of birds known to date, is about 
3,800, exclusive of North American species found within Neotropical limits. Of this 
number the National Museum possesses no less than 2,225 species, among them being 
not a few which are unrepresented in other museums. The national collection is es- 
pecially rich in West Indian birds, containing as it does nearly all the known species 
of that interesting portion of the world, and is by far the most complete extant. 

The aggregate number of specimens of Neotropical birds in the collection is not 
known; but the reserve skin series of Passeres, Trochilidae, and Pici (exclusive of 
the genera Campcphilus and Hylotomus) alone contains nearly 9,000 specimens. 

In volume 4 of the "Proceedings" of the National Museum (IHSl, pp. 165-203), there 
was published a "List of species of Middle and South American birds, not contained 
in the United States National Museum," the object of the list being to acquaint mu- 
seums and individuals with the desiderata of the collection. CfTpies of this list were 
judiciously distributed, the direct result being the addition of nearly 100 species to the 
collection, and the promise of several hundred more. 

Among North American birds there still remain a few important desiderata. Prin- 
cipal among these are, of course, species of which the Museum possesses no specimens 
whatever, as Cuvier's Kinglet {Regidus curieri), Lawrence's Warbler {Helminthophaga 
lawrencei), the White-throated Warbler (H. leucohronchialis), the Cincinnati Warbler 
{R. cincinnatiensis), the Carbonated Warbler (Perissoglossa? carbonata), the Blue 
Mountain Warbler (Dendrcecaf montana), Small-headed Flycatcher (Myiodioctes? mi- 
nutus), Grinnell's Water Thrush {Siurus nwvins notabilis), Large-billed Shrike (Lanins 
hidovicianus robustus), Brewster's Linnet {^giothits brewsteri), Thick-billed Parrot 
{Iihynchopsitta pachyrhyncha), Arctic Horned Owl {Bubo virginianus arcticus), Krider's 
Hawk (Buteo borealis krideri), Pallas's Cormorant {Phalacrocorax pcrspicillatus). Siber- 
ian Gull (Xarifs affinis), Hornby's Petrel (Oceanodroma /lornfcT/i), Large-billed Puffin 
{Fratercula arciica glacialis), Short-winged Guillemot {Brachyrhamphus brachypterm), 
and Sooty Guillemot {Uria carbo). The first, fifth, sixth, and seventh of the above 
named species, it may be remarked, do not exist, so far as known, in any collection. 
The Museum is also particularly desirous of obtaining good specimens of the Califor- 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSElJM. 135 

nian Vulture or Condor (Pseudogryphus calif ornianus), and of the American Flamingo 
(Phoenicopterus ruber), for the exhibition collection. 

A complete list of the desiderata of the Museum among North American birds has 
also been published in the "Proceedings" (vol. iv, pp. 207-223), 

The number of entries in the bird register during the year has been 
3,761, and of eggs 300. In the latter case, however, the figures afford no 
indication of the actual number of specimens catalogued. The number 
of packages sent out was 57, twelve being distributed in exchange, 38 
lent for examination, (of which 28 have been returned,) and seven miscel- 
laneous, the total number of specimens distributed having been 892 of 
skins, representing 597 species, and 123 lots of eggs, representing 90 
species. 

Forty-four papers founded upon this collection, have been published 
by eleven persons as follows : Robert Eidgway, 18 ; William Brewster, 
13; Dr. L. Stejneger, 3; Mr. George N. Lawrence, 2; Mr. iT. C. Brown, 
2, and one each by Dr. T. H. Bean, Mr. E. P. Bicknell, Mr. J. H. Gur- 
ney, Mr. C. 0. Nutting, Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, and Mr. L. M. Turner. 

The curator has also devoted much time to the revision of the final 
volumes of the "History of Xorth American Birds." 

A full bibliographical list, as well as an account of the many valuable 
accessions to this department will be found in another jiart of this re- 
port. 

Bird SJieletons. — The care of the collection of bird skeletons was vol- 
untarily assumed by Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U. S. A.. During the early 
part of the year the unassorted material was inspected and re-arranged, 
and was made by Dr. Shufeldt the basis of several publications. In 
1882 Dr. Shufeldt was ordered to New Orleans, and the collection now 
stands in the bird compartment of the west basement of the Smithsonian 
building. 

DEPARTMENT OF REPTILES AND BATRACHLA.NS. 

Dr. Henry C. Yarrow, U. S. A., has continued to act as curator of 
this department. His services have been voluntary as heretofore, and 
and he therefore stands upon the list of officers as an honorary curator. 
His duties in connection with another department of the Government 
service have rendered it impossible for him to devote very much time 
to the Museum except in his vacation, though two assistants have been 
working steadily upon the collections during the entire year. This col- 
lection is now established in the easternmost of the small rooms south 
of the corridor leading to the west basement of the Smithsonian build- 
ing. This can be regarded solely as a storage room and the collection 
as being provisionally in storage, though the specimens are arranged 
in a systematic order unsurpassed in any other department. Nothing 
is on exhibition except the collection of casts of snakes and turtles in 
the north hall of the new building. Much of the material, lent many 



136 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

years ago to Prof. E. D. Cope for investigation, has been reutrned and 
incorporated with the remainder of the collection. 

One of the most important tasks accomplished during the year has 
been the preparation of a complete catalogue of the Korth American 
species in which every specimen, with its locality and the name of its 
collector, is given, the duplicates being specially designated. This is 
the first of the systematic catalogues of the National Museum and 
forms Bulletin 24, prefaced by a new check-list of the reptiles and 
batrachians of IsTorth America. 

Much has already been accomplished by the curator of this de- 
partment in the identification and final arrangement of the exotic rep- 
tiles, a task which, like that of rearranging those of North America, 
has been especially laborious, for the reason that the original labels in 
many instances were destroyed in the fire of 1865, and have never been 
replaced. 

The number of entries in the record books for the year is 230, repre- 
senting about 920 specimens. The following census of the collection is 
presented by the curator : 

Reserve series 7,972 

General series 2, 686 

Temporary exhibit 600 

Duplicates 2,000(?) 

Identified 5,000(?) 

Total, about 18,000 

This census relates to the North American reptiles. In addition 
there are estimated to be about 8,000 foreign reptiles. A number of 
living reptiles have been placed on permanent exhibition in the new 
building. 

DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. 

The west range of the Smithsonian building has been assigned to 
the department of fishes for exhibition jjurposes, and has been redec- 
orated and fitted with new cases. The fish laboratories in the north 
end of the west basement on the first story, in the basement north of 
the corridor leading to the- west basement, in the east end of the cloister 
north of the west range, and m the temporary second story of the same 
cloister, have been re-arranged and made more convenient by building 
a private stair-case in the tower at the northwest corner of the main 
building, and by the construction of new stories in book-cases. 

A large number of fishes were placed on exhibition, but have been 
withdrawn for the purpose of making a revision of the entire collection. 
This task, which is still in progress, is one of great magnitude, the 
number of duplicates being large, and the history of many of the speci- 
mens having been recovered since the fire. It is now being carried on 
with great rapidity by Dr. Bean, who has been assisted by Messrs. 



EEPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 137 

E. n. Miner and H. G. Dresel, U. S, N., Mr. Peter Parker, and Mr., 
Barton A. Bean. 

The extent of the task may be estimated from the fact that between 
the time of the beginning of this work, in October, and the first of Jan- 
uary over 10,000 catalogue cards were written, each containing the 
name of the species and of the donor, the catalogue number, the locality,, 
and the size of the jar in which the specimens were contained. In con- 
nection with this work every specimen is inspected and every receptacle- 
supplied, when necessary, with fresh alcohol. 

Specimens frequently have to be transferred from old tanks and bot- 
tles to better vessels. Another laborious task is that of stamping the 
catalogue number on a strip of block tin and attaching it permanently 
to each specimen in the reserve series, a work which has been going on 
during the entire year with the hope of having every specimen in the 
Museum before long permanently identified by having attached to it an 
indestructible label. 

Dr. Bean presents the accompanying census of this collection, based 
upon estimate : 

In reserve series 20, 000' 

On exhibition 20,000 

Duplicates 10,000 

Total 50,000 

And remarks as follows upon its condition and his present methods of 
administration : 

I am confident that this estimate is below rather than above the real figures. More 
than 10,000 catalogue cards have already been written for the specimens in bottles, 
and the work is not more than two-thirds completed. There will be certainly 15,000 
cards for the identified species, exclusive of large faunal collections, such as those 
of Alaska, Japan, China, Southern United States, Bermuda, West Indies, and deep 
sea off the New England coast, all of which are set aside for special reports from ofli- 
cers of the Museum now employed in their investigation when opportunity can be 
had. The tank collection is also very large, and will bring up the total number to 
the figures given above, and probably far beyond. 

As a matter of course, where so many fishes are to be cared for, some of which are 
received in bad condition, part of the material is poorly preserved and some is fit only 
to be thrown away. Difiicult as it is to keeii a collection of fishes in good order, and 
remembering the length of time during which some portions of it have been in this 
Museum, subjected to the ordinary causes of decay as well as to the wear and tear in- 
volved in such examination of specimens as has always been permitted here, it is not 
to be wondered at that we have some mutilated and decayed fishes. Until a thorough 
overhauling, which is now in progress, is completed, the collection will contain some 
things which are neither pleasing nor useful. 

The bad element, however, is comparatively small and is rapidly decreasing. With 
the exception of the salmonoids and allied families proverbially hard to preserve, the 
bottled fishes are mostly in good condition. Many of the tanks used for holding large 
fishes are leaky and their tin lining is worn off, so that copper stains are frequent oa 
specimens so kept. We have transferred such lots to newly-tinned tanks, recently 
received, whenever their condition was noted. 

The fish skins, as might be expected from the nature of such preparations, are gen- 



138 



JlEPORT ON NATIONAL MtfgEtfM. 



erally in a pitiable eondition. Dust-incumbered,motli-eaten, rigid and brittle from 
age, gnawed by rats and mice, tliey are a solemn warning against the attempt to 
illustrate species by such means. I have only too gladly obeyed my instructions to 
destroy all such material unless, for some reason or other, it is necessary to keep it in 
the collection. Hereafter nothing but types or examples from localities of especial 
interest will tax our efforts to preserve them, and, whenever possible, these skins 
will be put in glass jars. 

During the first ten months of the year Mr. H. L. Todd executed 93 
drawings of fishes under the direction of the curator. These are in 
continuation of the series of drawings of the fishes of North America 
begun five years ago, the number of which has now extended to 665. 
These drawings are prepared especially for reproduction by the photo- 
relief process, and are exceedingly fine, thorough scientific accuracy of 
detail having been secured through the supervision of Dr. Bean, who 
has devoted much time to the examination, measurement, and criticism 
of each drawing. 

During the year 88 papers, written by 22 persons, as shown in the 
following list, were prepared with special reference to specimens in this 
department. 



Baird, Prof. S.F 

Bean, Dr. T. H 

Editor of Belfast (Me.) Journal 

Collins, Capt. J. W 

Forbes, Prof. S. A 

Gilbert, Charles H 

Gill, Prof. T. N 

"Goode, G. Brown 

Goode & Bean 

Goode & Collins 

Hay, Prof. O. P 

Ingersoll, Ernest 

Jordan, David S 



1 
12 
1 
2 
1 
1 
3 
6 
3 
1 
1 
1 
5 



Jordan &. Gilbert... 
McDonald, Col. M.. 

Mather, Fred 

Phillips, Bamet 

Eathbuu, Richard . . 

Robertson, R. R 

Ryder, John A 

Smith, Rosa 

Smith & Swain 

Swain, Joseph 

Swan, James G 

Tanner, Lieut. Z. L. 
True, Frederick W , 



22 



There are only two persons who have made much use of the collec- 
tions besides the Museum officers. Professors Jordan and Gilbert, by 
reason of their contributions of fishes from the west coast of the United 
States, Central America, the Gulf of Mexico, Charleston, and other re- 
gions, have performed much labor upon the elaboration of these collec- 
tions and other Museum material previously sent here from the same 
places. By reference to the bibliography immediately following this 
chapter, it will be seen that nearly twenty papers have been written by 
these gentlemen, principally upon material recently contributed by one 
or both of them. These studies were made principally upon fishes of 
Lower California, Mazatlan, Panama, Gulf of Mexico, and Charleston. 

Professor Hay studied and reported upon the 64 species taken by 
him in Mississippi, Tennessee, and other Southern States before they 
were forwarded to the Museum. 

Miss Eosa Smith and Mr. Joseph Swain reported upon a collection 



RiEPORT ON NATIONAL MtfSEUM. 139 

of fishes made at Johnston's Island, Pacific Ocean, and Mr. Swain pre- 
pared i^apers on Syngnathince and Stolephorus. 

As in years past, the curator of this department has acted as editor 
of the "Proceedings" and "Bulletins" of the United States National 
Museum, also performed the duties of editor of the Fish Commission 
Bulletins until April 1882, at which date this work was transferred to 
Mr. C. W. Smiley, of the Fish Commission. 

DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS. 

Mr. William H. Dall, of the United States Coast Survey, has continued 
his voluntary supervision of this department. No assistants, however, 
having been assigned to him this year, and his own time having been 
largely occupied by his oflElcial duties elsewhere, including an investi- 
gation of the deep-sea mollusks collected by Mr. Alexander Agassiz on 
the Blal-e, little has been done on the general collections, which are 
in the main stored in the drawers of the table cases in the main Smith- 
sonian hall and its galleries. The mollusk laboratory on the fourth 
floor of the main central tower of the Smithsonian building has, how- 
ever, been entirely refitted and refurnished, and is now the most com- 
pletely equipped of all the special laboratories. A great quantity of 
material belonging to this department, including the Binney collection, 
the collection of freshwater shells identified and labeled by Mr. 
James Lewis, and that portion of the collection labeled by Mr. Eobert 
E. C. Stearns, which has already been received, together with many 
other valuable lots, is stored in packing-boxes in the general storage 
room in the central basement of the Smithsonian building. During the 
year the boxes containing mollusks have been separated from the others 
in storage and have been included in the card catalogue of the storage 
rooms prepared by the registrar. Our collection of mollusks is exceed- 
ingly rich, and it is hoped that during the present year steps may be 
taken toward its final arrangement. Mr. E. E. C. Stearns, of Berkeley, 
CaL, who had been expected to assume the curatorship, has hitherto been 
prevented by ill health. Mr. Dall in his report for the year presents a 
history of the department and suggestions for its administration, which 
it seems desirable to place on record : 

The collection of the mollusca has suffered many vicissitudes in the past. It is 
about eighteen years since I first became interested in the mollusk collection of the 
Institution. It is about fourteen years since I first took charge of it, and my connec- 
tion with the duties of the position has been (except during about fourteen months 
in 1870-71) that of a volunteer -worker, struggling to keep from deterioration a val- 
uable typical collection, without clerical assistance, without any of the mechanical 
aids to labor employed in all museums of equal importance, without any regular al- 
lowance whatever for the needs of the department, with a building and cases which 
rendered the work of preservation more than ordinarily difficult, and with the ne- 
cessity of supporting myself by other work which occupied nearly all the ordinary 
workiiag-hours of the day. It is obvious that under such circumstances the curator 
vrho succeeded in making any impression on the material which was added from 



140 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

time to time by gift or exchange, in addition to keeping order among that originally 
on hand, might reckon himself fortunate. 

The original collection was mounted with cement on glass plates by the late Dr. 
Philip P. Carpenter. Twice the writer replaced the twelve or fifteen thousand spec- 
imens upon their tablets, from which the extremes of winter cold and summer heat 
had detached them. When the third winter passed and the effect of the temperature 
was again apparent, I spent a month experimenting with cements, found none reli- 
able, and proceeded to relabel and place in paper trays the entire collection. 

From July, 1871, to January, 1875, I was detailed on field work in Alaska by the 
United States Coast Survey, and again in 1880. During these periods the curator- 
ship remained practically vacant. While engaged in the above-mentioned field work, 
dredgings were carried on over nearly the whole coast of Alaska, and of invertebrates 
alone, from 1871 to 1875, not less than 100,000 specimens were forwarded to the 
Museum. On my return in 1875, the question of representation at the Centennial Ex- 
hibition was mooted, and the curator of mollusks devoted, with the exception of his 
Sundays, every spare hour of his time for six months in preparing a collection of eco- 
nomic invertebrates for that occasion. 

The funds available for this purpose indirectly benefited the collection by the 
duplicates which came in with specimens collected for exhibition and which were 
administered upon simultaneously. 

At this time the valuable services of Mr. F. G. Sanborn were temporarily obtained, 
and by hard and constant work the general collection of the Museum was labeled, i| 
cleaned, and systematically arranged. The policy of the curator from that time for- 1 
ward has been simple. 

Specimens of a general character coming in are carefully registered and boxed and 
put in store. A collection prepared by the late Dr. James Lewis, for the Centennial, 
of the land and fresh-water shells of the United States, carefully labeled, catalogued, 
and packed, has been retained in its original boxes. Everything of value or not ad- 
ministered upon has been put away, packed and secluded, safe from harm at least, 
until better times for the colection should arrive. In this way only could the progress 
made be held good. Until skilled assistance and a constant guardianship are availa- 
ble, it would be very unwise to expose to the inevitable injuries of dust, accident, or 
carelessness, collections whose value could not be estimated in money. Meanwhile the 
curator has bent his energies and employed his leisure in putting into shape for future 
reference special groups, one by one. In this way something has been accomplished. 
This has been done especially with the brachiopods, limpets, and chitons, but unfortu- 
nately, owing to defects of the only cases available, mice and dust have since made - 
such effectual inroads upon the chitonidse that the labor of months has been lost and 
that part of the collection practically ruined. 

The immense collection of Alaskan mollusks, however, has been registered and sys- 
tematically arranged, compared, and studied in a preliminary way, and has suffered 
from nothing worse than dust. The administration upon some thirty or forty thou- | 
sand specimens has taken several years, and has been carried on wholly out of ordi- s 
nary office hours. 

During the last year the curator has been engaged during spare moments in re- 
porting upon the very interesting mollusks of the deep sea obtained by various United i 
States vessels, especially the party on the Coast Survey steamer Blake, under the ■( 
supervision of Prof. A. Agassiz ; and the mollusks of the northwest coast have been H 
temporarily laid aside, to be returned to hereafter. The latter are in a forward state I 
and will take comparatively little labor to prepare a proper monograph and cata- > 
logue of them for publication. 

The present state of the collection may be summarized as follows : 

1. Labeled in order and accessible for reference, the general collection of mollusks 
prepared by Dr. Carpenter, and of which part was originally mounted on glass, ex- 
cept two boxes as hereafter mentioned. 



EEPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 141 

2. In order and accessible for reference, but requiring new labels, the West American 
collection prepared by Dr. Carpenter and originally mounted on glass, containing 
many of bis types. Also the types of Dr. Gould's descriptions of North Pacific mol- 
lusks, from the Rodgers exploring expedition, so far as they are in the possession of 
the lustitution. The majority of the types of Dr. Gould, however, though the prop- 
erty of the United States, have never reached the National Museum, and are believed 
to be in private hands. 

3. In order, labeled, catalogued, and inaccessible (i. e., packed up), the collection 
of North American land and fresh-water shells prepared by Dr. James Lewis for the 
Centennial exhibit of the National Museum. 

4. Identified and labeled with rough labels, to be replaced by the standard Museum 
label before exhibition, catalogued, but not unpacked, two boxes of the original 
Carpenter collection of miscellaneous shells. 

5. Identified and labeled as above by the donors, packed up safely, but never yet 
placed on the Museum catalogues or registers, the Biuney collection of typical 
American land shells ; a large number of shells (between 2,000 and 3,000 species) 
given to the Museum by W. H. Dall, being his own private accumulations by pur- 
chase, collection, or exchange, when not connected with the Museum; numbers of 
email donations from many friends of the Institution, received from time to time; 
typical land and fresh-water shells received from Dr. Isaac Lea, of Philadelphia, &c. 

6. Unidentified virgin material received from definite localities, packed safely, but 
not administered upon in detail, an immense stock from the United States, and di- 
vers valuable lots of exotics. 

7. Separated, labeled with preliminary labels, registered, and in process of being 
worked up, generally dusty, but in good order, the general Alaskan and northwest 
€oast collection contributed by W. H. Dall, his associates and fi-iends, from original field 
researches; a smaller but still valuable Californian collection from the same sources; 
a North European collection of recent and Tertiary fossil species obtained by purchase 
and exchange for special comparison with and identification of the preceding ; also 
many Arctic species gathered with the same end in view. 

8. Injured and worthless specimens ; though notwithstanding the great mass of the 
material belonging to the lustitution, it is probable that there is unusually little trash 
in it. 

9. Alcoholics, in good order, partly labeled. There is a large collection of alco- 
holics, much of which is labeled and, thanks to the care and energy of Mr. Rathbun, 
in excellent order. It may be worth while to remark that, all earlier alcoholics hav- 
ing been removed by Dr. Stimpson to Chicago and subsequently burned in the historic 
conflagration, when the curator returned to Washington, in January, 1875, there was 
no alcoholic collection except that made by himself in Alaska and California. (The 
Fish Commission collection, not having reached Washington, is not included among 
the assets of the Museum, though eventually to become so.) Special attention has 
been given to this class of specimens ; and by a wide corresjiondence and the gener- 
osity of the never-failing friends of the Smithsonian lustitution, a good representa- 
tion of most types of mollusks may now be found in the room devoted to inverte 
brates in alcohol. A few species have lately been received from the collections of 
the Fish Commission, and a larger number from Dr. E. E. C. Stearns, collected on the 
Pacific coast. 

Having thus briefly reviewed the treasures of the National Museum in the present 
curator's department, a few words as to facilities obtained during the year and re- 
quired for the future are in order. 

Until the present year, the conchological department of the Museum has not been 
provided with cases suitable for receiving and preserving shells free from dust, mice, 
and sudden concussions from ill-fitting drawers. 

During the present summer the laboratory has been partly fitted up in excellent 
ehape. The middle and chief working room of the range of three in use for the 



142 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM; 

ellfelis lias bfeeSl fitted -witli good and dust-proof cases, a new gallery, and aecominoda- 
tlon in the shape of universal drawers for a large number of specimens. It is hoped 
and believed that to these will be added suitable cases for the Museum Hall, in 
which finally perfected work may be placed permanently for reference or exhibition, 
without fear of deterioration. Steps have already been taken to replace the iniiam- 
mable partitions of the east and west laboratory rooms by brick walls, and to refur- 
nish with suitable shelving and cases this part ot the work-shop. 

Means for making sections of shells are desirable, but the necessary lathe might 
economically and easily be made a part of the taxidermist's equipment, where it would 
be equally and more frequently useful, while still accessible when needed. 

It is the writer's opinion that an extensive exhibition of the shells as mere ohjets 
de regard is not desirable. He believes that, first, a thoroughly illustrated series of a 
few typical forms from embryo to adult, with enlarged models and dissections of the 
soft parts ; secondly, an economical series, with illustrations of their economic applica^ 
tion, as in cameo shells, pearl shells, &c. ; thirdly, a good local series of the mollusks of 
the District ; and, lastly, a case or two of prominent characteristic forms of the different 
orders, recent and fossil, side by side, would be more instructive, more interesting,, 
and more desirable than the large series of every attainable species common to most 
museums, and which produces, except for the specialist, only a confused and even 
wearying impression upon the visitor's mind. 

DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS, 

As was stated in my last report, the department of entomology is one 
which has been very little cultivated in the National Museum, although 
in past years the Smithsonian Institution has published many valuable 
works on insects, and through its various collectors gathered much ma- 
terial for investigation. 

The material thus obtained by special collectors, by the various Gov- 
ernment surveys, as well as that sent in by correspondents, has always 
been distributed for study to the several entomologists who have been 
serving as collaborators of the Smithsonian Institution, much of the mate- 
rial having passed into the hands of the entomologists of the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, it always having been the understanding that all 
material, after being reported upon, should be returned to the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture for preservation in its cabinets. The custody and 
entire responsibility of the national collection of insects was in this way 
transferred to the Department of Agriculture ; but the lack of a per- 
manent museum organization and the constant changes in the heads 
of the Department resulted very unfavorably for the collection, and the 
remnants of the same, which have recently been transferred to the 
National Museum by the present Commissioner, are of very slight im- 
portance. Prof. C V. Eiley, the entomologist of the Department of 
Agriculture, has, from the time of his accession to that position, urged 
the transfer which has recently been made, and has from the beginning 
insisted that the systematic collection should be preserved under the 
permanent organization of the National Museum. Following out this. 
idea, Professor Eiley accepted, in 1881 , the position of honorary curator, 
performing voluntarily such duties connected with this division of the 
Museum as are at present necessary. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 14S 

Professor Eiley has deposited his own private collection of insects,- 
which comprises about 30,000 species of all orders, mostly from Xortb 
America, arranged in some 350 double folding boxes, and in two cabinets 
with eight glass-covered drawers, the specimens being all in good 
condition and classified so far as determined. In addition to this col- 
lection, Professor Eiley has deposited a large amount of material pre- 
served in alcohol, mounted on microscopic slides, or blown and mounted 
dry, illustrating the life, history, and economy of more than 3,000 spe- 
cies. This collection is illustrated by a large quantity of notes and 
descriptions, in large part still unpublished. 

The Eiley collection now on deposit represents about all that is val- 
uable in this department of the Museum. 

Mr. Albert Koebble was assigned as an aid to the curator during a por- 
tion of the year. The actual work has consisted chiefly in the answering: 
of inquiries made regarding insects, from correspondents of the Museum 
and the Smithsonian Institution, and in taking care of and mounting" 
the material received. The collection has been constantly used in the 
work of the Department of Agriculture by specialists who have found 
occasion to refer to it. All investigations in entomology made by the- 
curator during the year were for the Department of Agriculture, and a 
statement of the various lines of investigation pursued will be found in 
his annual report for that Department. A list of papers by him printed 
during the year is also given in the bibliography appended. 

The following suggestions are extracted from the curator's report : 

Repeatedly during the year collections have been offered but necessarily declined, 
because there was no fund for their purchase. I would strongly recommend, therefore, 
that provision be made, Ist, for the purchase of such collections as are of sufficient 
value and which may be from time to time oflFered or obtainable ; 2d, that a com- 
petent assistant be permanently engaged in the general work of the Department and 
in the preparation of the exhibit collection. 

Hitherto no attempt has been made to preserve and keep together the entomologi- 
cal material that has been gathered and brought to Washington by officers of the 
Government. Such material has generally been turned over to the Department of 
Agriculture and either distributed among specialists or neglected and lost sight of. 
While my present work as curator is a labor of love, and very little can be accom- 
plished without means, yet I shall strive to at least properly care for the specimens 
that accumulate from various sources until such time as their importance shall war- 
rant more means and labor being devoted to them. 

DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INYERTEBRATES. 

The collection of marine invertebrates under the direction of the cura- 
tor, Mr. Eichard Eathbun, is rapidly being reduced to order j the ar- 
rearages of many years fast being made up. This has been a task of 
considerable magnitude, from the fact that in the decade ending 1880 
very Httle attention had been paid to this department, and that the best 
part of the material was destroyed in the burning of the Chicago Acad- 
emy of Sciences. The amount of space assigned to this department is 
very small, consisting of the western work-room south of the corridor 



144 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

leading to the west basement, the laboratory in the western end of the 
<5loister north of the west range, and the west range of the Smithsonian 
building. The west hall has been assigned to this department for its 
exhibition purposes, but is still to some extent filled with other material 
eventually to be moved to the new museum. Very little, therefore, 
has been done in the development of the exhibition series, and the chief 
activity has been in the store-rooms, but the results are not so apparent 
now as they will be when room can be found for the proper installation 
of the collections. The coral collection, as well as part of the echino- 
derms and sj)onge8, have been mounted on ebonized tablets, and the 
experiments which have been made in arranging these in cases with 
maroon backgrounds indicate that the west hall when arranged will be 
one of the most beautiful and attractive in the Museum. 

Mr. Eathbun has been assisted during the year by Messrs. J. B. Blish 
and W. E. Safford, midshipmen, TJ. S. 1^., and by Messrs. R. S. Tarr and 
George F. Weld ; the latter a volunteer. 

The number of entries in the catalogue during the year have been 
2,630. The card-catalogue begun last year is now nearly complete, con- 
taining between 8,000 and 9,000 cards. This card-catalogue indicates 
which of the specimens are in the reserve and which in the dui)licate 
series. 

During the summer the curator was attached to the party of the 
United States Fish Commissioner at Wood's HoU, and under Professor 
Verrill had charge of the dredging oj)erations on the steamer Fish 
MawJc. Mr. Eathbun paid special attention to the use of the tow-nets 
at different depths in collecting free-swimming copepods, on which he 
is preparing a special report; and he has also been engaged in preparing 
for the Fishery Eeport, now in progress of publication under the joint 
direction of the Commissioner of Fisheries and the Superintendent of 
the Census, a chapter descriptive of the natural history, of all known 
species of economic American marine invertebrates, and of the methods 
and results of this particular fishery. These reports, which are now in 
the hands of the printer, set forth the practical features of this depart- 
ment of the Museum, which are of no small consequence, as they embrace 
the lobsters, crabs, shrimps, and sponges, the annual fisheries for which 
amount to over $1,200,000. This is the first attempt made to report 
upon this class of fisheries in this country from accurate data. Fourteen 
papers relating to this department have been published during the year, 
five by the curator, six by Prof. A. E. Verrill, one by Mr. Sidney I. 
Smith, one by Dr. T. Hale Streets, and one by Mr. John A. Eyder. 
The collection of fresh-water crayfish has been lent to Mr. Walter An- 
derson, of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, for study and publica- 
tion. 

Mr. Eathbun has submitted the following special statement upon the 
distribution of duplicate specimens : 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 145 

The condition of the collections in this department of the Museum can now be con- 
sidttred as exceptionally good, considering the restricted quarters in which they are 
contained. It was the first care of the curator, when he entered upon his duties, iu 
the fall of 1830, to examine every part of the collection with reference to its safe 
keeping, and every new accession has been unpacked as soon as it was received, in 
order that no destruction might result from long storage. The dry specimens have 
all been removed from the basement rooms, which are too damp for the preservation 
of such materials, and the entire alcoholic collection has been examined at least once a 
year, for the purpose of rej)lacing alcohol lost by evaporation or the cracking of jars. 
It is impossible to state the number of specimens or species now belonging to this de- 
partment, as large portions of the collection are still uncatalogued and larger portions 
un-identified. The reserve series is very extensive and contains much unique mate- 
rial. The dry reserve specimens of corals and sponges have been mostly mounted and 
placed on exhibition, as have also representatives of all the groups of echlnoderms 
and a few of the crustaceans. The exhibition series, thus far prepared, contains the 
following number of specimens : 

Corals, 734. Sponges, 235. Echinoderms, 510. Crustacea, 47. 

The National Museum suffered severely by the Chicago fire of 1871, which destroyed 
almost all of the alcoholic reserve series of crustaceans and radiates, as already ex- 
plained. The reserve series as now constituted has been derived from innumerable 
sources, of which the following are the most prominent, either from the size or value 
of the collections furnished : 

From the United States Exploring Expedition: Abont 50 types of Dana's species of 
crustaceans, partly dry and partly alcoholic, have been left to the Museum, and are 
still in good condition for examination. A large number of the corals obtained by 
the same expedition and named by Dana are also intact, and, although they have 
suffered much from rough handling, they still form the most important feature of the 
exhibition series of corals. A few of the United States Exploring Expedition sponges 
were also saved. 

From the North Pacific Exploring Expedition: A small number of Stimpson's types 
of crustaceans and many dry echinoderms were retained at Washington, and thereby 
escaped destruction. 

From the United States Fish Commission : As elsewhere stated, the Fish Commission 
collections constitute the bulk of the materials in nearly all the branches of this depart- 
ment. These collections are especially complete for the New England coast as to 
the decapod and isopod crustaceans, pycnogonids, worms, echinoderms, and anthozoa, 
and include large quantities of unidentified crustaceans and radiates from the South 
Atlantic coast, collected by Messrs.Earll and MacDonald ; from the Gulf coast, by 
Mr. Silas Stearns, and from the Pacific coast, by Prof. D. S. Jordan. 

From the Bermuda Centennial Commission : A fine collection of Bermuda corals. 

From the Museu Nacional de Rio de Janeiro : A complete collection of Brazilian 
corals. 

From Mr. John Xantus : An old collection of corals and other specimens from Southern 
California. 

From various naval expeditions, including the Transit of Venus Expedition, the 
Palos Expedition, and the Alliance Arctic Expedition : Numerous collections of radi- 
ates, crustaceans, and worms. 

From Dr. T. H. Streets, U. S. N., and Dr. William H. Jones, U. S. N. : Similar 
collections from several sources. 

From the United States Coast Survey: Alaskan collections of crustaceans, worms, 
radiates, and sponges, collected by Mr. William H. Dall. 

From the United States Signal Service parties in Alaska, including Mr. E. W. Nelson. 

I'irom Mr. L. Turner and the party at Point Barrow : Miscellaneous collections. 

FromtheUnitedStatesCoast Survey steamer ^Zafce; Crustaceans, crinoids, anthozoa, 
and sponges, received from Prof. Alexander Agassiz. 
H. Mis. 20 10 



146 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

From Prof. J. M. Laugstou : Corals from Hayti, W. I. 

From Mr. J. M. Bowers : Corals from the Society Islands. 

From the Germany Fishery Commission, through Prof. Karl Mobius: Miscellane- 
ous collections from the North Sea. 

From Professor Lindstrom : Similar collections fiom the Baltic Sea. 

From Prof. Charles Liitken : Eighty-five species of Exiropean annelids. 

From Dr. Gnstav Eisen : A collection of European and Californian earth-worms. 

From Mr. Winifred Stearns: Miscellaneous collection from the Coast of Labrador. 

From Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn., and Dr. George Hawes: Similar col- 
lections from Bermuda. 

From Col. N. Pike : Corals, echinoderms, and crustaceans from the Mauritius Islands. 

From Messrs. Henry Hemphill and L. Belding : Similar collections from the coast of 
California. 

From Captain Dow : Similar collections from Panama. 

From Messrs. McKesson and Eobbins: A large collection of Florida commercial 
sponges. 

By purchase: A large and fine series of the commercial sponges of the world, 
exhibited at the Centennial Exposition and identified by Prof. Alpheus Hyatt. 

From Prof. H. L. Smith : 1,275 microscopic slides of foraminifera, from many sources. 

It would be quite impossible to enumerate further the constituent parts of the reserve 
series without going beyond the proper limits of this report. 

The duplicates still on hand and available for distribution are as follows : Number 
of species : Crustaceans, 43 ; worms, 19 ; mollusks, 48 ; bryozoans and tunicates, 30 
radiates, 42; sponges, .5; total, 187. Number of specimens: Crustaceans, 24,000 
worms, 4,000; mollusks, 24,000; bryozoans and tunicates, 6,000; radiates, 16,000 
sponges, 259 ; total, 74,250. 

The reserve series of specimens is still in quite an unfinished state, which makes a 
report ui)on it very unsatisfactory. So much material has been received during the 
past year, and other administrative work, including the distribution of duplicates, 
has interfered to such an extent, that in many cases it has been only possible to 
enter the specimens in the recoi'd books and store them for future examination. In 
reality, more time has been spent upon the reserve series than upon any other collec- 
tions. The different groups are arranged separately in the storage cases and any 
specimens desired can be readily found. A portion of the reserve series of alcoholic 
crustaceans and echinoderms has been stored temporarily in the wall-cases of the main 
hall of the Smithsonian building; but the bulk of the alcoholics still remain in the 
east and west basements of the same building. 

In this connection it may be proper to refer to the work now being carried on at 
New Haven by Prof. A. E. Verrill and Prof. S. I. Smith, on the marine invertebrates 
collected by the United States Fish Commission on and off" the New England coast. 
The curator is not kept informed as to the progress of this work, excepting as reports 
are handed in for publication and finished collections are received for the Museum. 
An accoimt of the materials so far received from Professors Verrill and Smith has 
already been giVen, and a bibliography of their reports published this year will be 
found below. 

The exhiUtion series. — The work thus far accomplished in the preparation of the 
exhibition series of invertebrates has been extremely satisfactory, and gives promise 
that the display of marine invertebrates will be second to no other in the Museum 
in attractiveness. In the fall of 1881 the west hall of the Smithsonian building, which 
had been previously occujjied by the mineral exhibit and a portion of the pottery 
received from the Centennial Exposition, was assigned to this department, but as yet 
only a part of the wall space has been made available for use. This hall, which has 
a length of 90 feet and a width of 40 feet, is admirably fitted for the exhibition of 
specimens, and is well lighted. Suitable cases of black walnut cover the walls, to 
ft height of 7i feet, on three sides of the room, the east, south, and west. The empty 



' REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 147 

floor space remaining after the large objects of pottery shall have been removed -vrill 
be sufficiently great to accommodate five or six separate upright cases, and the serai- 
circular space at the north end can also be utilized for smaller cases. Only the cases 
on the east and south sides have thus far been emptied of the old collections, and 
these are now filled with marine invertebrates. Considerable time was spent in pre- 
paring this exhibit, in studying the effect of different-colored tablets and backgrounds 
upon the specimens, ebonized tablets and a maroon background to the cases being 
finally adopted as the most desirable and attractive. The collections first selected for 
exhibition were those which could be the most readily prepared and which were in 
greatest need of proper storage — the dry corals, sponges, and echinoderms — and these 
naturally constitute the ^ost showy portions of the marine invertebrate collections. 
Mr. E. H. Hawley, who had been very successful in the i^reparation of the exhibition 
Series of marine invertebrates at the Peabody Museum, of Yale College, and at the 
Americau Museum, New York, was employed for this task, which he has executed in 
a very superior manner, producing a more attractive display than probably exists in 
any other similar museum in the country. Mr. Hawley continued his work upon 
this collection during most of 1881, and until March, 1882, when his services were 
required in another department of the Museum, and the mounting of marine inverte- 
brates was temporarily discontinued. He had, however, finished all the specimens 
that had been prepared for mounting up to that time. 

As the cases prepared for this purpose were inadequate to hold the entire mounted 
display collection, it has been impossible to arrange it in proper order, but, never- 
theless, the temporary arrangement has heen duly appreciated by the public, judging 
from the many favorable criticisms passed upon it. The showy corals now form the 
bulk of the display collection, and, considering that a majority of the corals are types 
from the United States Exploring Expedition, their value is very great. Other feat- 
ures of this display are the centennial collection of Bermuda corals ; a complete series 
of ail the known species and varieties of commercial sponges, identified by good 
authority ; a large series of Alaskan sponges ; and a great variety of echinoderms, 
from many sources. The proposed additions to the exhibition series will be discussed 
further on. The Museum printing office having been fully occupied with preparing 
labels for other departments, the exhibition collection in this department is still un- 
labelled, but this deficiency will be remedied during the coming year. 

Distribution of duplicaies. — The extensive explorations of the United States Fish 
Commission, along the eastern coast of the United States, during the past twelve 
years, have brought together a large mass of duplicate materials, in the line of marine 
invertebrates, which is being distributed as rapidly as possible to institutions of 
learning throughout this country, and to a few foreign ones. No returns have been 
demanded for the duplicates disposed of in the United States, but those sent to for- 
eign countries are generally in exchange for collections of equal value for the Museum. 
Three general series of duplicate sets have already been prepared and two distributed. 
The first series, consisting of 50 sets, with 118 species each, and over 18,000 speci- 
mens in all, was sent out, in 1879, to many of the higher schools of learning in this 
country, and to a few foreign institutions. Series II, also containing 50 sets of 189 
species each, and a total of over 50,000 specimens, is now very nearly ready for distri- 
bution, and will be sent out the coming January or February. Series III, or the edu- 
cational series of 50 sets, with 98 species each, and a total of over 15^000 specimens, 
was finished and distributed in June, 1882. Enough material stills remains for mak- 
ing up a second educational series of 200 sets, with about 125 species each, and the 
work of preparing this series will be begun in January, 188.3. 

As a part of Series II, ten additional sets, containing the same species and many 
others, is now being prepared, for sending to the London Fishery Exhibition of 1883, 
to be disposed of in Europe, by exchange, for collections for the Museum. This 
Museum is greatly in need of authentic foreign collections of marine animals for the 
purposes of comparison, and much valuable material of this character can undoubt- 
edly be obtained by such a system of exchange. 



148 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The disposal of such a quantity of duplicate material as is now being sent out, of 
no further value to the Museum, will be of benefit to the institution in more than one 
way. In addition to increasing its sphere of usefulness, and bringing back to it some 
returns in the way of exchanges, it will also relieve the Museum of much care and- 
expense, necessary to the preservation of such an extensive collection, and enable 
the workers in this department to devote their entire time to the reserve and unde- 
termined materials. 

From the many resources of the National Museum, it is natural to suppose that this 
department will, in the course of time, assume greater proportions than the same 
department of any other museum in the country. The accessions for the past three 
years, or since the renewal of activity in this line, have bee^so great that the depart- 
ment has outgrown the space assigned to it, and, unless more room is made available 
at an early date, the safety of the collections will be more or less imperiled. It is 
very gratifying to the curator to be able to note such rapid progress in a department 
which has lain dormant for so long a time. 

Among the many plans proposed for the coming year, it is intended to make con- 
siderable advancement in the preparation of the exhibition series, in order that the 
more instructive specimens, of which many are still packed away, may aU be made 
serviceable to the general public at once. Another reason for rapidly perfecting the 
exhibition series is one now generally recognized by all museums, that, as a rule, less 
damage happens to specimens when they are open to constant inspection than when 
they are stored away out of sight. The pottery now filling the cases on the west side 
of the marine invertebrate hall is to be soon removed, when these cases will be altered 
to correspond with those now containing the invertebrate collections. Enough speci- 
mens of corals and sponges are now mounted or prepared for mounting to nearly fill 
these new cases, so that with little exertion a very extensive display can be made. 

The scheme for the exhibition of specimens in this department, as at present worked 
out, comprises two features — the general display collection, which we have deen dis- 
cussing, and the synojjtical collection, which has not yet been begun. The former 
will illustrate the several groups of marine invertebrates, with reference to external 
form, by a massing together of all the members of the groups, which it is possible to 
obtain or to exhibit to advantage in the cases. The synoptical collection will be of a 
more educational character, and will represent the external and internal anatomy, 
and embryology of typical members of each group by means of careful preparations, 
dissections, and diagrams. The latter scheme will necessitate a much greater outlay 
of labor than the former, and will require a number of years for its accomplishment. 
This portion of the exhibition collection will have to be accommodated in new up- 
right cases, to occupy the center floor space, after the present incumbrances are re- 
moved. The general display collection will also soon outgrow the wall cases allotted 
to it, and require additional space on the floor. 

In the present scheme no account has been taken of the large reserve series of al- 
coholic specimens, excepting where such may be used in the synoptical collection. 
The general display collection now contains only dried specimens, which are the most 
suitable for display. The ordinary cylindrical jars of thick glass distort their contents, 
and it is generally impossible to keep the alcohol so clear that the specimens can be 
readily distinguished from the outside. Nevertheless, there are in this department 
large quantities of showy specimens, of which dry preparations cannot be made, and 
which it is desirable to display. Square jars have been suggested, and would certainly 
be preferable to the round ones. A matter of greater importance, however, is the safe 
keeping of the entire reserve series of specimens in alcohol, which is now mainly stored 
in dark rooms and passageways in the basement, where it is very difficult to give it the 
proper attention. A portion of these specimens, which have been determined^and 
properly labelled, have been arranged in the wall cases on the south side of the main 
Smithsonian hall, and if no objection is made the curator proposes to fill as many of 
these cases as are not now used for other purposes. There is no doubt but that the 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 149 

safety of the collections wiU be greatly improved by keeping tbem open to daily 
inspection. 

A great desideratum in this department is a supply of authentic foreign collection 
for the purposes of comparison in making identifications, and an attempt will be made 
this spring to remedy this deficiency in jjart by soliciting exchanges from several 
European authorities. For this purpose, ten very superior sets of duplicates of Fish- 
Commission Bijecimens have been prepared and will be sent to the London Fishery 
Exhibition, where they can probably be disposed of to the best advantage of the 
Museum. 

DEPARTMENT OF FOSSIL INVERTEBRATES. 

The department of fossil invertebrates has been under the charge of 
Dr. C. A. White, who during part of the year was directly in the em- 
ploy of the Museum, and who now, having accepted the position of pa- 
leontologist of the United States Geological Survey, continues h^'s work 
in the Museum as honorary curator. Unlike most of the honorary cu- 
rators, however, his whole time, except when in the field with the survey, 
in summer, is devoted to administrative work and investigation upon 
the collections, and his office is in the laboratory of the department. 
This department is now installed in the west-south range of the new 
Museum, being deposited in the drawers of thirteen unit table-cases, 
the laboratory being in the two adjoining rooms at the west side of the 
south entrance. !N"o jDart of this collection is on exhibition, and consid- 
erable portions of it are still in the storage rooms. The most valuable 
specimens, particularly those which have been studied and have served 
as types for the publication of the late Prof. Fielding B. Meek, have 
been cleansed of the accumulated dust of long storage and put in excel- 
lent order. 

Dr. White's own specialty is in the study of the invertebrates of the 
Mesozoic and Cenozoic periods, and Mr. C. B. Wolcott, also of the Geo- 
logical Survey, has been assigned by its director to work in this depart- 
ment, and is acting as assistant curator, under the direction of Dr. White, 
having special charge of the Paleozoic fossUs. His work in the field 
extends over more than half the year, and work upon this section of the 
collection is not so far advanced. Mr. L. M. Garrett, U. S. N., has 
acted as assistant in this department and accompanied the curator to 
the field upon the work of the United States Geological Survey from 
July to October. Dr. White has already devoted much time during the 
year to duties as chief of the Artesian Wells Commission. 

Of this department of the Museum it can be said that its material is 
in excellent order for scientific investigation, and that it is being exten- 
sively used for that purpose. 

I quote from Dr. White the following statements and recommenda- 
tions : 

The present state of the collection is that of only partial arrangement, and there- 
fore the number of specimens cannot be given, even approximately. Their condi- 
tion, however, is favorable to their complete arrangement and division into series as 
soon as I shall get time and suitable assistance to do the work. A few years ago a 



150 EEPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

considerable quantity of duplicate specimens was set aside for exchange. Subse- 
quent investigation has shown the desirability of retaining a large part of these in 
the Museum, and it is therefore necessary to review them again before any are sent 
out. 

Since even an extensive collection of fossil invertebrates may be presumed to be less 
attractive to the public than much of the material of other departments, my plans 
have contemplated mainly such a classification and arrangement of the Museum col- 
lection as will make it conveniently available to students for scientific purposes. 
The fact that so large a part of these specimens are those upon which official reports 
and other scientific writings have been based, makes it especially desirable that they 
shall be made accessible to students of paleontology as early as practicable. 

DEPARTMENT OF FOSSIL PLANTS. 

This department, like that of fossil invertebrates, is under the honor- 
ary curatorship of an officer of the United States Geological Survey, 
Prof. Lester F. Ward. The collection is installed in the drawers of a 
number of unit-table cases in the west south range and upon the south 
balcony, contiguous to which at its east end is the laboratory of the 
curator. This laboratory has during the year been filled up with cases, 
and a large amount of preliminar}^ work has been done by the curator, 
who since October has been assisted by Mr. E. E. Hayden, midshipman 
of the United States Navy. This collection, like many others, has been 
in a quiescent state for many years, and a large amount of work has 
been found necessary, preliminary to its final arrangement in proper 
shape for study. No effort has as yet been made to provide exhibition 
space for it. Its present condition is well shown by the folio wiag ex- 
extracts from Professor Ward's report: 

The extensive collection which had been received from Mr. Leo Lesquereux, of Co- 
lumbus, Ohio, who had previously employed it in the preparation of his printed re- 
ports, and had catalogued and numbered it according to your instructions, was merely 
unpacked during the last months of 1881, and remained at the beginning of the year 
in a wholly unorganized condition. The bulk of the work done in the department 
has therefore been that of systematically classifying and arranging this material. This 
work was delayed by the necessity of having appropriate cases erected in the labora- 
tory rooms to receive it, as also by the lack of assistance and the performance of du- 
ties in connection with the Geological Survey. 

The deficiencies of a merely chronological catalogue rendered necessary the prepa- 
ration of a much more complete and convenient slip catalogue, which could be sys- 
tematically arranged and serve as an efficient aid iu the progress of the work. 

The catalogued material has been arranged in three series according to horizon, 
viz, the Cretaceous (chiefly from the Dakota Group), the Tertiary (including for con- 
venience the Laramie Group, which Mr. Lesquereux considers to be Eocene), and the 
Carboniferous and lower formations (there being a few from the Old Red Sandstone 
of Ireland, and a few from the Silurian of New York). 

The system of classification adopted is, in so far as this was practicable, that of 
Schimper, as given in his "Trait6 de Paldontologie V<5g6tale," the most comprehen- 
sive work on the subject. 

As the greater part of the undetermined material in the department belongs to the 
later formations, and as my field work for a great while will probably be chiefly con- 
fined to these horizons, I have found it necessary to reserve, for the present at least, 
the whole of the Cretaceous and Tertiary collection and retain it in the laboratory 
as a basis for comparison and investigation. For the same reason I have not thought 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



151 



best to select a reserve series of the Carboniferous plants, and have prepared the 
whole collection for exhibition in the cases below. It still remains on the balcony 
waiting the completion of the necessary cases. 

Very little was done during the year in the way of original research or towards the 
elaboration of new material, owing to the time required in making these prepara- 
tions. 

Fifty-nine specimens of Alaskan fossils were sent in September by your instructions 
to Mr. Lesquereux to, be figured. These have been returned. One si^ecimen (No. 556) 
was sent, August 15, to Dr. J. S. Newberry, to be used in connection with a report to 
be published by the Geological Survey. 

The following is a summary exhibit of the state of the collection so far as regards 
specimens which have been specifically determined : 



Carboniferous 
Cretaceous ... 
Tertiary 

Total... 



Genera. 



53 

65 

121 



239 



Species. 



177 
142 
351 



670 



Speci- 
mens. 



1,550 

549 

1,821 



3,920 



The undetermined material consists chiefly of the thirty-one boxes collected by my- 
Bclf in 1881, and seven boxes collected by Captain Bendire. 



DEPARTMENT OF MINERALS. 

The classification of the departmeuts of the Museum provides for three 
departments in the division of geology : (xvi) physical geology, in which 
branch no work has as yet been attemjited; (xvii) minerals and rocks; 
and (xviii) metallurgy and economic geology. The two latter were for 
nearly two years under the charge of Dr. George W. Hawes, whose 
death on the 22d of June has been in many ways an irreparable loss to 
the Museum.* Mr. William S. Yeates, aid in the staff of the Museum, 
has during the year had special charge of the department of minerals, 
and with the assistance of Messrs. E. E. Hayden, Henry S. Chase, and 
E. Wilkinson, midshipmen in the United States Navy, has been pressing 
forward the work of unpacking and cataloguing the accumulated mass 
of material. The number of entries on the Museum register has been 
2,528, representing 3,437 specimens ; of these 1,370, have been assigned to 
the exhibition and reserve series, and 417 to the duplicate series ; 155 
have been rejected, and the remainder assigned, according to their nature, 
either to the collection of rocks or ores and metallurgical products. 
The card catalogue in the duplicate series has been increased during 
the year by 1,261 cards. Mr. Yeates reports that such work as has been 
done is that of putting in order the specimens in the old collection, a 
large number of which have never been entered on the register. The 

* A short biographical notice of Dr. Hawes is given at the close of this report, 
together with a list of his scientific publications; and also an account of the work 
planned and commenced by him in relation to the collection of building-stones. 



152 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

work of entering these and putting tlie catalogue number on each 
specimen has been for some time, and is now, in progress. Numbers 
have been painted on 2,894 specimens, and nearly 2,000 labels have been 
written. A preliminary classification has been begun, and twenty, 
three sets of duplicate specimens have been distributed ; some of them 
as exchanges, but the majority to institutions of learning. Mr. Yeates 
reports, upon the present state of the collection, that it contains 6,939 
specimens in the combined reserve and exhibition series, while in the 
duplicate series there are about about 7,000 specimens, making an ap- 
proximate total of 14,000 specimens. During the past year 413 specimens 
were added to the reserve and exhibition series, and 1,261 to the dupli- 
cate series. 

The mineral collection is disposed in drawers of unit cases in the 
west hall of the new Museum, while a great mass of material, unas- 
sorted a,nd in process of classification, is still in the temporary Work- 
room in the southwest court. 

The department of building-stones, which in the preliminary classi- 
fication was associated with that of mineralogy, has already been re- 
ported upon as oue section of the department of arts and industries. 

DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY AND ECONOMIC GEOLOGY. 

This department, like the preceding, has been without a head for 
the greater part of the year. In July, 1882, Mr. F. P. Dewey, previously 
employed as chemical assistant to Dr. Hawes in his investigations upon 
the building stones for the Tenth Census, was given temporary charge of 
the department of the collection, and made some preliminary studies and 
inspections. On December 1, Mr. Dewey was appointed to the curator- 
ship of the department. Active work in the department is, therefore, 
hardly begun, and all that can be said concerning it is in the way of 
anticipation. To this department is assigned a very large portion of the 
material given to our Government by the various foreign Governments 
and other exhibitors at the close of the Centennial Exhibition, which 
from 1876 to 1882, was stored in the basement of the Armory Building, 
and which has in part been removed to the new museum, together with 
the material recently received from the permanent exhibition in Phila- 
delphia and stored in the temporary building adjoining the Armory. 
The curator of metallurgy and economic geology also necessarily acts as 
curator of the section of metallurgy and metal-working in the department 
of arts and industries, which is already in possession of great quantities 
of heavy and bulky material, and which may be expected rapidly to grow 
in extent and importance. This department is one of the most difficult 
the Museum to manage ; the material which it includes is always heavy in 
and unwieldy and often of great bulk. Unlike many other departments, 
it must place on public exhibition almost everything which it contains; 
in fact, it has a greater share than any other department of material 



EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 153 

which is chiefly useful on account of its educational value, which for 
Durposes of investigations might perhaps better be examined in the 
place in which it was collected. Its proper arrangement, therefore, must 
be the work of several years ; and, on account of the number of laborers 
required to handle it, the work must be comparatively very costly. 

The original intention, to the carrying out of which the Museum is in 
a certain way pledged, was that the mineral resources of each particular 
State should be shown separately; and, to accomplish this, it will be 
necessary to secure extensive additions to the collection from almost 
every State in the Union ; extensive not only in number, but also in 
bulk, weight, and cost of transportation. 

Another difficulty in the management of this department is the 
uncertainty as to its final location. At present the southwestern quar- 
ter of the building, including the west hall, the southwest court, and 
the two adjoining ranges, are assigned to the division of geology, to 
metallurgy and metal-working. A x)ortion of this space is at pres- 
ent occupied by paleontological collections, but even when these are 
removed the space will probably be inadequate for the accommoda- 
tion even of the material already on hand. Should a new building be 
erected for the Museum, these collections will naturally be the first to 
be transferred, and consequently much bulky material will require to be 
moved. It cannot be doubted, however, that this department will be of 
greater importance to the country in an industrial way, and will interest 
and benefit a larger number of the visitors to the Museum, than any 
other ; especially when it is so arranged as to show concisely and im- 
pressively the character of the mineral resources of each State and the 
methods by which the various products of the metal-working industries 
are produced. 

Mr. Dewey reports that in the catalogue of the collection there have 
been made 3,851 entries, representing 4,772 specimens; of these 4,4'20 
were specimens previously received from Centennial sources, and of 
which no entry had been made, and 281 were specimens entered from 
the old Smithsonian collection. Almost all the work done has been 
upon the reserve series, especially upon the Centennial material, about 
150 boxes having been unpacked and specimens identified as far as pos- 
sible, and all information in regard to them put in a permanent form for 
preservation. This was a work of considerable magnitude, since much 
care and time were necessary in unpacking the specimens and tracing 
up their records. 

The southwest range is at present assigned to this department, and 
in it quite a number of specimens are to be seen, although nothing 
can properly be said to be on exhibition. The collection of ores from 
i^evada is the only special collection which has been thoroughly exam- 
ined ; the records in regard to this are perfect and its condition satis- 
factory. 



154 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The curator lias presented the following estimate of the present con- 
dition and possible future of the department : 

A8 to the number of specimens it is not possible to give it exactly, as many speci- 
mens are still packed iu the boxes in which they came from Philadelphia, and with 
the escejition of 360 they are all as yet in the reserve series ; after a careful estimate 
I would place the number at about 20,000. 

la general, the condition of the specimens is perhaps fair, although many of the more 
showy specimens have suffered from want of proper care and attention aside from 
the necessary deterioration by decomposition, generally confined to the surface, but 
in some cases extending to the interior, in which case serious disintegration has been 
the result. Decomposition is the chief source of deterioration of metallurgical speci- 
mens, and while there are various devices for its prevention, no feasible plan has yet 
been proposed to completely arrest its action. 

A matter of the first importance in this department is a collection for the study of the 
.science of metallurgy, which need not be large, as it will contain little or no duplicate 
material, and will be designed to show the following points in the production of the 
metals : the natural occurrence of the various ores of each metal, together with the 
prominent associated material ; the natural occurrence of such materials as are neces- 
sary in the refining of the ores; the various processes for the extraction of the natural 
occurring material showing the plans and methods of exploration and working 
principally by means of models and drawings, and, where practicable, by the exhi- 
bition of specimens of the tools actually used ; the various steps iu the treatment 
of the ores from the time they leave the mines until they are converted into the com- 
mercial metals, with specimens of the various intermediate products and plans and 
models of the machines, furnaces, &c., brought into requisition during the processes; 
(this is perhaps the least satisfactory part of the present collections in the Museum, 
and one that should be increased as rapidly as possible ;) and, finally, the various forma 
in which the different metals are produced and placed upon the market, together with 
the incidental products, especially such as can be utilized. 

By far the greatest jjortion of the collection, however, should be arranged upon a 
geographical basis, whereby the ores and products of certain regions would be grouped 
together, and, when possible, the connection between the various regions should be 
clearly indicated. In the arrangement of this collection a somewhat different plan 
should be followed from that adopted in the scientific collection, as in this case tliere 
will be of necessity considerable duplication of specimens, and prominence should be 
given to peculiarities in occurrences and composition of the ores, and the modifications 
thereby necessitated in the usual course of treatment. This collection will require 
constant care and attention to keep it abreast of the progress of development, which 
is very rapid in this country where many new regions are being explored and devel- 
oped every year, and where the varying conditions found in isolated regions lead to in- 
teresting and important modifications in processes, which should be examined and made 
available to the rest of the world. It is also very desirable to have suites of speci- 
mens showing the changes occurring in the composition and character of ores from 
the surface to the greatest depth attained, but these cannot be obtained after a mine 
has been in operation a few years. At the same time, as regions decline in importance, 
and processes become antiquated and pass out of use, a judicious culling out of unim- 
portant material could be made with advantage. There is one field which the depart- 
ment could with propriety occupy, namely, the collection of the literature of American 
metallurgy, which is at present very restricted, a condition readily explained by the 
fact that metalhtrgical knowledge has a high commercial value which its possessors 
desire to retain, from purely selfish motives. Such books as there are upon metallur- 
gical subjects are mainly of European origin, and their ignorance and silence upon de- 
velopments in metallurgy made in this country are so great as to make them valueless 
for application here except so far as broad general principles are concerned. There 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 155 

have been many and great advances in metallurgy made in this country, and a com- 
plete record of their development would be a valuable contribution to knowledge. It 
is but just to say that, as a rule, American metallurgists have written and published 
far more than their European brethren, but there is still room for improvement. The 
majority of papers by American writers are scattered through various society-journals 
and other periodicals, so that the student is obliged to waste a great deal of time in 
tiresome search through a large amount of (to him) valueless matter. 

DEPARTMENT OF EXPLORATION AND FIELD WORK. 

The explorations which have been made, esiiecially in the interest of 
the NatioDal Museum have been, as hitherto, under the immediate di- 
rection of the Smithsonian Institution, from whose funds the expenses 
have been for the most part defrayed. The details are given at length in 
the report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. Various 
ofiBcers of the Museum have been attached, especially during the summer 
months, to the service of the United States Fish Commission, the Geo- 
logical Survey, and the Bureau of Ethnology of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, while others, more or less affiliated with the Museum, have been 
engaged in field work incidentally in connection with their duties as 
employees of the Coast Survey and the Signal Service of the Army. 

DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY. 

The chemical laboratory occupies the two upper stories of the south- 
west pavilion, and the chemist, Mr. Frederick W. Taylor, has been 
engaged in the solution of many questions in chemistry and economic 
geology, proposed by the other departments of the Museum or by out- 
side departments of the Government. The chemist reports that, in an- 
swer to letters received from the Director, he has made 119 reports, 15 
being letters in response to queries submitted to the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution 5 70 being reports of qualitative analyses of specimens received 
by the Institution, and identifying 93 specimens of minerals, rocks, and 
ores. Thirty-four reports have been made representing 65 quantitative 
anaylses, and involving 274 determinations. 

One of the most interesting of the investigations was made for the 
chairman of the House Committee on Ways and Means for the purpose 
of determining the possibility of extracting the methylic alcohol from 
the ethyl alcohol contained in English methylated spirit. Another was 
the analysis of eight samples of zinc-covered or galvanized-iron tele- 
graph wire for the Signal Office of the War Department, the object 
being to find some explanation of the different degrees of resistance to 
an electric current exerted by the different wires. 

The main work of the laboratory has, however, been the examination 
of questions in economic geology, involving the analyses of numerous 
specimens of iron ore, coke, gold and silver ore, of natural brines, and 
of soda incrustations from Nevada, the latter for the United States Geo- 
logical Survey. 



156 EEPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The chemist makes the following statements upon the present condi- 
tion of the laboratory : 

The present condition of the chemical laboratory is, with very few exceptions, most 
promising. In the balance-room we have three No. 7 analytical balances, one large 
analytical balance to carry one kilogramme, one assay button balance, one small so- 
•called prescription scale, one pulp scale for assay charges, and one Jolly's balance for 
specific gravity determinations. 

Ample facilities for the preparation of samples for analysis are provided, the labo- 
ratory being provided with a small Blake crusher for reducing samples to small frag- 
ments, a "buck plate " for assay samples, and a number of valuable agate mortars for 
preparing samples of silicates, rocks, &c., where iron cannot be used. 

The facilities for assaying are good, there being three furnaces for that purpose, one 
for crucibles, and two for scarification and cupellation. The stock of glassware is good, 
as also the porcelain. The main feature of the laboratory, however, is the fine stock 
of platinum ware in the form of dishes and crucibles, the laboratory possessing 19 
platinum dishes holding from 50 cubic centimeters to nearly half a liter, and 25 plat- 
inum crucibles. In addition to the 2,070 grammes spoken of, the Institution has pur- 
chased at different times about 700 grammes of x^latinum, this being purchased before 
we had received the addition from Newport, making in all about 2,770 grammes of 
metal, representing a money value of over eleven hundred dollars. 

In regard to the general arrangements of the rooms of the laboratory a full descrip- 
tion will be found in the report of the Institution for 1881. The main room is fitted 
with white-pine desks, one running across the entire width of the room against the 
south wall, the other being placed against the third wall, besides which there are 
cases for chemicals and apparatus, aud a fume chamber. The balance room is hand- 
somely fitted up with cases of black walnut and contains a heavy black walnut table 
for the balances. The third floor of the building has also been fitted up during the 
year with a substantial double desk. During the past year the supply of water has 
been entirely insufficient, or rather the pressure has been insufficient, causing much 
annoyance, the flow often ceasing for the greater part of the day ; and should the en- 
gineer desire to fill his boilers no water can be had on the laboratory floor during the 
process. Frequently the operation of distilling water for use in making analysis 
had been suspended for lack of water to cool the condenser. To remedy this evil, 
the chemist would suggest that a tank be placed on the roof of the building and con- 
nected with the feed pump for the boilers in the engine room by a suitable arrange- 
ment of valves ; this could be so arranged as to supply the upper or third floor contin- 
uously, being used ou the second floor only when the ordinary supply should fail. 

DEPARTMENT OF EXPERIMENTAL PHYSIOLOGY. 

Mr. John A. Eyder, embryologist of the United States Fish Commis- 
sion, has occupied during the year a laboratory fitted up for micro- 
scopic work, and especially for embryological investigations, in the 
Armory building, and has carried on several important investigations 
upon the embryology of fishes and oysters. The laboratory has been 
filled up with considerable completeness, chiefly at the expense of the 
Fish Commission. 

A list of Mr. Eyder's publications will be found in the appended bib- 
liography. 

The Museum has furuished a considerable amount of material to Dr. 
S. Weir Mitchell, of Philadelphia, who is engaged in investigating the 
venom of the rattlesnake, aud also a number of specimens to Dr. John 
J. Mason, of Philadelphia, for his studies upon the brain. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 157 

In connection with the Fish Commission work some very important 
experiments have been made by Colonel MacDonald and Mr. Eyder 
upon the retardation of the developement of the eggs of shad and other 
fishes. 

Involuntary experiments have been made in this department dur- 
ing the year by Dr. E. W. Shufeldt and Mr. A. Z. Shindler, of the 
Museum, the former having been bitten by a Heloderma siispectum, and 
having described his experience in the "American Naturalist," Novem- 
ber, 1882, Vol. XVI, No. 11, the latter having suffered a like mishap while 
handling a specimen of Maps fulvius, as described by Mr. F. W. True 
in the "American Naturalist," 1882, Vol. — page — . 

DEPARTMENT OF VIVARIA. 

A number of living animals are on exhibition in the rotunda of the 
new building and seem to afford much amusement and instruction to 
visitors. This department, while of but little service in the general 
disposition of the collection, is well suited for the exhibition of a few 
cases of living animals ; and I am inclined to believe that fifteen or 
twenty characteristic forms might be obtained and maintained here at 
trifling expense, while serving an excellent purpose in illustrating and 
supj)lemeuting the preparations in the Museum cases. 

At present, the following mammals are thus exhibited: 

A Eed-footed Douroucouli, or Owl Monkey {Nyctipithecus rujipes, Scla- 
ter), from Costa Eica; two Pinches, or White-tufted Marmosets [CSdipus 
titi, Lesson), from Chiriqui, Colombia; a young Mexican Deer [Cariacus 
mexicanus, Gmelin), from Chiriqui, Colombia. All these specimens were 
presented to the Museum by Capt. John M. Dow. 

In the same room is also a large case in which at various times 
throughout the year many species of American snakes have been shown. 
Upon these the curator of herpetology has made the following report: 

The vivarium for reptiles continues to prove of the greatest interest to visitors, and 
it is hoped a sufficient number of living specimens may be sent to render it still more 
popular. In connection with it, a most instructive and interesting event occurred 
easly in the summer, namely, the birth of 109 young snakes (Tropidonotua sipedon). 
The act of parturition was carefully observed, and it is the intention of the curator 
to publish a paper upon the subject. 

There is little trouble in keeping the harmless reptiles alive in captivity for an in- 
definite length of time, provided proper food can be obtained; but with regard to the 
Crotalus and Ancistrodon, as yet our efforts have failed to induce them to feed. 

It has been noticed, also, that quite a number of our specimens die from necrosis 
of the jaw, an experience which has, it is believed, been shared by nearly every 
museum and zoological garden in the world. 

Early this year a very fine and extremely large rattlesnake {Crotalus adamanteus) 
was received from Florida, and shortly .after an equally large kingsnake {Ophibolus 
getulus), and it was determined to test the popular belief as to the antagonism exist- 
ing between the two species. They were accordingly placed in a large case, the bot- 
tom of which was covered with sand, and allowed to remain together for some time. 
No hostilities took place, and it was noticed that neither species appeared to fear the- 
other. Perhaps under more natural surroundings the case may be different. 



158 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

It has been found necessary to keep king-snakes apart from the others, as their canni- 
balistic tendencies are well developed. 

In the months of September and October copulation was noticed between some fine 
examples of the indigo snake (Spilotes erebennus) in the vivarium, and it is aoped 
young specimens may be secured as a result. 

In the basin of the fountain in the rotunda are kept living fishes of 
the following species : 

1. Gyprinus carpio (Linn^). a scale carp ; h leather carp. 

2. Garassius auratus (L.) Bleeker. Goldfish ; a common form ; h triple- 

tail form. 

3. Hybrid between Nos. 1 and 2. 4. Idus melanotus (Hseckel). 

In a tank in the same room are shown two specimens of albino axo- 
lotls {Siredon pisciformis), which were bred by M. Carbonnier in Paris, 
France, from other albinos which were the progeny of a pair of black 
axolotls. 

Nearly all the living species of North American Testudinata are kept 
in confinement in one of the smaller inclosures on the carp ponds on 
Monument lot, where they remain for purposes of acclimation. 

Fishes of the following species are cultivated in the carp ponds : 

1. Gyprinus carpio (Linne). a scale carp ; h mirror carp ; c leather carp. 

2. Idus melanotus (Hseckel). Leuciscus idus (Gthr.). Nerfling; Orfe; 

Golden Teuch; Ide. 3. Tinea vulgaris {Cux.). Tench. 

These ponds are under the control of the Director of the Museum, and 
the details of their management are described in his report as Commis- 
sioner of Fisheries. Many American species of fish have also during a 
part of the year been kept in aquarium tanks in the Armory Building, 
where during the spring months extensive operations in connection 
with the hatching of fish have been carried on, which have been wit- 
nessed by large numbers of visitors. 



OBITUARY NOTICE OF DR. G. W. HAWES. 

George Wesson Hawes was born December 31, 1848, in Mario^n, 
Ind., and died of quick consumption June 22, 1882, in Manitou Springs, 
Colo., whither he had gone in the hope of benefit to his health. 
Both his parents were natives of Massachusetts; and both died while ho 
was very young. His father was the Eev. Alfred Hawes, a missionary 
of the American Home Missionary Society, stationed at Marion, Ind. 
His early days passed under the care of a lady in Worcester, Mass., a 
friend of his parents whom he regarded as his foster-mother. 

His taste for scientific studies was early manifest, and, having been 
for some years a student in the High School, Worcester, at the age of 
seventeen he entered the ShefBeld Scientific School at New Haven, to 
which with some intermissions he was attached for fifteen years in the 
capacities of student, laboratory assistant, and instructor. From 1867 



EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 159 

to 1871, he was engaged in business pursuits in Boston, but returned to 
graduate with the class of 1812, four years later tuan would otherwise 
have been the case. The first year after liis graduation he was private 
assistant to Prof, S. W. Johnson in the chemical laboratory, subse- 
quently until 1880 assistant and instructor in mineralogy and blow-pipe 
analysis in the Sheffield Scientific School. The summer of 1878 he de- 
voted to the study of microscopic lithology in Breslau, under Prof. A. 
Lasaulx, and from March, 1879, to June, 1880, was studying mineralogy 
and crystallography at Bonn with Professor vom Eath, and lithology 
with Professor Rosenbusch at Heidelberg. He received the degree of 
doctor of philosophy from the University of Heidelberg in 1880. 

In the fall of 1880, he accepted the position of curator of the Depart- 
ment of Economic Geology in the National Museum, and about the same 
time was api^ointed special agent of the Tenth Census in charge of the 
building-stone investigation. His strength was too heavily taxed by 
close study in the hot summer of 1881, and in the fall he found himself 
unable to continue his work. A month at the Warm Springs in Vir- 
ginia failed to restore his vigor, and on his return it was ascertained 
that incii:)ient lung trouble existed. He decided to spend the winter in 
the Bermudas, hoping that the mild air of a southern ocean would 
restore him to health. On his return in May it was evident to us all 
that his days of life were few, and as we bade him good bye, when he 
set forth for Colorado, we could scarcely hope to see him again. 

In the early part of his student life he paid much attention to bio- 
logical studies, and in the summer of 1872 was one of the party accom- 
panying the United States Fish Commission at its summer station at 
Eastport, Me. Later he became an enthusiastic botanist and published 
a most admirable work upon the flora of New Haven and vicinity. 
After finally selecting a specialty he devoted himself to it with untiring 
zeal, and at the time of his death had placed himself in the front rank 
of American mineralogists and lithologists. His future was rich in 
promise. He regarded his life work as just begun, and his chief regret, 
as he often expressed it to me, was that he had to leave a task which 
he had for so many years been laying out and preparing himself for. 
"His death," remarks Dr. Eosenbusch in the Neues Jalirhuch fur Mm- 
eralogie, " has deprived science of an enthusiastic and unusually gifted 
servant." He was possessed of unusual executive ability, and his asso- 
ciates in the Museum often wondered at the ease with which he organ- 
ized and conducted his own department. He had published twenty 
or more memoirs upon mineralogical and lithological topics, promi- 
nent among which are his studies upon contact zones in the Albany 
granites, and the Mesozoic diabase of Connecticut. His largest work was 
the Mineralogy and Lithology of New Hampshire, constituting volume 
IV of the Eeports of the State Geologist. He regarded the investiga- 
tion of the building stones of the United States, which he had just taken 
in hand, as the great work of his life, and had laid out an extremely 



1 GO • REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

comprehensive scheme for its prosecution. The report upon this sub- 
ject, soon to be published by the Census Bureau, his iu conception and 
chiefly the product of his labors, will undoubtedly be the finest of its 
kind ever prepared. The National Museum contains an imperishable 
monument to his memory in the magnificent collection of building 
stones which he gathered — a collection far surpassing any other in the 
world. 

Hawes was a man of upright and noble character — a character shaped 
by a reverent faith in the teachings of the Christian religion. Like 
many men trained in the methods of scientific thought, he felt unable 
to agree with the doctrines of any sect, but in our conversations he 
asserted his belief iu the Christian revelation, and all who know Mm 
must feel that his life was shaped by this belief. 

LIST OF PAPERS BY DR. Qt. W. HAWES.* 

[Experiments on the use of potassium dichromate.] Published iu an 
article by Prof. S. W. Johnson on the use of potassium dichromate 
in ultimate organic analyses. 

(American Journal of Science, 1874, vii, p. 466.) 

On a feldspar from Bamle, in Norway. 

(Am. Journal of Science, 1874, vil, p. 579.) 

Gives the results of chemical analyses of a feldspar identical with or closely 
allied to oligoclase. 

On the chemical composition of the wood of acrogens. 

(Am. Jour, of Science, 1874, vii, p. 585.) 

Gives the results of twelve chemical analyses as made by the author upon 
acrogens of the following species : Lycopodium dendroideum, L. complanatum, 
Equisetum kyemale, Aspidium marginale, Cyathea canaliculata. 

[Analysis of a serpentine pseudomorph, and examination of brucite.] 
In J. D. Dana's "Serpentine pseudomorphs from the Tilly Foster 
mine." 

(Am. Jour, of Science, 1874, viii, pp. 451-453.) 

[Analysis of chondrodite from the Tilly Foster mine.] In Prof. E. S. 
. Dana's memoir on chondrodite. 

(Transactions of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1875, ni, 
p. 86.) 

The trap rocks of the Connecticut Valley. 

(Am. Jour, of Science, 1875, ix, pp. 185-192.) 

Gives the results of several chemical analyses of the dolerites and diabases 
of the Connecticut Valley. 

On diabantite, a chlorite occurring in the trap of the Connecticut Valley. 

(Am. Jour, of Science, 1875, ix, pp. 454-457.) 

Gives the analysis of a variety of chlorite found in the trap of the Connect- 
icut Valley. 



* This bibliography was prepared by George P. Merrill. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 161 

On zouochloiite and clilorastrolite. 

(Am. Jour, of Science, 1875, x, pp. 24-26.) 

Concludes from chemical and microscopic examination that these are not 
true mineral species, but rather impure varieties of phrenite. Reviewed by 
Rosenbusch in the Neues Jahrbuch for 187.5, p. 750. 

[Analysis of durangite.] In Prof. G. J. Brush's article on "The chemical 
composition of durangite." 

(Am. Jour, of Science, 1876, xi, p. 464.) 

The rocks of the "Chloritic formation" on the western border of the 
New Haven region. 

(Am. Jour, of Science, 1876, xi, pp. 122-126.) 

Gives the results of microscopic and chemical examinations of certain met- 
amorphic rocks in the vicinity of New Haven, Conn. Concludes that they are 
true dolerites, diabases, and metaphyres, and distinguishes them from similar 
eruptive rocks by the prefix meta. 

On a lithia-bearing variety of biotite. 

(Am. Jour, of Science, 1876, xi, pp. 431-432.) 

Finds that the black biotite from the feldspar quarries of Portland, Conn., 
contains some 0.95 per cent, of lithia, which replaces a part of the potash. 

On the greenstones of New Hampshire and their organic remains. 

(Am. Jour, of Science, 1876, xii, pp. 129-137, 1 plate.) 

Gives the result of numerous chemical and microscopic examinations of the 
so-called greenstones of New Hampshire, and also describes and figures cer- 
tain forms contained in them, which appear to be of organic origin. These 
forms, which excited considerable interest at the time, proved, on further 
examination, to be but the peculiar skeleton- like forms left by decomposing 
titanic iron. 

On grains of metallic iron in dolerites from New Hampshire. 
(Am. Jour, of Science, 1877, xiii, pp. 33-35.) 

Mineralogy and lithology of New Hampshire, by George W. Hawes, in- 
structor in mineralogy in the Sheffield Scientific School of Yale Col- 
lege. Part IV, of the third volume of the Geology of New Hamp- 
shire, 262 pp., royal 8vo, with 12 plates. Concord, N. H., 1878. 

This, the most important work of the author's life, gives the results oi 
extensive research upon the chemical and microscopic properties of what may 
be regarded as typical rocks and minerals of New Hampshire. It also con- 
tains extensive notes upon the external characters, economic value, and gen- 
eral distribution of the rocks over the State, together with a short treatise 
upon the method of study with the microscope. 

The rocks of the "Chloritic formation" on the western border of the 
New Haven region. 

(Am. Jour, of Science, 1878, xv, p. 219.) 

A note on the previous paper published in this journal, xi, 1876, p. 122. 
The author finds on further examination that a certain mineral, supposed at 
first to be a pyroxene, is hornblende, and that the rock belongs therefore to 
the diorite [jroup. 

H. Mis. 26 11 



162 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

On liquid carboDic acid in syenite. 

(Am. Jour, of Science, 1878, xyi, p. 2.34.) 

A short note taken from the author's "Report on the mineralogy and lith- 
ology of New Hampshire." 

On leucoxeue in the New Hampshire diorites. 

(Am, Jour, of Science, 1878, xvi, p. 396.) 

A short note taken from the author's "Rejiort on the mineralogy and lith- 
ology of New Hampshire." 

On the association of pyroxene and hornblende. 

(Am. Jour, of Science, 1878, xvi, p. 397.) 

A short note taken from the author's "Report on the mineralogy and lith- 
ology of New Hami)shire." 

On a group of dissimilar eruptive rocks in Camptou, N. H. 

(Am. Jour, of Science, 1879, xvii, pp. 147-151.) 

Describes five closely adjoining dikes cutting a mica schist in Campton, 
N. H., which, upon examination, prove to be composed of diabase, olivene 
diabase, diorite, and syenite. Gives chemical analyses. 

An account of recent progress in geology, for the years 1879 and 1880. 

(Smithsonian Report, 1880, pp. 221-234.) 
Also published separate in pamphlet form. 

An account of recent progress in mineralogy, for the years 1879 and 1880. 

(Smithsonian Report, 1880, pp. 229-312.) 
Also published separate in pamphlet form. 

The Albany granite, New Hampshire, and its contact phenomena. 

(Am. Jour, of Science, 1881, xxi, pp. 21-32.) 

Describes the chemical and structural change produced in the eruptive 
Albany granite, and the adjoining argillitic mica schist at their point of con- 
tact. The rocks were studied both chemically and microscopically. 

An abstra-ct of this paper by H. Rosenbusch was afterward given in the 
Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, «&,c., 1882, i. Band, i. Heft, pp. 464-465. 

On liquid carbon dioxide in smoky quartz. 

(Am. Jour, of Science, 1881, xxi, pp. 203-209.) 

The author finds the smoky quartz of Branchville, Conn., to be particularly 
rich in cavities, containing carbonic acid in both the liquid and gaseous state. 
Considers that the motion of these included bubbles is due to changes in 
external temperature. The paper is supplemented by a communication by 
Mr. A. W. Wright, giving the results of chemical examinations of the gases 
, and liquids contained in these cavities. 

On the mineralogical composition of the normal Mesozoic diabases 
upon the Atlantic border. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 129-134.) 

This paper gives the results of several chemical and microscopic examina- 
tions of the rocks, showing that their composition is somewhat more complex 
than is generally supposed ; that two varieties of plagioclase are generally 
present. The paper was reviewed by Prof. J. D. Dana, in American Jour, 
of Science, xxii, 3d series, 1881, p. 230. Also reviewed by H. Rosenbusch in 
Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie und Geologic, 1882, i, iii, p. 414. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 163 

On the determination of feldspars in thin sections of rocks. 

(Proc. Nat. Mua., 1881, iv, pp. 134-136.) 

The author gives as the result of his experience that grave errors are liable 
to arise through relyiug altogether upon optical methods for determining 
feldspars in thin sections, since, owing to the uncertain angle at which the 
crystals are cut, it is not only not possible at all times to distinguish with 
certainty between the different varieties of plagioclase, but at times they can 
with great difficulty be distinguished from orthoclase. 

On a phosphatic sandstone from Hawthorne, Fla. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 46-48.) 

Gives the results of microscopic and chemical analysis of a phosphatic 
sandstone from Hawthorne. The stone was found to contain some 16 per 
cent, of phosphoric acid. 

Brief abstracts and reviews of papers by American authors, published by 
Br. Hawes in the Neues Jahrbuch fUr Mineralogie, Geologic, und Pala- 
eontologie. 

B. J. Harrington. Notes on chrome-garnet, phyrhotite, and 
titaniferous iron ore. Proc. Canadian Natural History Society, 
May, 1880. — H. B. Cornwall. Gallium in American blende. 
Am. Chem. Jour., April 1880, p. . — Peter Collier. Analysis 
of a mineral resembling thorite. Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc, xi, 
ii, p. 73. — F. W. Clark and M. E. Owens. On a new variety of 
tetrahedrite. Am. Chem. Jour., June, 1880, p. 173. 

(Neues Jahrbuch, 1881, xi, ii pp. 174-175.) 

George J. Brush. On American sulpho-selenides of mercury 
with analysis of onofrite from Utah, by W. G. Comstock. 
Am. Jour. Science, xvi, April, 1881.— F. A. Genth and W. C. 
Kerr. The minerals and mineral localities of North Carolina, 
being Chapter i of Vol, ii of the Geology of North Carolina, 
p. 122. Ealeigh, 1881.— Henry C. Lewis. On Philadelphite, a 
new mineral species. Proc. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences, Decem- 
ber 22, 1879. — Wm. P. Blake. Occurrence of realgar andorpi- 
ment (auripigment) in Utah Territory. Am. Jour. Science, 
March, 1881, p. 219.— W. E. Hidden. On the Whitfield County, 
Georgia, meteoric iron. Am. Jour. Science, April, 1881, 
p. 287 

(Neues Jahrbuch, 1881, xi, iii, pp. 337-343.) 

A. E. C. Selwyn. Geological survey of Canada ; report of progress 
for 1878-'79. — D. Honeyman. Geological waifs from the Mag- 
dalen Islands. — D. Honeyman, D. C. L. Nova Scotia geology. 
Notes on a new geological map of Pictou County. Proceedings 
and Transactions of the Nova Scotia Institute of Natural 
Sciences, Halifax, 1880, Vol. v, pp. 119, 136, 192.— Eugene A. 
Smith On the geology of Florida. Am. Jour. Science, April, 
1881, p. 292.— Geo. M. Wheeler. Annual Eeport upon the 
Geographical Survey of the Territory of the United States 
west of the 100th meridian. Appendix OO of the Annual 



164 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Eeport of the Chief of Engineers for 1879. 338 pages. An 
atlas of six maps 5 also several large maps with the text. — War- 
ren Upham. The geology of Central and Western Minnesota. 
A preliminary report. Saint Paul, Minn. 33 pp. — Edward 
Orton. Eeview of stratigraphical geology in Eastern Ohio, 
from the annual report of the secretary of state, 1879. Colum- 
bus, Ohio, 3880. pp.33. — C. G. Eockwood, jr. Notices of re- 
cent American earthquakes. Am. Jour. Science, March, 1881, 
p. 183. 

(Neues Jahrbuch, 1881, xi, iii, pp. 373-376.) 

B. P. Whitefield. Notice of the occurrence of rocks representing 
the Marcellas shales of New York in Central Ohio. Proc. Am. 
Assoc, Saratoga meeting, August, 1879, p. 297. — H. M. Chance. 
The millstone grit in England and Pennsylvania. Am. Jour. 
Science, February 1881, xxi, p. 137. — Andrew S. McCreath. 
Second report of progress in the laboratory of the second geolo- 
gical survey of Pennsylvania. J. P. Lesley, State geologist. 
Containing communications by Professor Frazier, F. Piatt, 
and J. P. Lesley. 438 pp. — Persifer Frazer. The geology of 
Lancaster County, second geological survey of Pennsylvania. — 
M. E. Wadsworth. Notes on the geology of the iron and cop- 
per districts of Lake Superior. Bulletin of the Museum of 
Comparative Zoology at Harvard College, geological series, i, 
July, 1880. 157 pp. — Geology of Wisconsin. Vol. in, survey 
of 1873-'79. T. C. Chamberlin, State geologist. 763 pp.— 
Geological survey of Alabama; report of progress for 1877 
'78. Eugene A. Smith, State geologist, 138 pp. — C. E. Button. 
Eeport on the geology of the high plateaus of Utah, 1880. — 
Alexis A. Julien. On the geological action of the humus acids. 
Proc. Am. Association, August, 1879, pp. 311-411. — W. C. 
Kerr. The mica veins of North Carolina. Transactions Am. 
Inst.— Mining Engineers, Feb., 1880.— J. S. Diller. The fels- 
ites and their associated rocks north of Boston. — Proc. Boston 
Soc. of Nat. Hist., Jan. 21, 1880, p. 385.— J. Peter Lesley. Sec- 
ond geological survey of Pennsylvania. Eeports from 1874 to 
1880. 

(Neues Jahrbuch, 1881, xi, iii, pp. 380-390.) 

Dr. Hawes assisted in the x>reparation of the following works, which 
should be added in order that the list may be complete: 

A catalogue of the flowering plants and higher cryptograms growing 
without cultivation within thirty miles of Yale College. Published 
by the Berzelius Society, New Haven, 1878. 

A manual of determinative mineralogy, with an introduction on blow- 
pipe-analysis, by George J. Brush, professor of mineralogy in the 
Sheffield Scientific School of Yale College. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 165 



THE COLLECTION OF BUILDING STONES. 

About the time that Dr. Hawes entered upou his duties as a curator 
at the National Museum he also assumed charge of that branch of the 
Tenth Census relating to the quarrying industries of the United States. 
His plan was to make a complete census of all the quarries of stone worked 
in the country, to ascertain the amount and value of their productions, 
the number of men employed", and all the facts usually included in cen- 
sus reports; in addition to which it was hoped to gain a large amount 
of information of more strictly scientific interest. In order to carry out 
his plans, special agents or collectors were employed, in all cases in 
which it was possible, men of scientific attainments, whose education and 
training had especially fitted them for the work, who were to visit the 
quarries in person and gather all necessary facts of economic import- 
ance relative to the industry, besides which they were instructed to col- 
lect all additional facts possible of scientific importance but perhaps of 
less practical value. Among the printed questions to be answered rela- 
tive to each quarry were the following: "Kind of rock quarried?" 
" Geological age of formation ? " " Structure of natural blocks as regards 
stratification and jointing?" "How large a block can be obtained?" 
" Principal uses for which it is employed ? " &c. ; or, if the stone was 
used for ornamental purposes only, there were added such questions as, 
*' What are the qualities that render this stone desirable for ornamental 
purposes ? " and, "Is it suitable for ornaments exposed to the weather ? ". 

From each quarry two specimens, or more if the character of the rock 
seemed to require it in order to represent it in all its varieties, of suffi- 
cient size to be dressed into four-inch cubes, were forwarded by mail 
to the Museum for further examination. Here a corps of aids and 
assistants was employed to work up the material as it came in. Each 
specimen on its arrival, after being catalogued, was placed in the hands 
of stone-cutters who dressed them into four-inch cubes the different faces 
of the cubes being finished as foHows : Polished in front, drafted and 
pointed on the left side ; drafted rock face ujjon the right side ; rock 
face behind, and smooth sanded or chiseled upon the top and bottom. 
This preparation was modified to suit individual cases ; for example, 
sandstones which do not polish, had the front face simply rubbed 
smooth. The specimens thus prepared were placed in suitable exhibi- 
tion cases and properly labelled, where they might be examined by all 
who wished. 

The chips made in the i)rocess of dressing were carefully saved to be 
utilized in chemical and microscopic analyses. Also specimens from 
each quarry, so far as practicable, were to be submitted to proper tests, 
to ascertain their powers of resistance to pressure. Special tests were 
also to be made to learn the absorptive properties of ^he various kinds 
of stone ; their specific gravity and weight per cubic foot ; their powers 
of resistance to the eflect of heat and frost, together with the efiect of 



166 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

certain included minerals upon their weathering properties. Prepara- 
tions were made for extensive chemical analyses, and several hundred 
thin sections prepared for microscopic study. 

The final report was to be published in quarto form and to contain, in 
addition to extensive articles upon the subjects already mentioned, 
chapters on the history of the quarrying industry of the United States, 
and upon rock weathering and decomposition as illustrated in the stone 
buildings of the principal cities of the country. It was also to contain 
numerous plates showing the rocks both as they appear to the naked 
eye and as seen in thin sections under the microscope. Also illustrations 
of some of the principal quarries and of special machinery used in 
quarrying and dressing stone. 

When it became evident that Dr. Hawes could no longer continue his 
work it was placed in other hands for continuation, but the long delay 
already caused by his illness rendered its full completion impossible 
within the limits of time prescribed by the census, and it was therefore 
greatly abbreviated. Had he been able to carry out his plans as origi- 
nally intended, this would, beyond all doubt, have been the most impor- 
tant work upon the subject of building stones ever produced in this or 
any other country. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 167 



APPENDIX A.— LIST OF OFFICERS, JANUARY 1, 1883. 



SPENCER F. BAIRD Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution; Director. 

G. BROWN GOODP] Assistant Director ; Curator, DepH of Art and Industry. 

TARLETON H. BEAN Curator, Dep't Ichthyology, and Editor of "Proceedings." 

WILLIAM H. DALL Honorary Curator, Department of MoUusks. 

FREDERICK P. BEWEY ..Assistant Curator, in charge of Department of Metallurgy. 

JAMES M. FLINT Honorary Curator, Section of Materia Medica. 

EDWARD FOREMAN Assistant, Department of Ethnography. 

GEORGE P. MERRILL Assistant, Section of Building Stones. 

RICHARD RATHBUN Assistant Curator, in charge Dep't of Marine Invertebrates. 

CHARLES RAU Curator, Departmen t of Archeology. 

ROBERT RIDGWAY Curator, Department of Birds. 

CHARLES V. RILEY Honorary Curator, Department of Insects. 

FREDERICK W. TAYLOR.. CAmisf. 

FREDERICK W. TRUE Libranan; Acting Curator, Department of Mammals. 

CHARLES D. WALCOTT.. .Honorary AssH Curator, Dep't of Invertebrate Fossils. 

LESTER F. WARD Honorary Curator, Department of Fossil Plants. 

CHARLES A. WHITE Curator, Department of Invertebrate Fossils. 

HENRY C. YARROW Honorary Curator, Department of Herpetology. 

WILLIAM S. YEATES Acting Curator, Department of Minerals. 



APPENDIX B.— BIBLIOGRAPHY OF PUBLICATIONS OF THE 
MUSEUM FOR 1882. 



I.— PAPERS BY OFFICERS OF THE MUSEUM. 

Bean, Tarleton H. A partial bibliography of the fishes of the Pa 
cific coast of the United States and of Alaska, for the year 1880. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. .312-317.) 

Notes on fishes collected by Capt. Chas. Bendire, U. S. A., in 

Washington Territory and Oregon, May to October, 1881. 

rProc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 89-93.) 

Note on the occurrence of a Silvery Lamprey {Ichthyomyzon 

castaneus Girard) in Louisiana. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 117-119.) 

Notes on birds collected in Alaska and Eastern Siberia during 

the summer of 1880. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 144-173.) 



168 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Bean, Tarleton H. Translatiou of note on the habits and the rearing 
of the Axolotl {Amhly stoma mexicanum), by M. Carbonnier. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, V, pp. 221-222.) 

Notes on a collection of fishes made by Capt. Henry E. Nichols. 

U. S. N., in British Columbia and Southern Alaska, with descrip- 
tions of new species and a new genus (Delolepis). 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v,pp. 463-474.) 

List of publications of the United States National Museum. 

(Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 18, pp. 1-12.) 

Notes on a shipment, by the United States Fish Commission 

of California salmon {Oncorhynchns chouicha) to Tanner's Creek, 
Indiana, in 1876. 

(Bull. U. S. Fish Com., 1882, i, pp. 204-205.) 

Account of a shipment, by the United States Fish Commission, 

of California salmon -fry {Oncorhynchus chouicha) to Southern Louis- 
iana, with a note on some collections made at Tickfaw. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1882, i, pp. 205-206.) 

(J. W. Collins.) An inquiry as to the capture of young codfish 



in Chesapeake Bay. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1882, i, pp. 401-402.) 

Directions for collecting and preserving fish. 

(Forest and Stream, No. 25, Jan. 19, 1882, xvii, p. 492.) 
A reprint from Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 235-238, 

Eainbow and other Pacific trout. 

(Forest and Stream, June 15, 1882, xviii, pp. 389-390.) 

See also Goode and Bean. 
Dale, William H. On the genera of Chitons. 

(Proc. U. S.Nat. Mus. 1881, iv, pp. 279-291.) 

The currents and temperatures of Bering Sea and the adjacent 

waters. 

(Report U. S. Coast Survey for 1880, App. No. 16.) 
Separate 4to, p. 46, maps and section, March, 1882. 

On certain Limpets and Chitons from the deep waters off the 

Eastern coast of the United States. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 1881, iv, pp. 400-414. ) 

Reprinted in Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., London, x (1882), 11-26. 

List of papers by William Healey Dall, assistant, U. S. Coast 

Survey, honorary curator, U. S. National Museum. 1866-1882. 
Washington : Judd & Detweiler, printers, 8vo, pp. 11. 

Notes on Alaska Tertiary deposits. 

(Amer. Journ. Sci., July, 1882, xxiv, pp. 67, 68. ) 

Biographical sketch. [Charles Darwin.] 

(Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., 1882, I, pp. 56-59. 

Read before the society May 12, 1882, on the occasion of the Darwin memo- 
rial meeting. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 169 

Dall, William H. Address by William H. Dall, vice-president, sec- 
tion F, before the section of Biology, American Association for the 
Advancement of Science, Montreal meeting, August 23, 1882. 
Salem, printed at the Salem Press, 1882, 8vo, pp. 16. 

Species in Buccinum. 

(Nachriclit. d. deuts. malakozool. Gesells., Aug.-Sept., 1882, pp. 118-12L) 

Zum Kapitel der " Natural Selection." 

(Nachricbt. d. deuts. malakozool. Gesells., Oct., pp. 145-149.) 

Dall iiber das Klima von Alaska. 

(Zeitscli. d. osterreichis. Gesells. f. Meteo., Nov., 1882, xvil, pp. 443-444. 

Note on Gadinia excentrica Tiberi. 

(Amer. Nat., Sept., 1882, p. 737.) 

Der Golfstrom uach den neuesten Forschungen. 

(Petermanns geogr. Mittheiluugeu, 1883, i, pp. 19-21.) 

GooDE, G. Brown. The eel question. 

(Forest and Stream, xviii, 1882, March 2, pp. 91-93; March 9, pp. 111-113; 
March 16, pp. 132-133.) 

Materials for a history of the Swordfish. 

(Forest and Stream, xviii, 1882, June 22, p. 410; July 20, p. 492; xix, 1882, 
Aug. 17, p. 52; Aug. 24, p. 70; Aug. 31, pp. 91,92; Sept. 7, pp. 111,112; Sept. 
14, pp. 132, 133 ; Sept. 21, pp. 149, 150 ; Oct. 5, p. 193; Oct. 19, pp. 231, 232.) 

Also in Trans. Amer. Fish Cult. Assoc, 1882, pp. 84-150. 

The taxonomic relations and geographical distribution of the 

members of the swordfish family [XipMidce). 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 415-433.) 

The fisheries of the world. 

(Cyclopcedia of Political Economy, Chicago, li, pp. 211-231.) 

Benthodesmus, a new genus of deep-sea fishes, allied to Lepi- 

dopus. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 379-383.) 

The Mackerel. 

(Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., I, 1882, p. 32.) 

The fishermen of the United States. [Abstract.] 

(Trans. Anthrop. Soc. Wash., i, pp. 62-66. 

See GooDE and Bean; also^ Goode and Collins. 
GooDE, G. Brown, and Tarleton H. Bean. Benthodesmus, a new- 
genus of deep-sea fishes, allied to Lepidopus. 

(Proc. U. S.Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 379-383.) 

A list of the species of fishes recorded as occurring in the Gulf 



of Mexico. 

(Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 234-240.) 



170 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

GooDE, G. Brown, and Tarleton H. Bean. Descriptions of twenty- 
five new species of fish from the Southern United States, and three 
new genera Letharchus, loglossus, and Chriodorus. 
(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 412-437.) 

GooDE, G. Brown, and Capt. J. W. Collins. The winter haddock 
fishery of New England. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1882, I, pp. 226-235.) 

The winter haddock fishery of New England. 

(Forest and Stream, May 18, 1882, xviii, pp. 311-312 ; also in Trans. Amer. 
Fisli Cult. Assoc, 1882, pp. 48-65.) 

Rathbun, Kichard. Dredging stations of the U. S. Fish Commis- 
sion steamer, Fish Hawk, Lieut. Z. L. Tanner, U. S. N., command- 
ing, for 1880, 1881, and 1882, with temperature and other observa- 
tions. 

(BuU. U. S. Fish Coram., Nov. 1882, ii, pp. 119-131.) 

List of marine invertebrates, mainly from the New England 

coast, distributed by the United States National Museum. Series 
II. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 298-303.) 

List of marine invertebrates from the New England coast, dis- 
tributed by the U. S. National Museum. Series ill. Educational 
series. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 304-307. Feb'y., 1882.) 

Notes on the shrimp and prawn fisheries of the United States. 

(Bulletin U. S. Fish Comm., ii, pp. 139-152. Nov., 1882.) 

See also Smith and Eathbun. 

Rau, Charles. Articles on anthropological subjects contributed to 
the annual report of the Smithsonian Institution, from 1863 to 
1877, by Charles Rau. Washington. Published by the Smithsonian 
Institution, 1882, 8vo, pp. x, 1-169. 

The Mount Pisgah (U. S.) stone carvings. 

(Nature, July 13, 1882, p. 243). 

Die Jadeitgegenstande des National-Museums zu Washing- 
ton. 

(Archiv fiir Anthropologic, 1882, xiv, pp. 157-163.) 

List of anthropological publications, 1859-1882. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 455-458.) 

Review of " Ancient Scottish lake-dwellings or crannogs, with 

a supplementary chapter on lake-dwellings in England," by Robert 
Monro, M. A., M. D., F. S. A. Scot. Edinburgh, 1882. 

(The Nation, October 26, 1882, p. 363, anonymous.) 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 171 

RiDGWAY, Robert. Catalogue of Old World birds in the United 
States National Museum. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 317-333.) 

The object of this catalogue, as expressed in the preface, "is to render ap- 
parent the desiderata of the National Museum in the way of Old World birds, 
so that museums or individuals desiring to make exchanges (or donations) 
may know what species are wanted." The total number of species enumerated 
is 1,339, to which there have been many additions* during the year, the re- 
sult chiefly of a judicious distribution of the catalogue. It is proposed to 
publish annually a supplement to this list, giving the names of all the species 
added to the collection during the year, for the information of those from 
whom accessions to the collection may be expected. 

JS'otes on some Costa Rican birds. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 333-337.) 

This paper is based upon a small but very interesting collection of birds 
presented by Sr. Don Jos6 C. Zeledon, of San Jos^, Costa Rica, and mostly 
obtained upon the volcanic peak of Irazii. This elevated peak, like many 
others of a similar character throughout tropical America, possesses a number 
of entirely peculiar species, increased by two in the collection upon which 
this paper is based, viz, a very pretty wren {Troglodytes ochraceus), and a re- 
markable, as well as totally new form of dendrocolaptine bird {Acanthidops 
lairdi), the genus as weU as the species being new. 



Description of a new flycatcher and a supposed new petrel 

from the Sandwich Islands. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 337-338.) 

The birds described in this paper are new and very distinct species (Chasi- 
empis sclateri and Cymochorea cryptolewcura) from the island of Waimea Kaui. 
The ornithology of the Sandwich Islands, notwithstanding their accessibility,' 
being very imperfectly known, every addition to our knowledge of the birds 
of these islands possesses peculiar interest. 

Description of a new owl from Porto Rico. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 366-371.) 

In addition to the description of a new species {Jsio portoricensis), this paper 
treats critically of the nearly cosmopolitan Asio accipitrinus, or short-eared 
owl, and its allies. 

Descriptions of two new thrushes from the United States. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 374-379.) 

The birds herein described are HylocichJa fuscescens salicicola, or willow 
thrush, from the Rocky Mountains, and H. aliciw bicknelli, from the Catskill 
Mountains, New York. The latter is of particular interest, as being a local or 
geographical race of a species which breeds abundantly along the Arctic coast 
of North America, and which was supposed to be specially limited to that dis- 
trict during the breeding season. Nevertheless, Mr.' Eugene P. Bicknell, of 
Riverdale, N. Y., found a smaller and darker colored form, unquestionably 
referable to the same species, breeding upon the Catskill Mountains, at an 
elevation of about 4,000 feet. 

On two recent additions to the l^orth American bird-fauna, 

by L. Belding. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 414-511.) 

During the winte r of 1881-'82, Mr. L. Belding, of Stockton, Cal., made an 

•The subsequent additions of identified species number 104, making a total of 1,443 
species now in the collection. 



172 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Eedgway, Robert — Continued. 

exploration of the western coast and southern extremity of Lower California, 
in the interests of the National Museum, a considerable portion of his time 
being spent at La Paz, on the eastern side of the peninsula. Among the birds 
obtained at this locality was a single example of S winhoe's wagtail (ikfotociZZa 
ocularis), a species belonging to eastern Asia, so that the individual in ques- 
tion must in all probability have crossed the Pacific Ocean, perhaps aided 
by some vessel bound toward our shores. The other, a Mexican species, the 
chestnut-headed yellow warbler, {Dendroeca bryanti), first described in 1874, 
Mr. Beldiug found to be a common inhabitant of the mangrove thickets skirt- 
ing the Gulf shore. 

Description of several new races of American birds. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 9-15.) 

The new birds described in this article are (1) Methriopteriis curvirostris occL 
dentalis, from western Mexico ; (2) Mimus gilvus lawrencei, from southern 
Mexico; (3) Merula flavirostris graijsoni, from tiieTres Marias Islands ; (4) Sia- 
lia sialis guatemalw, from Guatemala ; (5) Chamwa fasciata henshawi, from 
the interior of California; and (6) Perisoreus canadensis nigricajpillus, from 
Labrador. 

— On the genera Harporhynchus, Cabanis, and Methriopterus 

Eeichenbacb, with a description of a new genus of Mimince. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, V, pp. 43-46.) 

The purport of this paper is the definition of characters distinguishing two 
genera which had been previously confounded. A new allied genus (Mimodes), 
also related to Mimus, is instituted for the Harporhynchus graysoni Baird. 

Critical remarks on the tree creepers ( Certhia) of Europe and 

North America. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, V, pp. 111-116.) 

This paper, based upon extensive material in the National Museum, defines 
the distinctive characters of several Palaearctic and North American races 
of Certhia familiaris, among which the following are described for the first 
time: (1) C. familiaris hritannica, ivom. the British Islands; (2) C. familiaris 
viontana, from the Rocky Mountains ; and (3) C. familiaris occidentalis, from 
the Pacific coast of North America. 

Description of some new North American birds. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v,pp. 343-346.) 

The species described are Catherpes mexicanus punctulatus, California ; Lopho- 
phanes inornattis griseus, Middle Province of United States ; Geothlypis ieldingi, 
San Jos6 del Cabo, Lower California ; liallus ieldingi, Espiritu Santo Islands, 
Lower California, of which the types are all in National Museum collection. 



— On an app atently new heron from Florida. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, 1, 1882, vii, pp. 1-6.) 

This article embodies areview of the question of dichromatism in Ardea occi 
dentalis (first hinted at by the author in the Bulletin of the U. S. Geol. and 
Geog. Survey of the Terr., 1, 1878, iv, pp. 2 -236), and also brings to notice 
an allied dichromatic species, or race, from western Florida, named Ardea 
tvardi, in honor of its discoverer, Mr. C. W. Ward, of Pontiac, Mich., who 
generously furnished the facts and specimen upon which the new species 
was based. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 173 

RiDGWAY, Egbert. Notes on some of the birds observed near Wheat- 
land, Knox County, Indiana, in the spring of 1881. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, 1, 1882, Vll, pp., 15-23.) 

This paper presents the chief results of a collecting trip to the locality in 
question, in the interest of the National Museum. 

On the generic name Schninthophaga. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn, Club, 1, 1882, vii, pp. 53-54.) 

This paper calls attention to the necessity (if the rules of nomenclature be 
strictly adhered to) of suppressing this name as used for a North American 
genus of warblers, it having been applied forty-seven years previously to an 
entirely dissimilar European group, including the nightingale and redbreast. 
In order to render the change as slight as possible, the name Helminthophila 
is proposed. 

The great black-backed gull [Larus marinus), from a new 

locality. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, 1, 1882, vli, p. 60.) 

The known range of this species has been greatly extended by specimens 
from Herald Island, in the Arctic Ocean, north of Bering Strait, and Port 
Clarence, on the Atlantic side of the same strait, collected by Captain Hooper, 
U. S. Cutter "Corwin," and Dr. T. H. Bean, curator Department of Fishes, 
U. S. National Museum. The nearest previously recorded locality was Japan. 

Additions to the catalogue of North American birds. 

(Bull. Nutt Orn. Club, 1, 1882, vii, p. 61.) 

The additions (to the catalogue published by the National Museum in 1881) 
are Nos. 440*, Buteo ftdiginosus Scl. (little black hawk); 440**, B. hrachyurus 
Vieill. (short-tailed hawk, white-fronted Hawk) ; 708, Puffinus iorealis Cory 
(northern shearwater); and 717*, (Estrelata gularis Peale (Peale's petrel). 
The numbers prefixed indicate their position as interpolated in the catalogue 
in question. 



• Distribution of the fish crow ( Corvus ossifragus). 
(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, 4, 1882, vii, p. 250.) 

This supposed strictly littoral species found among the mountains of Vir- 
ginia, at least sixty miles from the nearest tide-water. 

- Birds new to or rare in the District of Columbia. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, 4, 1882, vii, p. 253.) 

The species given, verified by specimens in the National Museum collection, 
are the following: ? Bewick's wren (Thryomanens hewicki)', yellow-throated 
warbler (Dendroeca dominiea) ; loggerhead shrike (iamiMS ludovicianus); and 
sharp-tailed finch {Ammodromus caudacutus). 

- List of additions to the catalogue of North American birds. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, 4, 1882, vir, pp. 257,258.) 

This list is supplementary to that published in the January number of the 
same journal (No. 15), and includes subsequent additions, given "for the 
benefit of those who, for various reasons, are not able to keep the run of all 
the new discoveries." There are twenty -two species, as follows: 2a, Hylo- 
cichlafusceseens salicicola Kidgw. (Willow thrush) 3a. H. alieice hicknelU Ridgw. 
(Bicknell's thrush). 35a, Chamcea fasciata henshawi Ridgw. (Pallid ground, tit). 
38a, Lophophanes inornatus griseus Ridgw. (Gray titmouse). 556, Certhiafamili 
ariamontana Ridgw. (Rocky Mountain creeper). 596, Catherpes mexicanua punctu- 



174 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

RiDGWAY, Egbert — Continued. 

latus Ridf^w. (Punctulated wren). 69*, MofaciUa ocularis Swinh. (Swinhoe'a 
wagtail). 93*, Dendrmca vieilloti hryanti Ridgw. (Chestnut-lieaded yellow 
warbler). 122*, Geothlypis beldingi Ridgw. (Beldiug's yellow-throat). 144a, 
Vireo huttoni stephensi Brewst, (Stephens' vireo), 2306, Feuccea ruficeps eremceca 
Brown. (Rock sparrow). 297c, Perisoreus canadensia nigricajnlJus Ridgw. (Lab- 
rador jay). 311a, Myiarchus mexicanus coopei~i Baird (Cooper's flycatcher). 
354a, Caprimulgm roci/erus arizonCB Brewst. (Stephens' whippoorwill). 402f, 
Scops asio bendirei Brewst. (California mottled owl). 452*, Gyparchus papa 
Linn. (King vulture). 475a, Lagopus mxiius reinhardti Brehm. (Greenland 
ptarmigan). 4756, L.mwfMs a^Metisis Turner (Atkhan ptarmigan). 486*, Ardea 
wardi Ridgw. (Ward's heron). 569*, jBaHi/s ieWtn^i Ridgw. (Belding's rail). 
701*, Dioviedea melavophrys Teram. (Spectacled albatross). 

EiLEY, Charles V. [ United States] Department of Agriculture. Special 
report Xo. 11. The Silk-worm ; being a brief manual of instructions 
for the production of silk. Second edition. Prepared by direction 
of the Commissioner of Agriculture, by C. V. Eiley, M. A., Ph. D., 
entomologist, Washington, 1882,37 p., ill. 

Urges i)ractica.hility and desirability of the culture of *%rtcana mori in the 
United States ; gives estimates of the profits of silk-culture ; a brief natural 
history of S. mori, with its enemies, diseases, and food-plants; directions for 
the culture of the insects and the reeling of silk, and a glossary of terms used 
in silk-culture. Corrects errors in the estimates given in the first edition, 
makes other minor changes, and addi introduction on the requisites of suc- 
cessful silk-culture, 

On the oviposition of Prodoxus decipiens. 

(Amer. Nat., Jan., 1882, V, pp. 62-63.) 

An abstract of a paper read at the Cincinnati meeting of the A. A, A. S. on 
the time and manner of oviposition of Prodoxus decipiens in stem of Yucca 
filamentosa. 

Horn's classification of the Carahidce. 

(Amer. Nat., Jan., 1882, xvi, pp. 63-64.) 

A notice of G. H. Horn's "On the genera of Carabidoe, with special refer- 
ence to the launa of boreal Ameiica" (Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, July-Oct., 
1881, IX, pp. 91-196, pi. 3-10) ; shows necessity for broad view in the per- 
formance of classificatory work. 

New insects injurious to agriculture. 

(Amer. Nat., Feb., 1882, xvi, pp. 151-152.) 

An abstract of a paper read at the Cincinnati meeting of the A. A. A. S. ; 
states that the occurrence of previously unnoticed noxious insects is due some- 
times to the introduction of species from abroad, sometimes to previously- 
existing unnoticed species, and at other times to the acquisition of new habits 
by previously-known innoxious species. In the last case the acquisition of 
new habits may be accompanied by the acquisition of new descriptional char- 
acters, constituting of the insect a new species. New species may thus be- 
come developed within brief periods of time. 

Locust probabilities for 1882. 

(Amer. Nat., Feb., 1882, xv, p. 153.) 

Gives the itinerary of Lawrence Bruner in Utah, Idaho, Montana, and Wash- 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 175 

KiLEY, Charles Y. — Contiuued. 

ington Territory, and reports favorable prospects of immunity from ravages 
of Caloptenus apretus in 1882. 

A new depredator infesting wheat stalks. 

(Amer.Nat.,Mar., 1882, xvi, pp. 247-248, fig. 1.) 

This insect was described as a new wheat pest, under the name of Isosoma 
allynii, by G. H. French, in Prairie Farmer, 31 Dec, 1881 ; and in his "Two 
new species of laosoma" (Can. Entom., Jan., 1882, xiv, pp. 9-10), is aspecies 
of Eupelmus, doubtless parasitic on some of the wheat-stalk feeders and prob- 
ably on some species of Chlorops; habits and figures of larva are also given 
and descriptions of female imago of Isosonia iritici n. sp. (previously charac- 
terized by author in Rural New Yorker, March 4, 1882), which is injurious to 
wheat; gives comparison between /. tritica and /. hordei ; states doubt con- 
cerning the habits of I. lineare of Europe, and the relative conspicuousnessof 
the "humeral spot " in European, American, and Australian species o{ Isosoma. 

Further notes on the imported clover-leaf weevil, Phytonomus 

punctatus. 

(Amer. Nat., Mar., 1882, xvi, pp. 248-249.) 
Specimens of a variety of Phytonomus punctatus, supposed to have been col- 
lected in Canada in 1853, and in Pennsylvania, described by LeConte as P. 
opimus, in 1876 ; citations of other instances in which injurious insects have 
been overlooked for a long time, or scantily collected ; probability that plant- 
feeding coleoptera imported from Europe will not spread far from the Atlantic 
coast ; some such species, injurious in Europe, are thus far innoxious in this 
country ; hibernation of and means against P.punctattis. 

Possible food- plants for the cotton-worm. 

(Amer. Nat., April, 1882, xvr, pp. 327-329.) 

Aletia argillacea is, so far as known, strictly confined to Gossypium as a food- 
plant ; locality list of the Malvaceae of northeastern United States, upon some 
of which plants the larva of the Aletia will probably be found ; physical char- 
acters and geographical distribution of Urena lobato, on which larvae of 
Anomis erosa occur ; egg and larva of the Anomia and the Aletia. 

Lichtenstcin's theory as to dimorphic, asexual females. 

(Amer. Nat., May, 1882, xvi, p. 409.) 

Criticises J. Lichtenstein's theory that "winged female" Aphides and 
"asexual female" Cynipids are larvae and their eggs pupae; corrects errors 
in the comparison of these forms with the hypermetamorphotic stages of 
Meloidw. 

Injurious insects in California. 

(Amer. Nat., May, 1882, xvi, p. 410.) 

Notice of Matthew Cooke's "A treatise on the insects injurious tofruitand 
fruit-trees of the State of California, 1881," with indication of a few errors in 
specific determination. 

The cotton-worm. How its ravages may be prevented and the insect 
destroyed. What an eminent entomologist has to say on the sub- 
ject. 

Some facts of interest to planters in the flooded district. 

(N.O. Times-Democrat, May 7, 1882.) 

States probability of unusual injury to the cotton crop in the Mississippi 



176 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

EiLEY, Charles V.— Continued. 

River flats hj Aletia argiUacea in 1882, owing to the belatement of the crop by 
floods ; want of suitable machines for destroying these insects ; describes the 
machines for this purpose invented during the investigations of the U. S. En- 
tomological Commission ; mentions poisons available for use ; states advan- 
tages of early application of poisons, and describes methods for the prepara- 
tion and application of these poisons. 

Habits of Cyhocephalus. 

(Amer. Nat., June, 1882, xvi, p. 514. ) 

Cyiocephalus nigritulus feeds on the scale-insect Chionaapis pinifolioe, on 
Pinua elUottii in South Carolina, and C. californicus on a Coccidon apple trees 
in California. 

The triungulin of Meloidce. 

(Amer. Nat., June, 1882, xvi, p. .515.) 

J. Lichtenstein states that the triungulin of Meloe proscardbcexis was de- 
scribed in J. L. Frisch's " Beschreibung von allerley Insecten inTeutschland," 
1727, VI, p. 15 ; all knowledge of it, however, was afterward lost. 

— Hibernation of the army worm. 

(Amer. Nat., June, 1882, xvi, p. 516. ) 

Gives confirmation of author's views, as revised in 1880, in regard to the 
hibernation of Leucania tmipuncta ; mentions preferred localities for oviposi- 
tion ; states prospects of extensive injury by these insects in the more north- 
ern States in 1882. 

The utilization of ants in horticulture. 

(Nature, 8 June, 1882.) 

Abstract of C. J. Macgowan's "Utilization of ants as insect destroyers" in 
China (North China Herald, 4 April, 1882) ; capture and sale of two species 
of ants which build nests in trees, and colonization of these ants in orange 
orchards to destroy the insects injurious to those trees. 

Kepelling insects by malodorants. 

(Amer. Nat. , July, 1882, XVI, p. 596. ) 

This is a critical review of J. A. Lintner's " A new principle in protection 

from insect attack " (Proc. Western N. Y. Hort. Soc. for 1882, v. p. ) ; 

states that odorous substances repel insects more by their toxic properties 
than by their odor; mentions failure of attempts by the use of strongly 
smelling substances to prevent oviposition, and shows that the senses of sight, 
touch, and taste are generally more important in the insect economy than the 
sense of smell. 

Habits of Coscinoptera dominicana. 

(Amer. Nat., July, 1882, xvi, p. 598. ) 

Announces discovery by F. H. King that Coscinoptera dominicana is inguili- 
nous in ants' nests in its earlier states ; occurrence of similar habits in related 
species. 

Change of habit; two new enemies of the egg-plant. 

(Amer. Nat., Aug., 1882, xvi, p. 678-679.) 

Describes sudden acquisition by Doryphora juncta and by Caasida texana of 
the habit of feeding on Solanum melongena, these species having been found 
previously on S. carolinense and S. elceagnifolium, respectively; occurrence 
of C. texana on S. carolinense ; geographical distribution of these two insects. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 177 

KiLEY, Charles V. Notes on Microgasters. 

(Amer. Nat., Aug., 1882, xvi, p. 679-680.) 

A critical review of A. S. Packard, jr.'s, " Descriptions of some new ichneu- 
mon parasites of North American butterflies" (Proc. Boat. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1880, 
XXI, p. 18-38); synonymical notes on Microgaster carinaia [^=M. gclechicd 
var.], M. pieridis [specific name preoccupied] ]_=. Apanteles congregatus var. 
pieridivora n. var.], M. atalantce [_= Apanteles congregatus var.], M. \^Apan- 
telesl carduicola and M. lA.} lunatus, 

The "overflow bugs" in California. 

(Amer. Nat., Aug., 1882, xvi, p. 681-682.) 

Extract from a letter of Mrs. A. E. Bush, describing the occurrence of 
Flatymis macuUcollis in California in such abundance at certain seasons as to 
become a nuisance to man. 

Probable sound organs in Sphingid pupae. 

(Amer. Nat., Sept., 1882, xvi, p. 745-746.) 

Describes occurrence of a peculiar structure on the abdominal joints of the 
pupae of certain Sphingidce; genera in which this structure is observed ; prob- 
able connection of this structure with the function of producing sound, as 
observed in Sphinx atropoa. 

Is Gyrtoneura a parasite or a scavenger ? 

^Amer. Nat., Sept., 1882, xvi, p. 746-747.) 

Describes Gyrtoneura stabulens bred from pupae of Aletia argillacea; states 
usual food of this species; expresses doubt whether the species is a parasite 
or is only a scavenger in decayed pupae ; thinks Phora aUtice merely a scav- 
enger ; describes great liability of pupae of Aletia to decay. 

Denoderus pusillus as a museum pest. 

(Amer. Nat., Sept., 1882, xvi, p. 747.) 

Describes images of Divoderus pxmllus feeding on cork and paper lining in 
an insect box; states that they occur usually in drugs and other stored and 
dry vegetable products. 

Habits of Folycaon confertus Lee. 

(Amer. Nat., Sept., 1882, xvi, p. 747.) 

The imagos of Folycaon confertus bore in twigs of apple and pear trees and 
grape vines ; the larvae probably live in the dead and dry wood of forest trees. 

Myrmecophilous Coleoptera. 

(Amer. Nat., Sept., 1882, xvi, p. 747, 748.) 

Announces discovery, by Lawrence Bouuer, that larvae and imagos of Eu- 
plioria Urtipes live in hills of Formica riifa in Nebraska;, and by Theodor Per- 
gande, of pupje of Hymenorus rnfipes in nest of Formica fusca, and of H. 
obscurus in nest of another species of ant ; mentions known myrmecophilous 
habits of Cetonia, Cremastochilus, Euparia ca8tanea{\n nests of SoJenopsis xyloni), 
Tenebrionidce and Anthicus; work of E. A. Schwarz upon myrmecophilous 
coleoptera. 

Cicada septendecim. 

(Gardener's Monthly, Sept., 1882, V, p. .) 

A critical review of "the short paragraph on cicada" (op. cit., Aug., 1882, 

, p. 247), with reprint of the notes on " Cicada septendecim," in Bull. 

No. 6, U. S. Entom. Comm., 1881, p. 58-59 ; gives orthography of the names of 
H. Mis, 26 12 



178 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

EiLEY, Charles Y. — Continued. 

C. aepiendecim aud C. tredecim; the natural relations or specific tlistiuctness 
of the two forms so named, and shows the indistiuguishability of the species of 
certain genera by the examination of cabinet specimens; states that dimor- 
phic forms of identical species are more numerous than usually recognized, 
and that Massospora cicadina is parasitic on Cicada. 

Buffalo tree-hopper injurious to potatoes. 

(Amer. Nat., Oct., 1882, xvi, p. 823.) 

Describes habits, food-plants, and ravages of Ceresa hubalus. 

A new museum pest. 

(Amer. Nat., Oct., 1882, xvi, p. 826.) 

Announces the discovery, by Mrs. A. E. Bush, of Perimegatoma variegatum 
as a pest in collections of insects. 

Eemarkable felting caused by a beetle. 

(Rural New Yorker, 14 Oct., 1882), 

Modified reprint, with same title. 

(Amer. Nat., Dec, 1882, xvi, p. 1018-1019). 

This is a description of the felting of the interior of a pillow-ticking, with 
fragments of feathers, formed by the ravages of Atlagenus mcgatoma within a 
feather pillow, 

The Buckeye leaf stem borer. 

(Amer. Nat., Nov., 1882, xvi, p. 913-914.) 

States that the insect mentioned as Sericoris instructana in [author's] "The 
permanent subsection of entomology at the recent meeting of the A. A, A. S.," 
(Amer. Nat., Dec, 1881, xvi), p. 1009-1010, is totally different from that spe- 
cies, and is here named Sericoris daypoUana n. sp. ; gives habits and food- 
plants of this species and of Proteoteras ocaculana, and points out distinctions 
between these two species. 

Species of OtiorJiynchidce injurious to cultivated plants. 

(Amer, Nat., Nov.. 1882. XVI, p. 915-916. 

Of North American Otiorhynchida the development and earlier stages of 
only one species (Aramigus fulleri) are known ; images of two species have 
become noticeably injurious ; the food-plants of eight other species were pre- 
viously known ; announces discovery, by G. P. Peffer, of the injuries of Anam- 
eiis grisea upon roots of apple and pear trees, and gives list of food-plants of 
the above-mentioned species. 

A new rice-stalk borer; genus grinding. 

(Amer. Nat., Dec, 1882, xvi, p. 1014-1015.) 

An extract from the author's "The rice-stalk borer" (Rept. [U. S.] Corn- 
miss. Agric. for 1881 and 1882, 1882 [Jan., 1883] ), p. 134-1^5, with additional 
remarks; Chilo oryzaeellus. 

Is the same as Diphryx prolatella; mentions that the genus Diphryx was 
stated by Lord Walsingham [T. de Grey] to have been founded by A. R. 
Grote on a mutilated specimen (as suspected by the author), with mistake of 
maxillary for labial palpi. 

The army- worm in 1882. 

(Amer. Nat., Dec, 1882, xvi, p. 1017.) 

States occurrence of Leucania unipuncta in great abundance and with dia- 
astroas effects, especially in southern United States, in 1822. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 179 

KiLEY, Charles V. The wlieat-stalk worm on the Pacific coast. 

(Amer. Nat., Dec, 1882, xvi, p. 1017-1018.) 

Announces reception, from J. A. Starner, of Isosoma trilici, injuring wheat- 
stalks in Washington Territory; prior notices of this insect. 

The bean weevil. 

(Rural New Yorker, 9 Dec. , 1882.) 

Answers inquiry of R. J. B.; gives habits of and means to be pursued 
against Bruchus fabce. 

Emulsions of petroleum and their value as insecticides. 

(Rural New Yorker, 9 Dec, 1882.) 

Abstract of a paper read at meeting of American Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science, at Montreal, , 1882 ; gives results of experiments 

made by several persons (named) upon methods of using petroleum as an in- 
Becticide without injury to plants; states that soap and milk emulsions are 
the most available, and gives methods of iireparing them. 

[United States] Department of Agriculture — Entomologist, 1882 

(C. Valentine Eiley). Eeport of the Entomologist. (Report [U. S.] 
Commiss. Agric. for 1881 and 1882, 1882 [Jan. 1, 1883], pp. 61-214, 
pi. 1-20, with 3 jo. eospl. of plates.) 

Separate author's edition, entitled "Report of the Entomologist, Charles 

V, Riley, M. A., Ph. D., for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1882. From the 

I report of the Department of Agriculture for the year 1881. Issued 

December 1, 1882." Wash., Government, t.-p. cover -j- t.-p., 8+ 167 p. {with 

original pagination also), 20 pi. 

Consists of an ''Introduction," sketching the plan of the report, the past 
and present organization and work, the projects and future needs of the'en- 
tomological division of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, and the relation 
of this division to the U. S. Entomological Commission and the National Mu- 
seum; of "Extracts from correspondence," containing brief notes upon nu- 
merous insects not otherwise treated in the report ; and of chapters bearing 
the following titles, cited, unless otherwise indicated, tinder the name of C. 
V. Riley as author, to which chapters reference should be made for further 
analysis: — Silk culture. — Pyrethrum : its use as an insecticide. — Chinch-bug 
notes. — The army-worm Leucania unipuncia Haw. — Hubbard, H. G. Scale- 
insects of the orange. Remedies and their application. — Insects affecting the 
rice plant. — Insects affecting corn or maize. — The cotton- worm, Aletia xylina 
Say. — Miscellaneous insects. — Comstock, J. H. Report on miscellaneous 
insects. 

Silk-culture. (Report of the Entomologist, 1881-1882, pp. 

67-76 [7-16].) 

A report of work done by the entomological division of the U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture in the promotion of silk-culture in 1881-1882; with ex- 
tracts from letters and reports of correspondents ; list of the now active silk- 
culture associations and business enterprises, and statement of work done by 
them; reprint of author's preface to 2d ed. of special report No. 11 of U. S. 
Department of Agriculture, giving a summary of the present condition and 
prospects of the silk-producing industry in United States; caution against 
extensive prosecution of this industry under present tariff laws. 



180 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

EiLET, Charles Y. Pyrethrum : Its use as an insecticide (pp. 7G-87 
[16-27], pi. 3, 4). 

Contains a reprint of the "Circnlar in reference to pyrethnim," issued by 
the U. S. Commissioner of Agriculture [G. B. Loring] in 1882, giving a history 
of the discovery and application of pyrethrnm as an insecticide and directions 
for the preparation and application of this substance ; reports from corre- 
spondents and from the author of their experience in the growth of the plants. 

Chinch-bug notes (pp. 87-89 [27-29]). 

Gives a verification of Cyrus Thomas's predictions in relation to the ravages 
of Blissus levcopierus in 1881 and 1882 ; extracts from correspondence reporting 
the abundance of this insect early in 1882 ; letter from J. G. Barlow on the 
weather and the ravages of the Blissus in Washington County, Missouri, in 
1882 ; irrigation, cremation, and other means against these insects. 

The Army-worm, Leucania vnipuncta Havr. (pp. 89-103 [29-46], 

pi. 2; pi. 6, figs. 1-3). 

Gives a history of investigations into the natural history of Leucania uni- 
puvcta ; states place and manner of oviposition of this moth ; its prolificacy ; 
the diiration of the egg and larva stages ; describes habits and characteristics 
of this larva and of larvai of Leucania generally ; gives means of predicting and 
preventing their ravages, and extracts from letters received in 1882; in- 
cludes also the following subchapters : Howard, L. O. Report of observa- 
tions upon the army-worm, 1881. Lockwood, S. Account of the invasion 
of 1880 in New Jersey. 

Insects affecting the rice plant (pp. 127-138 [67-78], pi. 6, figs. 

4-5; pi. 7, figs. 1, 4-5). 

This contains a statement of the amount of rice produced in the United 
States in 1879, and of the investigation made by L. O. Howard, in 1881, into 
the injuries done to the rice crop by insects ; with subchapters entitled : The 
rice grub (Chalepus trachi/pi/gvs liurm.). — The water-weevil (Lissorhoptrus sim 
plex Say). — The rice-stalk borer (Chilo aryzaeellus n. sp.). — White blast. — 
Other insects injurious to growing rice. 

The rice grub, Chalepus trachyjnjgus Burm. (pp. 128-129 [68-69], 

pi. 6, fig. 5). 

Gives report of L. O. Howard on the habits and ravages of and means agaicst 
Chalepus trachypygus , with references to earlier observations ; describes struct- 
ural characters and geographical distribution of the genera Cyclocephale and 
Chalepus, and gives description and figure of larva and imago of Ch. trachy- 
pygus. 

The water weevil, Lissorhoptrus simplex Say (pp. 130-133 [70- 

73], pi. 6, fig. 4). 

Gives seasons, habits, ravages, classification, and synonymy oi Lissorhoptrus 
simplex, with description and figures of larva and imago ; includes extract from 
J. Screvens in author's "The ' water- weevil' of the rice plant" (Amer. Nat., 
June, 1881, v, 15), p. 483, and extract from a report by L. O. Howard ; Spala- 
copsis suffusa and Hippopsis Icmniscata boring in stems of Chenopodium anthel- 
miniyyiim. 

— The rice-stalk borer, Chilo oryzaeellus n. sp. (pp. 133-135 [73- 

75], p. 3 [167], pi. 7, tig. 1). 



I 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 181 

EiLEY, Charles V. — Continued. 

Extract in author's "A new rice-stalk borer; genus grinding." 
(Amer. Nat., Dec, 1882, v. IG, pp. 1014-1015.) 

Gives description and figures of larva, pnpa, and imago of Chilo orygaeeUus 
n. sp. ; Diphryx prolaiella ; refers to report of L. O. Howard upon its habits, 
enemies, and ravages, and meaus against it; describes structural character, 
of the genus Diphryx, stated by Lord Walsingham [T. de Grey] (as suspected 
by author) to have been founded on a mutilated specimen, with mistake of 
maxillary for labial palpi. 

White blast (pp. 136-137 [7G-77]). 

Publishes letter from J. Screven and report from L. O. Howard on the 
phenomena and supposed causes of "white blast" in rice plants; mentions 
insects found on rice plants ; states probable production of white blast by 
insects. 

Other insects injurious to growing rice (p. 138 [78], pi. 7, fig. 

4-5). 

Mentions habits and food-plants of Laphygma frugiperda; refers to occur- 
rence of certain other insects doing minor damage on rice-plants. 

Insects affecting corn or maize (pp. 138-152 [78-92], pi. 1 ; pi. 7, 

figs. 2-3 ; pi. 8, fig. 2 ; pi. 12, fig. 1). 

This consists of the following subchapters: The corn bill-bug. Spheno- 
plwrus robustus Horn. — The smaller corn stalk- borer. Pempelia lignosella Zeller — 
The boll-worm alias corn-worm. Heliotim armigera Hiibu. — Johnson, L. 
Report upon Heliothi^ armigera. 

The corn bill-bug. Splienoplwriis robit^tus Horn (pp. 138-142 

[78-82], pi. 7, fig. 2; pi. 8, fig. 2). 

Gives history of earlier observations on the species of Sphenophonia injur- 
ious to maize in the United States ; report of observations on S. robustvs, by 
L. O. Howard ; habits and ravages and description and figure of larva, pujja, 
and imago of S. rohusius; description of larvae of Hhodobwnus Iredecivipunc- 
tatus and Bhynchoplwrus zimmermarmi, and figures of imago of the former ; char- 
acters distinguishing Sphenophorus and S. robustus and the four other species 
allied to it from other genera and species. 

The smaller corn-stalk borer. Pempelia lignosella Zeller (pp. 

142-145 [82-85], pi. 7, fig. 3). 

Mentions ravages, habits, seasons, natural history, geographical distri- 
bution, and synonymy of and means against Pempelia lignosella; gives descrip- 
tion and figures of larva, pupa, and imago, of structural details of mouth- 
parts and antennae of male imago, of markings of larva, and of injury done to 
cornstalks. 

The boll-worm alias corn-worm. Heliothis armigera Hiibu. (pp. 

14&-149 [85-89], pi. 1 ; pi. 12, fig. 1). 

This is an advance reprint, from the fourth report of U. S. entomological 
commission, of the section on the food-plants of ^eitoiAis armigera other than 
cotton, with a list of these food-plants, and of authorities upon which the 
respective statements are made ; gives history of first proofs of identity of 
this species on maize, with the same on cotton; and habits of the larvro in 
their several broods ; with figures of all stages of the insect. 



182 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

EiLEY, Charles V. The cotton- worm. Aletia xyl'uia Say, (pp. 152- 
1G7 [92-107J, pi. 9). 

An extract from the anthor'a address on the -cotton-worm (U. S. — Dept. 
Agric. — Cotton convention held in Atlanta, Ga., Nov. 2, 1881 ; the address of Hon. 
Geo. B. Loring, 1881), pp. 21-29; a reprint of the author's "The cotton-worm. 
How its ravages may be prevented " (New Orleans Times-Democrat, May 7, 
1882) ; an illustrated description, by W. S. Barnard, of a machine for spraying 
cotton plants from beneath; a summary [by J. E. Dodge] of damage done 
hj Aletia xylina in 1881; a reprint of the "author's "Possible food-plants foi 
the cotton-worm " (Amer. Nat. April 1882, v. 16, pp. 327-329) ; and an extract 
from paper read by author at annual session of National Academy of Sciences, 
May, 1882, on the hibernation oi Alttia xylina. 

Miscellaneous insects (pp. 1C7-194 [107-134], pi. 8, fig. 1; pi. 

10, figs. 1-2 ; pi. 11, fig. 1 ; pi. 12, figs. 2-3 ; pi. 13 ). 

This contains the following sub-chapters: The urena anomis. Anomis erosa 
Hub. — The clover leaf-beetle, Phytonomus punctatua Fabr.— The vagabond 
crambus, Crambus vuJgivagellus Clem. — The wheat isosoma, Isosoma tritici 
Eiley. — The sorghum web-worm, Nola sorghiella, new species. — The catalpa 
Sphinx, Sphinx catalpoe Bold. — The osage orange sphinx, Sphinx hageni Grote. 

The urena anomis. Anomis erosa Hiib. (pp. 1G7-170 [107-110,] 

pi. 8, fig. 1). 

Gives a detailed comparison of eggs of Anomis erosa and Aletia xylina ; fig- 
ures and description of all states of the former species ; seasons, habits, and 
food-plants of this insect. 

The clover leaf-beetle. Phytonomus punctatus Fabr. (pp. 171- 

179 [111-119], pi. 10, fig. 1). 

Mentions the food-plants and habits of the species of Phytonomus in Europe 
and United States ; gives the civil and natural history, number of annual 
broods, ravages, enemies, and geographical distribution of and means against 
Ph. punctatus ; description and figures of eggs, larva (four stages), and pupa 
of this species ; figures of imago and of injured plant ; and report, by E. A. 
Schwarz, of observations on this insect in New York; states that Hylesinus 
trifolii seems to feed only on Trifolium pratense ; and that Coleoptera imported 
from Europe are usually confined to the neighborhood of the Atlantic coast. 

The vagabond crambus. Crambus vulgivagellus Clem. (pp. 179- 

183 [119-123], p. 3 [167], pi. 10, fig. 2). 

This gives the civil and natural history of Crambus vulgivagellus ; the habits, 
ravages, and parasites of and means against this insect; a description and 
figures of egg, larva, and imago ; figures of cocoons and iujured grass; a de- 
scription of the pupa; and a list of aiticles written concerning this insect; 
mentions similarity of the habits of Crambus warringtonellus of England to 
those of C. vulgivagellus. 

The wheat isosoma. Isosoma tritici Riley (pp. 183-187, [123- 

127], pi. 12, fig. 3). 

Gives history of observations on Isosoma triciti ; and comparison of this spe- 
cies with /. hordei and of the European /. linearl; its habits, ravages, parasites, 
and number of annual broods, and means against it ; gives list of articles 
written concerning it ; states that the insect described by G. H. French as 
Isosoma allynii is a Eupelmus, and perhaps parasitic on /. tritici; describes 
Stectonotus isosomatis n. sp., parasitic on /. tritici. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 183 

EiLEY, Charles V. The sorgimm web-worin. Nola sorghiella new 
species (pp. 187-189 [127-129], pi. 11, fig. 1). 

Gives habits, ravages, and classificatory relatious of Xola sorghiella, with 
figures and description of larva, pupa, and imago, and figure of head of sorghum 
injured by the larva. 

Tbe catalpa sphinx. Sphinx catalpw Boisd. (pp. 189-193 [129- 

133], pi. 13). 

States relative excellence of Catalpa speciosa and C. bignonioides, as timber- 
trees, accoi'ding to J. A. Warder; gives geographical distribution, habits, 
ravages, and parasites of and means to be taken against Sphinx catalpce; with 
description andfigures of all stages of this insect ; and description of supposed 
sound-producing organs in pupa of this and other species. 

The osage orange sphinx. Sphinx hageni Grote (pp. 193-194 



[133-134], pi. 12, fig. 2). 

Gives list of insects injurious to Madura aurantiaca; with geographical dis- 
tribution and classificatory relations of Sphinx hageni; and references to other 
accounts of this insect; with description and figures of larva and imago. 

Shufeldt, R. W. Notes upon the osteology of Cinclus mexicanus. 
{Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, No. 4, October, 1882, vu, pp. 21^-221.) 

Osteology of the Gathartidce. 

(Twelth annual report U. S, Geol. «fe Geog. Survey, 1882, pp. 727-7^, pla. 
15-24. 



Remarks upon the osteology of Opheosaurus ventralis. 

(Proc U. S. Nat. Mua., 1881, iv, pp. 392-400.) 

True, Frederick W. Fish parasites. 

(Forest and Stream, No. 20, xviii, p. 390.) 

Refers to lAgula eiviplisaima as probably the tape-worm occurring in Adiron- 
dack fish. 

On the North American land tortoises of the genus Xerobates. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 434-449.) 

On the rare rodent Gricetodipus parvuSj (Baird) Cones. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 474-475.) 

A Darwinian bibliography. 

(Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., 1882, i, pp. 92-101.) 

On four mules in milk. By Alfred Duges. 

Translated from the French. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 223-225.) 

Ward, Lester F. Sketch of Professor John W. Powell. 

(Popular Science Monthly, January, 1882, xx, pp. 390-397.) 
An account of the early life and exploits of Major Powell, and also of his 
later career as an explorer and geologist, as well as of his official labors as 
Director of Geological Surveys and of the Bureau of Ethnology. A portrait 
forms the frontispiece of the number. 



184 BEPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Ward, Lester F. On the cause of the absence of trees on the great 
plains. A paper read before the Biological Society of Washngton, 
December 9, 1881. 

(Kansas City Review of Science and Industry, March, 1882, pp. 697-702,) 
A discussion of the question from the writer's observations, a statement of 
the leading facts, a review of current theories, and a statement of the con- 
clusions which seem best warranted by all the data attainable. 

Guide to the flora of Washington and vicinity, by Lester F. 

Ward, A. M. Washington, Government Printing Office, 1881. 8vo. 
pp. 264, with map of Washington and vicinity. 

This forms Bulletin of the United States National Museum No. 2ft, and 
^ Smithsonian Publication No. 444, and contains a general discussion of the 
botanical peculiarities of the country around Washington, an annotated cata- 
logue of the plants, a summary by orders and groups, a check-list, and an 
appendix of suggestions to beginners; also a map of the region. 

Directions for collecting and preserving plants, by Lester F. 



Ward. 

From Bulletin of the United States National Museum, No. 22. Washing- 
ton : Published by the Smithsonian Institution, 1882. pp. 209-237. 

— Check-list. Flora of Washington, D. 0., and vicinity, by 
Lester F. Ward. 

From Bulletin of the United States National Museum, No. 22. Washington : 
Published by the Smithsonian Institution, 1882. pp. 148-207. 

— Scientific basis of positive political economy. 

(International Review, April and May, 1882, xn, pp. 352-365; 439-453.) 
These papers are chiefly devoted to the consideration of a new method of 
classifying natural phenomena, with a view to proving that a large part of 
such phenomena, including many forms of social activity, is within the 
sphere of human control through the exercise of intelligence and foresight. 
Slightly modified they will form the latter portion of chapter viii (vol.ii, pp. 
76-106) of a work by the writer entitled "Dynamic Sociology, or Applied 
Social Science," in press. 

— Kant's antinomies, in the light of modern science. 

(Journal of Speculative Philosophy, October, 1881, xv, pj). 381-395.) 
A pai)er read before the Centennial Anniversary Convention, of Eanfs 
"Critique of Pure Reason," at Saratoga Springs, New York, July 6, 1881, 

An argument to prove that the "theses" and "antitheses" of Kant's anti- 
nomies are legitimate scientific questions, and that modem science, in at least 
three of the four antinomies, points to the truth of the antithesis. 

— Darwin as a botanist. 

(Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, 1882, 1, pp. 81-86.) 
Read before the Darwin memorial meeting of the Biological Society of 

Washington, May 12, 18'-2, 

A review of Darwin's botanical works, an explanation of his methods, and 

a summary of the philosophic results of his labors in this field. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 185 

Ward, Lester F. List of water-plauts for carp-ponds. 

(Bulletin of the United States Fish CoramiaMon, 1882, pp 22-25 ) 
A list of names of aquatic plants furnished by the superintendent of the 
carp-ponds is here revised, modern names substituted for obsolete ouea the 
locality and range of the species briefly indicated, and the plants arran-^ed 
according to the prevailing system of botanical classification. 

Catalogue ofa collection of Japanese woods presented to the 

United States National Museum by the University of Tokio, Japan. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, u, pp. 308-311.) 

The names appearing on the specimens of this collection are here arran-ed 
in heir proper systematic order and their synonymy is given. A few plir- 
tially named species were determined from the figures accompanvino- the 
specimens. r j o 

Politico-social functions. Abstract of a paper read before tlie 

Anthropological Society of Washington, D. C, March 15, 1881. 

(Trans. Anthro. Soc, Wash., 1882, i, pp. 39-42.) 

This paper is chiefly devoted to pointing out the importance of a certain 
amount of judicious regulation on the part of society as a collective whole, 
of the more or less injurious and ruinous operations which must necessarily 
go on withm it in the absence of such regulation. 

The postage question. 

(Botanical Gazette, August and September, 1682, vii, pp 97-99 ) 

Gives a correspondence between the Post-Office Department and t]ie writer 

on the Department rulings relative to the form of label which would come 

withm the law as third-class matter. 



" Docuinaria barbara." 

(Botanical Gazette, 1882, vii, pp. 99-100.) 

An account of its collection in the Dismal Swamp of Virginia. 

Proterogyny in Sparganium eurycarpus. 

(Botanical Gazette, 1882, vii, p. 100. ) 

A not^ recording the observation of this phenomenon in the District of 
Columbia. 

- The anthropocentric theory. 

(Transactions Anthropological Society of Washington, i, 1882 pp 93-103 ) 
A collection of facts tending to prove and to disprove the existence of an 
mtel .gent control of events in the interest of man. The paper forms part of 
chapter via (vol. ii, pp. 45-74) of "Dynamic Sociology." In press. 

-- What Mr. Ward was ready to say. (Herbert Spencer in 
America. New York : D. Appleton & Co., 1883. pp. 76-79.) 

Portion of a letter complimentary to Mr. Spencer, written at the request of 
the committee of arrangements, to be read on the occasion of the banquet 
g.ven him in New York, October 9, 1882. Before finishing the letter the 
writer concluded to attend the banquet in person. The matter of it was sub- 
sequently furnished the committee for publication. 

- The organic compounds in their relations to life. 

(American Naturalist, December, 1882, xvi, pp 968-979 ) 

Read before the Philosophical Society of Washington. January 28, 1882, and 



186 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Ward, Lester F. — Continued. 

before the Biological Section of the American Association for the Advance- 
ment of Science at Montreal, August 29, 1882. 

A statement of the physico-chemical theory of life. The discussion in a 
much enlarged form is embodied in chapter iv (vol. i, pp. 300-356) of the 
writer's work *• Dynamic Sociology." In press. 

Welite, Charles A. New moUuscan forms from the Laramie and Green 
Eiver groups, with discussion of some associated forms heretofore 
known. 

(Proceedings U. S. National Museum, v, 1882, pp. 94-99, plates iii and iv.) 

— The molluscan fauna of the Truckee group, including a new 

form. 

(Proceedings *tI the U. S. National Museum, v, 1882, pp. 99-101, plate v.) 

On certain condiiions attending the geological descent of some 

North American types of fiesh-water gill-bearing mollusks. 

(American Journal of Science, xxiiX (3). pp. 382-386.) 

Fossils of the Indiana rocks, No. '^. 

(Eleventh Aunual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 1881, pp. 347- 
401, plates 37-55.) 

Artesian wells upon the great plains. 

(North American Review, cxxxv, pp. 187-195.) 

Progress of invertebrate paleontology in the United States for 



the year 1881. 

( Amercan Naturalist, xvi, pp. 887-891. ) 

Yarrow, H. C. The rapid preparation of Large myological specimens, 
by M. Felix Plateau. (Translated from the French.) 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 388-391.) 



n.— PAPERS BY INVESTIGATORS NOT OFFICERS OF THE MUSEUM. 

Belfast (Maine) Republican Journal. The successful propaga- 
tion of codfish. 

(Quoted in Forest and Stream, No. 10, October 5, 1882, xix, pp. 192-193.) 

BiCKNELL, Eugene P. A sketch of the home of Hylocichla aliciw hick- 
nelli, Ridgway, with some critical remarks on the allies of the new 
race. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, July, 1882, vii, pp. 152-159.) 

The critical remarks in this paper have more or less relation to Nationa 
Museum material. 

Brewster, William. On Kennicott's owl and some of its allies, with 
a description of a proposed new race. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, No. 1, January, 1882, vil, pp. 27-33.) 

An elaborate and important review of the geographical races of Scops asm, 

based very largely on National Museum material, sent to Mr. Brewster for 

the purpose. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 187 

Brewster, William. Ou a collection of birds lately made by Mr. F. 
StepbcDs in Arizona. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, Nos. 3 and 4, July aud October, 1882, vii, pp 135- 
147, aud pp. 193-212. 

Occasioual refereuce is made in this paper to examination of National 
Museum specimens, made conjointly by tlie author aud the curator of the 
department of birds. 

Notes on some birds collected by Capt. Charles Bendire, at 

Fort Walla Walla, Washington Territory. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, October, 1882, vii, pp. 225-233.) 
This paper is based (in considerable part) upon specimens presented by Cap- 
tain Beudiro to the National Museum, and examination of other material in 
the national collection. 

Brown, :N"athan Clifford. Description of a new race of Feucwa rujl- 
ceps from Texas. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, No. 1, Jan., 1882, vii, p. 26.) 

The new race in question was described only after careful comparison with 
specimens in the National Museum collettion. 

Eeconnaissance in Southwestern Texas. 

(Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, No. 1, Jan., 1882, vii, pp. 33-42.) 
Although this paper relates chiefly to collections made by the author, it 
contains frequent mention of comparison with National Museum specime'ug, 
made at the author's request, by the curator of the department of birds. 

Collins, J. W. An inquiry as to the capture of young codfish in 
Chesapeake Bay. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1882, i, pp. 401-402.) 

Appearance of dog-fish {iSqualus acantUas) on the New England 



coast in winter. 

(Bull.U.S.F.C.,11, p. 8. 

Captain Collins has since learned that the great schools of supposed dog- 
fish referred to in the above article were really porpoises. 
See also Goode, G. Browx, and Collixs, J.'w. 

Forbes, S, A. The gasper-gou. 

(Forest and Stream, September 28, 1882, xix, p. 165.) 

Gilbert, Charles H. List of fishes observed at Punta Arenas, on 
the Pacific coast of Central America. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, October 13, 1882, ii, p. 112.) 
See also Jordan and Gilbert. 

Gill, Theodore N. Chiasmodus niger and Kotacantlms rissoanus. 

(Nature.—) 
A critical review of Gunther's Study of Fishes. 

(Proc. Biol. Soc, 1882, Wash., i, p. 29. Title only.) 

" On the affinities of the " great swallower," Chiasmodus niger. 

(Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., 1882, i, p. 35. 



188 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

GiTRNEY, J. H. Notes on a " Catalogue of the Accipitres in the British 
Museum," Dy E. Bowdler Sharpe (1874). 

(The Ibis [London], iv, vii, April, 1882, pp. 290-321; October, 1882, 
pp. 579-598.) 

In this series of valuable papers on the Falconidae, occasional mention is 
wade of specimens belonging to the National Museum collection, and loaned 
to the author for examination. 

Hay, O. p. On a collection of fishes from the Lower Mississippi Valley. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1862, pp. 57-75.) 

It is worthy of remark that an example in lot No. 2 of Professor Hay's invoice 
of fishes, upon which the foregoing paper was based, and identified by him as 
Lepidosteus 088CU8, is really Xi//ioZf^i^ spatula; another one having the same 
invoice number and sent here as Lepidosteua osaeus is young L. platijstomus ; a 
fish numbered 3G and said to be L. osseua is really L. platystomiis. Professor 
Hay, therefore, should have recorded Lepidosteua oaseus from Jackson, Miss., 
on the basis of his own collection. 

HoENADAY, William T. On the uses of clay as a filling material. 

(Second Ann. Rept. Soc. Amer. Taxidermists. March 25, 1881, to March 
24, 1882, pp. 31-34.) 

iNGrEESOLL, Eenest. On the mortality of marine animals in the Gulf 
of Mexico. 

(Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., 1882, i, p. 30. Title only.) 

Japanese Legation. Catalogue of a collection of Japanese cotton 
fiber, presented to the United States JJ^ational Museum by the Gov- 
ernment of Japan, together with the amount of the annual crop of 
Japan and the price of cotton. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, iv, pp. 449-453.) 

JoEDAN, David S. Bull trout and pompano. 

(Forest and Stream, Apr. 20, 1882, xvui, p. 230.) 

Description of a new species of Blenny {Isesthes gilberii) from 

Santa Barbara, Cal. 

(Proc. Nat. Mus., v, pp. 349-351.) 

The gasper- gou. 

(Forest and Stream, No. 10, xix, p. 192.) 

The blue-back trout. 



(Forest and Stream, No. 20, xix, p. 389.) 
Contains list of all North American SalmonidcB. 

JoEDAN, David S., and Chaeles H. Gilbeet. List of fishes collected 
by Lieut. Henry E. Nichols, U. S. N., in the Gulf of California, and 
on the west coast of Lower California, with descriptions of four new 
species. 

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 273-279.) 

Descriptions of thirty-three new species of fishes from Mazatlan, 

Mexico. 

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 338-365.) 



REPORr ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 189 

Jordan, David S., and Charles n. Gilbert. Description of a new 
species of Pomadasys from Mazatlan, with a key to the species 
known to inhabit the Pacific coasts of tropical America. 
(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 383-388.) 

Description of five new species of fishes from Mazatlan, Mexico. 

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 458-463.) 

Descriptions of nineteen new species of fishes from the Bay of 

Panama. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1882, i, pp. 30&-335.) 

Description of four new species of sharks from Mazathm, 

Mexico. 

(Proo. Nat. Mns., 1882, v, pp. 102-110.) 

Description of a new shark ( Carcharias lamieUa) from San Diego, 

Cal. 

(Proc. Nat. Mas., 1882, v, pp. 110,111.) 

Description of a new Cyprinodont {Zygonectes inurtis) from 

Southern Illinois. 

(Proc. Nat. Mas., 1882, v, pp. 143,144.) 

Description of a new species of TJranidea {Uranidea pollicaris) 

from Lake Michigan. 

(Proc. Nat. Mns., 1882, v, pp. 222,223.) 

Description of a new species of Xenichthys {Xenichthys xenii- 

rus) from the west coast of Central America. 

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, p. 454.) 

Notes on fishes observed about Pensacola, Fla., and Galveston, 

Tex., with description of new species. 

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 241-307.) 

Description of a new species of Conodon ( Conodon serrifer) from 



Boca Soledad, Lower California. 

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 351,352.) 

— Catalogue of the fishes collected by Mr. John Xantus at Cape 
San Lucas, which are now in the United States National Museum, 
with descriptions of eight new species. 

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 353-371.) 

— List of fishes collected by John Xantus at Colima, Mexico. 

. (Proc. Nat. Mus., 1832, v, pp. 371.372.) 

— List of fishes collected at Panama by Capt. John M. Dow, now 
in the United States National Museum. 

(Proc. Nat. Mns., 1882, v, pp. 373-378.) 

— List of a collection of fishes made by Mr. L. Belding near Cape 
San Lucas, Lower California. 

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 378-381.) 



190 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Jordan, David S., and Charles H. Gilbert. List of fishes collected 
at Panama by Eev. Mr. Rowell, now preserved in the United States 
National Museum. 

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, V, pp, 381,382.) 

Descriptions of two new species of fishes {Sebastichthys umhrosiis 

and CWiarichthys stigmceus) collected at Santa Barbara, Cal., by 
Andrea Larco. 

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 410-412.) 

A review of the siluroid fishes found on the Pacific coast of 

tropical America, with descriptions of three new species. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1882, 11, pp. 34-54.) 

Description of a new species of Goby ( Gobiosoma ios) from Van- 



couver's Island. 

(Proc. Nat. Mas., 1882, v, pp. 437,438.) 

List of fishes collected at Mazatlan, Mexico, by Charles H. 

Gilbert. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1882, ii, pp. 105-108.) 

List of fishes collected at Panama by Charles H. Gilbert. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1882, II, pp. 109-111.) 

Lawrence, Geo. N. Description of a new species of swift of the 
genus Chcetura, with notes on two other little-known birds. 

(Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sciences, No. 8, March, 1882, u, pp. 245,246.) 
Chcetura gaumeri; based in part on National Museum specimens. 

Descriptions of two new species of birds from Yucatan of the 



families Columhidw and Formicariidw. 

(Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., No. 9, 1882, ii, pp. — ?, from unpaged overslieets.) 
LeptoptUa fnlinventris and Formicarius palUdus, only rescinded after compari- 
son witli National Museum specimens. 

Lucas, Frederic A. A critique on museum specimens. 8°, pp. 4. 

Read at tlie general meeting of the Society of American Taxidermists, Bos- 
ton, Mass., Dec. 14, 1881 ; also in second Ann. Rept. Soc. Amer. Taxidermists, 
March 25, 1881, to March 24, 1882, pp. 34-37. 

Bibliography of taxidermy. 

(Second Ann. Rept. Soc. Amer. Taxidermists, March 25, 1881, to March 24, 
1882, pp. 47-49.) 

McDonald, Marshall. Experiments in the transportation of the 
German carp in a limited supply of water. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1882, i, pp. 215-218.) 

— — — On retarding shad eggs. 

(Forest and Stream, Apr. 20, 1882, No. 12, xviii, p. 230 ; also in Trans. 
Amer. Fish Cult. Assoc, 1882, pp. 11-13.) 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 191 

McDonald, Marshall. On the laws of the relation of periodicity in 
development to temperature. 

(Proc. Biol. Soc, Wash., 1882, I, p. 28. Title only.) 

Eecent experiments in fish-culture. 

(Proc. Biol. Soc, Wash., 1882, 1, pp. 32, 33 ; also in Trans. Amer. Fish Cnlf. 
Assoc, 1882.) 

Observations upon young shad in confinement. 

(Proc. Biol. Soc, Wash., 1882, i, p. 34. Oral communication.) 

Mason, John J. Minute structure of the central nervous system of 
certain reptiles and batrachians of America. Illustrated by i)er- 
manent photo-micrographs, by John J. Mason, M. D. Series A. 
Author's edition. One hundred. Newport, 1879-1882. 4°, 24 pp., 
cxiii plates. 

Mather, Fred. The dead fish. 

(Forest and Stream, Apr. 13, 1882, No. 11, xviii, p. 212.) 
Refers to tile- fish, Lopholaiilua chanuxJeonlicejys. 

The tile- fish. 

(Forest antl Stream, Apr. 27, 1882, No. 13, xviu, p. 250.) 

An illustration of the species furnished by Prof. S. F. Baird is here given. 

(Editor.) Other dead fish. 

(Forest and Stream, May 4, 1882, No. 14, xviii, p. 270.) 
Refers to Peristedium miniatum. 

(Editor.) The gasper-gou. 

(Forest and Stream, Aug. 17, 1882, No. 3, xix, p. 45.) 
Refers to Haploidonotus grunniens. 

(Editor.) Land-locked salmon in New York. 

(Forest and Stream, Dec 21, 1882, No. 21, xix, p. 411.) 

Refers to the salmon received from Mr. Thompson through Mr. Blackford. 

(Editor.) The dead fish. 

(Forest and Stream, Mar. 30, 1882, No. 9, xviii, p. 170.) 
Refers to the tile-fish mortality, but with some confusion as to the fish in 
question. This error is righted in the same paper. May 4, 1882. 

(Editor.) New fishes in Chesapeake Bay. 

(Forest and Stream, Mar. 30, 1882, No. 9, xvili, p. 172. 
Mentions the capture of Squalus acanthias and Phycis regui by the "Fish 
Hawk." 

NuTTiNa, C. C. On a collection of birds from the hacienda "La 
Pal ma," Gulf of Nicoya, Costa Rica. [With critical notes by R. 
Ridgway.] 

(Proc U. S. Nat. Miis.,1882, V, pp. 382-409.) 

The specimens which form the basis of this paper are mainly in the National 
Museum collection. The paper was prepared by Messrs. Nutting and Ridg- 
way, conjointly, the former furnishing the field-notes, aud the latter being 
responsible for the nomenclature and all critical remarks. The new species 
are Myiarchus nutlingi Ridgw., and Icterus pectoralis espinaehi Nutting. 



192 REPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Phillips, Barnet. The tile-fisli is not found. 

(Forebt and Stream, Oct. 5, 1882, No. 10, xix, p. 190.) 
Refers to finding Scorpoena dacti/loptera abundantly. 

EoBEiiTSON, E. R. — The gasper-gou is edible. 

(Forest and Stream, Sept. 14, 1882, No. 7, xix, p. 132.) 

Refers to Haploidonotus gruvniens sent to the U. S. National Museum. 

Etder, John A. The protozoa and protophytes considered as the 
primary or indirect source of the food-fishes. 
(Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1882, i, pp. 236-251.) 

The micropyle of the egg of the white perch. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1882, i, p. 282.) 

Development of the silver gar {Belone longirostris), with obser- 
vations on the genesis of the blood in embryo fishes, and a com- 
parison of fish ova with those of other vertebrates. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1882, i, pp. 283-301.) 

On the nuclear cleavage-figures developed during the segmen- 
tation of the germinal disk of the egg of the salmon. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1882, l, pp. 335-339.) 

Additional observations on the retardation of the development 



of the ova of the shad. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1882, I, pp. 422-424.) 

On the eggs and teeth of young shad. 

(Proc. Biol. Soc., Wash., 1882, i, p. 33. Verbal communication.) 

Smith, Rosa. — Description of a new species of TJranidea {Uranidea 
rhothea) from Spokane River, Washington Territory. 

(Proc. Nat.Mus., 1882, v, pp. 347,348.) 
See also Smith and Swain. 

Smith, Rosa, and Joseph Swain. ITotes on a collection of fishes from 
Johnston's Island, including descriptions of five new species. 
(Proc. Nat. Mns., 1882, v, pp. 119-143.) 

Smith, Sanderson, and Richard Rathbun. — List of the dredging 
stations of the TJ. S. Fish Commission, from 1871 to 1879, inclusive, 
with temperature and other observations. Arranged for publica- 
tion by Sanderson Smith and Richard Rathbun. 

(Report of the Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries for 1879, pp. 559-601.) 

Smith, Sidney I. Reports on the results of dredging under the super- 
vision of Alexander Agassiz, on the east coast of the United States, 
during the summer of 1880, by the U. S. Coast Survey steamer 
Blake, Commander J. B. Bartlett, TJ. S. K, commanding. XVII. 
Report on the Crustacea. Part I. Decapoda, by Sidney I. Smith. 

(Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology of Harvard College, x, 
No. 1, June, 1882, p. 108, 16 plates.) 

Forty-seven species are described, of which 20 are new. Five new genera 
and one new subfamily are also defined. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 193 

Stejneger, Leonhaed. Description of two new races of Myadestes 
obsGurns, Lafr. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, iv, pp. 371-374.) 

Types of the new races (M. obscunis insularis, from the Tres Marias Islands, 
and M. obscunis occidentalis, Western Mexico), in National Museum collection. 

Synopsis of tlie West Indian Myadestes. 

(Proc.U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v,pp. 15-27.) 

A valuable review, based almost wholly upon National Museum material. 

Oatliues of a luouograpb of the Cygniute. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 174-233.) 

A most important paper relating to the classification of the swans, and em- 
bracing critical notes upon all the known species, based in considerable part 
upon National Museum specimens. 

Street, Thomas H. A study of tlie Phronimidc^ of the :N-orth Pacific 
Survey Expedition. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., June, 1882, v, pp. 3-9.) 

Swan, James G. Shad in Puget Sound. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1882, ii, p. 152.) 

Swain, Joseph. A review of tlie SyngnatUnce of the United States, 
with a description of one new species. 

(Proc. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 307-315.) 

A review of the species of Stolephorus found on the Atlantic 

coast of the United States. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, 1882, ii, pp. 55-57.) 
See also Smith and Swain. 

Tanner, Lieut. Z. L., U. S. N. Eeport of an exploring trip of the 
steamer Fish Hawk in Chesapeake Bay in the early spring of 1882. 

(Bull. U. S. F. C, Nov. 4, 1882, ii, pp. 133-135.) 

The unpublished results of this trip are of great interest. Numerous 
species of iishes whose presence in the bay at that time of year was quite 
unexpected, were taken in abundance. Among them were the following: 
Baia oceUata, Squalus acanthias, Bremortia Ujrannus, Clupea vernalis, Clupea 
cestivahs, StoUphorus hi^., Phycis rcgnis, Plujds cJiussf, Pogonias ckromis inx. 
Gobiesox sp., and Gobiosoma aJcpidotum. ' 

Turner, Lucien M. On Lagopus mutus, Leach, and its aUies. 

(Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, v, pp. 225-233.) 
Based entirely upon National Museum material. 

Verrill, a. E. Notice of the remarkable marine fauna occupying 
the outer banks off the southern coast of New England. No. 3. 
(Brief Contributions to Zoology, from the Museum of Yale College.) 

(Amer. Jour. Science, February, 1882, xxiii, pp. 135-142.) 
A general account of the deep-sea investigations of the U. S. Fish Commis- 
sion for September, 1881, with a list of the dredging stations and of the 
more interesting Echinoderms, with notes. The following new species are 
described: Archaster bairdii, Ophioylypha aurantiaca, and Amphiura macilenta. 
H. Mis. 20 13 



194 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Veerill, a. E. The same continued. No. 4. 

(Brief Coutributions, etc. Ibid., March, 1882, xxiii, pp. 216-225.) 
A complete list of the Echinodemis found iu the same region ; 48 species. 
New genera and species are described as follows : One genns and species of 
Holothuriau, one species of the Asterias, one species of Ophinran, and six 
species of Actiuians. 

The same continued. No. 5. 

(Brief Contributions, etc Ibid., April, 1882, xxiii, pp. 309-316.) 
Continuation of the list of Anthozoa, with notes on f he more interesting 
species. 

The same continued. No. 6. 

(Brief Contributions, etc. Ibid., May, 1882, xxiii, pp. 406-408.) 
"Remarkable modes of growth and repair in Parasmilia lymani." "Res- 
toration of the disk in Ophiurans." 

The same continued. No. 7. 

(Brief Contributions, etc. Ibid., Nov., 1882, xxiv, pp. 360-371.) 
A general account of the investigations of U. S. Fish Commission, fbr the 
summer of 1882, with a partial list of the dredging stations, and a discussion 
of the principal discoveries. "Evidence of great destruction of life last 
winter." "Additions to the fauna of Vineyard Sound; surface dredgings." 

The same continued. No. 8. 

(Brief Contributions, etc. Ibid., December, 1882, xxiv, pp. 447-452.) 
"Nature and Origin of the Sediments." 



i 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 195 



APPENDIX C— ACCESSIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 1882. 
Department of Antiquities. 
Charles Rau, Curator. 

The principal accessions of this department during the part year are 

as follows : 

Frof. William Boyd Daickins, Owens College, Manchester, England. Col- 
lection of rude stone implements and bones of extinct animals from 
the Creswell caves, N. E. Derbyshire, and from Windy Knoll, Castle- 
ton, Derbyshire, England. 

A. E. Douglas, New York, N. Y. Three flint drills of peculiar shape 
from Chariton and Saline Counties, Missouri. Ca^ts. 

Capt. G. M. Wheeler, U. S. Geographical Survey. Collection of leaf- 
shaped implements, arrow-heads, perforators, stone axes and mauls 
with double grooves, and specimens of pottery from different locali- 
ties in New Mexico. This collection had been loaned to Mr. F. W. 
Putnam, of the Peabody Museum, Cambridge, Mass., and some of the 
specimens are figured in Vol. VII of the U. S. Geographical Surveys 
west of the 100th meridian. 

Otto Simsky, Philadelphia, Pa. Nine amber beads from Bronze-age 
tumuli on the Baltic coast north of Konigsberg, Prussia. 

Dr. F. M. Endlich, Beading, Pa. One specimen of unhusked charred 
corn, from ruins on the San Juan River, New Mexico. 

E. M.Br igham, now in South America. Collection of ancient pottery, 
painted and ornamented, from the island of Marajo, Brazil. Worthy 
of especial mention are two very large burial vases. 

William Taylor, A llapaha, Berrien County, Georgia. Human bones from 
mounds in Georgia. Among them two tibiae exhibiting platycnemism 
in a high degree. 

Jose C. Zdedon, Costa Rica, C. A. A valuable collection of stone im- 
plements and carvings, clay vessels, and grotesque images from Costa 
Rica. 

C L. Stratton, Knoxville, Tenn. Large collection of stone imple- 
ments, &c., from the neighborhood of Knoxville, and collection from 
a mound on French Broad River, 15 miles above Knoxville, consist- 
ing of pin-shaped objects of shell, shell beads, shell gorgets with 
human faces carved on them, and others ornamented with lines and 
dots, small clay vessel, one human skull and thigh-bone. 



196 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

M. Tandy, Dallas City, Rancoclc County. lUhiois. Large collection of Hint 
implements, polished celts (one of hematite), hematite chisel, grooved 
axes (some of peculiar shape, differing from any in the museum ex- 
hibit), pestle, hammer-stones, hematite sinker, polished spear -head, 
catlinite bead, paint-stones, &c., from Hancock County, Illinois. Two 
large mortars from a mound in Dallas City. 

M. H. Thomson, Pecan Point, Mississippi County, Arkansas. Collection of 
stone and boue implements and clay vessels from Indian graves near 
Pecan Point. 

Rev. T. D. Weems, Griggsville, PiJce County, Illinois. Collection from 
mounds in Pike County, consisting of flint implements, hammer-stones, 
grooved axes, &c. 

J. P. Maclean, Hamilton, Butler County, Ohio. Collection from the prin- 
cipal shell-heap on Blennerhassett's Island, Ohio River, namely, shells 
of which the heap is composed, rude implements, arrow-heads, celts, 
shell-sinkers, bone tools, and human skull, jaws, teeth, &c. 

J)r. J. F. Bransford, U. S. Navy. A valuable collection from Costa Rica, 
C. A., consisting of clay vessels, plain or ornamented, tripod vessels, 
small double vessel with handle, fragments of clay vessels with gro- 
tesque figures aud faces in relief, grotesque clay figures, clay whistles, 
and fragments of j)ottery with different styles of painted ornamenta- 
tion, small stone celts, and ornaments (beads, &c.) of jadeite and 
other kinds of stone ; stone tube from Tonala, Mexico ; large clay 
vase, painted aud ornamented, small clay vessel (bottle-shaped), frag- 
ments of pottery, one with human head, others made in imitation of 
flowers, &c., obtained from a mound near San Jos^, Guatemala. 

H. S. Rushy, Silver City, New Mexico. Collection of rude stone tools 
from an aboriginal mine near Clifton, Ariz. 

J. J. McLean, U. 8. Signal Service, SitM, AlasM. Collection of ethno- 
logical specimens from Baranoff, an island in S. E. Alaska, consisting of 
stone implements, charms with family totems carved on one side or 
both, horn spoons, wooden spoons, dishes, trays, &c., halibut hooks 
and club, wooden floats in the shape of ducks, knives with carved han- 
dles, carved wooden pipes and images, dance rattles, dancing mask, 
wooden helmets and head dresses, drum used at festivals, bag of gam- 
bling sticks, bark rope dancing belts, packing straps, hunting bag, 
food sack made of bear intestines, leather suits of armor, dancing 
shirts painted and ornamented, model of fish-trap, dolls with heads of 
carved bone, cakes of pressed blackberries, and spruce bark. 

M. Tandy, Dallas City, Hancoch County, Illinois. Collection from a 
mound and stone grave in Henderson County, near Dallas City, con- 
sisting of arrow and spear heads, perforators of stone and bone, stone 
sinkers, paint stones, marine shells, shell beads and gorgets, pierced 
teeth of animals, and 1 pearl bead, 1 human skull with flint perforator 
driven, not shot, through the left temple. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 197 

L. S. Bliss, Dallas City, Hancock County, Illinois. One stone pipe from 
mound above mentioned. 

Henry Gillbreth, Dallas City, Hancock County, Illinois. Collection from 
the same mound, consisting of rude imj)lements, arrow and spear 
heads, celts, and fragment of large jasper pebble. 

Lotiis Bierman, Dallas City, Hancock County, Illinois. Collection (sur- 
face finds) from the vicinity of the mound in Henderson County, con- 
sisting of leaf-shaped implements, arrow and spear heads, grooved 
axes, &c. 

William Green, Dallas City, Hancock County, Illinois. Collection (sur- 
face finds) from the vicinity of the mound in Henderson County, com- 
posed of rude flint implements, arrow-heads, and one broken spear- 
head, chipped on one of the sides to serve as a concave scraper. 

Wm. Roclcel and M. Tandy, Dallas City, Hancock County, Illinois. Col- 
lection from mounds on the farm of Conrad Rockel, Henderson 
County, Illinois, consisting of rude flint implements, scrapers, spear- 
head-shaped implements, arrow-heads, flakes, celts, grooved axe, 
rude maul, rubbing-stone, paint-stone, and one clay vessel of peculiar 
form and ornamentation. The specimens presented by Messrs. Bliss, 
Gillbreth, Bierman, Green, and Rockel, were procured through the in- 
fluence of Mr. Tandy, and, with his own donation, are a valuable addi- 
tion to the Museum. 

John B. Wiggins, Waverly, Tioga County, New York. Collection from 
Chula, Amelia County, Virginia; namely, flakes, arrow-heads, 
grooved axes, and large quartz crystals showing use as tools, and pot- 
stone vessels. The quartz crystals were used by the Indians in mak- 
ing pot stone vessels. 

Frof. W. A. Kite, Milligan College, Johnson City, Washington County, 
Tennessee. Collection from burial-places and camping-grounds in 
Greene and Hawkins Counties, Tennessee, composed of leaf-shaped 
implements, scrapers, perforators, arrow and spear heads, celts, 
grooved axes, pestles, stone gaming disks, and fragments of human 
bones. 

A. T. Qamage, Damariscotta, Lincoln County, Maine. Collection from 
oyster and clamshell heaps on Damariscotta River ; namely, flint and 
bone implements, fragments of pottery, &c. 

C. L. Herrick, Florence, Lauderdale County, Alabama. Large collection 
from mounds near Chickasaw, Colbert County, Alabama, consisting 
of flakes, rude implements, chipped celts, cutting tools, hammer- 
stones, arrow and spear-heads, and fragments of pottery. Collection 
from shell-heaps near Waterloo and from Cheathem's Ferry, Lauder- 
dale County, Alabama, consisting of shells of which the heaps are 
composed of flint flakes, rude implements, arrow and spear heads, 
one clay vessel, fragments of pottery, and of human skull and bones. 



198 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Thomas Herran^ Antioquia, United States of ColomMa, South America. 
Small collection from Indian graves at Oundinamarca and Antioquia, 
United States of Colombia, South America, consisting of clay vessels, 
clay spindle-wliorls, cartouche, &c. 

M. C. Keith, Costa Rica, Central America. Collection of antiquities 
found on the line of the Port Limon Eailroad, Costa Eica, comjiosed 
of clay vessels, plain or ornamented in relief, stone pestles, rubbiug- 
stones, plain or with carved handles, metates, plain or ornamented, 
fragments of very large metates, and stone-carvings, human and ani- 
mal. This is a valuable collection, especially as regards the stone 
implements and carviugs. 

Department of Mammals. 
Frederick W. True, Curator. 

Prof. J. A. Allen, Cainbridge, Mass. Fragments of a human skull, from 
Corsicana, Tex. 

Mr. Sylvanns Bailey. A human skull from Point Providence, East Si- 
beria. 

Dr. M. Baker, U. S. Coast Survey, Washington. A box of human skulls 
and dog skulls from Chernoofskj', Alaska, and Plover Bay, Siberia. 

Messrs. Barnum, Bailey, and Hutchinson, Bridgeport, Conn. A puma {Fe- 
lls concolor); four baboons {Cynocephalus sps.); an ant-eater {Myrme- 
cophaga juhata) ; an African gnu [Cataplepas gnu). AH of these spec 
imens were received in the flesh. 

Capt. L. A. Beardslee, U. S. N. A piece of whalebone from Crisp Sound, 
Alaska. 

Mr. L. Belding, Stockton, Gal. A collection of rodents and deer antlers 
and heads from Lower California. 

Capt. Charles Bendire. Four foital rodents from Fort Walla Walla. 

Mr. C. K. Braoe. A bat from Nassau, Bahamas. 

British Museum, London, England. A collection of bats and rodents in 
alcohol from India and Asia Minor. An ornithorhynchus in alcohol 
from Australia. 

Mr. E. L. Broicn, Durand, Wis. A mole skin [Scalops argentatus). 

Lieut. L. M. Cook, U. S. A. A skin and skeleton of Rocky Mountain 
sheep, from Fort Missoula, Montana. 

Mr. Jonathan Cook, Provincetoicn, Mass. An ear-bone of a whale. 

Dr. Jos. H. Corson, U. S. A. Three living round-tailed spermophiles 
(Spermophilus tereticaudus) from Fort Yuma, California. 

Dr. F. C. Dale, tf. S. N., TJ. S. Steamer Palos, Yokohama, Japan. One 
box of mammal skins from China. 

Mr. John Darr, Washington, D. C. A living bat {Atalapha novebora- 
censis) from the District of Columbia. 

Mr. Waldo Dennis, Oshkosh, Wis. A horse's foot with supernumerary 
toe. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 199 

Mr. F. L. Donnelly^ Havre de Chrace, Md. A foetal calf in alcohol. 

Capt. J. M. Bow, New York City. A living deer and three monkey© 
{(Edipus titi and Irycitipthecus rufipes) from Central America. These 
specimens are on exhibition in the rotunda of the Museum. 

Prof. Alfred Duges, of the Museum, Guanajuato, Mexico. A squirrel and 
two bats from Guanajuato; a tibia of horse {Equus sp.). 

3Ir. Vinal N. Edwards, Wood's Holl, Mass. A skull of deer from Naa- 
shou Islaud, Massachusetts ; two vertebrae. 

Mr. Gustav Eisen, Fresno, Gal. A collection of rodents, bats, and wea- 
sels in alcohol, including nine specimens of the least pocket mouse 
[Cricetodipus parvus); from California. 

Mr. Wm. J. Fuller, Kodiak, Alaska. Two rodent skins and a foetal sea- 
otter; from Kodiak, Alaska. 

Mr. Adam Forepaur/h. The African elephant " Mungo," which died Ib 
his menagerie while in Washington. 

Dr. Bernard Gilpin, Nova Scotia. A rodent from Nova Scotia. 

Mr. G. Brown Goode, U. S. National Museum, Washington. One horn of 
pronghorn antelope {Antilocapra americana). 

Br. W. G. Gorgas, U. S. A., Fort Broicn, Tex. Two anatomical speci- 
mens of mammals. 

Mr. M. Green, JJ. 8. Fish Hatching Station, McGloud River, California 
{through Mr. Livingston Stone). The skin of a cinnamon bear ( Ursus 
cinnamoneus) ; from th^ U. S. Trout Ponds, McCloud Eiver, California. 

Mr. G. Goicard. A human skull, from the Samoan Islands. 

Mr. A. H. Hamilton, Cape May Point, N. J. Bones of a young sperm 
whale {Physefer macrocephalus) stranded at Cape May. 

Mr. H. C. Harman, Stafford Cliffs, Md. A vertebra of a fossil whale. 

Mr. C. J. Bering. A bat, from British Guiana. 

Br. Edward S. Jones, Washington, B. C. A living marmoset {Jacchus 
vulgaris). 

Messrs. Jones and Williams. Two skulls of the pronghorn antelope 
{Antilocapra americana) ; two skulls of the beaver {Castor canadensis} 
('?)from Warm Springs, Wyo. 

Mr. George 0. Knoivles, Provincetown, Mass. An ear-bone of a fin-back 
whale. 

Officers of the steamer Lookout. A dolphin {Belphinus sp.) in the flesh, 
from Point Lookout, Maryland. (Cast.) 

3{r. E. F. Lorquin, San Francisco, Gal. A bridled weasel {Putorius 
frenatus), from California. 

Mr. McBavid {through Mr. S. T. Walker), Boston, Mass. One horn of 
domestic goat, from Escambia Bottom, Florida. Found 6 or 8 feet 
below the surface of the soil. 

Mr. William Macleay, Sydney, Australia. The skeleton of a male dugong 
{Halicore dugong); from the museum of the Liunsean Society of New 
South Wales. 



200 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Dr. J. C. Merrill, U. 8. A., Fort Brown, Tex. Three specimens of Texan 

rodents; one Texan bat. 
Mr. J. R. Moulton, Saint PauVs, Alaska. The head of an Alaskan wah'us ; 

tvro skins of seals; from Alaska. 
Mr. Clark Mills, Washington, B. G. A metallic cast of a portion of a 

whale's throat. 
Mr. (J. L. McKay, U. S. Signal Service. A collection of Alaskan 

mammals. 
Mr. JE. W. ]!\^ehon. One pair of deer antlers in velvet; from Alaska. 
Mr. P. W. Norris, Yellowstone Park. Bones of bison, deer, and grizzly 

bear ; from Yellowstone National Park. 
Mr. Willard T. JSlye, Neiv Bedford, 31ass. One skull of porpoise ; from 

near Wood's Holl, Mass. 
Mr. Frederick A. Ober, Beverly , Mass. A young monkey in alcohol; the 

skin of a monkey ; both from St. Kitt's Island, West Indies. 
Miss Tillie Piper, Washington, D. C. A hat {Atalapha noveboracensis), 

in alcohol. 
Mr. A. Pitts, Sherhorn, Mass. The skull of a woodchuck {Arctomys 

monax) ; from Sherborn. 
Mr. Edgar Quick, Brookville, hid. Five specimens of the field mouse 

{Syna.ptomys C'lOijeri)] from Brookville, Ind. 
Mr. Robert Ridgway, U. S. National Museum, Washington. The skin of 

a mink {Putorius vison) ; one skin of a mole ; both from Wheatland, 

Ind. 
Mr. Theodore Roosevelt, New York City. A collection of eighty-five 

skins and skulls of weasels, rodents, and bats, mostly from New York. 

Includes a number of Egyptian bats. 
Mr. William J. Rhees, Washington, D. C. Two bats in the flesh ; from 

Washington. 
Mr. Charles Ruby, Fort Fred. Steele, Wyoming. The skin of a puma 

{Felis concolor), and a fragment of a human skull; from Wyoming. 
M. H. Schwank, JJ. S. N. {through Mr. T. M. Ramsay). The skin of a 

fox ; from Hakluyt Headland, Spitzbergen. 
Mr. George B. Sennett, Texas. Three opossums {Didelphys virginianus)-, 

from Lonita Ranch, Texas. 
Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U. S. A. Thee head of a pronghorn antelope {A71- 

tilocapra americana), from Sweet Water Valley, Wyoming ; the skin 

of a squirrel {Sciurus car olinensis), from Ithaca, N. Y. 
Dr. Leonard Stejneger, Smithsonian Institution, Washitigton. A collec- 
tion of skulls and skeletons of the Arctic sea-cow {Rhytina gigas)', 

two skulls of ziphioid whales ; from Bering Island, Kamtchatka. 

Among the Ilhytina remains are included six almost perfect skulls 

and fragments of six others ; also four partially complete series of 

vertebrae, a large number of ribs and arm bones, and two scapulae. 
Mr. Livingston Stone, Charleston, N. H. The skull and a humerus of the 

grizzly bear {TJrsus horribilis) ; from California. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



201 



Mr. James G. Swan. Two jaws of the killer whale, {Orca atra)-, from 

Cape Flattery, Wash. 
Mr. J. Tate {through Dr. T. U. Wilcox, U. S. A.). A pair of antlers of 

mule deer; from Boise Barracks, Idaho. 
Prof. George Thurber, Kew York Oity. A cinuamou bear ( TJrsus cin- 

namoneus), in the flesh; from Ward County, Pennsylvania. 
Mr. Anrelius Todd, Ellhead, Oreg. Eleven rodent skins; one skin of 

Urotrichus Gibbsi ; the skin of a shrew ; the skeleton of a spermophile. 
U. 8. Fish Commission, Washington. The skeleton of porpoise; from 

Wood's Holl, Mass, 
U. 8. National Museum, Washington. A large common rat, in the flesh. 
Mr. 8. T. Walher, Boston, Mass. A raccoon [Procyon Hernandezii)) 

from Tampa Bay, Florida. 
Mr. John Wallace, New York City. The skeleton of a babboon [Cyno- 

cephalus porcarius). 
Mr. William W. Ware, (through Mr. Robert), Washington, Pa. One head 

of domestic sheep; from Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania. 
Br. T. E. Wilcox, U. 8. A. Two rodents in alcohol; one gopher {Tho- 

momys taJpoides) in alcohol ; one pronghorn head and antlers; two pairs 

of antlers; one fossil tibia; all from Boise Barracks, Idaho. 
Mr. John B. Wiggins, Waverly, N. Y. A fox {Vulpes fulvus), aUt^'j 

from Waverly, N. Y. 
Mr. A. F. Wooster, Norfolk, Conn. A bat in alcohol. 

Department of Birds. 

Egbert Eidgway, Curator. 

ACCESSIONS IN" 1882. 





Skins. 


Nests and eggs. 


How obtained. 


^ 2 

,a CO 

as 

^C8 


PI 

1 
® 

X/l 




o 
u o 

a 1 


Pi 

a 

o 


'3 


a. Bv eift 


69 
30 
39 

13 

1 


1,337 

434 

1,193 

745 

1 


657 
331 
683 

286 

1 
46 


20 
5 

8 

3 


150 
63 
37 

48 


85 


h. By exchange or purcliase 


63 


c. From collectors employed by the 

Smithsonian Institution. 

d. From other departments of the 

Government.* 

e. Bv deposit 


21 

18 


e. Miscellaueoust 




51 




2 


2 








Total accessions during 1882.. 


152 


3,761 


2,004 


36 


300 189t 



* Chiefly through the U. S. Signal Service. 

t Mostly specimens which, having lost their original labels, were re-entered, or in 
regard to which there are no data. 

X The actual niimber of species is of course much less, identical species being oftea 
represented in various collections. In some cases, however, especially among the 



202 KEPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The accessions of greatest interest are from tlie following sources: 

(SKIXS.) 

Mr. L. Belding, of StocTcton, Cal. Three hundred and eighty-four speci- 
mens, two hundred and sixteen species, chiefly from Lower California. 
A very valuable collection, embracing two new species, two others new 
to the North American fauna, and a fine series of the several species 
l)eculiar to the Cape Saint Lucas fauna. (C.*) 

Capt. Clias. Bendire, U. 8. A. Seventy-nine specimens, thirty-five spe- 
cies, of very desirable Northwestern birds from Fort Walla Walla, 
Wash., including several examples of the rare Kennicott's owl [Scops 
aslo Kennicotii) and a very fine series of the wax-wiug [Ampelis gar- 
rulus). (G.) 

Count von Berlepsch^ Miinden, Germany. One hundred and thirtj-one 
specimens, one hundred and two species, of Neotropical birds, pre- 
viously not represented in the collection. (Ex.) 

Mr. Wm. Breuster, Cambridge, Mans. Nineteen specimens, thirteen 
species, of birds from various localities, the same being principally 
special plumages wanted to complete the collection of North Ameri- 
can birds. (Ex.) 

Prof. A. Buges, National Museum of Mexico. Fourteen specimens (same 
number of species) of Mexican birds, some of them rare in collec- 
tions. (G.) 

Mr. William J. Fisher, U. S. Tidal Observer. Fifty-two specimens, thirty, 
four species, from Kodiak Island, Alaska. An interesting collection, 
containing some very rare species and one new to science {(Estrelata 
fisheri). (Ex.) 

Mr. G. Goicard, U. S. Consul to Samoa. Twenty-three specimens of 
birds from the Fiji Islands, most of the species new to the collection 
(G.) 

Mr. P. L. Jouy, of Washington, D. C. Three hundred and sixty-nine 
specimens, one hundred and fourteen species, from China and Japan. 
A majority of the species new to the National Museum collection. 
(C.) 

Mr. Geo. N. Laicrence, New York City. Thirteen specimens (as many 
species), of tropical American birds, the same being desiderata to the 
collection. (Ex.) 

skins of Old World birds, there axe a few species not yet determined, and which have 
not been included in the above enumeration. 

The total number of accessions during the year to the collection of the Department 
of Birds is 188. 

*The source of these accessions is designated by the initial "C" for those received 
from collectors of the Museum, or those making explorations under its auspices; " G " 
for those x^resented as a gift; "Ex." for those obtained iu exchange, &c. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 205 

Frof. William Madeay, Linnccan Society, Sydney, Netc South Wales, 
Forty-three specimens, thirty-two species, of birds chiefly from West 
Australia, aud, with one or two exceptions, all new to the collec- 
tion. (Ex.) 

Mr. Charles L. McKay, U. S. Signal Service. One hundred and twenty- 
eight specimens, seventy-four species, from Bristol Bay and Nushagak 
Kiver, Alaska. (Signal Office.) 

Sergeants John Murdoch and Middleion Sjnith, U. S. Signal Service. Two 
hundred and forty specimens and thirty-five species, from Point Bar- 
row, Alaska. A fine collection, including interesting series of well- 
prepared specimens. (Signal Office.) 

Mr. Raymond L. Newcomh, Naturalist attached to the Jeannette expedi- 
tion. Seven specimens, five species, from the Arctic Ocean north of 
Siberia, including three specimens of the excessively rare Eoss's 
Gull [Ehodostethia rosea). (Navy Department.) 

Norwich Museum, Woricich, England {through Mr. J. E. Ourney). Twenty- 
four specimens, sixteen species, of raptorial birds, chiefly new to the 
collection. (Ex.) 

Mr. C. G. Nutting, of Carlinville, III. Three hundred and twenty speci- 
mens, one hundred aud ninety species, from Costa Eica. This collec- 
tion forms the basis of two special papers in the "Proceedings" of 
the National Museum (Vol. 5, i)p. 382-409 ; the other not yet printed). 
(C.) 

Mr. Theodore Roosevelt, New York City. Five hundred and ninety-six 
specimens, one hundred and ninety-five species of birds, mostly North 
American (a few from Egypt). (G.) 

Shanghai Museum, Shanghai, China (through Mr. P. L. Jouy). Seventy- 
seven specimens, sixty-five species, mostly new to the collection. (Ex.) 

3Ir. George Shoemaker, Assistant in Department of Birds, U. S. National 
Museum. Eighty-three specimens, fifty-four species, of birds from the 
District of Columbia and Alexandria County, Virginia. The speci- 
mens all very finely prepared. (G.) 

Br. R. W. Shufddt, U. S. A. Two hundred and ninety-six specimens,, 
one hundred and eighty-six species, chiefly from Connecticut and 
Wyoming Territory. This collection is exceptionally fine as regards 
preparation of the skins, a considerable number of which have been 
mounted for the exhibition series of the Museum. (G.) 

Br. Leonhard Stejneger, U. S. Signal Service. One hundred and ninety- 
eight specimens, ninety species, from the Commander Islands and Pe- 
tropolovski, Kamtchatka. An important collection, containing sev- 
eral new species. (Signal Office.) 

(NESTS AND EGGS.) 

M7\ L. Belding, Stockton, Gal. Twenty-four specimens (i. c, entries)^ 
twelve species, from Lower California. (C.) 



204 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Mr. George A. Boardman, Calais, Me. Eggs of the Florida courlin, or 
linipkiu {Aramiis pictus), from Florida. (G.) 

British Museum, London, England. Forty-five species, from Pegu (all 
new to the collection). (Ex.) 

Mr. E. Diclcinson, Springfield, Mass. One set of eggs of Totanus melano- 
leucus, from Manitoba. (IS'ew to the collection.) (G.) 

Governor FencJcer, Godhavn, Greenland. Eighty-seven specimens (en- 
tries), twenty-four species, from Greenland. 

Mr. Wm. J. Fisher, TJ. 8. Tidal Observer. Fifteen specimens, fifteen 
species, from Kodiak Island, Alaska, and vicinity. The most inter- 
esting specimens are eggs of the bald eagle [Raliaetus leucoecphalus) 
and black oystercatcher {Hcematopusniger). 

Mr. R. G. Hazard, 2d, Peace Bale, B. I. Eggs of Spheniscus demcrsus, 
Eudypes chrysocome and Biomedea culminata, from Falkland Islands. 

Mr. Geirge N. Lawrence, New Yorlc City. One egg of the Honduras 
turkey [Mcleagris ocellata), from Yucatan. (IsTew to the collection.) 
(Ex.) 

Br. J. C. Merrill, TJ. 8. A. One set of eggs of the pink-sided snow- 
bird {Junco annectens), from Big Horn Mountains, Montana Territory. 
(iSTew to the collection.) (Ex.) 

Sergeants John Murdoch and Middleto/i Smith, TJ. 8. Signal Service, 
Forty-six specimens (?'. e., entries), sixteen species, from Point Bar- 
row, Alaska. Two of the species new to the collection, if not to 
science, viz, Actodromas maculata and Pelidna alpina americana. 

Bepartment of Reptiles. 
Henry C. Yarrow, Honorary Curator. 

Two hundred and thirty entries have been made in the herpeto- 
logical record book, which would probably represent not less than 
nine hundred and twenty specimens. 

Thirty-one specimens of fourteen species of reptiles, many of them 
very rare, were received in exchange from the British Museum, through 
Dr. Giinther. 

Valuable collections have been received from Mr. James Bell, of 
Gainesville, Fla., and Mr. L. Belding, of California, employed as col- 
lectors by the National Museum, and from Mr. Eobert Eidgway, Mr. 
Lucien M. Turner, Mr Gustav Eisen, and others. 

The accessions of greatest interest are the valuable collection of Mr. 
L. Belding, made in Lower California, which contained a beautiful speci- 
men of Crotalus 'rnitchelli, the only one at present in the Museum ; 
Crotalus enyo, Bufo heldingi (sp. nov.), Crotaphytus copei (sp. nov.), TJta 
elegans (sp. nov.), and Sccloporus rufidorsum (sp. nov.). In the collec- 
tion made by Mr. Eobert Eidgway, at Wheatland, Ind., was found a 
new subspecies of Ophibolus, which has been called Ophiholus getulus 
niger. In Mr. Gustav Eiseu's collection, made near Fresno, Cal., two new 
subspecies of Ophibolus have been discovered, which are named Ophi- 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 205 

holus getulus eiseni and Ophiholus getulus muUieinctus. Prof. E. D. Cope 
lias presented to the Museum a new and valuable species of Eumcces 
from Texas, and Mr. Eoosevelt, of New York, has presented quite a large 
collection of our domestic reptiles, made by himself. Prof. A. Duges, 
of Mexico, has continued his contributions, which are always valuable, 
and we have also been favored similarly by Professor Sumichrast. 

Department of Fishes. 
Tarleton H. Bean, Curator. 

The total number of accessions during the year was 95, and 78 of 
these were made by individuals. 

SOURCE OF ACCESSIONS. 

By gilt 55 

Exchango or purchase 7 

Smithsonian collectors 9 

Other Government departments 24 

Deposit 1 

The U. S. Fish Commission is considered as one of the "other depart- 
ments of the Government." The single collection received on deposit 
is from Dr. Shufeldt, at ISTew Orleans, who projioses to monograph the 
fauna of Lower Louisiana. 

For the sake of convenience the list of accessions is arranged alpha- 
betically, and the number of the accession is given. A summary of 
accessions of greatest interest follows the alphabetical list. 
Al<ers. 00000. Tennessee. One carj) [Gyprinus carpio), four weeks 

old, raised in Tennessee. 
Alliance^ U. S. Steamer. 00000. Arctic seas. One tank of fishes in 

alcohol. 
AtJcins, G. G. J2040. Bucksport, Me. Three fresh Kennebec Sahno 

salar. 
Baird, W. G. 11366. Chattanooga, Tenn. One head of Aniia calva. 
Baldwin, A. 8. 11124. Jacksonville, Fla. One Erimyzon Goodei. 
Bean, T. H. 11230. Potomac River. One fresh Tinea vulgaris from 

Broad Creek. 

11546- Havre de Grace, Md. One tank of fishes in alcohol. 

11619. Potomac Eiver. One fresh Tinea vulgaris. 

Behr, von. 11044. Austria. Twenty specimens of Umbra Tcrameri. 
Blackford, E. G. 11127. New York. One fresh Micropterus salmoides 
(lOJ pounds). 

11189. New York. Four fresh Pomoxys sparoides. 

11196. Florida. One fresh Lutjanus Blackfordii. 

11296. New York. One box of salmon and trout from various 

localities. 

11356. New York. Two fresh Peristedium miniatum. 

00000. New York. One living GpMdium marginatum. 

11870. New York. One fresh Hippoglossoides platessoides. 



•206 REPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

BradfieU, H. L. 11917. Dougherty, Tex. One fossil tooth of Oako- 

cerdo falcatus. 
€hester, H. C. 12056. Noank, Conn. Four jars of fishes in alcohol. 
OlarJc, Franlc N. 11701. Northville, Mich. Two Gatostomus commer- 

sonii in alcohol. 
€laH; J. W. B. 11559. Deil's Island, Chesapeake Bay. Two Chas- 

modes Boscianus and two Oobiosoma alepidotum. 
•Collins, Copt. D. E. 12076. Gloucester, Mass. One smoked Scomber 

BeKayi. 
Cumming,W. M. 11643. Wilmington, N, C. Three Gambiisia patruelis. 
Dahncy, Win. 00000. Lodi, Miss. An Etheostomatid (dried) in letter. 
Davis, W. E., & Son. 11488. Wilmington, N. C. One fresh Megalops 

atlanticus. 
Duges, Prof. A. 11113. Guanajuato, Mexico. One Oeniropomn^ and 

one Mtigil from Tepic. 
Edwards, V. N. 11036. Wood's Holl, Mass. One Lophopsetta macu- 

lata ? juv. 
11101. Wood's Holl, Mass. Two skeletons of Phycis, one of 

Tautoga onitis. 
Eerber, Dr. 11754. Canada. One young Salmo salar. 
Fisher, William J. 00000. Kodiak, Alaska. One keg and five bottles 

of fishes in alcohol. 
Eish Hawl; U. S. E. C. steamer. 11206. Chesapeake Bay. Two boxes 

alcoholic and one keg of fresh fishes. 
•Qering, Erederick. 12080. Gloucester, Mass. One Menticirrus nebu- 

losus. 
■Gilmer, G. K. 11131. Kichmond, Va. Four fresh Dorosoma cepedianum. 
-Gorgas, W. C. 11915. Fort Brown, Tex. One can of alcoholic speci- 
mens. 
JIaller, G. M. 12048. Puget Sound. One Clupea sapidissima in 

alcoliol. 
Hay, 0. P. 11738. Tennessee and Mississippi. One tank fresh- water 

fishes in alcohol. 
Bensliall, Dr. J. A. 11429. Florida. One tank of fishes in alcohol. 
Merrera, Alfonso. 11279. City of Mexico. Three Heros sp. and three 

Chirostoma Unmboldtianum. 
Bodge, E. B. 00000. Plymouth, N. H. One Salvelinus fontinalis in 

bad condition. 
Horan, Henry. 12004. One salted Selene argentea. 
Howell, D. Y. 11477. Sandusky, Ohio. Six vials embryonic Stizo- 

stedium vitreum. 
Hubbs, A. 12155. Mounds, Mo. Five Enneacanthus sp. in alcohol. 
Hudson, George A. 11150. Cedar Keys, Fla. Seven fresh Clupea 

sapidissima. 
Jamaica Institute. 11700. Kingston, Jamaica. One hundred and 

eighty-three specimens of marine fishes. 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 207 

Jones, I)\ . Wm. R., U. 8. N'. 12163. Alaska. One keg fishes, &c., in 
alcohol. 

Jordan, I), S., and Gilbert, Charles H. 11500. Mazatlan, Panama, 
Lower Californin, Texas, Florida, and Italy. Six tonks of fishes in 
alcohol. 

Jony, F. L. 11262. China. Two tanks of fishes in alcohol (many 
ppecies). 

11804. Japan. One tank fishes in alcohol. 

Larco, Andrea. 11461. Santa Barbara, Oal. One box of fishes in 
alcohol (many species). 

Unnccan Society, New South Wales. 00000. New Guinea. Two hun- 
dred and seven specimens of fishes in alcohol. 

Liltken, Dr.Ghr. 11181. Iceland. Otiq Trachypterus arcticns m ?k\c6ho\. 

Manitoba Historical and Ocological Society. 11897. Winnipeg. One 
tank of fishes in alcohol. 

Mc Adams, William. 12052. Illinois River. One box of fishes in alco- 
hol. 

McDonald, Col. M. 11047. Cherrystone, Va. Two bottles of fishes in 
alcohol. 

11209. Potomac River. Three Clupea sapidissinia. 

31211. Washington, D. C. Two Cyprinus carpio shipped to 

Texas and back alive. 

11015. Fredericksburg, Ya. Four species of fresh-water fishes. 



Merriam, Dr. C. Hart. 11462. Woodhull Lake, New York. One Salmo 

salar var. sebago. 
Mitchell, Capt. J. C. 11405. Charleston, S. C. Two tanks of fishes in 

alcohol. 
Moore, G. H. H. 11618. Colorado River, Texas. One fresh Haploido- 

notns grunniens. 
Norny, E. R. 11031. Odessa, Del. ^Y\\\ oi AnguiUa rostrata. 
Nye, Willard,jr. 12000. New Bedford, Mass. One bottle Anguilla 

rostra ta in alcohol. 
PacJcard,A. S.,and Kingslcy. 11208. Wood's Holl, Mass. Reproductive 

organs of supposed male eel. 
Polk, W. L. 11324. Yicksburg, Miss. One Carpiodes (?) from Missis- 
sippi River. 
Badcliff, Captain. 00000. Fifteen miles southeast of Cape May. One 

salted Feris tedium miniatum. 
Eathbun, Richard. 11984. Brazil. Five photographs of fishes. 
Reed, George H., U. S.N. 11409. Potomac River. One Micropterits 

salmoides and one M. dolomien. 
Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., U. S. A. 12122. New Orleans, La. One box of 

fishes, &c., in alcohol. 
Stearns, Silas. 11015. Pensacola, Fla. One fresh Batrachtts tail subsp. 

pardus. 
11123. Pensacola, Fla. One fresh Gaulolatilus miorops. 



208 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Stearns, Silas. 11149. Pensacola, Fla. Three fresh GaulolaUlus microps. 

11235. Peusacola, Fla. Spawn of Trisotropis stomias with 

eutozoa. 

1149G. Pensacola, Fla. Three tanks of fishes in alcohol. 



Stear7is, W. A. 11859. Labrador. Two tanks and one barrel of fishes. 
Swan, James G. 11231. Port Townsend, Wash. One winter salmon, 

Oncorliyncltus chouicli a. 
Thompson, H. H. 12138. Woodhull Lake, New York. Two fresh Cor- 

egonus artedi. 
12223. Woodhull Lake outlet. One fresh Salmo salar var. 

sebago. 
True, Frederick W. 11817. Essex County, New York. One tank fishes 

in alcohol. 
U. S. Fish Commission. 11210. Germany. Two Cyprimts carpio ; died 

in transit. 
11640. North ville, Mich. Two fresh Salvelimis /(.ntinalis and 

one Salmo iridcus. 

11715. Quantico, Ya., and Battery, Md. Eggs and embryos 



of Cliipca vernalis, Petromyzon marimis, hybrid between Chipea sapi- 
dissima and Perca americana. 

11770. Washington, D. C. One Carassins auratus (Japanese) 



in alcohol. 

11772. Wood's Holl, Mass. Many sijecies of marine fishes. 

11818. Wood's Holl, Mass. One tank and one box of fishes in 



alcohol. 

11682. Wood's Holl, Mass. One tank and one box of fishes 



in alcohol. 

11888. Wood's Holl, Mass. One half barrel fresh Scorpwna, 



Merlucius, Phycis, &c. 

11891. Wood's Holl, Mass. One fresh Eaia Icevis. 

11918. Wood's Holl, Mass. One box of fishes in alcohol. 

12027. Havre de Grace, Md. One fresh Glupea sapidissima. 



U. S. Signal Service. Point Barrow, Alaska. Four species of fishes in 

alcohol. 
Weaver, George B. & Go. 12035. Seneca Lake, New York. One Amia 

calva and one Lota maculosa, fresh. 
Whitman, J. L. 11724. Valley Falls, Kans. Four Stizostedium vit- 

reum in alcohol. 
Wilcox, W. A. 11024. Boston, Mass. Three fresh Brosmius hrosme. 
Wild, George H. 11685. Eed Bank, N. J. Four Eoccus lineatus in 

alcohol. 
Wood, Emign M. L., U. S. N. 11568. Key West, Fla. One can of 

fishes in alcohol. 
Wood, Lieut. W. N. 11372. Potomac Eiver. One fresh shad. 
Woodbury, J. G. 11790. San Francisco, Gal. Two Roccus lineatus; 

died in transit. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 209 

Wyoming Historical and Geological Society. 11431. Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 

One deformed Lcpomis gibbosus. 

General summary of accessions of greatest interest. — Most of the col- 
lections here noticed were made by jxirsons employed by the U. S. Fish 
Commission or by the Smithsonian Institution and the U. S. National 
Museum. Some very important accessions, however, have come from 
parties who have received nothing more than the tanks and alcohol for 
preserving fishes. Several very valuable additions were made by mu- 
seums desiring collections in exchange. Other departments of the Gov- 
ernment have contributed comparatively little this year; the U. S. 
Signal Service party near Point Barrow, Alaska, forwarded a collection, 
which is small in the number of species, but rich in individuals. 
Bean, Tarleton H. 11230. March 20. P. 

A fresh tench, Tinea vuhjaris, which escaped from the United States ponds, 
Washington, and was captured in Broad Creek, a tributary of the Potomac, 
by Mr. Roum. 

11619. June 24. P. 

A tencli, Tinea vulgaris, which was brought here alive from the Potomac 
River and kept for some time in the Armory. It is worthy of note that the 
pharyngeal teeth of tench bred here have no trace of hook, but are worn off 
so as to have a broad grinding surface, in which respect they differ from 
examples of like size reared in Europe. 

Belding, L. 11543. June 12. G. 

Among the fishes received from Lower California, where they were obtained 
by Mr. Belding, are some species which are new to the localities. Professors 
Jordan and Gilbert have identified one of the eels from near Cape San Lucas 
as Leptocephalus conger. "No other specimen of this genus has been brought 
from the Pacific coast of tropical America." Agonostoma nasutum Giinther, 
was taken in the river at San Jos^, where it is known as trucha or trout. The 
name " trout" for a mugiloid fish is earnestly recommended to the attention 
of critics of the synonymy of Latin names of fishes. 

Blaclcford, E. G. 11127. February 14. G. ^ 

One big-mouth bass, Microptirus salmoides, weighing 10^ pounds. The fish 
was cast and then preserved in alcohol. 

11296. April 6. G. 

In a large lot of salmomids received from Mr. Blackford on this date was 
an alleged hyhvid hetV7 een Salvelinus fontinalis 3knd Oncorh>)nchus chouicha, and 
there was also a California salmon, O. chouicha, which was raised in Minne- 
sota. 

11356. April 24. G. 

Two fresh Peristediiim viiniatum, which were picked up dead at sea at the 
time of the tilefish mortality. 

00000. May 16. G. 

A living example of the rare Ophidium marginatum, which was caught at 
Bay View, Long Island. 

Collins, Capt. D. E. 12076. November 17. G. 

An individual of the formerly rare and little-known mackerel. Scomber 
DeKayi, sent from Gloucester by request of Capt. J. W. Collins. 
H. Mis. 26 14 



210 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Davis, W. E.,d: Son. 11488. May 28. G. 

A large and fine tarpnm, Megalops atJanficus. 

Fisher, William J. 00000. December 23. G. 

Mr. Fisher sent from Kodiak a ten-gallon keg of fishes exceedingly- 
well preserved, besides a few bottles. In this lot are many valuable speci- 
mens, amongthemfour fresh-water species not before received from the island; 
these are, Esox Indus Lota maculosa, Caiostomus longirostris, and Coregonu» 
quadrilateralis, all of which occur in the Yukon region, but were not expected 
on this island in the Gulf of Alaska. The first three at least are very old 
species, widely distributed, and preserving their identity with wonderful 
tenacity, no matter what change of environment may overtake them. They 
probably existed on the island before its separation as an island, and they 
have retained, apparently undisturbed, all the salient characters by which 
their relatives of the mainland are distinguished in the broad area over which 
they are found. 

Gering, Frcdericl: 12080. November 17. G. 

One example of the kingfish, Meuticirrus nehulosus, which is extremely rare 
north of Cape Cod ; this was taken in a herring-net in Gloucester Harbor, 
October 20, 1882. 

Gilbert, Charles H. 11500. June 1. C. 

Four tanks of Mazatlan and Panama fishes formed the larger part of this 
accession. Of the Panama species, 148 were taken; 19 of these are described 
as new in Volume I, Bulletin U. S. Fish Commission. From Mazatlan, Mex- 
ico, Mr. Gilbert sent 172 species ; 33 of these are established as new in Pro- 
ceedings National Museum, Volume IV. 

Bailer, G. M. 12048. November IG. G. 

A shad, Clupea sapiiHssima, taken in a tributary of Puget Sound. The 
shad introduced by the U. S. Fish Commission into the Sacramento have 
multiplied and are spreading rapidly northward on the coast of California 
and beyond. 

Hay, Prof. 0. P. 11738. August 3. 0. 

A tank of fresh-water fishes collected by him in Mississippi, Tennessee, and 
other Southern States ; ()4 species were taken ; they are recorded in Volume II, 
Bulletin U. S. Fish Commission, by Professor Hay. Of the 64 the iollowiug 
are established as new to science: Ammocryj^ia vivax, loa vigilis, FceciUchiht/s 
iuileriatnis, Menidia audens; Tirodon, new genus, represented by Tirodon am- 
vigenus. 

Professor Hay's collection contained Lepidosieus platysiomvs, although this 
does not appear in his list; he has it under the name L. osseus. 

Professors Jordan and Gilbert consider roccilichthgs butlerianus identical with 
P. Barratii (Holbr.). 

Eenshall, Dr. J. A. 11429. May 13. G. 

One tank of fishes collected by him in Florida. Among them are some 
species not before in the Museum, as, for example, Frislipoma melanopterum 
iind a species of Zygonectes recently described as new under the name Z. 
eraUcula. 

Mubhs, A. 12155. December 4. G. 

Five specimens in alcohol of .a species of Enneacanthus, which seems to be 
undescribed. These were caught at Mounds, Vernon County, Missouri, and 
eent on to ascertain whether or not they are carp. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 211 

Ritdson, George A. 11150. February 21. G. 

Seven small shad received by him at Savannah, Ga., from Cedar Keys, Fla.,. 
the first of the species he has known from that locality. These shad, in 
measurements, proportions, colors, &c., resemble individuals that the Mu- 
seum has from Alabama. 

Jamaica Institute Public Museum, 117G0. August 12. G. 

This large and very valuable collection of Jamaican species is the second 
of a series of shipments to the Museum in duplicate, one of each species to 
be kept here and the other returned, named, to the museum at Kingston. The 
first can was received in December, 1881. The second can contained 183 
specimens, all of them in excellent condition and representing many species 
which will prove additions to our collection. The species are, at present, 
only partly determined. 

Jordan, Prof. D. S. 11500. June 1. C. 

Professor Jordan's collections, made at Galveston, New Orleans, and Pensa- 
cola, filled two large tanks and contained many new species, which are de- 
scribed in Proceedings National Museum, Volume V. Some of the species 
obtained are the following: 

Fundulus xenicus Jor. & Gilb. (types). 

ParaViclithys alMguiia Jor. & Gilb. (type). 

Chasmodes sahurrce Jor. & Gilb. (types). 

Paralichthys squamilentus Jor. & Gilb. (tyjjes). 

Isesthes scrutator Jor. & Gilb. (types). 

Hippocampus zoster ce Jor. Sc Gilb. (types). 

Fundulus occllaris Jor. & Gilb. (types). 

Isesthes iontJias Jor. & Gilb. (types). 

Gohius holeosoma Jor. & Gilb. (types). 

GoMesox virgatulus Jor. & Gilb. (types), 

Opisthognatlius lonchurus Jor. & Gilb. (type). 

Cliromis enchrysurus Jor. & Gilb. (type). 

It is proper to state that Professor Jordan was greatly assisted in making 
this collection by Mr. Silas Stearns, whose vessels brought in most of the new 
species described from Pensacola. 

Jouy, P. L. 11804. August 28. C. 

A tank of Japanese fishes, which have not yet been examined. 

Jouy, P. L., and F. a Dale. 11262. March 30. C. 

A collection of Chinese fishes in two tanks. Many species are represented, 
but no examination of them has been made. These fishes were secured while 
the collectors were on the U. S. steamer Palos. 

Larco, Andrea. 11461. May. 20. G. & P. 

A large lot of alcoholic fishes sent from Santa Barbara by Mr. Larco con- 
tained the following among other good things: Hocotlus Jnrundo, Citharichthys 
(type), Sebastichthys umhrosus (type), and Isesthes Gilberti (types). 

Linncean Society, Sydney, Australia. 00000. May 7. E. . 

Two hundred and seven specimens of fishes collected in New Guinea, many 
of which are new to the collection. A list of some of the interesting ones is 
given in my report for May, 1882. 

lAitl'cn, Dr. Chr. 11181. March 7. E. 

One alcoholic example, from Iceland, of Trachypterua arcticus, the first one 
obtained by the Museum. 



212 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM 

McAdams, William. 12052. December 11. G. 

A large number of fresh-water species from the mouth of Illinois River. 
McDonald, Col. Marshall. 11211. March 14. D. 

Two leather caq>, Cyprinus carpio, that were sent to Texas and returned 
alive in a gallon pail, a convincing proof of the feasibility and desirability 
of shipping carp in a limited supply of water. 

11G15. June 22. G. 

Four species of fresh-water fishes, Eoccus lineatus, Catostomus commersonii, 
Amiurus catus, and Lepomis auritus, caught after ascending over the McDon- 
ald fishway, at Fredericksburg, Va., 

Manitoba Historical and Scientific Society. 11897. October 2. E. 

The Museum received from this society, located at Winnipeg, one tank of 
alcoholic fishes through Mr. H. A. Strong. The tank was received October 2, 
1882. The species are all similar to those of the adjacent United States 
region, but none the less interesting, since we have few fishes now from the 
locality whence these came. 

Mitchell, Capt. J. G. 11495. MaySi. G. 

In this collection was a fine specimen of Lagocephalus Imvigatus and one of 
Alutera scripta, which has been rarely observed on the coast of the United 
States. Fundulus majalis is represented in the lot. 

Mye, WiUard, jr. 12000. November 9. G. 

Three eels taken from the water-supply pipes at New Bedford, Mass. 

Eadcliff, Captain. OOUOO. Juue 12. G. 

A salted specimen of Peristedium viiniatum from 15 miles southeast of Cape 
May, found at the time of the great tilefish mortality. 

ShufeUt, Dr. R. W., U. S. A. 12122. December 19. Dep. 

In a box of alcoholic fishes collected at New Orleans, La., which were re- 
ceived here November 28, 1882, were several interesting species : A Zygonectes, 
apparently ehrynotus Gthr., Prionotus scitiihisJor. & Gilb., and Elassoma zona- 
tum, the last singular fish being represented by more individuals than the 
Museum possessed before from all other sources. 

Stearns, Silas. 1149C. June 1. G. 

This is a large collection made at Pensacola, Fla., by Mr. Stearns, and in- 
cludes many valuable species, a good portion of which were described as 
new in Volume V, Proceedings National Museum. A partial list follows : 

Gohius boleosoma Jor. &Gilb. 

Ophidinm Grcellsi Poey. 

Exoccetus HiUianus Gosse. 

Chromis enchrysurus Jor. & Gilb. 

Stenotomns caprinus Bean. 

Mullus barbatus var. auratus Jor. <fe Gilb. 

loglossus caUinrus Bean (n. g. and n. s. ). 

Apogon maculatus (Poey) Jor. & Gilb. 

Blennius stearnsii Jor. & Gilb. 
With two exceptions the above are all new species, and one rei)re8ent8 a cnri- 
ons aberrant form of Gobiidce related to Oxymetopon Bleeker, from which, how- 
ever, it differs in several important characters. 

11500. June 1. G. 

See remarks under Jordan, Prof., D. S., Ace. 11500. Without the assistance 
of Mr. Steams the collection would have been much less valuable. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 213 

Stearns,W. A. 11859. September 16. G. 

Seventeen apecies of fishes collected by him in Labrador daring the sum- 
mer of 1882. Among them are some species of especial interest to as : 
Seomber scombrus, rare from so far north ; 
Coitus scorpioides, far south of its recorded limit; 
Gadus ogac; 

Mippoglossoides plateasoides ; and a small 
Somniosua brevipinne. 

Tautogolabnis adspersus was found abundant. 
Tlompson, H. H. 12223. December 27. G. 

A fresh land-locked salmon, Salmo salar variety sebago, taken from an out- 
let of Woodhull Lake, New York. This form of salmon was introduced into 
the lake through the aid of the U. S. Fish Commission, and has greatly mul- 
tiplied there. 

U. 8. FisJi Commission. 11206. March 15. D. 

The cruise of the "Fish Hawk " in Chesapeake Bay, early in March, re- 
sulted in the discovery of some well-known species of fishes at an unexpected 
time. The common spined dogfish, Squalu8 acanthias, was plentiful, attracted 
there, no doubt, by the presence of large schools of small menhaden, Brevoor- 
Ha tyrannus. Eaia ocellata was also obtained. The young of several impor- 
tant economic fishes were taken in great abundance ; among these were Clupea 
vervalis, Clupea opstivalis, Fogonias chromis, Phycis chuss (f ), Fhycia regius, and 
Acipenser oxyrhynchus. Siolephorus sp., Gobioaoma, Gobiesox, and many other 
species were found. 

11715. July 20. D. 

Among other embryonic fishes received in this iuvoice from Battery Sta- 
tion, Maryland, were some hybrids between Clupea aapidissima and Roccus 
lineatus. Mr. Ryder has carefully examined these creatures and declares 
that they do partake of the characters of both parents. Development of eggs 
of one species after fertilization by n:ilt of a fish belonging to a widely dif- 
ferent family has heretofore been considered wholly improbable. 

11772. August 19. D. 

In a large number of species of marine fishes sent from Wood's Holl, and re- 
ceived on above date, was Leptoclinus aculeaiua, which has not previously 
been recorded from south of Cape Cod. 

11818. September 4. D. 

One tank and one box of fishes in alcohol from Wood's Holl, Mass. 

11862. September 16. D. 

A tank and a box of fishes from the summer station at Wood's Holl. Due 
of the most interesting of the species is a Brotiilid, first obtained by Prof. Alex- 
ander Agassiz, and now rediscovered by the Commission. For this genus Mr. 
Goode and I have proposed the name Dicroleiie, on account of the peculiar 
structure of the pectoral; the single species obtained is to be called Dicroleiw 
intronigei: Another singular genus of Slernoptyclddm widely different from all 
the known forms of that family is also with this collection. Argyropelecm 
Itemigymnus was taken at station 1112. 

11888. September 28. D. 

In a half-barrel of fresh fishes, with Squalus acanthias, Merlueiiis Ulinearis, 
and Phycisfenuis, were several large and brilliantly colored Scorpcena dacty- 
loptera, found plentifully by Capt. J. W. Collins while trawling on the " tilefish 
gfound." It is thought that this last species may be caught in such abun- 
dance as to make it an important addition to the supply of food-fishes. 



214 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

U. 8. Fish Commission. 11918. October 9. D. 

lu a box of fishes received from Wood's Holl, Mass., October 9, 1882, wor« 
Corxjphcpnoides rupesMs, Hippocampus hudsonius, and a new Maltheid genus 
related to HaUeittichthys, but with the dorsal base partly on the body, a very 
short tail, pectorals not exserted, and some other striking peculiarities. 

12027. November 7. D. 

A fresh female shad, Clupea sapidissiyyia, which had been detained in a pool at 
Battery Station, near Havre de Grace, Md., was received, November 7, 1882, 
in a spent condition. 

U. S. Signal Service. 00000. December 22. D. 

From the party at Ooglaamie near Point Barrow, Alaska, were obtained a 
large number of capelin (Mallotus inllosus), as well as of the polar cod {Boreo- 
gadiis saida); there were also two species of Cotttis, one of which is either 
adult C. verrucosus or new, and the other is apparently undescribed. 

Department of Molluslcs. 
William H. Dall, Honorary Curator. 

The accessions to the Museum comprise some twenty-seven separate 
lots, as received, in one hundred and thirteen boxes, barrels, and pack- 
ages. 

The largest in bulk and most important in its bearing on the science 
of any collections received during the year is the typical collection of 
land and fresh-water shells, sent in fifty-three boxes, by Dr. Isaac Lea, 
of Philadelphia. When this shall be available, with the series of Dr. 
Lewis, and that of Mr. W. G. Binney, the Museum need shrink from no 
comparison with the collections in these groups of all the world beside. 

The next and for the Pacific coast the equally typical and important 
collection of Dr. E. E. C. Stearns, of California, has been received on 
deposit, under an arrangement by which it is intended to become the 
permanent ornament of the Museum. Comprising thirty cases in bulk, 
and probably over 10,000 species in number, its especial richness in all 
that relates to the Pacific coast of the United States, in addition to the 
Carpenter and Dall collections already in the Museum, will put compe- 
tition in that field out of the question. 

A very interesting and valuable collection of shells from La Paz, 
filling three boxes, with fresh and well-preserved specimens of marine 
shells, has been received from Consul L. Belding. 

The Senckeuburgian Museum of Frankfort-am-Main has contributed 
a small but valuable collection of 45 species of recentlj^-described pul- 
monates, through Dr. W. Kobelt, their curator. 

A collection of ceplalopods long since lent to Prof. Japetus Steen- 
strup, of Copenhagen, for study, has been returned during the year. 

Commander J. R. Bartlett, U. S. N., has presented some interesting 
cephalopods from the Gulf Stream, which were attracted to the vessel 
by the electric light used in the deep-sea- sounding work. 

Other less remarkable but still interesting and valuable donations will 
be found enumerated in the card catalogue submitted herewith. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 215 

Department of Inseets. 
C. V. lliLEY, Honorary Curator. 

Accession No. 

10807. Alaus myops^ sent by John Dennett, Mobile, Ala 

10854. Lhnnophilus sp., sent by J. Sharp ±^ixou, Chambersburg, Pa. 

11110. Three boxes with Coleoptera; one bottle with miscellaneous in- 
sects in alcohol; sent by C. J. Hering from Surinam. 

11113. Six boxes with Mexican Coleoptera, with list of names, from Prof. 
Eugenio Duges, Guanajuato, Mexico. 

11098. Various hymenopterous insects, from W. A. Williamson, Toronto, 
Canada. 

11229. Eggs of lacewing fly, from Joseph Schanno, Yakima, Wash. 

11267. Specimens never received, but were doubtless a species of black- 
fly, from M. H. Thomson, Pecan Point, Ark. 

11325. Dynastes tityus, sent by Geo. H. McKiuney, Stanford, Ky. 

11439. Smerinthus modestus, from L. Belding, Stockton, Cal. 

11577. Lucanus elaphus, sent by J. H. Turner, Jonesville, Tex. 

11600. Fapilio turnns and Bcinais archippus, from T. S. Wilcox, Boise 
Barracks, Idaho. 

11661. Scorpio allenii, from T. S. Wilcox, Boise Barracks, Idaho. 

11087. Galeodes sp., from E. C. Bradstreet,-Greeley, Colo. 

11786. Dynastes tityus, from Messrs. Hall M. Caldwell and Andrew D. 
Cowles, Statesville, N. C. 

11798. Chrysalis of a noctuid moth, from J. S. F. Batchen, Chicago, 111. 

11841. Callidryas siihule, from Thos. S. Dorau, Montgomery, Ala. 

11843. Rhyssa lunafor, from F. O. Miner & Co., New Orleans, La. 

11848. Papilio rutilus, from C. A. Williams, Fort Lapwai, Idaho. 

11850. Larva of Eacles imperiales, from W. W. Karr, Washington, D. C. 

11871. Larva of Olketicus sp., Irom J. C. Wells, Grenada, W. T. 

11877. Citheronia rcgaliSj from J. F. Lewis, Quinnimont, W. Va. 

11910. Eighteen boxes with innned Lepidoptera. Source not indicated. 

11931. Lucilia macellaria, from Dr. Fred. Hambert, Alton, 111. 

11960. Pupa of Fapilio troilus, from the U. S. Signal OfiQcer, Fort Myer, 
Virginia. 

11960 [bis]. Belostoma grande^ from C. T. Davis, Nevada, Mo. 

11988. Larva of Umpretia stiinulea, from James W. Eogan, Eogersville, 
Teun. 

120G3. Gasterocantha cancer. Source not indicated. 

Without accession number, a very interesting collection, by Mr. L. M. 

Turner, from the Aleutian Islands, and a series of miscellaneous speci- 
mens lately collected during the winter at New Orleans, La., by Dr. R. 

W. Shufeldt. 
Most of the si)ecimens above enumerated were received in such poor 

condition as to be untit for i)reservation. It will also be noticed that 

most of them are quite common species. The chief contribution is that 



216 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

by Prof. Eugenio Dujjes, of Guanajuato, Mexico, consisting of a number 
of named Mexican Ooleoptera, upon which I have made to Professor 
Duges such report as was possible without examination of foreign col- 
lections. In this connection I would remark that there is in this country 
no public collection of any extent of foreign insects. Hence the need of 
such is very greatly felt, since every specialist is now under the neces- 
sity of traveling to Europe to study material inaccessible so far in this 
country. 

A considerable collection, in fair condition, of undetermined exotic 
Lepidoptera has also been received, but without any indication of its 
source. 

The chief, and in fact the only, collection of insects made within the 
limits of the United States is that already mentioned, by Mr. L. M. Tur- 
ner, from the Aleutian Islands, Alaska. This collection is very inter- 
esting, and I have already submitted a full report upon it. 

Under this head I would also mention the fact that Congress has pur- 
chased the copper plates and manuscript notes of Mr. Townend Glover, 
and these have been deposited in the Museum, and make a valuable relic 
of Mr. Glover's industry that can be at any future time used and referred 
to. The one full set of colored impressions from these plates, which used 
to hang in the Entomological rooms of the Department of Agriculture, is, 
however, not to be found among the material turned over to the Museum. 
This is to be regretted, as this set was of more value than the other plates 
and notes, and could have been made good use of if placed on exhibition 
as forming part of an exhibition collection. 

Department of Marine Invertebrates. 
EiCHARD Eathbun, Curator. 

The principal accessions to this department for 1882, as for the two 
pievious years, were from the United States Fish Commission. Prior 
to 1880 the extensive marine-invertebrate collections of the Fish Com- 
mission, which had then been accumulating for nine years, were all 
stored at the Peabody Museum of Yale College, New Haven, Conn., 
under the care of Prof. A. E. Verrill, who, with several associates, was 
prepfiring a series of reports upon them. Up to that time sufficient 
space could not be given to these materials in the Smithsonian build- 
ing, and it was only after certain of the other collections had been trans- 
ferred to the National Museum building that the Fish Commission col- 
lections were ordered sent on. During the i)ast three years, however, a 
large part of the bulk of these collections has been brought to Wash- 
ington, and is now available for reference. Very many duplicates 
have been disposed of to the best interests of the Museum. In addition 
to the specimens received through Prof. Verrill large quantities of ma- 
terial have been. sent direct to Washington every fall, beginning in 1880, 
from the summer headquarters of the Fish Commission. During 1880, 



REPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 217 

wh ile the fishery-census experts were visiting every part of the American 
coast, they obtained many extensive faunal collections, among the more 
interesting of which were those of Prof. D. S. Jordan, from the Cali- 
fornia coast; of Mr. Silas Stearns, from the Gulf of Mexico; and of 
Messrs. Earll and MacDonald, from the Southern Atlantic coast. The 
collections brought in by the Gloucester fishermen on behalf of the Fish 
Commission, from 1878 to 1882, are also very extensive and of extreme 
value. 

These large receipts of valuable specimens from the United States 
Fish Commission have naturally rendered the collections of this exten- 
sive survey the most important feature of this department. Up to 
January 1, 1883, there had been received from Professor Verrill 1,973 
packages and bottles of Fish Commission specimens, representing the 
several groups, as follows : 

Crustacea, 138 species. 

Worms, 31 species. 

MoUusca, 33 species. 

Bryozoa and Tunicates, 31 species. 

Echinoderms, 44 species. 

Anthozoa, 24 species. 

Hydroids, 12 species, 

A total of 313 species, and over 200,000 specimens, not counting a 
large number of the smaller species, of many of which there are several 
thousand specimens each. Nearly all of the above species are repre- 
sented by several specimens from each known locality, constituting a 
part of the so-called reserve or reference collection of the Museum, the 
balance being duplicates. The following groups are the ones most fullj'^ 
illustrated in the reserve series from the Fish Commission : The Deca- 
pod and Isopod Crustaceans, Pycnogonids, shore Annelids, Cephalopods, 
Echini, Starfishes, Gorgonians, and Actinians. The miscellaneous col- 
lections sent direct from the summer stations to Washington have not 
been fully catalogued, and no definite statement can be made concern- 
ing their extent, but they" will probably add 50 more species and many 
thousand specimens. 

The curator, during the past three summers, as an assistant to the 
Fish Commission, has devoted the most of his time to collecting and 
studying the marine Co2}epo(ia, both free-swimming and parasitic, which 
are very abundant upon our coast. The collection of Copepodsthus far 
obtained and now in the Museum is one of the largest, if not thelargestj 
in the world, and fills over 1,500 vials and bottles. 

From Mr. Vinal N. Edwards, who is in the permanent employ of the 
Fish Commission at Wood's Holl, Mass., the Museum has been in con- 
stant receipt of marine invertebrates, collected in the neighborhood of 
Wood's Holl, at intervals through the year, but mainly during the win- 
ter, spring, and fall seasons, when this region is seldom visited by nat- 
uralists. By collecting at these times Mr. Edwards has procured several 



218 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

iuteresting species, which have never been obtained by the summer 
party at this station. 

The other important accessions to this department during 1882, de- 
manding special notice, are as follows: 

From Mr. Alexander Agassiz, Cambridge, Mass., a first installment 
of the duplicates of the Blake exploring expedition, consisting of 13 
species of Anthozoa, 25 species of Sponges, 5 species of Orinoids, 8 spe- 
cies of Cephalopods, and 33 species of Crustaceans. 

From Dr. F. C. Dale, U. S. N., and Mr. Pierre L. Jouy, naturalists of 
the U. IS. steamer "Palos," engaged in surveying on the coasts of Japan 
and China, a large and exceedingly interesting series of marine inver- 
tebrates, chiefly Crustaceans and Radiates, from those regions. This 
collection derives additional value from the fact that it replaces, in 
part, old collections of the Museum burnt at the great Chicago fire of 
1871. In that conflagration the National Museum lost its alcoholic 
collection of Crustaceans, obtained by the United States exploring ex- 
pedition under Captain Wilkes, and described by James D. Dana, and 
nearly the entire collection of marine invertebrates secured by the North 
Pacific exploring expedition, which was being studied and described by 
Dr. William Stimpson, naturalist to that expedition, and director of the 
Chicago Academy of Sciences, where both collections were stored. The 
specimens from the latter expedition had been described only in part, 
and the Palos collection will probably be found to contain much new 
material when it has been ])roperly worked over. It is entirely in alco- 
hol, and in a fine state of preservation. 

The U. S. steamer "Alliance," in search of the " Jeannette," has sent 
a,lcoholic collections of marine invertebrates, obtained by dredging and 
towing in the vicinity of Spitzbergen, August, 1881. 

Dr. William H. Jones, U. S. N., IJ. S. steamer "Wachusett," has fur- 
nished a fine collection of Crustaceans and Echinoderms, from the west 
coast of British Columbia and Alaska. 

The United States Signal Service party at Point Barrow, Alaska, have 
supplied littoral marine Crustaceans and fresh-water Entomostraca 
from the vicinity of the signal station. 

The U. S. steamer "Alert" has sent twenty-five samples of soundings 
from the vicinity of the Bonin Islands, Pacific Ocean. 

Dr. Thomas C. Craig, U. S. N., U. S. steamer "Jamestown," has con- 
tributed a small collection of marine invertebrates from the South At- 
lantic. 

Lieutenant Elliott, U. S. Marine Corps, has sent one tank of alcoholic 
marine invertebrates from the Arctic regions. 

Mr. Ernest Wilkinson, midshipman, U. S. N., has furnished a small 
collection of Sea-urchins and Crustaceans from the Arctic regions. 

The Museum Nacioual de Eio de Janeiro, Brazil, has sent, in ex- 
change, a complete collection of all the known species of Brazilian corals, 
consisting of 144 specimens, and 34 species, procured between Maran- 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 219 

hao, in tlie north, and Eio de Janeiro, in the south. The greatest vahie 
of this collection arises from the fact that it contains several undescribed 
species, and represents a portion of the zoological researches of the Geo- 
logical Commission of Brazil, of which the late Prof. Ch. Fred. Hartt 
was chief. Our knowledge of the coral fauna and coral reefs of Brazil 
dates from the second journey of Professor ETartt to that country, in 1866, 
when he collected 19 species of corals, which were described by Prof. A. 
E. Verrill, in 18GS. Tlie Geological Commission of Brazil, of which the 
curator was a member, during the period of its continuance, from 1874 to 
1878, brought together a very large collection of corals, amounting in all 
to several thousand specimens, which were placed in the writer's hands for 
study and description. Thirty-four species were readily distinguished, 
but the means of properly identifying them were not at hand, and the 
completion of the report was postponed until the materials for making 
suitable comparisons could be obtained. The arrival of this collection 
at Washington will permit the accomplishment of this object. The 
writer's notes on the Brazilian collections are very full, and are accom- 
panied by many photographs. 

Dr. Charles Liitken, Copenhagen, Denmark, has sent a fine collection 
of European marine annelids, containing 85 species, mostly from Den- 
mark, carefully determined and in good condition. This collection is 
of si)ecial value as a means of making comparisons with North Amer- 
ican species, the annelid fauna of both sides of the Atlantic being very 
similar, and including many identical species. 

Dr. Gustav Eisen, Fresno, Cal., has forwarded a large collection of 
identified earth-worms, from Northern Europe and California. 

Mr. Winifred Stearns, of Amherst, Mass., has sent a collection of 
marine crustaceans, radiates, and worms, from Labrador, made for the 
National Museum. This collection has been referred to Prof. A.*E. 
Verrill for examination; it contains quite a variety of forms. 

The museum of Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn., has sent a 
collection of dry and alcoholic marine-invertebrates from Bermuda, col- 
lected by Dr. F. V. Hamlin. 

Dr. George W. Hawes, U. S. National Museum, has sent a small col- 
lection of marine invertebrates, in alcohol, from Bermuda. 

Mr. E. G. Blackford, Fulton market. New York City, has sent twenty- 
five specimens of edible crayfish {Cambariis ririlis Hogen) from Mil- 
waukee, Wis. These sj)ecimens were selected from market supplies in 
Fulton market, received from IMilwaukee, which city, with Montreal, 
Canada, furnishes all the crayfish consumed in New York City during 
the summer and fall. Also an 18-pound lobster from the coast of Maine. 
This specimen is now being mounted dry, for the exhibition cases, and 
will also be sent to the London fishery exposition. 

From Mr. C. L. Herrick, Minneapolis, Minn., has been purchased a 
small but interesting collection of cray-fish, from numerous localities in 



220 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Alabama, and representing two or three species. Also several varieties 
of Cambarus virilis from INlinnesota. 

Prof. D. S. Jordan, Blooniingtou, Ind., has furnished specimens of 
squilla and cuttlefish from Venice, Italy; shrimps and crabs, from Ma- 
zatlan, Mexico ; and shrimi^s, squids, and Physalia, from Galveston, 
Tex. 

Mr. L. Belding, Stockton, Cal., has sent a small collection of dried 
specimens of corals and Echinoderms from La Paz, Cal. 

Prof. E. E. C. Stearns, Berkeley, Cal., has sent five specimens of 
Radicipes pJeurocrlstaUts Stearns, a new genus and species of Pen- 
natnla, obtained from the coast of Japan, by Mr. W. J. Fisher. 

Messrs. McKesson & Eobbins, New York City, have sent four speci- 
mens of cultivated sheepswool sponges {Sporujia gossypina), from Key 
West, Fla., grown from cuttings planted by the agent of Messrs. Mc- 
Kesson & Eobbins. These specimens represent the first successful at- 
tempt at cultivating the commercial sponges of this country (a result 
which must have considerable influence upon the future supply of Flor- 
ida), which are apparently much less abundant now than formerly, from 
the continuous drain made upon the fishing-gronnds during the past 
ten or fifteen years. The specimens in question exhibit a growth of six 
mouths, in a depth of two and one-half feet of water, and the largest 
specimen has increased to fully six times the size of the cutting from 
which it was grown. In addition, there is a much larger donation of 
Florida sponges from the same dealers, containing 53 specimens, and 
all the varieties and grades known to the trade. The exact locality and 
depth of water from which each specimen was obtained have been fur- 
nished, thereby greatly enhancing the value of the collection. This 
collection will form the basis of the economic display of sponges in the 
Museum, and Messrs. McKesson & Eobbins have promised to add to 
it equally complete assortments of all the Bahama and Mediterranean 
commercial grades. In order to better perfect the collection of Amer- 
ican sponges and increase the size and attractiveness of the exhibit, a 
purchase was made from Messrs. McKesson & Eobbins of thirty addi- 
tional specimens of their finest Florida sheepswool sponges. This en- 
tire collection of sponges will be sent to the London fishery exhibition 
of 1883 as a part of the American exhibit. 

From Prof. H. L. Smith, Geneva, jS^. Y., have been obtained (by pur- 
chase) 1,275 microscopic slides of oceanic Foraminifera, selected from 
the soundings of several of the United States naval surveying expedi- 
tions, and of the British exploring steamer "Challenger," mounted by 
Professor Smith. This collection is of much value, and has been studied 
and identified only in part. Professor Smith made these preparations 
with the intention of writing a monograph upon the group, but other 
labors interfering he was induced to dispose of them to the National 
Museum at the mere cost of the materials used in mounting them. The 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 221 

future working up of so complete a series of the Foramiuifera, from so 
many parts of the globe, would reflect much credit upon the Museum. 

During this year Mr. William H. Dall has turned over to this depart- 
ment his very extensive and unique collection of Alaskan invertebrates, 
excepting the mollusks, all of which he had previously retained in his 
own iDossession for safe keeping. Beyond the hydroids, which were 
studied and described by Prof. S. F. Clark, and the annelids, now in the 
possession of Prof. H. E. Webster, nothing has yet been done toward 
working up this interesting mass of material. 

Fossil Invertebrates. 
Charles A. White, Curator. 

The accessions to this department have been by gift from private 
persons, and by transfer from other departments of the Government. 
The personal donations are as follows: 
J. W. Archer. One package fossils from Indiana. 
Frof. Samuel Aughey. One package of Cretaceous and Laramie fossils 

from Western l!^ebraska. 
Fr. Robert Battersly. One package Tertiary fossils from Ireland. 
Frof. G. G. Broadhead. One package of Permian fossils from Kansas. 
Frof. Samuel Galvin. One box Paleozoic fossils. 
Fllis ClarJc, jr. One package fossils from Haxiaco, Mexico. 
A. Gattinger. An artificial cast of Gonularia gattingeri Safford. 
Theo. HeiUclier. One box Cretaceous fossils from Eagle Point, Tex. 
J. L. Farr. One mass fossiliferous Cretaceous limestone from Texas. 
H. D. Fride. One box of fossils from the Utica slate formation, New 

York. 
€. F. Bauchfuss,jr. One box of fossils from Illinois. 
Bev. J. Ravens Bichards. One box Tertiary fossils from Maryland. 
F. A. Samiyson. One package Cretaceous fossils from Texas. 
Frof. S. JI. Trowbridge. One box fossils. 
Frof. Henry A. Ward. One package of fossil crabs from an island in 

the Gulf of Tonquin. 
W. S. Yeates. One package fossils from Cooperstown, N. Y. 

Besides these a few small packages of specimens have been sent in 
by different persons, but they are not of sufficient value to be awarded 
a place in the Museum. 

The following accessions have been received from other departments 
of the United States Government : 

Ninety-eight trays of fossils from the United States Geological 
Survey. 

Four boxes of fossils from Colorado ; from the Agricultural Depart- 
ment, being collections made by the Commission for locating experi- 
mental artesian wells. 

Of the accessions by gift, those from Professor Calvin and Dr. Bat- 



222 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

tersly,reRpectiAely, are most iraportaut. All the others are acceptable, 
and some of them are of cousiderale importance. 

Those which have been received from the United States Geological 
Survey are of especial interest, as they have served as the basis of cer- 
tain official reports. 

Those which were received from the Artesian Wells Commission con- 
tain large additions to the molluscan fauna of the Laramie group, and 
among them are the types of several new species. 

Department of Minerals. 
William S. Yeates, Acting Curator. 

The department has had 368 accessions by gift, a few being valuable ; 
while a large majority were specimens sent in to the department for 
examination and report, and proved worthless. 

Some very good specimens have been obtained by exchange, notably 
a fine lot of cancrinite and its associated minerals from Litchfield, Me. 
Two specimens have been purchased during the year; one a very rare 
and handsome twin-crystal of calcite, the other an immense beryl. 

The following are some facts with regard to the most interesting speci- 
mens received during the year 1882 : 

Col. P. W. Norris has contributed a handsome specimen of Egyptian 
jasper from the Euby Valley, in Montana. 

The twin-crystal of calcite, obtained by purchase, is associated with 
native cojjper, to which the crystal is fastened ; it is from the Lake 
Superior copper region ; and since the year 1801 it has been in the 
possession of a gentleman in Washington, from whom it was purchased. 

The large crystal of beryl, also obtained by purchase, is from the 
noted locality, Grafton, N. H. It is 2 feet 10 inches long, and 1 foot 
11^ inches in diameter, and it weighs 1,022 pounds. It is a twin- 
crystal, aud its faces are remarkably fine, the angles all being perfect. 

From E-ev. C. A. Harvey, of Washington, have been obtained by 
exchange nine handsome crystals of apatite from Renfrew, Canada 
These crystals are a valuable addition to our collection of apatite. 

Probably one of the most interesting accessions during the year was 
a lot of sijeciraecs from the meteoric fall of May 10, 1879, in Emmet 
County, Iowa. These were the gift of Mr. Charles P. Birge, of Keokuk, 
Iowa. One of the specimens shows very distinctly the new magnesium 
iron silicate, Peckhamite, discovered by Dr. J. Lawrence Smith. The 
s]>ecimen in our possession is the identical one used by Dr. Smith in 
determining the new mineral. 

Dr. F. M. Endlich, the predecessor of the late Dr. Hawes in the man- 
agement of this dejjartment, has contributed quite a number of European 
minerals to tlie collection, some of them being very rare specimens, 

A specimen of malachite and azurite, one of crystallized cuprite, and 
one of native copper were secured for the department from Mr. F. H. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 223 

Smith, of Washington, by Dr. F. W. Taylor, the chemist of the Museum. 
The sp3cimens, which are quite handsome, are from the Longfellow 
mine in Arizona. 

Department of Metallurgy. 

Frederick P. Uewey, Curator. 

In 1883 there were 56 accessions by gift to the department, but none 
by exchange or purchase. Upon a trip to Colorado, where I was sent 
by the Smithsonian Institution, I collected 42 specimens of the ores and 
metallurgical products of that State, which are very interesting and 
valuable. I have also collected a suite of characteristic specimens of 
iron ores from Virginia. The only other department of the Government 
that has contributed to this department is the General Laud Office, 
which has sent 297 specimens by the surveyor-general of Montana, and 
101 specimens by the surveyor-general of Arizona. There have been 
no specimens left upon deposit. 

The accessions worthy of special mention in the order of their receipt 
are two large pieces of ferruginous cerargerite (chloride of silver) from 
the Lake Valley, Dona Aiia County, New Mexico, presented by Prof. 
B. Silliman, representing ores from a region which is attracting a great 
deal of attention on account of the peculiarities of its formation and the 
richness of its ores, besides which the specimens contain a considerable 
amount of silver. A suite ot 12 specimens of cinnabar (sulphide of mer- 
cury) and sulphur, with their associates, from Sulphur Bank, California, 
presented by Prof. Jos. Lecoute, are especially interesting, as represent- 
ing some of the phenomena connected with the deposition of a metal- 
liferous vein which is forming at the present time, an occurrence which 
is not going on at any other locality with sufficient rapidity to have been 
observed as yet. A collection of ores and metallurgical products rep- 
resenting the resources of the Territory of Dakota, presented by the com- 
mission seeking the admission of Dakota into the Union as a State, one 
specimen of gold ore being especially interesting, and valued at $100. 
Among the specimens collected by myself in Colorado should be es{)e- 
cially mentioned a solid lump of cerargerite (chloride of silver), from the 
Robert E. Lee mine, Leadville, Colo., containing $100 worth of silver; 
also two specimens of embolite (chloro-bromide of silver), in chert, from 
the same mine, all presented by the superintendent of the mine. Captain 
Jackson ; and finally a suite of specimens representing the course of the 
Ziervogel process for the extraction of silver from cuijreous ores as 
practiced in Colorado. 

Departincnt of Bods and Building Stones. 
George P. Merrill, Acting Curator. 

Accessions. — The number of specimens of rocks presented to the de- 
partment during the year is 1 17 ; the number obtained by i)urchase, 40j 



224 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

the latter including a valuable collection of Italian marbles, collected 
by Hon. William T. Rice, United States consul at Leghorn, Italy. 

No additions to the collection have been made by persons in the em- 
ploy of the Smithsonian Institution, but 454 specimens have been re- 
ceived from other departments of the Government, chiefly from special 
agents in the employ of the Tenth Census, 

The accessions of greatest interest during the year have been the 
collection of building stone collected under the auspices of the Tenth 
•Census, and the marbles from Italy already mentioned. Besides these 
xire six sami^les of granite from the works of McDonald, Field & Co., 
Aberdeen, Scotland, a polished slab 35 by 35 by 2^ inches of gray 
granite from Henry Barker & Son, Quincy, Mass. ; ten blocks, each 1 
foot square and 2 inches thick, representing the different styles of cut- 
ting and polishing, from the Vermont Marble Comi^any, Sutherland 
Falls, Yt. ; and similar blocks of sandstone and gTanite from the Mc- 
Dermot and Berea Stone Company, Cleveland, Ohio, and H. Barker & 
.Sons, Quincy,- Mass., respectiv^ely. 

Department of Library . 
Frederick W, True, Librarian. 

Accessions in 1882. — -The establishment of the library being a com- 
paratively recent event, the scientific world is as yet scarcely aware of 
its existence. Its nucleus consists of the books presented by the Di- 
rector of the Museum from his private collection, ^y far the greater 
portion of the remainder are deposited by the Smithsonian Institution. 
For the rest, the library is indebted to our National and State Govern- 
ments and to a number of scientific men and institutions in various 
parts of the world. 

The distribution of the Museum publications has not directly aided 
in building up the library to any considerable degree. It has, however, 
undoubtedly tended to increase the mass of literary matter received hy 
the Smithsonian Institution, which is practically the desii^ed result. 

Less than twenty volumes have been purchased with Museum funds 
during the year; our resources in this direction being insignificant. 

Messrs. B. Westermann & Co., prominent importers in New York, have 
kindly sent to the library from time to time copies of newly imported 
books for inspection, with a view to purchase. About seventeen vol- 
umes have been bought hj the Institution for the Museum during the 
year. 

The various bureaus of the National Government, particularly those 
engaged in scientific research, have shown much liberality. I should 
especially notice the Geological Survey, which has supplied copies of 
all its publications as fast as issued. 

Mr. G, Brown Goode has permitted to be made a catalogue of his 
private collection of ichthyological and other works to be kept in the 



KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 225 

library. By this liberal arrangement the officers of the Mi^eum are 
able to consult a considerable number of books not in its library. 

One of the most important accessions is the Meek library, consisting 
of the books collected by the late Professor Meek and purchased from 
his estate by the Smithsonian Institution. It includes many interleaved 
copies of important couchological works, filled with manuscript notes 
and drawings. The Linnasau Society of London has generously given 
a complete set of its valuable Transactions and Proceedings, and in 
like manner the Liunsean Society and the Entomological Society of Xew 
South Wales. The French Academy has given a-partial series of the 
Comptes Eendus. The Imperial Academy of Sciences and the Geo- 
logical Institute of Vienna have also sent partial sets of their publica- 
tions. The French Government has presented a copy of the " Etudes" 
of the Mission Scientifique au Mexique. We are indebted to the Bureau 
of Statistics and Industry of New Jersey for a set of its reports. It is 
impossible to refer to the contributions of individuals in this place. 

Department of Plants. 

The Museum has acquired, through the mediation of Prof. Asa Gray, 
as a gift from the Eoyal Gardens and Herbarium at Kew, England, the 
extensive herbarium of Mr. Joad. Concerning this collection Professor 
Gray reports that " it is very large, apparently representing almost all 
European, temperature Asiatic, and North African plants, in copious 
specimens from the best botanists and best collections, which have 
been distributed in sets — in perfect order — having been wonderfully 
cared for." 

This collection has been thoroughly mounted and relabelled under 
the supervision of Professor Gray and Mr. Sereno Watson, at the 
Botanic Gardens, Cambridge, and wiU soon be available, for study in 
Washington. 

The herbarium of the National Museum, which was in early days 
deposited in New York under the care of Dr. John Torrey, was in 1868 
brought to Washington and placed in the custody of the Department 
of Agriculture, where it has been well cared for by Dr. George Va- 
sey, the botanist of that institution. This herbarium is, as is well 
known, particularly rich in the plants of North America, including the 
collections of all the Government exploring expeditions, as well as ex- 
pensive material gathered by exchange and special exploration under 
the direction of Dr. Vasey. 

Section of Materia Medica. 

Dr. James M. Flint, honorary curator of the section of materia medica, 
reports as follows upon the material under his charge: 

" 1. The materia medica section of the Museum has been enriched dur- 
ing the year 1882 by the accession of 1,590 specimens of medicines, most 
of them drugs in their crude state, as received by the manufacturing 
■ H. Mis. 26 15 



226 REPORT ON NA.TIONAL MUSEUM. 

cliemist and wholesale dealer. Of these 1,188 were the g:\it of large 
conimercial firms engaged in this branch of business, notably Messrs. 
W. H. Schieffeliu & Co., of New York, I'arks Davis & Co., of Detroit 
Mich., and Wallace Brothers of Statesville, N. C. Four hundred and 
two specimens, consisting of drugs from various Central and South 
American countries, which formed a part of the exhibits of those coun- 
tries at the United States Centennial Exhibition in the year 1876, have 
been transferred by the Agricultural Department of the Gov^ernment to 
this section of the Museum. Some of these it is impossible at present 
to identify, since in some cases the name has become effaced from the 
label ; in others they bear only the vernacular name without reference 
to botanical source. There are, however, many among them of much 
interest, which it would have required considerable time and effort to 
have obtained otherwise. 

"With the exceptions just mentioned the accessions have consisted 
principally of standard articles of the materia medica, including most 
of the new remedies to which the attention of the medical profession is 
at present directed. 

"Deserving of special mention is a fine collection of cinchona barks, 
presented through Messrs. Schieffeliu & Co., by the firm of Howard & 
Sons, of Loudon, which comprises 35 specimens of carefully identified 
barks from the cinchona plantations of India, Ceylon, and Java, where 
the cultivation of the various species of cinchona tree has become an im-' 
portant industry ; important not only to those engaged in it, but to man- 
kind in general, as giving the assurance of a regular and unfailing supply 
of this most valuable of all known remedies. This collection of East 
Indian barks is supplemented by specimens of the usual commercial 
l)arks from South America; by cultivated barks from Mexico, jiresented 
by Senor Hugo Einck; and by barks and herbarium specimens of the 
iiowering branches of the ofBcinal species of cinchona, from the Eoyal 
Gardens at Calcutta. Objects of interest in this section, also, are varie- 
ties of Turkey opium, in the original packages, and a number of rare 
drugs of the Indian pharmacopoeia, obtained by Messrs. Schieflelin & 
Co., from the museum of the Pharmaceutical Society of London. 

"Special effort has been made to obtain illustrated woi^ks on medical 
botany, in order that as complete a series as possible of drawings of the 
plants furnishing the drugs of commerce might be shown. These books 
have been obtained by purchase, and are already sufficient to supply 
good colored i)lates of the most important medicinal plants of this and 
other countries. Photography has also been employed in botanical 
illustration, and samples of its work have been received which prove 
the ai)plicabi]ity of the method as a cheap substitute for hand-drawing. 

" 2. An alphabetical catalogue of the whole collection has been pre- 
pared, with class references, by means of which the specimens already 
on exhibition may be found, and the proper portion of those in reserve 
indicated. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 227 

<'The classification adopted is as follows: 

'■'■ Piimary divisions. — 1. Animal products; 2. Vegetable products; 3. 
Products of fermentation and distillation; 4. Inorganic products. The 
first division follows the usual order of animal classification from highest 
to lowest. The second division is arranged in the sequence given in 
Beutham and Hooker's "Genera Plantarum." The fourth division fol- 
lows the classification of Eoscoe and Schorlemmer in their "Treatise 
on Chemistry. 

"A separate exhibit has been made of a large collection of Chinese 
medicines, which came into the possession of the Museum after the Cen- 
tennial Exhibition at Philadelphia in 1876; 630 of these articles were 
found to be in sufQciently good condition for exhibition, and have been 
inclosed in the standard jars of the Museum and arranged in the cases 
in the order given above, except that in the second division the classifi- 
cation has been founded on the part of the plant furnishing the drug, 
as roots, barks, flowers, seeds, &c. This was necessary on account of 
the impossibility of determining the botanical sources of manj* of these 
drugs. In the light of the valuable researches of Dr. Porter Smith, 
medical missionary in China, as published in his work on the Chinese 
materia medica, this collection will be found to possess very great 
interest. 

"The regular series commences with an illustrative exhibit of the 
forms in which medicines appear in commerce and are prepared for ad- 
ministration by the pharmacist. This terminological collection consists 
of characteristic sample illustrating the definitions of roots, rhizomes, 
tubers, and all other forms of crude vegetable drugs; the metals, metal- 
lic salts, mineral and vegetable acids, and other chemical products; and 
the pharmaceutical preparations, both solid and liquid, such as pills, 
plasters, tinctures, sirups, and the rest. 

"Following this are the articles of the materia medica, arranged ac- 
cording to the classification previously given. 

"About 500 labels have been prepared,' most of which are now in the 
hands of the printer. The labels are of two kinds: 1st. Generic cards, 
that may be of any required size, and are intended to give a concise state- 
ment of the varieties, sources, modes of collection and preparation, com- 
mercial value, and other facts of interest concerning each of the impor- 
tant crude drugs; 2d. Individual or specific labels, limited to a few 
lines, giving name, source, theurapeutical uses and doses. The prepara- 
tion of these labels is believed to be the most important work in hand 
in this section, since the information thereon presented must supply to 
the general visitor whatever of interest can attach to the monotonous 
rows of bottles which comprise the collection. 

" 3. Early in the organization of this section, arrangements were made 
to obtain the latest editions of the pharmacopoeias of all nations where 
such publications could be found. These pharmacopoeias have an oflEi- 
cial character, and contain lists of those substances of the materia medica 



228 BEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

whose value as medicinal agents have been established by a large expe- 
rience, and also those preparations and combinations which, from the 
frequency or convenience of their use, demand that authoritative titles 
be given them, and such methods of preparation be established as will 
insure uniformity of strength and composition in all cases. 

"Collectively, then, they include the principal substances used as 
medicines in civilized countries at the present day. ' Much of the infor- 
mation regarding these pharmacopoeias was received in answer to letters 
sent out, through the courtesy of the State and Navy Departments, to 
the United States ministers and consuls-general resident abroad, and to 
medical officers of the Navy serving on foreign stations. All but one 
of the pharmacopoeias of any considerable importance, so far as can be 
ascertained, are now in the library of the Museum. Much time and labor 
have been expended during the past year, and considerable progress 
made, in the preparation of a universal pharmacopoeia, which shall con- 
tain a list of all the drugs of all the pharmacopoeias, with their full offi- 
cial synonymy, and tables showing the constituents and comparative 
strength of all the j^reparations. This work being considered as subor- 
dinate to that relating to the arrangement and labeling of the collection, 
progress in it has been slow. 

"4. The collection, in its present state, consists of 3,163 specimens, 
of which 2,530 are permanently inclosed in standard jars and bottles of 
the Museum, and 2,150 are arranged in the cases and open to public 
inspection. Comparatively few duplicates are on hand, consisting 
chiefly of the small surplus that sometimes remained after filling the 
exhibition jars. Nearly all the specimens are in excellent condition and 
are secure from all ordinary causes of deterioration, except such as may 
come from exposure to light. 

"5. For the further development of the materia medica section, ar- 
rangements have been completed whereby an herbarium of medicinal 
plants will soon be obtained. It is proposed to exhibit the more important 
of these plants, in association with the colored drawings before mentioned, 
the former to present form and dimensions, the latter color, and details 
of botanical structure. It is a part of the general plan also to show 
enlarged drawings representing the minute structure of drugs, wherever 
structural peculiarities may exist that would aid in the identification of 
the drug. Promise has been given of a valuable contribution to the 
collection, to consist of the cinchona alkaloids and other constituents, 
in their various stages of preparation and combination. It is hoped that 
some generous and public-spirited manufacturing chemist will undertake 
the preparation of the corresponding series of the opium jjroducts. Min- 
eral waters will also find a suitable place in this section, being popular 
and often efficient remedies in very general use. The plan proposed is 
to show each in the quantity of 10 liters, and with it its saline constituents 
in the exact weight which analysis has shown to be present in that 
volume of the water, thus representing to the eye the quantity of salines 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 229 

ingested with a given quantity of water, and furnishing a quantitative 
table, without the use of figures, for comparison. Bottles of the required 
dimensions are in process of manufacture, and the necessary materials 
are at hand, so that very soon some of the best-known waters may be 
exhibited in this way. 

"Among the desirable acquisitions in the future, though perhaps 
the most difficult to obtain, are the so-called 'active principles' upon 
which the therai)eutical properties of vegetable drugs chiefly dt^pend. 
Mauy of these are known only by name, except to the few chemists who 
have isolated them, often at the expense of much labor and material. 
Doubtless they may be added from time to time, when the Museum 
shall become known as a suitable repository for such treasure. 

'' The history of medicine ought also to receive attention in this sec- 
tion, and specimens should be sought of the remedies peculiar to the 
practice of former times ; these to be presented with an account of their 
supposed virtues and modes of use. 

" The medical practice of semi-civilized and savage races of men may 
likewise be illustrated by a collection of the things used by them, in 
whatever manner, in the treatment of disease. The fine display of Chi- 
nese medicines, already referred to, is an important contribution in this 
direction. Medical superstitions form another branch of the subject, of 
great interest, and illustrative objects may be found, not only among 
the unlearned and uncivilized, but also in the most highly civilized com- 
munities, and in use by the most intelligent individuals. To bring to- 
gether objects of the several classes just mentioned, and to collect the 
information necessary to make them of value, will require much time, 
and can only be accomplished by awakening the attention and interest 
of many people, in widely separated districts, who may pick up articles 
here and there and note isolated facts. In the classification adopted by 
the Museum, medicine, surgery, pharmacology, and hygiene are classed 
together. Into the section under consideration, therefore, will naturally 
fall everything that relates to the treatment and prevention of disease. 
The instruments used in medical examinations, such as the stetho- 
scope, sphygmograph, and clinical thermometer; surgical instruments, 
including dental instruments of all kinds, ancient and modern; the 
appliances used in the treatment of fractures, dislocations, and deformi- 
ties — all should be presented in this section, and a collection of such 
instruments and appliances must prove extremely useful as a record of 
the progress that has been made in the art of medicine and surgery, 
and suggestive of improvements that may be hoped for in the future. 
To obtain these objects will involve considerable expense on the part of 
the Museum, or corresponding generosity on the part of manufacturers 
and dealers, but they must certainly be classed under the head of de- 
siderata. 

"The formation of a Museum of Hygiene, to be established in this city, 
having been undertaken by the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery of the 



230 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Navy, it seems unnecessary to make any suggestions for the develop- 
meDt in this direction of the Materia Medica section of the National 
Museum." 

Section of Building Stones and lioclcs. 

Mr. George P. Merrill, acting curator of the department of building 
stones, reports as follows : 

"The work of cataloguing has been carried on as rapidly as possible 
in connection with the other work of the Museum, the specimens being 
entered upon the Museum registers as soon as possible after their re- 
ception; 611 numbers have thus been added to the register during the 
year, and a card catalogue prepared of about the same number. 

"The work upon the reserve series has been almost wholly for the pur- 
pose of classifying, arranging, and preparing for exhibition. Several 
thousand specimens, which have heretofore been packed away in boxes 
for lack of proper space, have within a short time been unpacked, and 
will be classified and arranged as rapidly as possible. This work is now 
in progress, and will yet require some time for completion. In connec- 
tion with this work some 1,500 thin sections, principally of building- 
stones, have been prepared for microscopic study. With the death of 
the curator of the department, Dr. George W. Hawes, this entire branch 
of the work has fallen upon me, and has been performed to the best of 
my ability. The work upon the exhibition series has been of the same 
nature as that upon the reserve, so far as methods of classifying are 
concerned. Various styles of cases for the exhibition of specimens have 
been designed and are now in process of preparation ; a form of label 
has also been decided upon, and several hundred prepared, though as 
yet unprinted. No duplicate specimens have been distributed during 
the year. 

" The state of the collection has been such as to ofter but few induce- 
ments for work to persons not connected officially with the Musuem. 
As already noted, the builuiug-stone collection of the tenth census is 
placed in the Museum, and every possible facility has been furnished 
their special agent for properly working up the material. My own labors 
have been very largely directed to furnishing what aid 1 was able in 
the way of preparing thin sections and submitting them to microscopic 
examination. 

" Owing the delay of work, caused by the sickness and death of the 
curator of the department, and the limited time I have had it in charge, 
but little has been published during the year; a single article, ' On a 
Phosphate Sandstone from Hawthorne, Florida,' from the pen of the 
late Dr. George W. Hawes, comprising all that has appeared. 

"The number of specimens at present in the collection cannot, owing 
to the limited time it has been under my control and its consequent un- 
assorted condition, be told with exactness; the following figures are, 
however, v^ery nearly correct. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 231 

"The total number constituting the reserve series is 9,075; of these 
but 7j28S are as yet entered upon the Museum registers, and for lack 
of cases only about 100 are placed permanently upon exhibition. For 
reasons already stated the number of duplicates can only be estimated ; 
it will, however, probably not vary far from 1,500, making a total for 
the whole collection of 10,575 specimens, of which only some 1,100 are- 
as yet entered upon card catalogues. 

"Of the 7,288 specimens at present registered, 3,478 belong properly 
to the collection of building and ornamental stones, and are mostly of 
sufficient size to be dressed into cubes of four inches and upwards in 
diameter, 1,322 having already been thus dressed, and only await proper 
cases to be placed permanently upon exhibition. The remaining 3,810 
specimens are mostly hand specimens collected by the United States 
Geological and various State surveys throughout the country. 

"The collection comprises at present 2,500 thin sections of rocks pre- 
pared for microscopic study. 

" The following is a list of the apparatus belonging to the depart- 
ment : 

"1. One machine for grinding thin sections of rocks. 

"2. One diamond saw for slicing rocks. 

"3. One Bonwill's dental engine for sawing, boring, drilling, or cut- 
ting away the matrix from around fossils. 

"4. One set of blow-pipe apparatus. 

"5. One Crouch binocular microscope. 

"6. One Fuess's lithological microscope. 

"It is eminently desirable that the various specimens constituting 
the building- stone collection be properly dressed and jjlaced upon ex- 
hibition as soon as possible. The collection will then contain upwards 
of 2,000 specimens of building and ornamental stones, representing all 
the quarries of importance at present worked in the United States, as 
well as many foreign ones, and will constitute an invaluable reference 
series. 



APPENDIX D.— LISr OF CONTRIBUTORS TO THE MUSEUM 

IX 1882. 

Aby, Hon. Thomas Y. Alcoholic specimen of viviparous fish {Gambusia 
patrueUs) ; from near Vicksburg, Miss. 

Abert, Charles. Specimen of bird-skm [Zamelodia ludoviciana) ; from 
District of Columbia. 

Adams, Br. M. M. Specimen of fungus found growing at root of rad- 
ish ; from Indiana. 

Adams, Ma yhe IV. Specimen of boat- chock; from Massachusetts. 

Agassis, Prof. Alex. Collection of sponges and crinoids; mainly from, 
the Blake Expedition. 



"232 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Ainslee, Hon. George. Vial containing lock of hair cut from the head 
of Sir Walter Scott during his last illness. 

Allan, Eohert. Four coopers' drafts of whaling vessels' holds for casks; 
from Massachusetts. 

Allard, F. A. Two specimens pyrite and hornblende; from Kansas. 

Allen, F. 8. One butter knife made on shii)board, one pair of bone 
scrapers, one cleaning knife, two gudgeons, one egger's bomb lance; 
from New Bedford, Mass. Model of life-raft and windlass, one sword- 
fish iron ; from Connecticut. 

Allen, J. A. Three fragments of a superior maxillary, and frontal bones; 
from mound in Texas. 

Allen, William G. Four specimens of fossils; from Wisconsin. 

Ailing, Gharles E. Two microscopic slides of worms; from the canal- 
feeder at Rochester, N. Y. 

Ames, G. A. Two samples building stones made by the McKnight 
process. 

Anderson, J. W. One twin watermelon; from Texas. 

Anderson, John G. Specimen of asbestos; from Idaho. 

Anderson, William. Six eggs of black snake {Bascanmm constrictor); 
from Maryland. 

Archer, J. W. Twelve specimens of Indian im])lements and two speci- 
mens of fossils {StigmariaJicoides'Brongt.); from Indiana. 

Archer, Thomas G., Edinburgh, Scotland. Model of Meuszynski appa- 
ratus for transporting live fish. 

Ashmead, T. Graham, Skins of snow-bunting and red-winged black- 
bird; from New York. 

Aslien, L. M. G. Specimen of insect; from Mississippi. 

Aughey, Frof. Samuel. Four specimens of Cretaceous and Laramie fos- 
sils ; from Nebraska. 

Babhs, Arthur V. Small box of Indian relics, fossils, and shells; from 
Illinois. 

Baker, George 0., & Go. Specimens of cotton-seed and products ; from 
Alabama. 

Baker, N. G. Specimen of mound pottery; from Tennessee. 

Baird, Frof. Spencer F. Specimen of old piano, bouglit in 1805. 

Baird, Mrs. Frof. S. F. One white, hand-woven spread, about 100 y^earg 
old. 

Baird, W. G. Specimen of head of fish {Amia calva) ; from Chattanoogajj 
Tenn. 

Baldicin, A. S. Alcoholic specimen of fish [Erimyzon goodei); froi 
Florida. 

Baldwin, G. G. Two specimens of bird-skins: Java sparrow, Napoleoi 
finch. 

Baldwin, Isaac F. Specimens of minerals and sand; from Virginia. 

Ball, James N. [deceased), through his daughter, Mrs. Laurie Wilkins, cify| 
Collection of minerals, rocks, fossils, Indian relics, etc. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 233 

Barney, Colonel. Leaves and fruit of plant from U. S. of Colombia, 
said to be a remedy for dropsy. 

Barnum, Bailey & Hutchinson. Specimens in flesh of ant-eater {Myr- 
mecophaga jubata); gnu {Cataplepas gnu); baboon {Cynocephalus bab- 
ouin; puma; leopard; ape; black and gray ostrich; hornbill (J5Mcero,s 
bicornis) ; 3 cockatoos ( Cacatua galerita) ; toucan [Rhampliastos cuvieri) ; 
flamingo {Phcenicopterus), species, died in captivity at Bridgeport, 
Conn. 

Banium, P. T. Specimen of fabulous bird, and stuffed skin of snake 
with three heads, made in Japan. 

Barnum, Bichardson & Go. Collective exhibit of ores, iron, car-wheels, 
etc. 

Bartlcff, George. Specimen of bird-skin (Ar<7m /ie?'oc?ias); from District 
of Columbia. 

Bartlett, I. H., and iSons. Specimens of lance-bag and iron crotch for 
whale-boat. 

Barton, D. R., Tool Company. Collective exhibit of edged tools; from 
Rochester, N. Y. 

Barton.^ James. Specimens of wliale-boat fittings; from Massachusetts. 

Batchen, John S. F. Collections of minerals, fossils, building stones, 
Indian relics, with specimens from the great fire at Chicago, 111., 
October 8, 1871. 

Bateman, T. P. Specimens Indian relics, four perforators, five spear- 
heads, one catlinite pipe, one steatite pipe; from Tennessee. 

Bathersby, Robert. Through Barbara Bathersby, one slide of diatoms; 
from Toome Bridge. Also small tertiary shells; from Antodes, Ire- 
land. 

Bay State Iro7i Company, Boston. Mass. Three specimens flanges, iron, 
etc. 

Bean, Dr. Tarleton H. Specimens of fresh fish, tench [Tinea vulgaris). 
Also tank of alcoholic fishes from Susquehanna River at Havre de 
Grace, Md.: Clupeasapidissima, Clupea cestivalis, Carpiodes, Catostomus 
(two species), Lepomis gibbosus, Anguilla rostrata, Amiurus catus, Belone 
longirostris, Perca amcricana, Roccus americanus, Bsox reticulatus, 
Rocctis saxatiUs, Semotilus bullaris. 

BearcCj Gideon. Two specimens of rocks; from Maine. 

Bearddey, Wilson. Box of oysters-shells ; from Long Island, N. Y. 

Beardsley Scythe Compa7iy, West Winjield, Conn. An exhibit of edged 
tools, scythes, axes, etc. 

Beeber, M., & Co. Twenty-nine specimens showing method of the manu- 
facture of gloves, from the skin to the finished article. 

Beetle, James. Si)ecimen of boat-knee, steam-bent, model of fishing 
boat, frost fish spear, live-car, blueflsh squid, model of whale-boat. 

Beetle, Rudolphus. Dried specimen of frog found in molasses; from 
Massachusetts. 



234 rp:port on national museum. 

Behr, Herr von V. One bottle alcoholic fishes ( Umbra krameri) ; from 
Germany. 

Belding, L. A large uumber of specimens of the skins, nests, and eggs 
of birds, living and alcoholic specimens of snakes, toads etc., corals, 
shells, Indian relics, alcoholic fishes, insects, mammal skins, etc.^ 
from sontherii jiortion of Lower California. 

Belfield, Br. R. A. Old Eng ish penny, dated 1G19, found on "Strat- 
ford," Westmoreland County, Virginia (General Washington's birth- 
place). 

Bell, James, United Statea Land Office. A large collection of living 
and alcoholic snakes, birds' skins, nests, eggs, and skeletons, Indian 
relics, plants, and pair slippers made from skins of snakes {Crotalns 
adamanfeus, Ophibolus getulus). 

Bendire, Capt. Charles, U. 8. A. Forty-six specimens and (twenty-two 
species) birds' skins ; from Washington Territory. One box birds' 
skins. (Deposited.) 

Benedict, James E. One rake-dredge for collecting in shallow water. 

Benedict & Burnham Manufacturing Company, Waterhury, Conn. Col- 
lective exhibit of brass, crude and manufactured. 

Benton, Hon. J. Casts of stone ax and hammer ; from Harrison County, 
Indiana. 

Berry., F. J. Specimen of tuclcaho ; from Tennessee. 

Bessels, Dr. Emil. Specimens of dog and cockato in flesh; from Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

Bihhins, F. L. Specimen of aluminous hematite. 

Bierman, Jjouis. One box of Indian relics ; from Illinois. 

Birge, Charles P. Specimen from large meteorite which fell in Emmet 
County, Iowa, in 187!). 

Bishop, James N. Specimens of shells; from Connecticut. Also bottle 
containing five parasites taken from a common hog. 

Blackford, F. G. Large collection of native and foreign oysters, lobster 
weighing 18 pounds, specimens of living and fresh fishes; from Atlan- 
tic coast from Maine to Florida. Salmonidce; from west coast and 
Territories. Living tortoise {Chelono ides tahulata); from Venezuela. 
Living cray-fishes; from Wisconsin. 

Bliss, L. F. Stone pipe ; from Illinois. 

Bloss, Joseph B. Two sections of sperm-whale jaws scrimshawed on 
shipboard by sailors. 

Boardman, George A. Three boxes of birds' skins ; from Maine. 

Bogart, James P. One box of shell oysters; from Connecticut. 

Booker, T. H. {through John B. Wiggins). One specimen of bird in flesh j| 
from Virginia. 

Bourne, Jonathan. Specimens of whale-boat fittings; from Massachu- 
setts. 

Boughton, Mrs. S. H. {deceased), through J. P. Keicland. Specimen of 
agate; from near Manitou Island, Lake Michigan. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 235 

Bourland, Dr. A. M. One box of Unios ; from Arkansas. 

Boicron, Willani M. Specimen of manganese oxide dendrite ; from 
Virginia. 

Braclett, Col. A. G., U. A\ A. Specimen of humming-bird's nest; from 
Jeftersou Barracks. 

Bradjield, R. L. Specimen of fosvsil shark's tooth {Galeocerdo falcatus) ; 
from Texas. 

Bradford^ H. Twenty vials, with specimens of ore separated by ma- 
chinery. 

Bradfute, Charles iS. Specimen of gypsum ; from Nevada. 

Bradlee (fc Co. Empire Chain Worlcs, PMIadelpJiia, Pa. Specimens of 
iron cables for hoisting and lowering anchors, with specimen of anchor. 

Bradley, Col. L. P., JJ. 8. A. Section of fossil tree ; from near Fort Win- 
gate, N. Mex. 

BradsJ:reet, E. C. Specimen of spider (Galeodes) ; from Colorado. 

Brady, E. J. Fourteen skins of Australian birds. (Purchased.) 

Brandin, Gibbs & Co. " The imperial plow." 

Bransford, Dr. J. F., U. 8. N. Eight boxes of pottery, clay vessels 
(large and small), stone images, polished celts, etc. ; from depart- 
ment Liberia, canton of Nicoya, Costa Rica. Also specimen of Hon- 
duras turkey {Melegaris ocellata) ; from Guatemala. 

Brewster, William. Seventeen specimens of birds' skins ; from Arizona. 
Three specimens Virginia Warbler [Helminiliophaga virginice). 

Briand, Capt. A., steamer " St. Germain." Two living albino siredons, 
bred from a pair of black axolotls ; from France. 

Broadhead, G. C. Package of fossils; from Kansas. 

Broadnax, Benjamin H. One box of Indian relics ; from Louisiana. One 
alcoholic specimen {Necturns lateralis). 

Brown, E. L. Box of birds' nests and eggs, skin of owl [Asio icilsoni- 
anus), skin of mole {Scalops argentatus); from Wisconsin. 

Brown, John E. Specimen of arrow-head ; from Maryland. 

Broivn, James Temple. Two specimens of coral, thirty-nine specimens of 
ethnology; from Hudson's Bay. Flukes of porpoise, seven lobster 
pegs; from Massachusetts. 

Brown, 8. C. Specimen of mineral ; from Tennessee. 

Broicnloiv, W. P. Two boxes of minerals; from Tennessee. 

Brush-Swan Electric Company. One No. 5 electric machine, two lamps^ 
one parabolic reflector and case complete, one No. G lamp. (Loan.) 

Buell, A. E. Specimen of vertebra of whale; from North Carolina. 

Btillion, T. J. Specimen of mineral ; from Arkansas. 

Burden, H., & Co. Collective exhibit of horse and mule shoes, with 
specimens and models of hoofs. 

Burger, Peter. Specimen of mat made of fibers; from Japan. 

Burkart, W., Brunn. Forty specimens of the woods of Europe used in 
manufactures. 

Burke, Clarence. Skin of Soldier bird ; from Australia. 



236 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

BurJchart, H. Z. Three specimens of ores; from Wood Eiver, Idabo. 
Burnham, David. Three boat models ; from Massachusetts. 
Burnham, A. 31. Two boxes fishing apparatus; from Massachusetts. 

(Purchased.) 
Burr, Fearing. Cast of stone pestle; from Massachusetts. 
Burr, Col. B. T., U. 8. A. Living specimen of Gila monster (^e?o(?erma 

suspectum) ; from Arizona. 
Butler, A. W. Ten specimens of birds' skins; from the Valley of Mexico. 

Six skins of worm-eating warblers {Helmitlicriis vermivorus) ; from In 

diana. 
Butler, Cyrus W. Two alcoholic specimens of water moccasin {Ancis- 

irodon piscivorus); from Illinois. 
Butler, Hon. M. C. Specimen of phosphate rock; from South Carolina. 

Also silver ore ; from New Mexico. 
Buttricic, J. T. One box of ship's bread ; from Massachusetts. 
Byron, Oliver J). Nickel-jjlated railroad spike from the track used to 

transport the car with the late President James A. Garfield, to and 

from cottage where he died. 
Calcutta Royal Botanic Gardens. Specimens of Cinchona products, barks 

(three varieties), herbarium specimens, and alkaloids; from India. 
Caldwell & Cowles. Specimen of beetles {Dynastes tityus) ; from North 

Carolina. 
Calver, Mrs. Alice E. Suit of buckskin clothes, trimmed with beads, 

worn by "Little Eaven," chief of the Arapahoes. 
Camacho, Simon. Skin of boa-constrictor ; from Venezuela. 
Cambria Iron Worlcs, Johnstown, Pa. An exhaustive exhibit of iron 

and steel manufactured at their works. 
Camden, Hon. J. M. Specimen of bituminous shale; from West Vir- 
ginia. 
Capehart, W. E. Specimens of fossil shark's tooth; from North Caro- 
lina. 
Capner, Thomas. Four eggs of Brahmin hen, laid in two days, April 9 

and 10, 1882. 
Carson, T. Burr. Nine stone implements ; from Tennessee. 
Carter, Hon. George W. Specimen of rock used for paving streets of 

Caracas, Venezuela ; also seed and hull of mahogany tree ; fromPlaza 

Bolivia, Caracas. 
Carter, Samuel R. Four stone relics and thirty-six specimens of miner- 
als; from Maine. 
Cates & Nials. Specimens of minerals; from Tennessee. 
Cavileer, C. Eed Eiver cart of old pattern, harness, and photograph 

of post-office and house at Pembina, Dak. 
Centennial Commission [Philadelphia, Pa., 1876). Nine specimens of 

building stones, also eleven boxes Centennial records and pictures. 
Chadwick, Mr. Specimen of Greener harpoon; from Edgartown, Mass. 
Chalfant, E. C. Specimen of mineral; from Indiana. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 237 

Chappel, FranJc W. One liviug specimen of alligator (Alligator mi sis- 
sippiensis) ', from Florida. 

Chase, James H. Specimens of chalcedony; from Magdalena, Mexico. 

Chase, George. Specimens of oil-stones; from Wachita, Ark. Turkey, 
etc., with samples of oil used in sharpening tools. 

Cheshire, W. W. Eude flint implement; from Indiana. 

Chester, Capt. H. C. Four jars alcoholic fishes; from Noank, Conn. 

Childs, T. A. Six specimens native gold in quartz; from Eagle Shalt, 
Virginia. 

Church, Joseph, & Co. One bottle sea- water; from Point Judith, E. I. 

Clarlc, Ellis. Ten specimens fossils ; from Mexico. 

Clarlc, Hon. J. B. Specimens of minerals; from Texas and New Mex- 
ico. 

ClarJc, J. W. B. Four specimens of alcoholic fishes {Chasmodes bos- 
cianus, Oobiosoma boscii) ; from Massachusetts. 

Clarlc, Frank N. One bottle alcohol fishes; from Lake Michigan. 

ClarJc, A. Howard. Specimens of boat-fittings from Massachusetts. 

Clarlc, E. R. Specimen of arrow-head ; from Indiana. 

Clarlc, Martin. One box of Indian relics ; from Ohio. 

Clay, Henry. One specimen of clapper or "I^antucket bell"; from 
Massachusetts. 

Cleaveland, W. P. Two microscopic slides, with sections of coral; from 
the Cincinnati group, Ohio. 

Clements, Eon. J. C. Specimenof limestone; from Georgia. 

Cleveland, William B. One specimen birds' eggs (Ampelis garrulus); 
from Michigan. 

Coffin, C. E. Three specimens minerals ; from Maryland. 

Coffin, J. W. Specimens of Indian relics, cane made from whalebone 
on shipboard, and fossils ; from Massachusetts. 

Colce, Hon. Richard. Specimen of limonite ; from Texas. 

Cole, Luther. Eight specimens of harpoons and lances ; from Massa- 
chusetts. 

Collins, D. E. Specimen of mackerel [Scomber EeJcayi) ; from off Thatch- 
er's Island. 

Collins, Jos. W. Collection of fishing apparatus; from Massachusetts. 

Collins, P. E. Oil paintings of vessels and fishing scenes. 

Collins, W. H. Specimens of wild-pigeon eggs; from Michigan. 

Colorado, State of. Large collection of gold, silver, and lead ores, and 
building stones (eighteen tons) ; from Centennial Exhibition, Philadel- 
phia, Pa., 1876. 

Conklin, William O. Specimen of iron pyrites; from Michigan. 

Connell, D. Specimens of Baker harpoon-gun and blackfish-blubber 
hook. (Purchased.) 

CooJc^H.S. One harpoon, four slabs of finback bone. (Purchased.) 

CooJc, Jonathan. Specimen of ear-bone of whale. 



238 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

CooA-, Lieut. L. M., TJ. S. A. Skiu and skeleton of Eocky Mountain goat; 
irom Montana. 

(Jook, N. N. Pair of duck trousers worn by Mr. Cook when bitten by 
a shark. 

Cook, Stephen. Specimens of boat-fittings; from Massachusetts. 

Coolbaugh, Benjamin. Iron bear-trap and anchor, two anchor stones; 
from Susquehanna Eiver. Box of stone relics, from Bradford County, 
Pennsylvania (through John B. Wiggins.) 

Co-operative Dress Association. Esthetic dresses of the period 1880- 
1882. 

Cope, Prof. E. D. Alcoholic s,\itQ\v(i<i\i oi Eumeces semilineatus ; from 
Texas. 

Coplay Cement Company. Cement, crude and prepared, with illustra- 
tions showing its uses. 

Coppcl, E. C. Specimen of steatite pipe ; from mound in Florida. 

Corbin, P. & F. Large collective exhibit of builder's hardware, artis- 
tic and ornamental designs in bronze. 

Corey, L. C. One bottle sample copying ink. 

Cornell, J. & J. B. Collective exhibit of over forty objects, embracing 
articles of ornamental and ])ractical iron work employed in the build- 
ing industry. 

Corson, Br. Jos. R., U. S. A. Three living spermophiles {Spermophilus 
tereticaudus) ; from Fort Yuma, Cal. 

Coues, Br. Elliott, U. 8. A. Fivehdls of Melanetta velvetina; from Mas- 
sachusetts. 

Craig, Br. Thomas C, TJ. 8. N. Alcoholic invertebrates and birds' skins 
{Phoebetriaftdigin'isns, Chionisalba, Priocella tenuirostris) ; from South 
Atlantic. 

Crow Island Club {through Isaac Hinckley). Eight specimens of swans 
in flesh, also specimen of goose (Bernicla hutchinsi) ; from Currituck 
Sound, North Carolina. 

Cumming, W, M. Three alcoholic specimens of fishes {Gambusia 
patruelis), also box of living plants, Venus fly-trap, Venus pitcher, 
trumpet plants; from North Carolina. 

Cunningham, Capt. A. F. Alcoholic specimen of snake. 

Cunningham, J. H. One small box of minerals ; from Arkansas. 

Cunningham, Patrick. Wooden model of the first breech-loading dart- 
ing-gun; series of exploded lancc.s cut from whales. 

Schooner " Lucille Curtis.''^ Alcoholic specimen of deadly poisonous 
snake " Oro-co-co" ; from Demerara lliver. West Indies. 

Bakota Belegation, Centennial Exhibition, Philadelphia, Pa., 1870. Large 
collection of minerals and ores ; from Dakota. 

Bale, F. C, TJ. S. Steamer " Palos.^^ One tank alcoholic fishes, inverte- 
brates, and box of birds' skins ; from China. 

Barr, John. Living specimen of bat {Altalapha noveboracensis) ; from 
Agricultural Grounds, Washington, D. C. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 239 

J)(irf mouth College. Large crj'stal of beryl (weight 1,000 pounds), piece 

of red porphyry, and samples of marble. 
J/avison, J. L. Specimen of bird's Q^g) from Xew York. 
Davis, C. T. Specimen of insect; from Missouri. 
Davis, Eon. H. G. Specimens of minerals, ores, and coke; from West 

Virginia. 
Davis, J. N. Specimenof malformed corn-cob (of the shape of the human 

foot with five toes) ; from Maryland. 
Davis, W. E., & Son. Fresh specimen of tarjjum {Megalops atlanticus) 

from Wilmington, i^. C. 
J)aicson, H. M. Specimen of sulphide of lead; from West Virginia. 
J)ay, Kichard H. Specimen of coral [Primnoa reseda); from Maine. 
De Lisehnc Doctcur. Small box of insects ; from Europe. 
I)e Long, J. W. Specimen of mineral; from Ohio. 
J)enniso)i Manufacturing Company. Collection of indestructible "game- 
counters." 
Jiennis, Waldo. Two bones of fore leg of a horse, with supernumerary 

toe; from Wisconsin. 
Dent, J. P. Specimen of quartz crystal; from Texas. 
Department of Agriculture, Raleigh, N. C, {through S. G. Worth). Two 

sections of trees, with tools and products of the pitch and turpentine 

industry of !N^orth Carolina. 
Derby, Prof. 0. A. Seeds of Victoria regia ; from Brazil. 
Devoe, F. W., <b Co. One can of luminous paint. 
Dewey, Fred. P. Specimens of iron and silver ores; from Virginia and 

Colorado. 
Diamond JStatc Iron Company, Wilmington, Del. Collective exhibit of 

iron and steel, railroad rails, etc. 
DicMnson, E. Three specimens of birds' eggs {Tetanus m,elanoleucus) ; 

from Manitoba. 
Dill, Jos. T. Specimen of cotton-plant and two bags of cotton-seed; 

from South Carolina. 
Dix, Dr. D. W.^ Specimens of minerals; from West Virginia. 
Dodge, Col. Richard I., TJ. S. A. Piece of flexible sandstone; from 

North Carolina. 
Doherty, E. P. Scales of alligator-gar ; from Louisiana. 
Donaldson, Thomas. Box of rocks and sheet-copper. 
Donnelly, Frarik L. Alcoholic specimen of embryo calf {Bos taurus, 

juv.) ; irom Maryland. 
Doron, T. S. Bottle of alcoholic fishes and three butterflies ; Irom 

Alabama. 
Dorchester Union Freestone Company. Collection of building stones and 

stone model of " Independence bell." 
Douglass, E. A. Three arrow-heads; from Missouri. 
Douglas, James, jr. Four stone-mining hammers; from ancient mine 

in Chili. Also package of Indian relics ; from Peru. 



240 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Douglas, John. Liviug specimen of siren {Siren lacertina), of very large 

size ; from Potomac Flats, Washington, D. C. 
Dow, Capt. John M. One living Mexican deer {Cervus mexicanus) ; two 

living wbite-tufted marmosets {(Edipus titi)-, one owl-monkey {Nycti- 

pithecus rujipes) ; from Panama. 
Brake, Mrs. M, E. Specimen of stone relic; from Mississippi. 
Drew, Benjamin F. Armor worn by natives of Marshall and Caroline 

group of islands, South Pacific. 
Briggs, James D. Three harpoons. 
Brum Edge- Tool Company, West Waterville, Conn. Collection of edged 

tools, scythes, axes, etc. 
Buges, Frof. Alfred. Collection of mammals, birds, reptiles, fishes, and 

fossils ; from Mexico. 
Buly, A. A. Two eggs of " Seabright bantam." 
Bunn, Hon. Foindexter. Two specimens of minerals. 
Byer, W. Thistleton. Box of botanical specimens and photographs of 

calabash carvings ; from Eoyal Gardens, Kew, England. 
Earl, R. Edward. Drum-fish, bass, blackfish, and whiting gear, used 

by Saint Augustine, Fla., fishermen; sounder to sake sounds from 

the throat of seatro ut. 
Ears, Captain. I^arnacle taken from the belly of a humpback whale. 
Eastabrook, Mrs. C. B. Specimen of talc; from Florida. 
Eastman, Frof. J. R. Fragment of meteorite which fell in Iowa County, 

Iowa, on the night of February ]2, 1875. 
Eaton, M. L. Specimens of frogs and eggs ; from Iowa. 
Eclxloff, T. IF. Two specimens building stones ; from California. 
Edivards, Vinal N. Nine boxes of specimens of alcoholic fishes {Loph- 

opsetta maculata, Fhycis, Tautoga onitis), etc., invertebrates {Chcetopte- 

rus pergamentaceus, Loligo pealii, Lihinia duhia), miscellaneous crabs, 

star-fishes, etc., skull of deer and miscellaneous bones, egg of black 

duck, birds' skins and skeletons {Mergus serrator, Clangula albeola, 

Colymbus septentrionalis), etc.; from Massachusetts. 
Egbert, Augustus R. Drawing of Salmonoid fish; from Idaho. 
Eggers, 8., sr. Eetchen gun and harpoon, Pierce & Eggers whaling gun. ^ 

(Purchased.) One frost-fish spear. 
Eisen, Gustav. One box of mammal skins and alcoholic collection ofj 

worms; from California. 
Elliott, Lieutenant, U. S. Marine Corps. One tank alcoholic specimens ; 

from Greenland. 
Emmerson, W. Otto. Six specimens of birds' skins ; from California, 
Endlich, Br. F. M. Collection of sixty-eight specimens of minerals, 

specimens of charred unshucked corn, taken seven feet below surface 

in old ruins on San Juan Eiver, New Mexico. 
Evans, R. B. Specimen of rock ; from Virginia. 
Fain, George A. {through Br. E. Falmer). Two stone axes and one large 

pipe ; from Tennessee. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 241 

Fair, H. I). M. Specimen of perforated stone found nt.ar Arlington, 

two miles north of Newark, K. J. 
Fairbanks & Co. One large platform scale. 
Farley, Hon. J. T. Specimen of ores; from California. 
Farrier, I. W. One barrel of mineral water ; from Texas. 
Fearon, B. W. Specimens of minerals ; from Ohio. 
Fencker, G. Specimens of birds' eggs and ethnologica; from Green- 
land. 
Fischer, Moritz. Specimens of stone relics ; from Ohio. 
Fish, E. J. Specimens of minerals ; from Georgia and Tennessee. 
Fisher, William J. Specimens of alcoholic fishes, birds' skins, Indian 

relics, etc. ; from Alaska. 
Fisk, E. G. Specimen of living land puppy [Amhlystoma punctatum), 
and also specimens of bull snakes {Pityophis sayi hellona) ; from 
Illinois. 
Fitchett, W. H. Specimens of minerals ; from Texas. 
Fitzpatriel", S. Specimens of fossil ferns ; from New Brunswick. 
Flanagin, H. W. Specimens of alcoholic reptiles 5 from New Jersey. 
Fletcher, Br. Robert. Specimens of OrchUla ; from San Diego, Cal. 
Foote, J. Howard. Large collection of musical instruments. 
For epaugh, Adam. Elephant in flesh, "Mungo;" died in menagerie 

while on exhibition in Washington on April 6 and 8, 1882. 
Fox, W. H. Specimens of alcoholic lizards, centipedes, etc., also one 

skin {Penccea ilUnoensis) ; from Lookout Mountain, Tennessee. 
French, Penrhyn & Co. Specimen of black marble ; from Glen's Falls 

New York. ^ 

Frost, S. A. Specimen of Indian flute; from the Indian Territory. 
Fuller, A. N. Three eggs of coot {Fulica americana). 
Gallaher, Miss L. Bernie. Package of Japanse pamphlets. 
Galvin, C. T). Specimens of clay and mica; from New York. 
Gamage, A. T. Specimens of bone and stone implements, also fragments 

of pottery; from Maine. 
Gamble, Jos. B. {through Hon. William Heilman). Specimens of ores; 

from Missouri. 
Gandy, John W. Specimens of oysters in shells ; from Cape May, N. J. 
Gannett, Mrs. E. A. One whale-ship's log-book. 
Gamier, Br. J. A. Sijecimen of living Massasauga rattlesnake ( CawcZi- 

sona tergemina) ; from Ontario, Canada. 
Gass, Master Willie. Specimen of snake {Ophibolus getulus) ; from Mary- 
land. 
Gatchet, A. S. Specimens of arrow and spear heads; from Kentucky. 

Also teeth and scales of garfish ; from Louisiana. 
Gattinger, A. Cast of Conularia gattingeri; from Tennessee. 
Gere, J. B. Specimens of Indian relics; from Wisconsin. 
Bering, Frederick. Specimen of fish {Menticirrus nebulosus), caught in a 
herring-net in Gloucester Harbor. 
H. Mis. 26 16 



242 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Gihhons, William G. {through Thomas Donaldson). Model in gold, silver, 
and steel of the steamship " William G. Gibbous," built by Pusey & 
Joues Companj", of Wilmiugtou, Del. 

Gibbs, George J. Specimen of cave deposit ; from cave at Breezy Point, 
on Caicos Island. 

Gilbert^ Charles H. Alcoholic specimens of reptiles, turtles, etc. ; from 
Mazatlan, Mexico. 

Gallbreth, Henry. Specimens of Indian relics ; from Illinois. 

Gillehan, Alonzo {through Dr. Timothy E. Wilcox). Seven small speci- 
mens of arrow-heads ; from mouth of Willamette Eiver, Oregon. 

Gillis, T. N. Specimens of mineral and rocks; from Mississippi. 

Gilmer, G. K. Four specimens of fresh-herring ( Z>oro«owta cepedianum) ; 
from James Eiver, at Eichmond, Va. 

Glasgoic Iron Company {throtigh J. W. Hoffman & Co., agents). Speci- 
mens of iron used in shipbuilding. 

Godding, Dr. W. W. Alcoholic specimens of snakes {Heterodon platy- 
rhinus, Gphibolus getulus, and Eutcenia sirtalis) ; from District of 
Columbia. 

Goode, Mrs. S. F. J. Specimen of sable muff (American), period 1830- 
1840; also muff of the later period. 

Gorgon, W. C. Alcoholic specimens; from Texas. 

Gould, J. Loomis. Specinien of horn spoon, carved ; from Alaska. 

Goward, G. Sj^ecimens of skull, shells, sea-beans, candle-nut, tobacco, 
stone implements, gum, nuts used as a perfume when powdered, and 
skins {Didunculus strigirostris) ; from Samoan Islands. 

Gray, William. Specimen of arrow- point; from Dakota. 

Gray, Prof. Asa. Seeds of Nymphoea scutifolia, latus, and dentata, from 
Eussia. 

Greely, Lieut. A. W., U. S. A. One box of birds' skins; from Greenland. 

Greene, Dr. C. A. Specimens of snails ; from Pennsylvania. 

Green, General 0. D. Skeleton of trumpeter swan {Olor buccinator). 

Green, William. Specimens of Indian relics ; from Illinois. 

Greenwood Pottery Company. Cask containing samples of pottery; from 
their works at Trenton, K. J. 

Greer, 8. W. Specimens of fossils and minerals ; from Kentucky. 

Griffith, J. W. Two specimens of ship timber (steam-bent). 

Grigsby, C. 8. Collection of Indian reli cs ; from Tennessee. 

Groves, H. & J. Package of botanical specimens ; from England. 

Giinther, Dr. A. Specimens of birds' eggs, alcoholic mammals, and 
batrachians; from England. 

Gurney, J. H. Specimens of birds' skins ; from Europe (principally Bap- 
tores). 

Gutehunst, F. Collection of seventy-six cabinet photographs of promi- 
nent men of America. 

Haller, W.J. {through E. P. Upham). Specimens of Indian relics; from 
Huntington, W. Va. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 243 

Holler, Mr. Specimen of shad ( Clupea sapidissima) ; from Pnget Sound. 

Hammond, H, & Co. Series of light and heavy hammers; from Hart- 
ford, Conn. 

Hammond, Rev. M. Specimen of lignite; from Maryland. 

Hampton, Hon. Wade. Specimens of minerals; from South Carolina. 

Hampton, Gutter & Sons. Exhibit of kaolin ; from New York. 

Haney, William M. Specimen of rock and fossils ; from Maryland. 

Hardy, E. D. Specimen of cotton plant in bloom ; from Georgia. 

Harford, W. O. W. Two living specimens of land tortoises {Xerobates 
Agassizii) ; from California. 

Harmon, Henry G. Section of the vertebra of a whale; from Stafford 
Cliffs, Md. 

Harper, Houstown B. Specimens of arrow-heads ; from Georgia. 

Harper, Smith. An exhibit of rakes and hoes. 

Harrington, G. B {through Thomas Donaldson). Model of yacht ; from 
Maine. 

Harris, D. W. Specimens of stone relics, fossils, concretions, etc. ; 
from Louisiana. 

Harris, John S. Collection of minerals and ores ; from Montana. 

Harris, William G. One alcoholic specimen of trout {Salvelinusjontinalis 
juv.). 

Harrison & Kellogg, Troy, N. Y. Exhibit of malleable iron ; full series 
of products, embracing wrenches. 

Hart, A. Wellington. Specimens of Indian sash, belt, pouch, and two 
knife-cases worked in porcupine quills ; from Canada. 

Harvey, F. L. Specimens of living reptiles, and one living snake 
{Heterodon) ; from Arkansas. 

HasTcell, Henry. Three specimens of bricks used in the walls of the 
mound-builders at Aztalan, Jefferson County, and one stone imple- 
ment; from Wisconsin. 

Hassell, Willia^n, New YorJc. Collection of fancy metal nails. 

Hawes, Br. A. M, Two saddles (one Indian and one Mexican) ; from the 
battle-ground where General Custer fell. 

Hawes, Dr. George W. {deceased). Alcoholic specimens of marine inver- 
tebrates ; from Bermuda. 

HawMns, Gapt. H. S., U. 8. A. Specimen of spear-head ; from Fort 
Thornburgh, Utah. 

Hawley, E. H. Two living sepcimens of axolotls, and seven stone 
implements ; from France. 

Hawley, Wheeler. Specimens of oysters in shell ; from Connecticut. 

Hay, 0. P. Specimens of alcoholic fishes ; from Indiana. 

Hayden, G. 8. Specimens of minerals, snail-shells, etc. ; from Maine. 

Hayden, Walter. Specimens of birds' skins, eggs, and Coleoptera ; from 
Moose Factory, Hudson Bay Territory. 

Hayes, W. I. Specimens of living salamanders ; from North Carolina. 



244 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Haywood^ William P. Specimen of model oyster-rake j from New 
Jersey. 

Hazard jr., Roland Gibson. Six specimens of birds' eggs, three alba- 
tross, and three penguin ; from Falkland Islands. 

Hazard Powder Company. An exhibit of j)owder ; from Hazardville, 
Conn. 

HeilscJier, Theo. {through G. G. Gussick). Collection of minerals and 
rocks ; from Texas. 

Hemphill, Henry. Specimens of land and fresh-water shells; from 
Minnesota. 

Henshall, J. A. Specimen of alcoholic fishes ; from Florida. 

Hercules Wind-Engine Gompany. Model of wind-engine, for raising water. 

Hering, G. J. Collection of alcoholic specimens of reptiles, shells, and. 
insects; iJottery, blue macaw; hammock made from fibers of the Yta 
plam ; and one living Iguana tuberculata; three boxes of Coleoptera, 
dried; from Surinam. 

Herndon, Thomas. H. Specimen of rattlesnake [Grotalus adamanteus) ; 
from Leesburg, Fla. 

Herran, Thomas. Eight specimens of pottery and stone relics from In- 
dian graves in United States of Colombia, South America. 

Herrera, Alfonso. Collection of alcoholic fishes and reptiles ; from Mex- 
ico. 

HerricTc, G. Specimens of Indian relics and cray-fish ; from near Flor- 
ence, Ala. 

Herscy, J. Glarence. Three specimens of shrews ; from Colorado. 

Hessel, Dr. Rudolph. Fresh specimen of lizard {La^erta viridis) ; from 
Germany. 

Heyman, 8. Box of rocks ; from Tennessee. 

Historical and Scientific Society, Winnipeg. Tank of alcoholic fishes; 
from Manitoba. 

Hobart, Aaron K. Model of herring smoking and packing house ; from 
Maine. (Purchased.) 

Hodge, E.B. ^\}QiC\me,\i oi hvook troxxt [Salvelinus fontinalis) ) from New 
Hampshire. 

Holabird, S. B. Pieces of iron taken from the stern bearings of TJ. S. S. 
" Ordnance." 

Holcomb, G. W. Package of ferruginous clay. 

Holt, Hiram, & Go. Series of tools, corn-cutters, etc: 

Hooper, G. W. Specimens of clay and sandstone ; from Alabama. 

Uoran, Henry. Salted specimen of fish {Selene argentea). 

Houch, Hon. L. G. Specimen of galena ; from Tennessee. 

Howe, Rev. S. S. Specimens of Indian relics ; from Iowa. 

Howell, B. Y. Six bottles of embryonic fishes {Stizostedium vitreum); 
from Lake Erie. 

Hubbard, George A. Transverse section of cherry tree 1^ by 10 inches, 
showing rate of growth. 



REPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 245 

Hubbs, A. Can of alcoholic fish {Enneacanthus sp.); from Missouri. 
Hudson, George. A. Eight specimens of shad {Clupea sapidissima) ; from 

Cedar Keys, Fla. 
Hudson, William H. Twelve botanical specimens and two specimens of 

lizard {Crotaphytus collaris) ; from Texas. 
Hudson, William H. Specimen of gypsum (sulphate of lime); from 

Colorado. 
Hughes, F. M. Box of Indian and mound relics ; from Ohio, 
Humbert, Br. Fred. Small box of insects ; from Illinois. 
Hungerford, Dr. One box of shells; from China. 
Hunter, B. W. Specimen of iron carbonate ; from Maryland. Also lock 

from door of the State-house at Eichmond, Va. (Used from 1861-'65.) 
Hunter, Thomas G. Specimen of mineral ; from California. 
Hussey, Wells & Go. A large exhibit of manufactured steel, bar and 

shape. 
Hutchins, J. H. Section of vine showing asserted hybrid growth of 

the grapevine with the pecan tree ; from Texas. 
Hyams, G. W. One box of shells ; from South Carolina. 
Inman, Samuel W. {treasurer International Gotton Exposition. Two large 

boxes of foreign cottons exhibited at the Atlanta Exposition, 1881. 
Iron Glad Paint Gompany, Gleveland, Ohio. An exhibit of crude, lump, 

and manufactured paint. 
Irving, Thomas J. Four specimens of lobsters [Homarus americanus) 

of a very young stage; from Massachusetts. 
Ivanhoe Paper Gompany. An exhibit of paper and its manufacture. 
Jaclcson, Gharles A. Building model, scale ^ inch to the foot, of men- 
haden carryaway boat ; from Long Island, N. Y. 
Jaclcson, Gapt. John D. Specimen of chloride of silver ore, weight ten 

pounds, value $100. One specimen of jasper; chlorobromide of silver, 

two specimens. 
Jamaica Institute, Public Museum of {through James John Bowery). Alco- 
holic collection of fishes (one hundred and eighty-three specimens), 

forty species ; from Jamaica. 
Johns, H. W. Collection illustrating the uses of asbestos, with various 

samples. 
Johnson, S. M, Four fresh lobsters from the coast of Maine, said to be 

1^ years old. 
Johnston, Walter. Skin of duck {Bendrocygna fulva) ; from California. 
Jones, Br. Edward 8. Living specimen of striated marmoset {Jacchus 

vulgaris). 
Jones, Br. WiUiam H., TJ. 8. N. Three boxes of birds' skins, minerals, 

rocks, shells, etc., also one tank alcoholic fishes and invertebrates; 

from Alaska. 
Jones, James F. Specimens of cotton seed, plant, and blooms; from 

Georgia. 
Jouctt, Mrs. J. E. Specimens of fossil bones and teeth ; from bed of 



246 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Beaufort Eiver. Also alcoholic squid (io?/^osp.) ; from off Beaufort, 

S. C. 
Jordan, Prof. D. 8. Alcoholic invertebrates ; from Italy and Mexico. 

Six tanks alcoholic fishes, invertebrates, and reptiles ; from Mexico 

and Texas. 
Jotiy, P. L. Five boxes of natural history specimens (consisting in part 

of one hundred and thirteen birds' skins and one tank alcoholic 

fishes) ; from Japan. 
Jnlien, Dr. Alexis A. Dried skin of iguana [Iguana tuherculata) ; from 

Gulf of Mexico. 
Kane, D. Specimen of limonite ; from New York. 
Kane, Dr. John J., TJ. 8. A. Specimen of ore for report. 
Karr, W. W. Specimen of caterpillar (jE^acies *w?^erm?u) ; from Wash- 
ington, D. C. 
Keith, M. C. Large collection of clay vessels, and fragments of same; 

statues, stone pestles, rubbingstones,metates, and fragments j from 

Costa Rica. 
Kelleher. Daniel. Large Brand lance, hand-lance bomb Kelleher patent, 
Ketitworthy, C. J. Silver button 5 taken from mound in Southern Florida. 
Kerr, W. G. Twenty crates of building stones ; from North Carolina. 

(Purchased.) 
Kew, England, Royal Gardens. Seeds of Cinchona ledgerina. 
Kidwell, L. F. Three specimens of minerals ; from Texas. 
Kellogg, Dr. D. 8. One box of arrow-heads and fragments of pottery ; 

from New York. 
Kimball, W. 8., & Co. Collective exhibit of tobacco, fine cut, cigarettes, 
* etc. 

King, 8amuel L. Specimens of limestone and dolomite; from Ten- 
nessee. 
King, J. W. Jaw, with teeth, of fresh-water drum {Haploidonotus grun- 

niens). 
Kite, W. A. One box of Indian relics ; from Tennessee. 
Kite, Dr. J. Alban. One box alcoholic eggs of shad ( Clupea sapidissima) ; 

from Quantico, Ya. 
KniclcerbocJcer Ice Company, Philadelphia, Pa. Wagon and tools used in 

cutting and handling ice. 
Knorr, Rudolph. Specimen of young whippoorwill ; from Washington, 

D. C. 
Knowles, Thomas, & Co. Sixteen specimens of whaling apparatus. (Pres- 
ent.) One whaling-gun, one walrus tusk. 
Knowles, George. Specimen of ear-bone of finback whale ; banjo made 

by negro whaleman on shipboard. 
Kobbe, Maj. William A., U. 8. A. Two specimens of birds' eggs [Cardi- 

nalis virginiana, Molothrus ater) ; from Alabama. 
Kobelt, Dr. W. Forty-five species of new and rare land shells ; from 

Europe. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 247 

Kridcr, John. Skin of white owl. 

Kumhlaunn, Alex. Complete set of steel files; from Philadelphia. 

Kummerfeld^ J. F. Specimen of arrow-head; from Iowa. 

Ladd, H, T. Fragments of Indian pottery; from Alabama. 

Lancroft, G. E. and H. S. One box of salts of nickel. 

Langdon, S. J. Small piece of Indian pottery ; from the lava beds, Lit- 
tle Wood Elver, Idaho. 

Larco, A. Box of alcoholic fishes {Sehastodes umhrosus, S. rubricinctus, 
Gitliariclithys, Liocottus hirundo, AnnarJiichthys ocellatus, Paralichthys, 
Liolepis), etc. ; from California. 

Lawrence d' Co. Eighteen specimens of whaling apparatus ; from Mas- 
sachusetts. 

Lawrence, George H. Two boxes of birds' skins, eggs, and mounted 
specimens. 

Laicson, Gapt. Gharles, Schooner Herman Bahson. Specimen of fish-hook 
cut from mouth of a halibut on coast of Greenland, summer of 1882, 
similar to those used by fishermen on coast of Northern Europe. 

Lea, Dr. Isaac. Fifty-three boxes of shells, one box of minerals, one 
box marine invertebrates; from Chester County, Pennsylvania. 

Lea, J. 8. One specimen of mineral ; from New Mexico. 

Le Baron, J. Francis. Three specimens of shells; from mound in 
Florida. 

Le Gonte, Jos. Eleven specimens of minerals ; from California. 

Lee, W. F. Twenty-three specimens of agates ; samples of natural, 
colored, and white cottons: four sketches of ruins ; also one box (two 
specimens) of pottery, stone carvings, and implements. 

Leonard & Ellis. Collection of oils and vaseline. 

Lewis, William. Two harpoon-guns. 

Lcicis, F. L. One stone relic and fossil mollusk ; from West Virginiar. 

Lewis, James F. One box of living rattlesnakes and larva of green worm 
{Githironia regalis) ; from West Virginia. 

Lindsley, Br. J. M. Four si>ecimens of Indian pottery ; from Missis- 
sippi. 

Linnceari Society {through William Macleay, Sydney, Australia). One 
skeleton of dugong, forty-three birds' skins, and one keg of alcoholic 
fishes (two hundred and seven specimens) ; from Australia. 

Lipsey, W. B. Specimen of Japanese persimmon raised at Archer, Pla 

Little RocTi and Fort Smith Railroad Company. Collection of rocks and 
ores ; from Arkansas. 

Logan, Hon. John A. Three specimens of minerals from Illinois. 

Lord, H. <& G. W, Ninety-five samples of white, tanned, and tarred 
netting. 

Lothrop, L. D. A collection of fishing-tackle used by the Gloucester 
fishermen on Grand Banks. 

Lougheed, S. D. Specimens of shale; from Washington Territory. 



248 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Love^ William B. Nine specimens of gold quartz; from Oulpeper 
County, Virginia. 

LudiDorth^ George B. Two alcohdlic specimens of snakes ( Tropidoclonium 
kirtlandii) ', from Michigan. 

Lugger, Otto. Specimen of bird's nest [Cpyselus cayennensis) ; from 
Demerara, West Indies. 

lAitken, Dr. Chr. One alcoholic specimen of Trachypterus arcHcus; from 
Iceland. Also collection of European annelids, comprising eighty- 
five specimens in alcohol. 

Luttrell^ Chester. One box of stone relics ; from Alabama. 

Lyford, Br. E. H. Specimen of sea-mouse (Ap/irodi^aacwZeato) ; taken 
from lobster pot at Vinalhaven, Me. 

Maclcey & Pindar. Eight specimens of whaling apparatus; from Massa- 
chusetts. 

MacRae, Donald. Specimens of siren and Necturus punctatus ; from 
North Carolina. 

Macy, Joseph B. Seven specimens of whaling apparatus used by Nan- 
tucket whalemen. 

Macy, Zaccheus. One whale-ship cooper's set. (Old.) 

Mandeville, W. Specimen of sulphur oxide of manganese ; from Penn- 
sylvania. 

Mann, B. Piekman. Living specimen of horned frog (Phrynosoma cor- 
nutum). 

Mapes, John G. Six specimens of minerals; from New York. 

Marley, To Gee. Three specimens of stone implements; from Tennessee. 

Marsh, Prof. 0. G. Cast of Pterodactyle, with wing membranes at- 
tached. 

Martin & Go. Collective exhibit of lampblack and its manufacture. 

Martin, Gapt. S. I. Collection of cod and haddock trawls, lobster i)ots, 
herring-nets, etc. (Purcliased.) 

Mason & Hamlin, JSfew Yorlc. Cabinet organ complete, with models 
showing interior workings of pianos and organs. 

Mason, H. B. Specimen of gun-harpoon, and harpoon with explosive 
head. 

Mason, Proj. Otis T. Fragments of pottery and piece of white jasper; 
from Cahokia mound, Illinois. 

Mather, Fred. One bottle of living worms; from New York. 

Maw & Go., England. Large and collective exhibit of ornamental tiles; 
from Centennial Exhibition at Philadelphia, Pa., 187C. 

Maxey, Hon. S. B. Specimens of ores and minerals and mineral water f1 
from Texas. 

Maxwell, John. ' Specimen of building stone; from Pennsylvania. 

Maydole, D., & Go. Full series of light and nickel-plated hammers. 

McAdams, Hon. William. One tank alcoholic fishes ; from Illinois. 

MeBath, Edgar. Mounted specimen of squirrel {8ciurus caroUncensis). 

McCrory, J. A. Package of hemp fiber; from Florida. 



EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 249 

McCullough, Jolm. Tweuty-four specimens of whale-boat fittings. 

McDermott & Co. Eight boxes of building stones ; from Ohio. 

McDonald^ Field & Co., Aberdeen^ Scotland. Six specimens of building 
stones ; from Scotland. 

McDonald, E. 0. Three specimens of pyrite in slate ; from West Vir- 
ginia. 

McDonald, F. 8. One specimen of limonite and two specimens of pyrite j 
from Virginia. 

McDonald, Col. M., U.S. F. G. Alcoholic specimens of shad {Glupea 
sapidissima), car]} [Ci/priiius carpio) ; from Potomac River. Tylosurus 
longirostris, Achirus lineatus Lepomis glbbosus, Carassius auratus,Fund- 
ulus diaphanus, also shells ; from Cherrystone, Va. Specimens of 
fishes taken from top of McDonald fishway, Fredericksburg, Va. 
{Roccus lineatns, Catostomus commersonii, Amiurus catus, and Lepomis 
pallid us). 

McDougal, A. G. Specimen of Indian pottery ; from Arkansas. 

McDuffin, Jarnes B. Specimen of glass snake {Oplieosaurus ventralis); 
from Georgia. 

McKay, G. L. Eighteen boxes of general natural history specimens 
and ethnologica ; from Alaska. 

McKesson & Rohhins, New York. Three boxes of commercial sponges ; 
from Florida. 

McKinney, George. H. Specimen of beetle ; from Kentucky. 

McLain, G. M. Builder's model of fishing schooner, ^ inch to the foot; 
from Massachusetts. 

McLean, John J. Four boxes of ethnologica, minerals, one bale snow- 
shoes, specimens of basket- ware, etc.; from Alaska. 

McLean, J. P. One box of Indian relics ; from Ohio. 

McMannen, Dr. G. T. One bird-skin {Ampelis cedrorim); from Florida. 

McNeil (& Archer. Large exhibit of iron, gas, and water pij^e. 

Meehan, Thomas. Two hundred and sixty bottles of seeds of plants and 
flowers. (Purchased.) 

Meigs, M. C. One skull of Indian, skull of antelope {Antilocapra ameri- 
cana), two skulls of beaver {Castor fiber) ; from Iowa. Specimen of 
building stone ; from Minnesota. Cinnabar ; from Fort McKavett, 
Texas. 

Meinung, Alex. G. One specimen of stone, natural formation; from 
North Carolina. 

Melzer, James P. Small collection of insects taken from birds ; from 
New Hampshire. 

Mercer, R. W. Seven boxes of minerals, Indian relics; from Ohio, 
Tennessee, and Georgia. 

Merchant, C. B. Three Brand's bomb-lances. 

Merchant, George. Six boxes fishing apparatus. 

Merriam, Dr. G. Bart. Box of birds' skins and fresh specimen of sal- 
mon {Salmo salar var. sebago); from New York. 



250 EEPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM 

Merrillj George P. Eleven specimens of rocks ; from Maine. Also one 
"plancbette." 

Merrill, W. A. Living specimen soft-shell turtle {Aspidonectes spini- 
fer) ; from Iowa. 

Metcalf, Charles. One box of quail eggs. 

Mikell, J. Jenhins. Specimen of cotton jilant and three bags of cotton 
seed ; from Edisto Island, South Carolina. 

Miklin, Br. J. B. Three specimens of Indian relics; from Tennessee. 

Miles Brothers & Go. Collective exhibit of bristles, feathers, camel, 
and badger hairs used in the manufacture of brushes. 

Miller, J . H. Small package of iiowers ; from Texas. 

Mills, Clark. Metallic cast of section of the throat of 60-foot whale. 

Mills, Henry. Two boxes fresh -water sponges ; from Niagara River. 

Minor, F. 0. Specimen of insect; from Louisiana. 

Minton, Hollis & Co., Stoke-upon- Trent, England [through Sharpless <& 
Waits, Philadelphia, Pa.). An exhaustive collection of useful and 
ornamental tiles. 

Mitchell, Capt. J. C. One tank alcoholic fishes, containing twenty-seven 
species; from southern coast of United States. 

Mitchell, Br. W. Eour specimens of stone relics ; from Tennessee. 

Money, Hon. H. B. Specimen of pyrite; from Mississippi. 

Moore, George H. H. Specimen of fresh-water drum {Haploidonotus 
grunniens) ; from Colorado River, Texas. 

Morehead & Co. Sheet of rolled iron, 15 by 7 feet, f inch thick. 

Morgan Hon. J. T. Box of clay and sand ; from Missouri. 

Moulton, J. H. Head and tusks of walrus (Rosmarus) ; two skeletons of 
fur seal [Callorhinus ursinus) ; from Alaska. 

Milcke, Br. Franz. Specimen of arrow-head ; from near Sandford Lake, 
Florida. 

Myrick, A. M. Wooden mortar and pestle, formerly carried on whale- 
ship. 

Neal, Br. James C. Two specimens of black snake {Bascanium constric- 
tor)-, from Florida. 

Necdham, G. F. Specimen of bird-skin (Cyanocitta crisiata), living king 
snake {Ophibolus getulus) ; from Maryland. 

Nehring, Prof. A. L. Small box of fossil mammals [Myodes torquatus, 
Lagomys hyperhoreus) ; from Germany. 

Nelson, F. W. Specimen of deer antlers ; from Alaska. 

Nelson, Wolf red. Alcoholic specimen of coral snake; from Panama. 

Nery, F. li. Skin of eel [AnguUla rostrata) ; from Delaware. 

New Bedford Cordage Company. Seven samples of cordage. 

Neivconib, R. L., U. S. N. Two small packages mosses, seven specimens 
birds' skins [Bhodostcthia rosea, Budytes fiavus, Plectrophanes nivalis, 
Centrophanes lapponicns, Phalaropus fulicarius) ; from Henrietta Isl- 
and, Arctic Ocean. 

Newton & Co. Exhibit of fire-clay, and articles made from same. 



EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 251 

Nichols, J. B. Specimen of "bell-fire rock" (dolomite);. from TJtali. 

Niclerson, Mrs. 31. J. Scrimshawed porpoise jaw; piece of right- whale's 
bonnet, with barnacles attached. 

Kissley, Jacob B. Box of Indian relics ; from Ohio. 

Norris, B. M. Ceremonial weapon; from Ohio. 

Norris, Col. P. TV. Specimen of jasper; from Euby Valley, Montana. 

Norton, John W. One whale ship log-book. 

Nutting G. C. Three boxes of birds' skins, and stone images and pot- 
tery; from Central America. Specimen of sparrow {Passer domesti- 
cus.) 

Nye, jr., Willard. Box of Indian relics ; from Martha's Vineyard. One 
battle alcoholic specimens of eels {Anguilla rostrata) ; from New Bed- 
ford, Mass. 

Nye, W. H. Exhibit of watch and machine oils ; from Massachusetts. 

Oregon, State of. Specimens of stone, iron, and coal ; from Centennial 
Exhibition, Philadelphia, Pa., 1876. 

Oriental Powder Company. An exhibit showing powder and the mate- 
rials used in its manufacture. 

Orton, Prof. Edicard. Specimen of limestone; from Kelly's Island, 
Ohio. 

Osborne, Charles B. Bow and arrow; from South Sea. 

Osborne. James C. Specimen o^ whale harpoon. 

Osborn, Philip {through Mary Fielder). One box of fossils from Ohio. 
"Ruler made of piece of plank, and horseshoe made from bolt of the 
brig 'Niagara,' that caused the whole British fleet to surrender to 
Commodore Perry, September 10, 1813." 

Ozier, J. D. Specimens of cotton plant, and samples of " ozier silk 
cotton"; from Mississippi. 

Ozier, T. L. Two specimens of kaolin ; from Pennsylvania. 

PacTier, Hon. R Asa. {through John B. Wiggins). Specimen of unfinished 
iron implement ; from Pennsylvania. 

Paddock, Thomas B. Cooper's marking iron, used in 1775. 

Page, E. W., & Sons. Exhibit of oars, sweeps, and sculls. 

Palmer, Alex. S. Specimen of fresh fish {Selene argentea) ; from Con- 
necticut. 

Palmer, Br. Edicard. Specimens of materia medica, ethnology, tobacco 
(leaf and twist) ; from Tennessee. Plants; from Indiana. Ladle or 
spoon made of hickory wood ; from Illinois. 

Palmer, J. S. Specimens of marble ; from Virginia. 

Palmer, J. W. Specimen of a very large oyster; from Marjland. 

Palmer, William. Specimen of Bewick's wreu {Thryomanes bcwicTci), in 
flesh, from Virginia. Also fresh specimen of Carpiodes; from Poto- 
mac Eiver. 

Park, Davis, <& Co. Specimens of materia medica. 

Parkhurst, A. L. Specimens of birds; from California. 

Parr, J. L. Sjiecimen of white limestone fossils; from Eio Grande 



252 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Eiver, Pecos County, Texas, 296 feet above the level of the present 
river. 

Parsons, Gcqjt. W. B, {through A. Eoivard Clarlc). Si)ecimens of old 
crockery, an old stone killick, in use by fishermen for more than fifty 
years, and one clam-chopper, used for chopping mackerel bait ; from 
Massachusetts. 

Patterson, Samuel. Specimens of stones; from Utah. 

PauUy J. A. Samples of bark ; from United States of Colombia, South 
America. 

Pcal-es, Thomas M. One whale-ship log-book. 

PecJc & Synder. Collection of base-ball supplies, cricket, archery, and 
skates ', from New York. 

Pierce, Milton P. Specimen of stag-beetle ; from jSTew Jersey. 

Pelican (& Davis. Specimen of silver ore, 2^ tons weight; from Colo- 
rado. 

Pencoyd Iron Wor'ks. Six frames, eight bars; and one bundle of angle- 
iron, used in building. 

Pennsylvania TacTi Works. Large exhibit illustrating four hundred varie- 
ties of brass and copper tacks, also specimens of white metal, and 
iron and steel from which they are made. 

Phelps, Albert J. Specimens of pottery, Indian and bone implements; 
from Maine. 

Philhricli, E. E. Specimen of magnesium iron silicate; from Florida. 

Phillips, Barnett, Pack of Chinese inlaying cards, and Chinese dagger- 
fan; from China. 

Phillips, Henry. Specimen of antimony oxide, seuarmontite ; from East 
Canada. 

Phillips, William, dt Son. Whaling-gun, muzzle-loader, brass stock. 

Pierce, Eben. Five patterns of whaling-guns. (Purchased.) 

Piper, John D. Specimens of lobster-pots, and one dip-net; from Maine. 

Piper, 8. E. Specimen of porjihyrytic granite rock ; from Maine. 

Piper, Miss Tillie. Alcoholic specimen of bat; from Smithsonian build- 
ing. 

Polli, W. L. Alcoholic specimen of fish (young Carpiodes) ; from Mis- 
sissippi. 

Porter, E. H. Si)ecimens of Indian relics; from Kentucky. 

Powell, George. Specimens of fossil ferns ; from Pennsylvania. 

Powell, Eohert H. Exhibit of coal, etc. ; from Pennsylvania. 

Pratt, Capt. R. H. Indian saddle and trappings. 

Price, E. B. Specimens of ores ; from New Mexico. 

Pride, H. A. Specimens from the Utica slate found in New York. 

Prince Manufacturing Company. Exhibit of metallic and fire-proof paint. 

Prindle, Edwin. Two alcoholic specimens of reptiles {Plethodon cinereus, 
P. erythronotus) ; from Potomac River, north of Georgetown. 

Proctor, J. 21. Specimen of minerals; from Tennessee. 

Pumpelly, R. Seven boxes of minerals (census collection of iron ores). 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 253 

Ramsay, Capf. T. M., JJ. 8. N. Skin of fox ; from Spitzbergeu. Speci- 
mens of birds and nine packages and ten bottles of dredgings; from 
Greenland. 

Ranger, Gustave. Specimens of rock salt; from Petite Anse Island, 
Louisiana. 

Rathbiin, Mrs. P. Game of " Planchette." 

Rathbun,, Richard. Photographs of fishes {Sudis gigas, Maltlie, Epinephe- 
lus, and Trisotropis). 

Rati, Br. Charles. Specimen of turquoise ; from turquoise mine, New 
Mexico ; and modern pipe made by the Catawba Indians of North 
Carolina. 

Rauch/uss, jr., G. F. Specimens of fossil shells, etc. ;• from Illinois. 

Reed, George, paymaster, U. S. N. {through Gol. M. McDonald). Speci- 
mens of black bass {Micropterus dolomicu and If. salmoides) ; from 
Potomac River, near Great Falls. 

Reedman, Capt. F. M. [through E. G. Blaclrford). Specimen of bluefish 
hooks, with pia^no-wire gaugings, used by New York and Southern 
Xew England fishermen. 

Remington, E., & Sons, New York. Perfected type- writer, with head and 
case. 

Rhees, William J. Specimens of bats ; from "Washington, D. C. Liv- 
ing specimen of lizard [Sceloporus unditlatus) ; from Mount Pleasant, 
D. C. 

Rhode Island Horseshoe Gompany. Exhibit of horseshoes ; from Ehode 
Island. 

Rice, Glinton. Specimen of concretion ; from New Mexico. , 

Rice, William T. Large collection of marble and granite building 
stones; from Italy. (Purchased.) 

Richmond, Gharles. Specimens of common birds' eggs ; from Washing- 
ton, D. C. 

Richards, Rev. J. Havens. Specimen of fossil shells ; from Maryland. 

Rich, James W. Specimens of fresh fish {Lopholatilus chamceleonticeps). 

Ridgicay, Robert. Specimens of skin and nest of Dendrceca auduboni; 
from California. Skins of birds; from Lower California. Specimen of 
Passer domesticus, nest and eggs of Gardinalis virginiana, alcoholic spe- 
cimens of natural history, eggs of snapping tortoise [Ghelydra serpen- 
tina), skin of martin and mole {Putorius vison, Scalops argentatus), Liv- 
ing snake {Ophibolus doliatus), and salamanders [Amblystoma opacum, 
Amhly stoma microstomum, and Diemyctylus miniatns viridescens), and 
one arrow-head ; from Indiana. 

Rio de Janeiro National Museum. Three boxes corals ; from Brazil. 

Rivett, Garnac I. H. {through Dr. E. R. Meyer). Two celts, two terra- 
cotta spindles and bat, and three Buddhist coins ; from India. 

Roach, G. Sample of earth paint (iron ochre) ; from Ohio. 

Robeson, Hon. George M. Specimen of " snowy owl." 

Roberts, John N. Specimen of Indian relics ; from Louisiana. 



254 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Boherts, William. Specimen of liarpoon-gun. 

Bobinson, Ooldshorough. Samples of wood alcohol and pure spirits; 
from Kentucky. 

Bobinson, G. S. Specimen of ear-bone of sperm-whale calf. 

Bobinson, General James 8. Specimens of copper and stone implementsj 
from a mound in Ohio. 

EocJcwell, Col. A. F. Specimen, in flesh, of Baltimore oriole. 

Bocliel, William^ and M. Tandy. Specimens of Indian relics ; from Illi- 
nois. 

Bogan, James W. Specimen of insect; from Tennessee. 

Rogers, Crueger & Munford. Specimen of asbestos ; from Virginia. 

Bogers, D. M. {through Hon. J. G. Clements). Specimen of galena; from 
Tennessee. 

Bogers, John, Neic York. Collection of statuary. 

Boosevelt, Theodore. Collection of mammals, reptiles, and birds' skins. 

Boquet, Father [through Maj. J. W. Powell). Bones from alligator-gar 
{Litholepis spatula) ; from Louisiana. 

Bosecrans, General W. S. Specimens of rocks and ores ; from Oregon and 
San Jos6 mine, Copala Siualoa. 

Bowell, James T. (through Lieut. C. D. Sigsbee, U. 8. N.). Specimen of lo- 
cust which came on board U. S. S. " Lightning," in latitude 12° north, 
longitude 46° west. 

Bowland, W. and Henry. Exhibit of steel used in the construction of 
carriage and car springs. 

Buby, Charles. Skin and skull of puma, alcoholic specimens of rep- 
tiles, and collection of minerals; from Wyoming. 

^unyan, J. C. Specimen of minerals and coal ; from Washington Ter- 
ritory. 

Busby, Henry H. Specimens of prehistoric mining tools; and dried 
plants; from Arizona. 

Bussell, Mr. Ball from alkaline lagoon at the south end of Pyramid 
Lake, Nevada. 

Bussell, Birdsale & Ward. Series of objects made of iron used in the 
manufacture of carriages. 

Bussell, D. E. Specimens of minerals ; from Texas. 

Byder, John A. Alcoholic specimens of fishes and eggs ( Ciw^ea ver- 
nalis, Petromyzon marinus, Clupea sapidissima, Boccus saxatilis, and 
Perca americana). 

8age, Dean. Specimen of lamprey eel [Petromyzon marinus, ^nx.), taken 
from salmon weighing IJ pounds. 

8ampson, F. A. Small box of fossils; from Texas. 

8anborn, Captain. Small specimen of asbestos cloth. 

8andusliy Tool Company. Collection of tools used by hand in the 
wood-working industry. 

Sanford, Mrs. F. C. Specimen of powder-horn used in 1757. 

Sankey, B. A. Specimen of pryolusite; from Colorado. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 255 

Sawyer, Jolm A. Specimens of whaling apiDaratus. (Purchased.) 

Sayres, J. D. Two specimens of mineral j from Texas. 

Schanno, Joseph. Two leaves with larvae of insects ; from Washington 
Territory. 

ScJiieffelin, W. H., & Co., Neic YorTc. Large and collective exhibit of 
American and foreign drugs. 

SchencJc, Dr. J. Two living tortoises {Chrysemys marginata) ; from Illi- 
nois. 

ScJmihorn, Henry F. Egg containing embryo of Strix nebulosa, and 
double duck's egg ; from Washington, D. C. 

ScJiuermann, C. W. Living specimen of snake ( Coluber ohsoletus) and 
specimen of duck ( Cairina moscliata) ; from Virginia. 

Sears, Henry H. Specimen of Aphrodita aculeata; from Massachusetts. 

Seidell, C. Two specimens of building stones, from Washington Terri- 
tory. 

Seiple, Br. W. G. M. Specimen of limonite or brown hematite ; from 
Pennsylvania. 

Sennet, George. B. Three specimens of possum {Bidelphys virginiana) 'y 
from Texas. 

Shelian, Albert. One double hen's egg, 6^ by 9^ inches in circumference. 

Shannon, J. B., <& Co. Collective exhibit illustrating artistic reproduc- 
tion and original designs of furniture, and builders' hardware manu- 
factured from nickel, brass, etc. 

Sharp, T. C. Box of oysters in shell ; from Ocean View, N. J. 

Shepard. E. E. Three specimens of fresh-water shells; from White 
Water River, Indiana. 

Sliocldey, W. H. Four specimens of fossil shells ; from Nevada. 

Shoemaker, George. Forty-three specimens of alcoholic reptiles, eighty- 
three specimens of birds' skins, seventeen bottles alcoholic insects, 
two bottles of shells ; from District of Columbia, Maryland, and Vir- 
ginia. 

Short, E. G. Piece of planking from war vessel " Oneida," sunk in the 
Saint Lawrence in 1812. 

Shufeldt, Br. R. W. Collection of about eight hundred birds' skins, 
eleven specimens of birds' eggs ; from Tongue River. Skin of squirrel 
{Sciurus carolinensis), head of antelope [Antilocapra americana); from 
Sweet Water Valley, Wyoming. One box alcoholic specimens of 
natural history; from Louisiana. 

Sibley, W. H. Specimen of silicious chalk; from Texas. 

Slacl', John H. Specimen of fish {Eupomotis aureus); from New York. 

Small, Edgar A. Stuffed specimen of green heron {Butorides virescens); 
from Maryland. 

Small, 1. A. Gun-harpoon ; from Massachusetts. 

Smith, B. C. Bottle of water from artesian well at Pekin, 111. 

Smith, Everett. Specimen of bird's skin {Buteo borealis) ; from Maine. 

Smith, Edward, & Co. Collection of fine varnishes. 



256 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Smith, F. H. Three specimens of native copper; from "Longfellow cop- 
per mine," Arizona. 

Smith, George H. Two Smith's gun-harpoons, one cutting spade. 

Smith, Setli. Darting-gun and harpoons, old-style lance with wooden 
head, dog-fish gear, hooks, chain, and one mackerel gafi"; from Massa- 
chusetts. 

Sliced, J. E. Specimen of galena in limestone ; from Tennessee. 

Snow, A. L. Specimen of mineral ; from Tennessee. 

Snoip, Loren, & Sons. Specimens of whale-boat fittings. (Purchased.) 

Sommerjield, L. Specimen of rub^'-throated humming-bird {Trochylus 
colubris). 

South Side Club. Living specimen of brook trout {Salvelinus fontinalis) > 
from Long Island. 

Spinner, General F. E. One box of marine shells; from Florida. 

Spray, S. J. Four specimens minerals; from Colorado. 

Stabler, James P. Specimen of black snake [Bascanion constrictor) ; 
from Maryland. 

Stallman, John. One block building stone ; from Massachusetts. 

Stanhorn, Pierson & Co. Wooden wheels for light buggies and wagons. 

Starr, W. S. Specimen of crystal of amethystine quartz ; from South 
Carolina. 

Stassey, Frederich {through James Harrington). Stone image ; from Tam- 
pico, Mexico. 

Stearns, Robert E. C. Thirtj^-five boxes of shells, two boxes of sample 
woods, alcoholic specimens of big clam (Glycimeris), one box of Indian 
relics, and specimen of Pennatula ; from Pacific coast of United States. 

Stearns, Silas. Large collection of alcoholic and fresh fishes, consisting 
in part of Phycis earlli, JDactylopterus, Steyiotomus caprinus, Goryphcena 
equestris, Opisthognathus, Tylosurus, Rhinobatus, Narcine brasilensis, 
Hemirhombus, Gobioid, Antennarius, Batraclms tau, Gaulolatilus mi- 
crops, Trisotropis stomias, Seriola, etc., from Florida. 

Stearns, Winnifred A. Two boxes alcoholic, one barrel of salted, speci- 
mens of fishes and vertebrates; from coast of Labrador. 

Steenstrup, Professor. Three jars Gephalopods ; from Denmark. 

Steerc, Prof. J. B. Sixty-six specimens (thirty-three species) of shells; 
from Philippine Islands. 

Steinway & Sons. One grand upright piano, constructed to show interior 
workings. 

Stejneger, Dr. Leonard. Three skins of swans, type-specimen of Peri- 
soreus catiadensis nigricapillus, from Labrador. Twenty large boxes 
of birds' skins, bones of whales and sea-cows {Rhytina); from vicin- 
ity of the Commander Islands, Kamtschatka. 

Stephens, Hon. Alex. H. Specimens of malachite and melachonite; from 
Arizona. 

Stephens, L. A. Specimens of mineral ; from Texas. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 25 T 

Stevens, Mrs. E. L. Youug specimen of alligator {Alligator mississippi- 

ensis); IroDi Florida. 
Steicart & Co. Collective exhibit of various sizes and kinds of wire. 
StiliceU, E. M. Tin pump for aerating water in cans for transporting 

live fishes. 
Stone, Livingston. Collection of photographs (50) showing United States 

Fish Commission hatching station and surroundings at Baird, Shasta 

County, California. Also copy letter written with the blood of a {)an- 

ther. 
Stone, T. J. Vertebra of whale ; from marl bank on the Patuxent 

Kiver. 
Story, William H. Eight boat models. 
Stratton, C. L. Box of stone and shell relics, with specimen of crania ; 

from mound in Tennessee. 
Stribling, Will. Specimen of shed skin of snake ( Fityophis melanolcut. ns), 

specimen of clay, and skull of catfish ; from Ohio. 
Stuart, H. J. five bottles of alcoholic snakes; from Guatemala. 
Stuart, Br. Joseph G. Specimens of wild flowers ; from Colorado. 
Stiider, Jacob H. Bound volume of Studer's Popular Ornithology, for 

Museum library. 
Sullivan, Jeremiah. Package of sprouted corn used by Moqui Indians 

in their ceremonies. 
Swan, Mrs. E. E. Small box of minerals; from New York. 
Swan, James G. Two boxes of Indian articles and ornaments. (Pur- 
chased.) Alcoholic specimen of salmon ( Oncorhynchus ehouieha) ; from 

Washington Territory. 
Sweeney, B. 0. One alcoholic specimen of fish (Co re^on^.s) ; from ^Minne- 

sota. 
Swift, Jeremiah. Flint lance head taken from a whale in Northern 

Pacific. 
Swift, Josiah. Collection of whaling apparatus. 
Symmes, Francis M. Cast of stone pipe and loan of stone pipe, "baby's 

foot," specimen of fresh water mussel ; from Indiana. 
Syracuse Chilled Flow Company. Exhibit of chilled plows and compo- 
nent parts. 
laher & Gordon. Specimens of whale boat fittings; broken whale-boat 

davit; one try-pot of one hundred and eighty gallons; cracked. 
Talbot, D. H. Mounted skin of swallow-tailed kite {Elanoidesforfcatus) ; 

from Iowa. 
Tandy, M. Specimens of Indian relics; from Iowa and Illinois. 
Tate, J. {through Dr. Timothy E. Wilcox). One pair of mule-deer anilers 

{Ctrvus macroiis); from Idaho Territory. 
Taylor, B. F. Specimens of Indian relics ; from Maryland. 
Taylor, Dr. F. W. Specimen, in flesh, of a golden pheasant {Chryso- 

lophus picius). 

11. Mis. liO 17 



258 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Taylor, Martin S. Specimens of ininerals (galena in limestone); from 

Ohio. 
Taylor, Prof. William B. Specimen of small pouch made of grasses. 
Taylor, William J. Specimens of fossils ; from Florida. 
Teague, Samuel J. Specimens of plant bulbs ; from Florida. 
Tegler, Henry. Specimen of malformed hen's eggs; from Washington, 

D. C. 
Teiling, Charles. Specimen of cow-fish {Ostracion quadricorne) ; from 

Georgia. 
Tennessee Historical Society. Specimens of stone relics ; from Tennessee. 

(Loaned.) 
Thayer, A. H. Specimens of feathers of an American eider duck 

{Somateria mollissima dresseri) ; from Massachusetts. 
Thompson, Franl-lin. Model of " Muscongus Bay lobster boat"; from 

Maine. (Purchased.) 
Thompson, H. H. Specimens of fresh fish {Coregonns artcdi), and fresh 

salmon {Salmo salar var. sebago) ; from New York. 
Thompson, John H. Specimen of fish-hook made of pearl shell ; from Fiji 

Islands. Idol and native gourd ornament ; from an island south west 

of New Guinea. 
Thomson, M. H. Specimens of pottery from graves, and bottle of buf- 
falo gnats; from Arkansas. 
Thnrher, Prof. George. Specimen, in flesh, of cinnamon bear; from 

mountains of Western Pennsylvania. 
Thnrber, /I. F. and F. B., & Co. Exhibit of canned vegetables, samples 

of teas, coffees, si)ices, etc., and fruits. 
Todd, Aurelim. Specimens of mammal skins {SpermophHus Beecheyii), 

with bones {Sciurus fossor, Tamias Toroisendii, Sciurvs l)ovglossii,ai)({ 

Sperin(>j}hilus Beecheyii), etc. ; from Oregon. 
Tookcr, William Wallace. Specimens of stone relics, sample of gravel, 

and pierced stone tablet, box of stone relics (loaned) ; from New York. 
Topliff, Fly (£• Co. Specimens of wood-work used in the manufacture of 

buggies ; from Ohio. 
loivne, F. H. Pair of iron molds for casting old-fashioned pewter 

spoens. 
Totcnscnd, Henry A. Specimens of oysters ; from Long Island. 
Tripp, Stephen A. Six specimens of whale boat fittings; from Massa- 
chusetts. 
True, F. W. Specimens of seed necklace, models of agricultural iin])le- 

ments, books and Ian made from tbe palm, specimens of basket-work, 

and women's wearing aj^parel ; from Ceylon. Tank of alcoholic fishes; 

from New York, and three Chinese representations of mammals and 

reptiles made from colored straw. 
Tuft, Eiahard. Si>cciinen of china tea pot (old English) ; from Massa- 
chusetts. 
Turner, J. U. Specimen of insect {Lucanus elaphus)', from Texas. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 259 

Turner, L. M. Specimens of birds' skius, natural history, and tank of 
alcoholic specimens ; from Hudson Bay Territory. 

Turner, Otto A. Specimens of building' stones ; from Illinois. 

Turner, Boss. Model of ship " 11 Sultana," built in Venice between the 
years 1850 and 1860. The vessel was lost at the battle of Lissa. 

Union Iron Company. Collective exhibit of manufactured iron. 

United States Stamping Company. Two boxes of stamped tinware. 

University of Alabama. One box of Indian relics. (Loaned.) 

Upham, E. P. Eight rude stone implements ; from District of Columbia. 

Upton, George. Collection of manufactured glue. 

Tail, Master Stevie. Two living specimens of young alligators ; from 
Florida. 

Yaiiderburg, Mrs. J. H. Flint spear head; from Fort Ticonderoga, N. Y. 

Yan Fleet, Dr. M. N. Specimen of stone implement and sjjecimen of 
gypsum from which was made the famous '^ Cardiff Giant " ; from Ne- 
braska. 

Yan Sinderen, Adrian. Section of meteorite. 

Yansant, H. H. One box of shell oysters ; from Somers Point, N. J. 

Yasey, Dr. George. Specimens of agave paper ; from Mexico. 

Yerrill, Prof. A. E. {for U. S. Fish Commission). Fourteen boxes, one 
tank of alcoholic invertebrates ; from coast of New England. 

Yon BerUpsoh, Hans. Collection of one hundred and thirteed European 
birds' skins. 

Yon Epps, P. M. One box of concretions; from New York. 

Yulcanized Fibre Company. Seven samples of crude and manufactured 
vulcanite. 

Walke, E. H. Alcoholic specimen (A w&^j/sfowa opaoww); from Mary- 
land. 

Walker, Hon. B. J. C. Specimens of minerals. 

Walker, S. H. Specimen of mineral ; from Maryland. 

Walker, S. T. Specimens of Indian relics and roots of the countie 
plant ; from Florida. 

Wallace, John. Specimen of baboon, in flesh. 

Ward, Prof. H. A. Specimens of fossil crabs ; from the Isle of Hainan, 
Gulf of Tonqnin. 

Ward, Prof. L. F. Specimens of anthracite coal ; from Ehode Island. 

Ware, John D. Specimens of a root; from vicinity of Hot Springs, Ark. 

Warren & Co. Three specimens of Caulol^tihis microps; from Florida. 

Washington, Charles H. Specimen of red fox ( Ytilpes fulvus); from Vir- 
ginia. 

Washington, D. C: 
Department of Agriculture. One box of materia medica. (See under 

name of Dr. George Yasey.) 
Census Offiof. Four hundred and seven specimens of building stonesj 
from various States and Territories. See under name of B. Pum- 
petty. 



r 
260 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Washington, B. G. — Contiuued. 

Geological Survey, J. W. Powell, United States Geologist. Ninety-eight 
trays of fossils ; from Rocky Mountains. Specimens of building 
stones; from Wyoming. Minerals; from Arizona and Kew Mexico. 

General Land Office. Forty- six baud specimens of building stones. 
(See under names of G. W. Rolcomh, John Wasson, and Special Agent 
James Bell. 

United States Gommission cf Fish and Fisheries, Prof. Spencer F. Baird, 
Gommissioner. About 3G0 packages of zoological collections; from 
the Atlantic, Pacific, and Gulf Coasts, made by Prof. A. E. Verrill, 
Richard Rathbun, David S. Jordan, Charles H. Gilbert, G. Brown 
Goode, James E. Benedict, Col. Marshall McDonald, T. B. Fergu- 
son, Dr. T. H. Bean, with large number of fishing and wluile-boat 
fittings, collected by James Temple Browu, Joseph W. Collius, H. 
C. Chester, R. Edward Earll,and A. Howard Clark. (See also under 
names G. Brown Goode, M. McDonald, James E. Benedict, H. G. 
Ghester, Jos. W. Collins, A. Howard Glarh, FranJc N. Glark, Frank 
L. Donnelly, Gtorge II. H. Moore, John A. Rydeif, Livingston Stone, 
James G. Sican and Prof. A. E. Verrill. Also collection of several 
hundred specimens of Indian stone imjilements and relics made by 
the United States Fish Commission; from vicinity of Meuemsha 
Bight, and Marthas vineyard, assisted by Wilhivd iSTye, jr., of Kew 
Bedford, Mass. 

Navy Department. (See under names of Commodore John G. Walker, 
Gapt. T. M. Ramsey, J. R. Eastman, R. L. Kewcomb, Dr. J. F. 
Bransford, Dr. Thomas C. Craig, D. William H. Jones, Paymaster 
George R. Reed, Ensign M. L. Wood, Ernest Wilkinson, Lieut. G. B. 
Sigshee, F. G. Dale.) 

State Department. Four boxes of cotton samples ; from the Interna- 
tional Cotton Exposition at Atlanta, Ga., 1881. 

Treasury Department, United States Revenue Marine. (See under 
names of Lieutenant Elliott and Gapt. J. G. Mitchell.) 

War Department, Signal service. One kyak, one bundle and nine 
boxes of ethnology. (See also under name of John J. McLean and 
L. M. Turner.) 

Surgeon- GeneraVs Office. (See under names of Drs. Jos. JV. K. Corson 
and Elliott Coues.) 

United States Army. (See under names of Gapt. Ghas. Bendire, GoL 
A. G. Brackett, Col. R. T. Burr, Gapt. H. S. Eawkim, Acting Quar- 
master S. B. Holahird, First Sergeant William H. Hudson, Major 
William A. Kohhe, General M. C. Meigs, Gapt. R. H. Pratt, Col. A. 
F. Rockwell, Drs. R. W. Shufeldt, and Henry G. Yarrow, and Timo- 
thy E. Wilcox, Lieut. G. A. Williams. 
Wasson, John. Specimens of minerals; from Arizona. 
Watkins, J. M. Two dozen "original" Powhatan clay pipes; from Vir- 
ginia. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 261 

Watts, R. L. Model of reach boat; from Maine. (Parchased.) 

WeaJcs, P. B. Specimen of tertiary lignite taken from stump 30 feet 
below surfjice; from Lonisiaua. 

Weaver, George B., & Go. Specimens of fresh fish {Amia calva, Lota macu- 
losa) ; from New York. 

Webb, W. R. Seven models of ships; from New York. 

Webster, W. W. Six papier-mache lay figures and one papier-mach^ 
head. 

Weems, Rev. T. D. Specimens of Indian implements ; from Illinois. 

Weidman, A., & Co. {through Thomas Donaldson). Two boxes of masks. 

Wells, J. G. Specimen of insect ; from Grenada, West Indies. 

Wesleyan University. Five specimens of musical instruments, cornet, 
ophicleide, trombone, and clarionet. " Marimba ; " from Venezuela. 

Wharton, Joseph. Specimen of cooking vessel made from rolled nickel 
on iron ; manufactured in Germany. Samples of pure nickel rolled in 
sheets and on iron; from Pennsylvania. Also an exhibit of nickel ore 
and products ; from New Jersey. 

Wheeler, Charles Le Boy. Collection of shells; from New Jersey. 

WJiipple, 8. C. Specimens of biotite granite and quartz porphyry; from 
Colorado. 

White, Br C. A. Box of land shells ; from Indiana. Specimens of chalk; 
from Dakota. Fossil plants; from Colorado. 

Whittington, G. N. Specimen of ore. 

Whitman, J. L. Product of artificial planting of Stizostedlum vitreum 
var. Salmoneum ; from Kansas. 

Whitall, Tatum & Co. Two barrels, six hogsheads, and nine boxes, sam- 
ples of glass bottles, etc.; also apparatus used in making. 

Wiggins, John B. Specimens of clay, fossils, stone pestle, slag, iron 
pipe or wrench, and living specimen of fox [Vulpes fulvus) ; from New 
York. Soapstone cup and tomahawk; from Virginia. 

Wilcox; Crittenden & Co. Box of fishing apparatus ; from Connecticut. 

Wilcox, Joseph. Specimens of stone relics and implement; from Flor- 
ida. 

Wilcox, Dr. Timothy E., TJ. 8. A. Two pairs of antlers, alcoholic mam- 
mals {Cervus macrotis, Alces americanvs, Thomomys talpoides), and two 
mice, piece of stone pestle and fossil bone, bag of kinnikinik made 
by the Cheyenne Indians, specimen of buttei-flies (Papilio turnus, Dan- 
dus archippus), pair of antelope prongs ( Antilocapra americnna)^ 
specimen of Trochilus alexandri, Juv. ; from Idaho. One of skin of 
Ainpelis garrulus ; from Nevada. 

Wilcox, W. A. Specimen of fish basket, two currycombs for cleaning 
fish, used by New England fish dealers. One fresh specimen of cusk 
[Brosmius brosme), and three negatives of warehouses and wharfs at 
Boston; from Massachusetts. 

Wild, George R. Specimens of alcoholic striped bass {Roccus saxatilis)} 
from the headwaters of North Shrewsbury River, New Jersey. 



262 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Wilder, Miss Mary. Specimen of miueral; from Tennessee. 

WilM^ison, Ernest., U. S. N'. Specimens of rocks, lava, etc., and alco 
holic specimens of star-fislies, sea-urchins, crustaceans, and mollusks; 
from Alaska and Greenland. 

WilkinSj Mrs. L. J. Seventeen specimens of building stones ; from vari- 
ous localities. 

Willard, 8. W. Specimen of bird skin {Vireo Philadelphia); from Wis- 
consin. 

Willetts, James C. SiJecimens of alcoholic fishes, {Argyrosomus, sp.) ; 
from New York. 

Williams, C. A. Eleven specimens of whaling apparatus. 

Williams, Lieut. G. A., V. S. A. Package of butterflies. 

Williams, Dr. Edward H. Carved panel (dragon) ; from Buddhist 
temple in the interior of Japan. 

Williams & Page. Specimens of railroad and steamship lamps ; from 
Massachusetts. 

WiUiams, W. Specimen of Blepharis crinitus; from Connecticut. 

Williamson, W. A . Box of insects, with cells ; from Toronto, Canada. 

Wilson, Mrs. Beiley {through John B. Wiggins). Specimens of fossilsj 
from jSTew York. 

Wiltheiss, G. T. Specimen of an inscribed stone ; from Ohio. (Loan.) 

Wing, L. and W. E. Fifteen specimens of whale-boat fittings, and one 
specimen of baleen; from Massachusetts. 

Wise, Morgan R. Two specimens of gold-bearing quartz; from Vir- 
ginia. 

Witherow, Jos. M. {through Edicard Nichols). Specimen of stone imple- 
ment, boat-shaped; from North Carolina. 

Wolff, A. Specimen of hematite; from California. 

Wolle, sr., A. Mounted specimen of Mareca penelope, shot near Balti- 
more; eggs of Gallipsittacus novce-hollandice., laid in confinement; 
specimen of Piowia« violaoeus; fromDemerara; and birds' skins; from 
South America. 

Woltz, George. Clarionet without mouth-piece, and one mouth-piece for 
A and B flat. 

Women's Silk-Gulture Association, Philadelphia. Frame and three sam- 
ples of American grown and manufactured silk. 

Wood, Brightman & Go. Two jacket-lamps, powder-horn, blubber- room 
lamj), blow-horn for whale-boat, boat and cook's lanterns, and deck- 
scoop, oil ; from Massachusetts. 

Woode, E. and G. Collection of hair and clothes brushes ; from New 
York. 

Wood, George. Exhibit of corrugated and creased leather. 

Wood, M. L., U. 8. N. Alcoholic specimens of fishes {Batrachus tau, 
Hemirhamphus unifasciatus, Ocyturus chrysurus, Diahasis formosus)) 
from Florida. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM. 263 

Wood, Sir William, Egypt. One large mosaic lion, exhibited at the Cen- 
tennial Exhibition at Philadelphia, Pa. ; valued at $25,000. 

Wood, W. 21., U. 8. N. Specimens of fresh shad {Clupea sapidissima)', 
from Potomac Eiver. 

Woodbury, J. G. Alcoholic specimens of striped bass {Roccns saxaiilis), 
with parasites, {Livoneca): from California. 

Woodward, W. ElUott. Two stone mortars, and piece of cloth showing 
tracing" of rock carving ; from Massachusetts. 

Wooster, A. F. Specimen, in flesh, of a bat; from Connecticut. 

Wootcn Well Company. Four demijohns of mineral water; from Texas. 

Wright, Harrison. Specimen of suufish [Lepomis gihhosvs); from Penn- 
sylvania. 

Wright, H. L. Alcoholic specimen of fisli ; from Washington, D. C. 

Wright, Reuben. Specimen of living liorned-frog {Phynosoma cornu- 
twn); from Texas. 

Yancey, B. M. Package of rocks ; from Virginia. 

Yarrow, Br. H. G. Two stone implements: from North Carolina. 

Yeates, W. S. Three specimens of fossils; from New York. 

Yorli, William F. Collection of clay concretions ; from beds along the 
headwaters of the Connecticut Eiver. 

Zeledon, Jose G. One box of stone images, pottery, celts, fragments of 
pottery, and one box of insects ; from Costa Eica. 

Zoological /Society, Philadelphia, Pa. Specimen of vnlturlne Guinea-fowl 
{Numida vulturina); from West Africa. 

Zorn, George, & Co. Two boxes of wood and clay pipes ; over 300 styles. 



ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS RELATIVE TO THE 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, NATIONAL MUSEUM, ETC. 

IX CONTINUATION FROM FREVWUS REPORTS. 



APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1882. 

Furniture and fixtures., National Museum — To expedite the work of 
constructing the exhibition cases in the new bnilding for the National 
Museum during the present fiscal year, thirty thousand dollars. 

(Deficiency appropriation act, March 6, 1882. Statutes, xxii, p. 10.) 

Fire-proof building for National Museum. — To pay Thomas J. Hobbs 
for disbursing the appropriations for the construction of the National 
Museum building, under appointment of the Secretary of the Treasury 
of IMarch 28, 1879, two hundred and fifty dollars, in full satisfaction 
therefor. 

(Deficiency appropriation act, August 5, 1882. Statutes, xxii, p. 274.) 



APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1883. 

Preservation of collections, National Museum. — For exi^ense of heating, 
lighting, and telephonic and electrical service for the new Museum build- 
ing, six thousand dollars ; for the preservation and exhibition of the col- 
lections received from the surveying and exploring expeditious of the 
Government, and other sources, including salaries or compensation of 
all necessary employes, seventy-five thousand dollars; for expense of 
transferring to Washington the collections presented to the United 
States at the close of the Permanent International Exhibition, in Phila- 
delphia, including necessary expenses already incurred for the purpose, 
ten thousand dollars. Total, ninety-one thousand dollars. 

(Sundry civil appropriation act, August 7, 1882. Statutes, xxii, pp. 
332, 333.) 

Armory building. — For care of the Armory building and expense of 
watching, preservation, and storage of the duplicate collections of the 
Government and of property of the United States Fish Commission 
contained therein, including salaries or compensation of all necessary 
employes, two thousand five hundred dollars, and the distribution of 
duplicate specimens of the National Museum and Fish Commission may 
be made to colleges, academies, and other institutions of learning, upon 

•^64 



ACTS OF CONGRESS 265 

the payment by the recipients of tbe cost of preparation for transporta- 
tion and tbe transportation thereof. 

(Sundry civil appropriation act, August 7, 1882. Statutes, xxii, pp. 
332, 333.) 

Furnifvre and fixtures, National Museum. — For cases, furniture, and 
fixtures required for the exhibition of the collections of geology, min- 
eralogy, natural history, ethnology, and tlie industrial arts, belonging 
to the United States, and for salaries or comi)eusation of all necessary 
employes, sixty thousand dollars. 

(Sundry civil appropriation act, August 7, 1882. Statutes, xxii, p. 
332.) 

North American ethnology., Smithsonian Institution. — For the purpose 
of continuing ethnological researches among the North American In- 
dians, under the direction of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, including salaries and compensation of all necessary employes, 
thirty-five thousand dollars. 

(Sundry civil appropriation act, August 7, 1882. Statutes, xxii, p. 
332.) 

International exchanges^ Smithsonian Institution. — For expenses of the 
international exchanges between the United States and foreign coun- 
tries, in accordance with the Paris convention of 1877, including salaries 
and compensation of all necessary employes five thousand dollars. 

(Sundry civil appropriation act, August 7, 1882. No. 217; Statutes, 
xxii, p. 332.) 

War Department. — For the transportation of reports and maps to for- 
eign countries, through the Smithsonian Institution, three hundred dol- 
lars. 

(Sundry civil appropriation act, August 7, 1882. Statutes, xxii, p. 
319.) 

Naval Observatory.— For payment to Smithsonian Institution for 
freight on Observatory publications to be shipped to foreign countries 
during the fiscal year 1883, three hundred and thirty-six dollars and 
twenty-five cents. 

(Legislative, executive, and judicial appropriation act, August 5, 1882. 
Statutes, xxii, p. 245.) 



APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1884. 

International exchanges.— For international exchanges, Smithsonian 
Institution: For expenses of the international exchanges between the 
United States and foreign countries, in accordance with the Paris con- 



2GG ACTS OF CONGRESS. 

veution of eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, including salaries and 
compensation of all necessary employes, seven thousand live hundred 
dollars. 

(Sundry civil appropriation act, March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. G03.) 

International exchanges, Xavy Department. — For payment to Smith- 
sonian Institution for freight on Observatory publications sent to foreign 
countiies, three hundred and thirtj'-six dollars. 

(Legislative, executive, and judicial appropriatien act, March 3, 1883. 
Statutes, xxii, p. 618.) 

War Department. — For the transportation of reports and maps to for- 
eign countries: For the transportation of reports and maps to foreign 
countries, through the Smithsonian Institution, three hundred dollars. 

(Sundry civil appropriation act, March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, i). 555.) 

Transfer of centennial collections, Treasury Department. — To complete 
the transfer and preparation of the Philadelphia collections presented 
to the United States at the close of the permanent international exhibi- 
tion in Philadelphia, including necessary expenses already incurred, four 
thousand one hundied and twelve dollars and eighty-two cents. 

(Deficiency appropriation act, March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. 584.) 

Fire-proofing Smithsonian Institution. — For completing the reconstruc- 
tion, in a fire-proof manner, of the interior of the eastern portion of the 
Smithsonian Institution, fifty thousand dollars. 

(Sundry civil appropriation act, March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. 628.) 

North American Ethnology. — For North American Ethnology, Smith- 
sonian Institution : For the purpose of continuing ethnological researches 
among the North American Indians, under the direction of the Secretary 
of the Smithsonian Institution, including salaries and compensation of 
all necessary employes, forty thousand dollars, cf which three thousand 
dollars shall be expended for continuing and completing the compilation 
and preparation of a statistical atlas of Indian affairs by C. C. Royce, 
under the direction of the Bureau of Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution 
which shall be immediatelj' available. 

(Sundry civil appropriation act, March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. 628.) 

Furniture and fixtures, National Museum. — For furniture and fixtures 

of the National Museum : For cases, furniture, and fixtures required for 

the exhibition of the collections of geology, mineralogy, natural history, 

ethnology, and the industrial arts belonging to the United States, and 

for salaries or compensation of all necessary employes, sixty thousand 

dollars. 

(Sundry civil appropriation act, March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. 628.) 

Heating and lighting National Museum, etc. — For heating and lighting 



ACTS OF CONGRESS. 267 

the Katioiial Museum : For expense of heating, lighting, and telephonic 
and electrical service for the new museum building, six thousand dollars. 
(Sundry civil appropriation act, March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. 029.) 
Preservation of collections. — For the preservation of collections of tho 
i^^ational Museum : For the preservation and exhibition of the collec- 
tions received from surveying and exploring expeditions of the Govern- 
ment, and other sources, including salaries or compensations ef all 
necessary employes, ninety' thousand dollars. 

(Sundry civil approj^riation act, March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. 029.) 

Armory bnilding. — For the preservation of collections of the National 
Museum in the Armory building: For care of the Armory buildings and 
grounds, and expense of watching, preservation, and storage of the duf)!!- 
cate collections of the Government and of property of the United States 
Fish Commission contained therein^ including salaries or comi^ensatiou 
of all necessary employes, two thousand five hundred dollars. And the 
distribution of duplicate specimens of the National Museum and Msh 
Commission may be made to colleges, academies, and other institutions 
of learning, upon the payment by the recipients of the cost of in'epara- 
tion for transportation and the transportation thereof. 

(Sundry civil appropriation act, March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. 029.) 



INAUGUEATION OF THE HENRY STATUE. 

[No. 16.] Joint resolution accepting the invitation of the Regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institute to attend the inauguration of the statue of Joseph Henry. 

Whereas, in a communication from Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institute, Congress was informed that in accordance 
with an act of June tirst, eighteen hundred and eighty, the bronze 
statue of Joseph Henry, late Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 
had been completed; and whereas in the same communication. Con- 
gress was respectfully invited to be present on the occasion of its formal 
presentation to the public upon Thursday the nineteenth of April next, 
Therefore be it 

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress asstmhkd, That the said invitation be 
and the same is hereby accepted by the Senate and House of Kepre- 
sentatives; and that the President of the Senate select seven members 
of that body ; and the Speaker of the House of Kepresentatives fifteen 
members of that body to be present and represent the Congress of the 
United States, upon the occasion of the presentation and inauguration 
of said statue. 

(Approved February 24, 1883. Statutes, xxii, p. 039.) 



268 ACTS OF CONGRESS 

PRINTING CENTENNIAL, EXHIBITION REPORT. 

[No. 21.'] Joint resolution to print five thousand copies of the report of the Board 
on behalf of the United States Executive Departments at the International Exhibition 
of eighteen hundred and seventy-six. 

Resolved by the Senate and Bovse of Fepresenf^tives of the United 
States af America in Congress assembled, That there be printed and 
bound, in continuation of the series of volumes heretofore published by 
Congress under joint resolution of June twentieth, eighteen hundred 
and seventy-nine, containing the final report of the United States Cen- 
tennial Commission on the International Exhibition of eighteen hun- 
dred and seventy-six, and uniform therewith, five thousand copies of 
the report of the Board on behalf of the United States Executive De- 
partments at said Exhibition, being the report which was submitted to 
Congress by the President of the United States, by special message of 
February ninth, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, and again in his 
annual message of December third, eighteen hundred and seventy- 
seven, of which number three thousand copies shall be for the House, 
one thousand copies for the Senate, two hundred copies for the Smith- 
sonian Institution for distribution to such foreign governments and 
others as made contributions from such Exhibition to the National 
Museum, three hundred copies for the late members of said Board, and 
five hundred copies for distribution by the late president of the Cen- 
tennial Commission, the printing to be done by the Public Printer, 
under the supervision of the late chairman of said Board, upon whose 
order may be allowed by the Public Printer to the late secretary of the 
Board not exceeding three hundred dollars for services to be performed, 
and incidental expenses to be incurred in connection therewith : Pro- 
vided, That the photographic views of the Government exhibit accom- 
panjing the manuscript report shall not be printed or reproduced for 
the publication herein authorized. 

(Approved March 3, 1883. Statutes, xxii, pp. 640, 641.) 



SOUTHERN EXPOSITION AT LOUISVILLE, KY. 

Chap. 99. — An act relative to the Southern ExpositioQ to bo held in the city of 
Louisville, State of Kentucky, in the year eighteen hundred and eighty-three. 

Whereas ample means have been provided for holding, during the 
present year, in the city of Louisville, State of Kentucky, of an exposi- 
tion of the productsof agriculture, manufactures, and the fine arts; and 

Whereas the objects of such an exposition should commend them- 
selves to Congress, and its success should be promoted by all reasona- 
lile encouragement, provided it can be done without expeuvse to the gen- 
eral public : Therefore, 



ACTS OF COKGEESS. 269 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Represeniatices of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled^ That all articles which shall be 
imported for the sole purpose of exhibition at the Southern Exposition 
at Louisville, Kentucky, to be held in the year eighteen hundred and 
eighty-three, shall be admitted without the payment of duty, or of cus- 
toms fees or charges, under such regulations as the Secretary of the 
Treasury shall prescribe : Provided^ That all such articles as shall be 
sold in the United States, or withdrawn for consumption therein, at auy 
time after such importation, shall be subject to the duties, if any, im- 
Ijosed oil like articles by the revenue laws in force at the date of impor- 
tation: And provided further, That in case any articles imported under 
the provision of this act shall be withdrawn for consumption, or shall 
be sold Avithout payment of duty as required by law, all penalties pre- 
scribed by the revenue laws shall be applied and enforced against 
such articles, and against the persons who may be guilty of such with- 
drawal or sale. 

Sec. 2. That medals, with appropriate device, emblems, and int^^crip- 
tions, commemorative of said Southern Exposition, aud of the awards 
to be made to exhibitors thereat, be prepared at s. me mint of the United 
States, for the board of directors thereof, subject to the provisions of 
the fifty-second section of the coinage act of eighteen hundred and sev- 
enty-three, upon the payment of a sum not less than the cost thereof; 
and all the provisions, whether penal or otherwise, of said coinage act 
against the counterfeiting or imitating of coins of the United States 
6ha\l apply to the medals struck and issued under this act. 

Sec. 3. That with the approval of the director of the National Mu- 
seum, any portion of the collections thereof may be exhibited at said 
Southern Exposition, permission to remove the same irom the ^National 
Museum being herebj' granted: Provided, That said removal can be 
made Avithout loss or expense to the Government. -And upon the same 
conditions permission is also granted for the exhibition of articles in 
charge of other Bureaus and Departments of the Government. 

Sec. 4. That upon the passage cf this act the Secretary of State 
shall notify the consuls, consular agents, and other representatives of 
our Government in foreign countries of the time and place of holding 
said Southern Exposition, together with the fact that all articles in- 
tended therefor will be admitted free of duty, as provided herein. 

(Legislative, executive, and judicial appropriation act, March 3, 1883. 
Statutes, xxtl, pp. 481, 482.) 



LOISDON FISHERY EXHIBITION. 

[No. 49.] JoiXT Resolution concerning an International Fishery Exhibition to be 
held at Loudon, iu May, eighteen hundred and eighty-three. 

Whereas the Government of the United States has received official 



270 ACTS OF CONGRESS. 

intimation from that of Great Britain that it is proposed to bold an In- 
ternational Exhibition of Fish, Fisheries, and Fish Products at London 
in May, eighteen hnudred and eighty-three, whereat the representation 
of the United States is invited j and 

Whereas, also, by its action as a Government, and by the active en- 
terprise of merchants, fishermen, and inventors and the researches of 
men of science in this country, the United States has attained and holds 
a prominent place in all that relates to the development of the great 
fisheries industries, the extension of the great commercial relationship 
with other countries based on the exportation of prepared fish products; 
which now forms an important factor in the national wealth, the artifi- 
cial propagation of food fishes, and the re-stocking of depleted fishing 
waters, and it is expedient that the industries and interests thus con- 
cerned should be adequately represented on the occasion : Therefore, 

Resolved, by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States 
of America in Congress assembled, That the invitation of the British 
Government be accepted, and that, under the auspices of the Depart- 
ment of State, the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries 
be, and he hereby is, instructed to prepare or cause to be prepared a 
complete and systematic representative exhibition of the fisheries of 
the United States, in which shall be shown the following: A series of 
fishing grounds; a full series of the principal sea and fresh water fishes, 
shell-fish, sponges, and so forth, and other useful inhabitants of the 
waters of the country (either as specimens, casts, or illustrations) ; speci- 
mens of models of the various kinds of gear, apparatus, boats, and so 
forth, used in their capture; a full collection of articles showing the 
commercial and economic uses of the fishes and other water animals, 
which shall include, besides the samples and specimens, models and 
other representations of appliances nsed in their preparation and pres- 
ervation for food as well as for purposes of use and ornament, such as 
diied, smoked, and canned fish, and so forth ; oils, fertilizers, manufiict- 
nred shells, corals, sponges, and so forth; also a full series of articles, 
or models ttiereof, showing the economic condition of our fishermen, 
&uih as clothing and other personal outfit, models of dwelling houses, 
and so forth; a collection of documents showing the present condition 
of fishery legislation ; also specimens, models, and illnstratious of the 
apparatus used in artificial hatching and biw?eding of fish, oysters, and 
so forth; models of hatcheries, ponds, flshways, transportation cars, 
vessels, and so forth ; statistical maps showing the range, abundance, 
and so forth, of our fishes, and so forth ; also such other facts, appara- 
tus, models, specimens, and so forth, as may be needed to convey a cor- 
rect idea of this branch of the nation's industries. 

Seo. 2. That with the approval of the Director of the National Mu- 
seum, any cognate portion of the collections thereof may be used in the 
preparation of the exhibit herein provided for, permission to remove 



ACTS OF CONGRESS. 271 

the same from the National Museum beiug hereby granted. And the 
Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries is hereby authorized to obtain, by 
exchange or otherwise, such procurable objects from other exhibits in 
Loudon as may tend to perfect the permanent fishery exhibit of the 
United States National Museum. 

Seg. 3. That it shall be the duty of the United States Commissioner 
of Fish and Fisheries to present to Congress a detailed report of the. 
present condition of the European fisheries, with information as to any 
metliods by which those of the United States can be modified or im- 
l)roved, as well as any suggestions he may deem pertinent in regard to 
increasing the exportation of fishery products from the United States 
to foreign countries. 

Seo. 4. That the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries 
is hereby authorized to represent the United States at the exhibition 
in question, either in person or by a deputy to be api^ointed by the 
President of the United States, together with such assistants as he may 
j-ecommend as useful in carrying out the proposed participation of the 
Unite<l States at the exhibition. 

Sec. 5. That in order to defray the expenses of the collection, prepa- 
ration and packing of the exhibit authorized, its transfer from and to 
the United States, irs installation and supervision, in London, and such 
other incidental expenses as may of necessity arise, there is hereby ap- 
propriated, out of any money in the Treasury of the United States not 
otherwise a])propriated, the sum of fifty thousand dollars, or so much 
thereof as may be reiiuired, to be immediately available, and to be ex- 
pended by the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, un- 
der the direction and regulations of the Department of State. 

(Approved July 18, 1882. Statutes, xxii, pp. 387-389.) 



WITHDRAWAL OF SMITHSONIAN DEPOSIT. 
Chai'. 4*1. An act lor (be relief of Mary E. Thomson. 

Be it enacted, etc., That Mary E. Thomson, mother of Passed Assist- 
ant Paymaster Curtis H. Thomson, United States Navy, deceased, be, 
and is hereby authorized to accept, first, a portrait, in frame, of Her 
Eoyal Highness, the Princess of Siam; second, a silver enameled cigiir 
case; third, a r^atch-box and tray of Siamese work, the same being 
pre.seut«^a to said Curtis H. Thomson, in his lifetime, by the King of 
Siam, and now ou deposit in the Smitlisouian Institution. 

(Approved August 8, 1882. Statutes, xxii, p. 738.) 



272 ACTS OF CONGRESS. 

DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLIC DOCUMENTS. 

Resolutiou of the House of Representatives, Anj^ust 8, 1882. 

Resolved, That the Librarian of Congress, the Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, and the Superintendent of Documents, Department 
of the Interior, be and they are hereby requested to compile the hiws 
and regulations now in force governing the printing and distribution of 
pnblic documents; to prepare a tabulated statement showing the num- 
ber of documents xmnted by order of Forty-sixth and the tirst session 
of the Forty-seventh Congress, and under general laws now in force, 
and the disposition directed to be made of the same; and to rep( rt what 
reductions should be made in the number of such documents, and to 
present such other information at their command relating to public 
documents as will tend to promote judicious legislation and submit the 
draft of a bill to provide for the printing and distribution of documents, 
and they shall report to the House at the beginning of the next session. 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



TO THE 



SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1882. 



273 
H. Mis. 26 18 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



The object of ttie General Appendix is to furnish summaries of 
scientific discovery in particular directions; occasional reports of the 
investigations made by collaborators of the Institution; memoirs of a 
general character or on special topics, whether original and prepared 
expressly for the purpose, or selected from foreign journals and proceed- 
ings; and briefly to present (as fully as space will permit) such papers 
not published in the "Smithsonian Contributions" or in the "Miscella- 
neous Collections" as may be supposed to be of interest or value to the 
numerous correspondents of the Institution. 
274 



RECORD OF SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS FOR 1882. 



INTRODUCTION 

While it has been a prominent object of the Board of Eegents of the 
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date in its history, to enrich 
the annual report required of them by law, with scientific memoirs illus- 
trating the more remarkable and important developments in physical 
and biological discovery, as well as showing the general character of 
the operations of the Institution, this purpose had not been carried out 
on any very systematic plan. Believing however that an annual report 
or summary of the recent advances made in the leading departments 
of scientific inquiry would supply a want very generally felt, and would 
be favorably received by all those interested in the diffusion of knowl- 
edge, the Secretary had prepared for the report of 1880, by competent 
collaborators, a series of abstracts showfng concisely the i)romiuent 
features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology, physics, 
chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and anthropology. 

The same general programme was followed in the report for 1881, ex- 
cepting the account of geologic progress, which was necessarily omitted 
in consequence of the illness and lamented death of Dr. G. W. Hawes, 
to whom the subject had been referred. In the record for the present 
year. Dr. T. Sterry Hunt, of Montreal, Canada, has supplied very ac- 
ceptably this deficiency. A sketch of geographical progress during 
the years 1881 and 1882 has also been furnished for the present report 
by Commander F. M. Green, U. S. N. The account of progress in 
chemistry has been undertaken by Prof. H. Carringtou Bolton, of 
Trinity College, Hartford. The resume of progress in mineralogy, like- 
wise unfortunately omitted in the report for 1881 (owing to the death 
of Dr. Hawes, as above mentioned), has this year been supplied by Prof. 
Edward S. Dana, of Yale College, Kew Haven. The remaining con- 
tributors have continued their work, as heretofore. 

With every eiiort to secure prompt attention to all the more impor- 
tant details of such a work, various unexpected delays frequently render 
it impracticable to obtain all the desired reports in each department 
within the time prescribed. In such cases it is designed, if possible, to 
bring up deficiencies and supply them in subsequent reports. 

The value of this annual record of progress would be much enhanced by 
an enlargement of its scope, and the inclusion, not only of such branches 
as mathematics, physiology, pathology and medicine, microscopy, &c., 

875 



276 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

but also of the more practical topics of agricultural and horticult- 
ural economy, engineering, mechauics, and technology in general ; but 
the space required for such larger digest seems scarcely available in 
the present channel. The scientific resume, which in 1880 occupied 2G0 
pages, and in 1881 extended to 330 pages, has this year reached 400 
pages. An efficient condensation of this matter does not seem easily 
practicable. 

It is hardly necessary to remark that in a summary of the annual pro- 
gress of scientific discovery so condensed as the present, the wants of 
the specialist in any branch can be but imperfectly supplied ; and very 
many items and details of great value to him must be entirely omitted. 
While the student in a special field of knowledge may occasionally re- 
ceive hints that will be found of interest, he will naturally be led to 
consult for fuller information the original journals and special periodi- 
cals from which these brief notices or abstracts have been compiled. 

The plan of devoting some 350 pages of the annual report to such a 
compilation is not designed to preclude the introduction into the "Gen- 
eral Appendix," as heretofore, of special monographs or discussions 
that may prove interesting to the scientific student. 

Spencer F. Baird. 



ASTRONOMY. 



By Prof. Edward S. Holden, 

Director of the Washburn Obserratory. 



This record of astronomical progress during the year 1882 is in con- 
tinuation of that of preceding years and is ijresented in the same form. 
Abstracts of some of the most important papers of the year are given, 
arranged under appropriate heads. To the professional astronomer 
they may serve as a convenient collection of reviews and notes. But 
their chief aim is to convey to the large and increasing class of those 
interested in astronomy, and having some acquaintance with it, an idea 
of its annual progress. This object might be more directly attained by 
writing a connected account of the year's work without referring to 
separate papers. It is, however, conceived that the present plan really 
serves its purpose better. 

While the progress of astronomy in general, as well as that of other 
sciences, is even and sustained if viewed from a distance, yet this prog- 
ress is really made by steps and irregularly. It is of value to be able 
to follow these steps one by one. 

The writer has made free use of reviews which have appeared in 
scientific periodicals, and especially of abstracts which he has himself 
written. 

NEBULA, ETC. 

Nebula in Orion. — The Naval Observatory has recently published a 
monograph of the Central Parts of the Nebula of Orion (quarto, 230 pp., 
42 illustrations), by Professor Holden. 

Part I gives a history of the various researches on the nebula of Orion, 
in chronological order, from Cysat, 1618, to the observations of the 
author in 1882. With this are given 38 wood-cuts, which are engraved 
from photographs of the principal published (and unpublished) draw- 
ings. A very fine drawing of Lassell is here given for the first time. 

Part II (pp. 108-197) gives the observations made by Professor 
Holden at Washington and Madison in the years 1874-1882. 

Part III is a summary of all the observations arranged for compar- 
ison. 

Part lY gives the conclusions to be reached with regard to possible 
variations in the shape or brilliancy of its parts. These are, in brief, 
that there have certainly been changes in the relative brightness of some 



278 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1862. 

of the parts, but that no evidence exists of any changes of form other 
than those which might be due to changes iu relative brightness. 
These changes in brightness have been examined by the author by 
photouietric measures by means of an instrument devised by Prof, 
diaries S. Hastings. 

An addendum gives a magniScent photograph of the nebula made by 
Dr. Henry Draper, his last published work. The frontispiece is Bond's 
beautiful steel engraving of the nebula, which was kindly furnished by 
Professor Pickering; 

Spectrum of Nebula i)i Orion. — Dr. Huggins has succeeded in photo- 
graphing the spectrum of the nebula of Orion (March 7, 1882,), and "in 
addition to known lines" a strong line in the ultra-violet is shown. The 
same thing had also been done by Dr. Henry Draper, and from a private 
letter we learn that he had made four such iihotographs, which show 
that two knots of nebulosity in the bright mass just preceding the 
trapezium have a continuous spectrum, and that there are traces of the 
same in other parts of the nebula. 

Dr. Huggins has obtained a fine photograph of the spectrum of this 
nebula, which shows a ncic line X 3730, in addition to the four which he 
has located iu the visible spectrum. 

In this connection it may be worth while to correct a common, al- 
though a natural, error with regard to the question of the discovery of 
the discontinuous nature of the spectra of nebulse. 

In August, 18G4, Dr. Huggins investigated the spectra of nebulre be- 
fore any other observer, and communicated the results to the Roj^al 
Society on September 8, 1^64. 

Secchi's observations of the spectra of n^bulre are published in the 
Comptcs liendus of 180."), and api^ear to be the record of an indei)endent 
discovery 5 ceitainly they are usually so considered. That they are 
not independent, may be seen from the fact that the results of Dr. Hug- 
gins were communicated to P. Secchi by Director Otto V. Struve, who 
was at the time on a mission to Rome. Secchi received the announce- 
ment with incredulity, but as Struve insisted on its correctness Secchi 
pointed on a nebula and saw the gaseous spectrum for the first time in 
consequence of this announcement. This may not seem important now, 
but it is a portion of the history of astronomy, and if recorded at all, 
it should be stated correctly. 

FIXED STARS. 

Dr. GoukVs southern zones. — The second volume of the Cordoba ob- 
servations is at last printed. (Vol. I was the Uranometria Argentina.) 
It contains the places of some 400 southern stars for the large catalogue 
of 30,000 southern stars, and also 128 zones, containing some 13,000 
stars. This is the first installment of a very important work under- 
taken by Dr. Gould in 1870-'71 ; which was to prepare a zone catalogue 
of the region of the sky from (and overlapping) Argelander's southern 



ASTRONOMY. 279 

zones (which end at —31°) to (and overlapping) Gilliss' zones, yet unre- 
duced, which extend from the south pole to 25° S. P. D. and contain 
some 27,000 stars. 

All the observations (1871-1881) are now reduced, and they make a 
grand showing. 

Observations. 

For the catalogue ... 121, 000 

Fundamental stars 14, 000 

In the zones 105, 000 

Total - 240, 000 

About half of these were made by Dr. Gould himself. The total num- 
ber of individual stars is about 73,000 in the zones and 30,000 in the 
catalogue. The individual observations of the same star made in dif- 
ferent years agree well, the average discordance being below 0^.10 in 
K. A. and 2" in Declination. 

One great obstacle to the rapid publication of these volumes is the 
printing, which has to be done in Buenos Ayres. A meteorological vol- 
ume (Vol. II) has also just been issued. Dr. Gould may be congratu- 
lated on the amount of work which he has accomplished in his ten years 
of exile. His uranometry, his catalogue of fundamental stars, his large 
catalogue of 30-35,000 stars, and his zones make a showing of which 
any observatory would be proud. 

The state of our knowledge of the southern sky, so long an unknown 
region, is becoming satisfactory. The years 1870-1880 have seen great 
advances. At the Cape of Good Hope, the late Eoj'al astronomer, Mr. 
E. J. Stone, has printed three catalogues of first-rate importance. 

Ist. The Cape catalogue of 2,892 stars (epoch 1840) from Maclear's 
observations (1834-'40). 

2d. The Cape catalogue of 1,159 stars (epoch 1800) from Maclear's 
observations (1856-'61). 

3d. The Cape catalogue of 12,441 stars (epoch 1880) from observations 
by Mr Stone (1870-'S0). Nearly all of Lacaille's 9,766 stars have been 
reobserved for this last catalogue. 

From Melbourne we have a fine catalogue (epoch 1870) of 1,227 stars, 
from observations made by jMr. White (under the direction of Mr. El- 
lery, Government astronomer) since the observatory was moved from 
AVilliamstown. 

Lament's catalogue of 5,563 stars (many in southern declination) was 
published in 1874 and Yarnall's, whicli contains some 6,000 southern 
stars, in 1878. The next ten years will see the complete publication of 
Schoenfeld's Durchmustcrung from — 2° to — 23°; its extension from 
—23° southAvards by Prof. O. Stone, the publication of Gilliss' zones (from 
0° to 250 S. P. D.) by Professor Harkness at Washington, and of Gould's 
80,000 zone stars, and verv possibly the publication in catalogue form 
of the Washington zones (1840-'49), containing 38,000 observations. 



280 SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1882. 

Zone ohservaiions. — In Bessel's southern zones (+15° to —15°) and 
northern zones (+15c» to +45°) there are 75,011 observations of 62,000 
Btars. The actual time spent in observing was 868 hours, 18 minutes, 
so that on the average a star was observed every 41^.7, or at the rate of 
83.64 stars per hour. Two observers participated, Bessel and Arge- 
lander. In Argelander's northern zones (+45° to -|-80O) there were 
26,424 observations of 22,000 stars. The actual time required was about 
320 hours, and an observation was made ev^ery 43*.6 on the average, or 
at the rate of 82.56 per hour. In Argelander's southern zones ( — 15^ to 
—31°) there were 23,250 observations of 17,600 stars. The time employed 
was about 281 hours. On the average an observation consumed 43*.5, 
or the rate was 82.75 stars per hour. In Argelander's, as in Bessel's 
zones, two observers participated. 

In the Washington zones (1846-'49) only one observer was employed 
at each instrument. The rates are as follows: Meridian Circle Zones, 
1846, 4,137 observations were made in 178^ 19™, or at the rate of 
23.20 per hour; Meridian Circle Zones, 1847, 1848, and 1849, 7,388 ob- 
servations were made in 227^ 30"", or 32.52 per hour; Transit Zones, 
1846-'49, 12,029 observations were made in 395^ 55", or at the rate 
of 30.37 stars per hour; Mural Circle Zones, 1846-'49, 14,792 observa- 
tions were made in 500^^ 27™, or at the rate of 29.55 stars per hour. 
It thus appears that two observers working together will do one-third 
more work than working separately. 

At the Striisburg meeting of the German Astronomical Society (Sep- 
tember, 1881) reports were made of the progress of the zone observa- 
tions as usual. These are epitomized as below : 

Kasan : Observatorj' : Zone 800-75^. This zone is nearly finished. 

Borpat : Zone 75O-70°. All the declinations are reduced to 1875.0 and 
the observations of R. A. i)artly reduced. The zone is almost completed. 

Christiania : Zone 700-65°. This zone is also nearly completed. 

Helsingfors-Gotha : Zone 650-55°. The observations are done and 
are now being printed. 

Cambridge (U. S.) : Zone 550-50°. The observations were completed 
in January, 1870, and required 033nightsfor about 20,000 observations. 
The reductions will be finished in 1882. 

Bonn : Zone 500-40°. The final catalogue is complete as far as 3''. 

Lund: Zone 40°-35°. The observations will be finished in 1882. 

Leyden : Zone 35O-30°. The zones are printed, and the definitive 
catalogue is in preparation. 

Cambridge (Euglnud): Zone 30O-25o. Eight hundred and twenty- 
eight stars are yet to be observed. 

Berlin : Zone 25o-20o. This zone is observed by Dr. Becker, and 
80 per cent, of the observations are made. 

Berlin : Zone 200-I50. This zone is observed by Dr. Auwers, and is- 
nearly completed. 

Leijpsic : Zone I50-50. The zone 150-10° has been comjileted for some 



ASTRONOMY. 281 

time. The zone 100-5°, lately undertaken, will not be finished before 
1885. 

Albany : Zone 5°-l°. Some GOO observations are yet to be made, 
17,000 having been made. 

JSfikolaief : Zone -|-lo-2o. No reports were received. 

AVe learn from a recent letter of Prof. O. Stone, director of the Mc- 
Cormick Observatory, that his Burclimusterung (or zone observation of 
all the stars from the iirst to the tenth magnitude inclusive), from —23° 
southwards, is progressing rapidly. The zones are 1° wide, and four 
zones are nearly finished, so that printing may commence this year. 
Schoeufeld's DurcJirmtsternng (from — 2o to — 23°) is also nearly ready 
for publication. 

Definitive positions of the red stars. — Part IV. of the Astronomical 
Observations and Researches made at Dunsin]c,the Observatory of Trinity 
College, Dublin, contains the mean places of 321 red stars, deduced 
from observations made with the meridian circle at Dunsink by Dr. 
J. L. E. Dreyer. 

The work contains about 1,140 observations of the 321 stars, each of 
which has been observed on the average three and a half times. Of 
these observations, 445 were made by Dr. Copeland in 1875-'76, and 
the remainder by Dr. Dreyer in 1878-'80. 

The epoch of the catalogue is 1875.0, and the system is that of the 
Astron. Gesell. zones, so that subsequent comparisons will be easy. 
The work begins with an account of the Pistor & Martins meridian 
circle. Its aperture is 6.38 inches, focus 8 feet. The power used has 
been 180. This circle is similar in design to those of Ann Arbor, Al- 
bany, Copenhagen, Leyden, Washington, and Leipsic. The standard 
clock by Dent is mounted in the observing room. The observations 
have been made by eye and ear over wires only 3".2 apart, and Dr. 
Dreyer says, what is tolerably clear, that this interval is too small. 

The pointing in declination is done by means of two threads 14 inches 
apart. 

There is a difference in the size of the (exactly cylindric) pivots equal 
to — Oi'^MO. The collimation has been determined over mercury. The 
equator-point has been determined from the zero stars of the Astron. 
Gesell. The latitude is not definitively determined, but is taken at 53^ 
23' 13".0. 

There is a difference in the horizontal flexures of the instrument, 
CI. E. and CI. W., but the absolute flexure is small. Both circles are 
finely divided, and the division errors of each are given. The eight 
micrometer screws have been twice investigated. The constants of the 
instrument have been investigated by all the various methods, and the 
results by the various ways agree well. 

Dr. Dreyer would confer a favor if he would describe in detail his 
plan for getting the exact position for the counterpoise weights referred 
to on page 7 of his work. It would be interesting to know how much 



282 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

weight is allowed to remain on the Ys in the various meridian circles of 
• the world. The reductions are purely differential, as has been said. The 
refraction is computed hj Bessel's tables, with the Greenwich modi- 
fication. 

The probable error of a clock correction derived from one star is 
±0^052, and of a single determination of the equator-point ±0".55, or 
from four stars zt0".28. The resulting p. e. of a single declination is, 
above-lOo, ±0". G3, and from -10° to — 2(JO, i0".73. 

For comparison with this work we can refer to the Ann Arbor dec- 
linations of 195 stars, made with a circle of exactly the same size as 
that of Dublin, and also by the same makers, published by the Wash- 
l)urn Observatory (1881). 

This catalogue was observed by Mr. Schseberle in 1879, and the p. e. 
•of a single night in declination is ±0".55; in K. A. i0^040 sec. (J. 
Schjellerup at Copenhagen (10,000 stars, p. xvi), found between 0° and 
-fl5o^. e. in Dec. rtO".G9, and between 0° and -15^, ±0'^95. 

The magnitudes of the stars have been assigned on Argelander's 
ecale, and a note of the color of each star is given for each observation. 

The main object of the work is to bequeath good determinations of 
position of a large number of red stars, which may serve hereafter to 
show if the red stars as a class have any peculiarities of proper motion. 

Besides this object, another has been attained, in that 321 red stars 
Lave been observed for color and magnitude on three or four nights 
each on the average. 

Dr. Dreyer has now undertaken the observation of a large number ot 
■zero stars for Schoenfeld's Durchmusterung with this circle, which, like 
the large refractor of the observatory, is not destined to be idle. 

Double stars. — No. (3 of "Publications of the Cincinnati Observatory" 
lias been issued. It contains micrometrical measures of double stars 
made with the 11-inch refractor in 1879-'80, consisting partly of obser- 
vations preliminary to the formation of a general catalogue of known 
double stars situated between the equator and 30° south declination, 
and partly of observations of objects which Mr. Burnham has found to 
oeed re-observing. The cases of notable ditferences from previous meas- 
ures are collected in the introduction. The refractor appears to have 
been much improved since the object-glass was refigured by Messrs. 
Alvan Clark & Sons. 

The double star observations of Baron Dembowski are to be pub- 
lished in the Atti della B. Accademia del N'. Lincei. They will fill three 
to four of the (quarto) volumes, or about 1,500 pages in all, and are to 
he edited by Professor Schiaparelli. 

Variable stars. — Prof. E. C. Pickering, of Harvard College Observa- 
tory, has prepared and published in i)ami)hlet form a plan for securing 
observations of the variable stars. It is well known to astronomers that 
fehis obser^'atory is doing systematic work in the study of the variable 



ASTRONOMY. 283 

Stars, and this plan has been devised to bring this interesting branch 
of astronomy to the attention of observers generally, and to secure de- 
sirable and needed co-operation in it. The work is easy but very useful, 
and the plan is so minutely developed as to offer a delightful field of 
study to amateurs for observation with the naked eye, the common 
opera-glass, or the small telescope. Correspondence is desired with any 
persons who wish to undertake this work. 

Mr. G. Knott, writing from Cuckfield on May 29, states that he had 
caught a maximum of the apparently capricious variable star " JJ Gem- 
inorum^^ on May 27 or 28; on both nights it was about 9™ 9. This, 
compared with the previous maximum noted by the same observer on 
February 28, gives a period of eighty-eight days. 

Professor Schoenfeld finds that a star R. A. 16^^ 13™ 36«., Decl. — 7^ 
21'.0 for 1855 is variable. 

A star in E. A 19^ 17'" 33^, Decl. — 21° 32'.3 for 1850, must be vari- 
able to a gTeat extent — 6.5 to 9.0 at least. 

Mr. S. C. Chandler has made the very interesting discovery that the 
period of the star, B. M. + lo, No. 3408, is not 5^ days as was at first 
supposed, but considerably less than one day, viz, 20^ 7™ 4P. C. The 
error arose from the star having been visible for some time only in the 
early evening. The minimum could therefore only be observed at in- 
tervals of 5.03 days, i. e., C periods, or sometimes 5.87 days, *. c, 7 periods. 
A combination of these resulted in the period assigned. All the varia- 
tions from maximum to minimum, and ba(^k to maximum, are accom- 
plished in about four hours, the maximum brightness being maintained 
for sixteen hours. This star therefore has the shortest psriod known, 
and is the most remarkable for the rapidity of its changes. The dura- 
tion of increase and of decrease appears to be exactly equal, and the 
range is about seven-tenths of a magnitude, from CO or G.l to 6.7 or 6.8. 

The starD. M +8°, 4899, was observed by Dr. Krueger (1853, August 
29) as 9.5 magnitude and by Dr. Schoenfeld (1854, September 20) as 9.5 
magnitude, and it was not seen by Schoenfeld in a zone observed 1854, 
September 16. Dr. de Ball calls attention to the fact that, on August 13, 
1882, it was barely visible in the eleven-inch refractor of the Bothkamp 
Observatory. 

In a recent paper presented to the Saint Petersburg Academy of 
Sciences, Dr. Lindemaun.of Pulkova, has investigated the effect of the 
red colors of stars on estimates of their magnitudes. His observations 
have been made with a Zoellner's photometer, and he has compared 
the results of Eosen and Wolff with his own. This is not the place to 
indicatehis methods, which indeed are laid down in Zoellner's well-known 
work; but we may quote his general conclusion, to the effect that in 
matching an artificial star produced by the photometer, with a red star^ 
the accidental errors are very great compared to similar comparisons 
with white stars, and that in general the sensibility of the eye to red 
rays is three or four times less than to blue. The errors may amount to 



284 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

at least oue magnitude, and be concludes that we should look with doubt 
upon red variable stars where the variability is less than a magnitude 
or so. 

Parallax of the star Bradley 3077. — Dr. Gylden has lately published 
the results of his micrometric comparisons of this star with neighboring 
ones. His memoir gives the parallax as 0".28 ± 0".045. Professor Bru- 
ennow found by a similar method the parallax to be 0".07 i 0".02. 

In this connection a recent i)aper by Dr. Backlund, of Pulkova, is in- 
teresting, as it gives the reduction of some observations begun by Dr. 
Wagner on the same star. These observations, were made by means of 
differences of E. A. with the transit instrument, and they were discon- 
tinued as the comparison stars were too faint to observe during the 
whole year. From the incomplete series Dr. Backlund has obtained the 
following results: 

Twenty-seven comparisons with star a give -f 0".20 ± 0".080. 
Thirty-two comparisons with star 6 give -f 0".21 i 0".078. This star 
has thus a small parallax. 

Parallaxes of Alpha Lyrce and of 61 Gygni. — During 1800 and 1881 
Professor Hall, of the ]S"aval Observatory, observed for the parallaxes 
of these two stars on 77 and 66 nights, respective!}', using the 26-inch 
equatorial and micrometer I, with an eyepiece magnifying 383 times. 
The results have been printed in the Washington observations for 1879. 
The observations are of extreme precision, the probable errors of a single 
distance in the case of Alpha Lyrce being 0".075 and in that of 61 Gygni 
0".08i. 

A temperature coefficient was found for the screw from observations 
of Ad made during the series. The range of temperature was 420F. If 
this coefficient be used to reduce the 900 observations of transits made 
in 1875, in which the range of temperature was 47° (Wash. Ast. Obs. 
1877, App. I), the probable error of the resulting Rq is ± 0".0020. If the 
temperature coefficient is omitted, the probable error is less than this. 
As far as this goee, it would indicate that the coefficient is doubtful. 

At any rate, its introduction will not affect the values of the resulting 
parallaxes, which are : 

Alpha Lyrce 0".180 i 0'^006 

61 Cygni 0".478 ± 0".014 

It will be interesting to comj^are these results with preceding ones. 
For 61 Cygni we have — 

Bessel 0'^ 357 

Bessel & Schluter .536 

Johnson, 1st .526 

Johnson, 2d .192 

Struve .511 

Auwers . 564 

Peters . 340 

Ball .465 



ASTRONOMY. 285 

For Alplia Lyrce we have — 

Struve 0". 261 

Main . . 154 

Bruiinow, 1st . 131 

etc., etc. 

Professor Hall's work is especially interesting from the uniformity of 
the measures and from their great precision, as well as showing the fit- 
ness of the large telescope for such work. 

At the Dublin Observatory, Professor Ball has nearly completed his 
investigation of the parallax of Mu Cephei and of Struve 2486. The 
meridian circle is to be employed in determining the positions of about 
1,000 stars between— 2° and— 23° for Dr. Schoenfeld. 

Parallaxes of southern stars. — Alpha Centauri, Beta Centauri, JEpsilon 
Indi and Sirius are being observed at the Cape of Good Hope for par- 
allax. Two observers, Mr. Gill and Dr. Elkin, are making independent 
series on the four stars. Dr. Elkin's observations will be completed in 
September, 1882, and Mr. Gill's in March, 1883. The work is done with 
Mr. Gill's heliometer. Mr. Gill expresses his admiration for the new 
heliometer just made by the Eepsolds for the Yale College Observatory, 
which he regards as the most perfect micrometric apparatus in the 
world. 

At the Cape of Good Hope much time was spent in 1881 on the de- 
termination of the longitude Aden-Cape, which is now completed. The 
Cape catalogue for 1850, containing 4,715 stars, will shortly be published. 

Over 600 occultations, observed since 1834, have been reduced (by 
means of Newcomb's standard stars) and will be compared with Hansen's 
tables by Professor Newcomb. 

Under date of May 11, Professor Stone, of Cincinnati, writes: "In ob- 
serving one of our D. M. zones (—23° Dec.) a remarkable vacuity was 
found in the region between 16^^ 17™ and 16^ 25™ right ascension. In 
this region there is no star brighter than 9.5 mag., and only one of that 
magnitude." 

Stellar Spectra. — From the report of the Astronomer Eoyal for 1882, 
we extract the following account of his spectroscopic observations of 
stars: "During the twelve months ending May 20, 1882, the sun's chro- 
mosphere has been examined with the half-prism spectroscope on 36 
days, and on every occasion prominences were seen. On one day a de- 
tailed examination of the whole spectrum of the chromosphere was made 
at 24 points on the sun's limb. Several prominences have shown great 
changes in the course of two or three minutes, and large displacements 
or contortions of the bright lines, indicating very rapid motions of 
approach or recession, have been noted. In particular, a prominence 
examined on May 13, 1882, was observed to rise through a space of about 
30' in less than two minutes, being at the rate of about 110 miles a 
secoud, whilst the C line showed a disi)lacement towards the red gradu- 



286 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

ally increasing from 1.25 to 11.4 tenth meters, corresponding to a motion 
of recession increasing in two minutes from 36 to 330 miles a second. 
Tiiirteen sun-spots have been examined on 20 daj'S with reference to 
the broadening of the lines in their spectra. The strong black lines or 
bands in the part of the spectrum between b and F, first noticed in the 
spectrum of a spot on November 27, 1880, have been generally observed 
to be present in the spectra of spots during the last twelve months, 
besides several fine lines in the same region of the spectrum to which 
there is nothing corresponding in the solar spectrum. 

For the determination of motions of stars in the line of sight, 177 
measures have been made of the displacement of the F line in the 
spectra of 41 stars, 68 of the &i line in 19 stars, and 9 of the 64 line in 
5 stars. Of the 61 stars observed, 15 had not previously been ex- 
amined', and the total number of stars of which the motions have been 
spectroscopically determined is now 106. In the case of three of the 
stars observed in the last year, a dispersive i)ower equivalent to that 
given by sixteen prisms of 60° has been used. A comparison of the 
successive determinations of the motion of Sirius indicates a progres- 
sive diminution from about 22 miles a second, in 1877 and 1878, to about 
7 miles a second or less this year, and as other stars do not show any- 
thing similar, it appears likely that the change is due to the orbital 
motion of Sirius. Further observations will, however, be required to 
settle the point." 

THE SUN. 

Solar radiation. — Prof. S. P. Langley has submitted to the Chief Sig- 
nal Officer an abstract of the results of the Mount Whitney Expedition 
to determine the amount of heat the sun sends to the earth; in techni- 
cal terms, the solar constant. Mount Whitney, in Southern California, 
■was selected for the observation because it combined the advantages of 
great elevation, extreme dryness of atmosphere, and abrupt rise from 
the plain. The party of observation consisted of Capt. O. E. Michaelis, 
United States Armj' ; two non-commissioned officers of the Signal Serv- 
ice, six soldiers acting as an escort, four civilian assistants, and Professor 
Langley. Systematic work did not commence until the last days of Au- 
gust, 1881. Professor Langley summarizes the results obtained as fol- 
lows : 

''The approximate estimate of the solar constant is from 3.6 to 3.0 
calories, by which is meant that the direct solar radiation before ab- 
sorption by the earth's atmosphere would in falling for one minute, nor- 
mally, upon an area of a square centimeter, raise the temperature of 
one gramme of water 2°.6 or 3° centigrade. This implies its ability to 
melt aunuall^' a crust of ice covering the whole earth over 150 feet thick. 
This amount is one-half greater than the received value of Pouillet, and 
greater than the latest determinations of Messrs. Crova and Violle." 

On the summit of Mount Whitney an ordinary black-bulb thermom- 



ASTRONOMY. 287 

eter, in vacuo, rose 130° Fabreulieit, wliile the temperature in a black- 
ened copper vessel, covered by two sheets of common window glass, rose 
above the boiling point. "With such a vessel water could be boiled among 
the snow-fields of Mount Whitney by the direct solar rays. 

While the influence of the atmosphere is to sh\it off from the earth's 
surface a considerable portion of the sun's heat by absorbing it, the 
capacity of the air to store heat and prevent its radiation into space 
serves to make the earth habitable. Otherwise, the surface temperature^ 
even under the tropics, would be lower than the lowest recorded degrees 
of Arctic cold. Another effect of the selective absorption of the atmos- 
phere is to change the apparent color of the sun. In a transparent at- 
mosphere the now golden sun would appear blue. 

Subsequently to this report, Professor Langley read a paper to the 
Brit. Assoc. A. S., giving an outline of the results he has reached. It is 
impossible to condense this paper, which is itself a highly condensed ac- 
count of work extending over several years and covering a varied field. 

Solar parallax from observation of minor planets. — Mr. David Gill, 
H. M. astronomer at the Eoyal Observatory, Cape of Good Hoi)e, has 
arranged with a number of observatories in both hemispheres for corres- 
ponding observations of the minor i)lanets Victoria and Sappho about 
the time of their oppositions in the present year. Victoria, in oppo- 
sition on August 24, will be distant from the earth 0.89 of the earth's 
mean distance from the sun ; and Sappho, which comes into opposition 
in R. A. on September 24, will be within 0.85 ; so that we have in each 
case a favorable opportunity of applying the method of determining 
the sun's parallax which was advocated and also applied by Professor 
Galle, the director of the observatory at Breslau. In a communication 
to the Astronomisclie N'achrichten, Mr. Gill states that the necessary 
extra-meridian observations will be made in the southern hemisphere 
at the Cape, Natal, Melbourne, and Eio de Janeiro, and in the north- 
ern hemisphere at Dunsink (Dublin), Strasbourg, Berlin, Bothkanip^ 
Leipsic, Upsala, Moscow, Clinton, XJ. S., and probably at Kiel. From 
the clearer skies of the southern hemisphere, he believes that a fully corre- 
sponding number of observations will be secured there, notwithstanding 
the smaller number of observatories, and he invites co-operation from 
other establishments in the northern hemisphere on this ground. A 
list of the proposed stars of comparison is given in his letter. 

Masltelyne's value of the solar parallax. — Several inquiries have been 
lately made with regard to the authenticity of a value of the sun's paral- 
lax, attributed in many works to Maskelyne, the former Astronomer 
Eoyal. These are answered as follows in Nature : 

" This value (8".723) was deduced by Maskelyne in an application of 
what he calls a new method of determining the effect of parallax on 
transits of the inferior planets, and is given in an article which ap- 
pears to have communicated to Viuce, Plumian Professor of Astronomy 



288 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

at Cambridge, wlio publisbed it both in his large work, 'A Com- 
plete System of Astronomy,' and in his elementary treatise intended 
for the use of students in the university. We have not been able to 
consult the earlier editions of these works to ascertain whether, as is 
probably the case, the article was published in Maskelyne's lifetime, 
but it is found in Vol. I of the ' System of Astronomy,' which ap- 
I)eared in 1814, and is dedicated to Maskelyne, and also in the fourth 
edition of the ' Elements of Astronomy,' Cambridge, 1816. The article 
is entitled 'A new method of computing the effect of parallax, in 
accelerating or retarding the time of the beginning or end of a transit 
of Venus or Mercury over the sun's disk, by Nevil Maskelyne, D. D., 
r. E. S., and Astronomer Eoyal.' After explaining his method and 
how an approximate value may be corrected, as a numerical example he 
compares the duration of the transit of Venus in 1769 as observed at 
Wardhus and Otaheite, assuming as an approximate value of the mean 
horizontal parallax 8"..83 (nearly that fou^d by Du Sejour), and con- 
cludes : ' Hence the mean horizontal parallax of the sun=8".83 x (1 — 
0.0121) = 8".72316.' In the 'Elements of Astronomy' there is the 
additional sentence : ' We assume, therefore, the mean horizontal paral- 
lax of the sun = 8|' ; ' but this does not appear in Vince's larger work, 
nor is it quite clear whether it is an addition of Maskelyne's or his own. 
" Lalande says the first edition of Vince's ' Elements of Astronomy' 
was published in 1790, and Vol. I of the larger work in 1797. Probably 
some of our readers may be able to refer to the earlier editions." 

Solar eclipses. — The British scientific expedition sent to the banks of 
the Upper Nile to make observations of the total eclipse of the sun, 
June 17, was every way successful. The chief members of the party 
were Norman Lockyer, Arthur Schuster, Mr. Woods, assistant, Mr. 
Lawrence, and Mr. Black. The special correspondent to the London 
Daily News summarizes the results as follows: 

" This eventful morning was the finest we have yet had, cool and with- 
out a cloud. A great crowd of natives in picturesque costumes lined 
the road and the hill between the camp and Sohag. The shore of the 
Nile, except before the observatories, was packed with dahabiyehs 
bringing the governors of the provinces and other notables to observe 
the eclipse and do honor to the strangers. Thanks to Moktar Bey, in 
charge of the camp, and a force of soldiery, there was no confusiou. 
Along a line of three hundred yards the French, English, and Italian . 
observers were left in undisturbed possession of tents and observatories. 
Nevertheless, while the sky darkened and assumed a leaden hue, the 
hills bounding the Nile bathed in purple, the great silence gave way, 
and from the river and palm-shaded slope arose a shout of wonder and 
fear, which reached its climax at the moment of the sun's disappearance; 
nor ceased then, for in addition to the horror of an eclipse (which the 
natives liere in Africa attribute to the act of a dragon) there appealed 



ASTRONOMY. 289 

iu the heavens on the right of the sun an unmistakable scimetar. The 
eclipse had indeed revealed the existence of a new comet. Despite the 
short totality (one minute and twelve seconds) many valuable results 
have been obtained. I am permitted to send a copy of the collective 
telegram sent to the various Governments, showing many new facts 
touching the sun's atmosphere, though matters have not become much 
simpler, which means more work. The layer to which much absorption 
has been ascribed seems vanishing from existence. The band K iu the 
spectrum of the corona fully explains the eclipse coloring. 

"Among the results, the most satisfactory are photographs of the 
corona, and a complete spectrum obtained by Schuster on Abuey's 
plates. H and K are the most intense lines. A study of the red end 
of the spec; rum of corona and protu Iterances was made by Tacchini. 
A comet near the sun was a striking object ; it was photographed, and 
was observed by the naked eye. Bright lines were observed before and 
alter totality at different heights by Lockyer, with intensities diflFering 
from Fraunhofer's lines ; by Lockyer and Trepied an absolute deter- 
mination was made of the place of the coronal line 1474 in KirchhoflPs 
scale; by Thoilon and Trepied the absence of dark lines from the coronal 
spectrum was noted. Tacchini and Thoilon, with very different disper- 
sions, noted many bright Hues in the violet. Thoilon observed the spec- 
trum of the corona, and Schuster photographed it. The hydrogen and 
co;'onal lines were studied in the grating spectroscope of Buisieux, and 
with direct-vision prism by Thoilon. Eings were observed in the grating 
by Lockyer, of the first, second, and third order. The continuous spec^ 
trum is fainter than iu 1878, stronger than iu 1871. An intensification 
of the absorption lines was observed in group B, at the moon's edge, 
by Trepied and Thoilon. The whole spectrum, with blue lines on a con- 
tinuous background, has been photographed. The prominences were 
photographed with the prismatic camera (showing, of course, ring spec- 
trum). Three photographs were taken of the corona. The'comet close to 
the sun was photographed with the prismatic and also with ordinary 
cameras." 

Solar eclipse of May, 1883.— The following is a summary of a paper pre- 
pared by Mr. C. H. Eockwell, Kew York, and read at the meeting of the 
American Association : 

" The great astronomical event for 1883 will be the solar eclipse to 
occur on the 6th day of May. At the points of greatest obscuration 
the totality will last nearly six minutes. Unfortunately, the line of 
totality is almost exclusively a water track, running from a point about 
200 miles back of the east coast of Australia, going northeasterly to 9<^ 
south latitude, 130^ west longitude, thence toward the coast of' South 
America, terminating about 500 miles from the coast. 

" The only island crossed by this line is a small coral reef called Car- 
oline Island; this was discovered by Cai)tain Xares, the Arctic ex- 
plorer, in 1874, who gave its length at nine miles and width at one mile, 
H. Mis. 26 19 



290 SCIENTrnC record for 1882. 

" This point, is in 10° south latitude, 150'^ west longitude, and is proba- 
bly the only point where the eclipse could be observed. To reach this 
island a schooner or steamer would have to be chartered especially for 
the voyage ; the expense of such a vessel suitable for the purpose would 
be about $6,000." 

It is now probable that this eclipse will be observed by an expedition 
sent out under the auspices of the ;N"ational Academy of Sciences and 
the United States Coast Survey. The party will probably consist of 
Professor Holden, of the Washburn Observatory, Professor Hastings, 
of Johns Hopkins University, of Mr. Rockwell, and Prof. C. S. Peirce, of 
the Coast Survey. Two photographers sent by the Royal Society of 
London will also join the party. 

Solar spectrum. — A new map of the solar spectrum, containing a much 
larger number of lines than are shown in Angstrom's normal spec- 
trum, has been published by Dr. H. C. Vogel, of Potsdam. Particular 
attention has been given b^^ Dr. Vogel to the characters as well as to 
the positions of the lines. 

Transit of Vemis, December 6, 1882. — It is yet too soon to speak of the 
success of the various observing parties sent out to observe this transit. 
From reports already received, it appears that the observations were, 
on the whole, quite successful, although the weather in Europe was bad. 
Mr. Stone, director of the Radclitfe Observatory, regards the contact 
observations as alone sufficient for the solution of the problem of the 
solar parallax, and it is certain that enough photographs have been se- 
cured by the United States Government parties and by the Lick Ob- 
servatory party to insure a good determination by this means also. 

The following are the stations of the different parties: 
Cape of Good Hope : 

Chief astronomer. Prof. S. Newcomb, U. S. N. 

Assistant astronomer, Lieut. T. L. Casey, jr., U. S. Engineers. 

Additional assistant astronomer, Engineer J. H. L. Holcombe, 
U. S. N. 

Photographer, Mr. Julius Ulke. 
Santa Cruz, Patagonia: 

Chief astronomer, Lieut. Samuel W. Very, U. S. N. 

Assistant astronomer, Mr. O. B. Wheeler. 

Photographer, Mr. William Bell. 

Assistant photographer, Mr. Irvin Stanley. 
New Zealand : 

Chief astronomer, Mr. Edwin Smith, United States Coast and Geo- 
detic Survey. 

Assistant astronomer, Mr. Henry S. Pritchett. 

Photographer, Mr. Augustus Story. 

Assistant photographer, Mr. Gustav Theilkuhl. 



I 



ASTRONOMY. 291 

Sautiago de Chile : 

Chief astronomer, Prof. Lewis Boss. 

Assistant astronomer, Mr. Miles Eock, assistant astronomer, 
United States jSTaval Observatory. 

Photographer, Mr. Theo. C. Marcean. 

Assistant photographer, Mr. Charles S. Ciidlip. 
San Antonio, Tex. : 

Chief astronomer, Prof. Asaph Hall, U. S, !N". 

Assistant astronomer, Mr. R. S. Woodward. 

Photographer, Mr. D. R. Holmes. 

Assistant photographer, Mr. George H. Hurlbut. 
Cedar Keys, Fla. : 

Chief astronomer, Prof. J. R. Eastman, U. S. N. 

Assistant astronomer, Lieut. John A. Forris, U. S. N. 

Photographer, Mr. George Prince. 

Assistant photographer, Mr. George F. Maxwell. 
Fort Thorn, N. Mex. : 

Chief astronomer. Prof. George Davidson, United States Coast and 
Geodetic Survey. 

Assistant astronomer, Mr. J. S. Lawson. 

Second assistant astronomer, Mr. J. F. Pratt. 

Photographer, Mr. D. C. Chapman. 

Assistant photographer, Mr. T. S. Tappan. 
Washington, D, C. : 

Chief astronomer. Prof. William Harkness, U.Ni^I^. 

Assistant, Mr. Joseph A. Rogers. 

Assistant, Prof. A. H, Buchanan. 

Assistant, Lieut. Comdr. C. H. Davis, U. S. N. 
The following is the list of stations selected for the observation of 
the transit of Venus by English parties, with the observers appointed to 
each by the executive committee of the Royal Society, acting under the 
authority of the treasury : 

For retarded ingress and accelerated egress : 

Jamaica. — Dr. Copeland, Captain Mackinlay, R. A., Mr. Maxwell 

Hall. 
Barbadoes. — Mr. Talmage, Lieutenant Thomson, R. A. 
Bermuda. — Mr. J. Plummer, Lieutenant Neate, R. ]N". 
(The Canadian Government will have three observers with six-inch 
instruments, besides others with smaller telescopes. These observers 
are acting in direct concert with the British expeditions.) 
Accelerated ingress : 

Cape Observatory. — Mr. David Gill (H. M. astronomer), Mr. Maclear, 

second assistant. 
Montague Eoad, Cape Colony.— Mr. W. H. Finlay (first assistant at 
the Cape), Mr. Pett. 



292 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Accelerated ingress — Continued. 

Aberdeen Road, Gape Colony.— Mr. Burton, Mr. C. M. Stevens. 
Madagascar. — Father Perry, Father Sidgreaves, Mr. Carlisle. 
Durban, Natal. — A telescope has been provided by the colonists. 
Mauritius. — Mr. Meldrum. 

Eetarded egress : 

New Zealand. — Lieutenant-Colonel Tupman, R. M. A., Lieutenant 

Coke, E. N. 
Brisbane. — Captain Morris, K. E., Lieutenant Darwin, E. E., Mr. 

Peek. 
Melbourne. — Mr. Ellery and staff. 
Sydney. — Mr. Russell and staff. 
Professor Young has prepared the following table, which gives the 
results of the observations of the transit of Yenus at the time of writing. 
The figures 1, 2, 3, 4 denote that the corresponding contacts were 
observed ; P denotes that photographs were made on the same plan as 
those of the Government parties; P*, photographs on some different 
plan ; A, heliometer measures; h*, measures for the same object as heli- 
ometer measures, but made with a different instrument, more or less 
completely equivalent; .<?, spectroscopic observations; p, photometric 
observations; m, micrometer measures of the planet's diameter: 

1. Ottawa, Canada — 1, 2, 3, 4. 

2. Kingston, Canada — 2, 3, 4. 

3. Cambridge, Mass.— 1, 2, 3, 4, s,p, m; several observers. 

4. Providence, R. L-2, P*, (23). 

5. Amherst, Mass. — 3, 4. 

6. South Hadley, Mass. — 3, 4, s. 

7. Hartford, Conn.— 2, 3, 4, h, m; German party. 

8. New Haven, Conn.— 1, 2, 3, 4, P* (150), h, m; several observers. 

9. Helderberg Mountain, N. Y.— 1, 2. 

10. West Point, :S. W.— 1, 2, 3, 4. 

11. Poughkeepsie, N. Y — 3, 4, P* (9). 

12. Brooklyn, N. Y.— 1, 2, 3. 

13. Columbia College, New York City— 2, 3, 4. 

14. Western Union building, New York City — 1, 2, 3, 4. 

15. University City of New York, Now York City— 1, 2, 3, 4. 

16. Elizabeth, N. J.— 2, 3, 4. 

17. Princeton, N. J.— 1, 2, 3, 4, P (188), s, m; several observers. 

18. Philadelphia, Pa.— 1, 2, 3, 4. 

19. Easton, Pa.— 1, 2, 3, 4. 

20. Allegheny, Pa.— 1, 2 (?), s, m. 

21. Pittsburgh, Pa.— 2, 3. 

22. Wilmington, Del.— 1, 2. 

23. Baltimore, Md. — 2, 3, 4 ; several observers. 

24. Annapolis, Md.— 2, 3, 4. 



ASTRONOMY. 293 

25. WashingtoD, D. C, Naval Observatory.— 1, 2, 3, 4, P (53), to; 

several observers. 

26. Wasbington D. C, Coast Survey.— 2, 3, 4; several observers. 

27. Washington, D. C, Signal Service.— 1, 2, 3, 4. 

28. Charlottesville, Ya.— 2, 3, 4. 

29. Aiken, S. C. — 3, 4, h, m; German party. 

30. St. Augustine, Fla.— 1, 2, 3, 4, 7t*, P* (200), m; French party. 

31. Cedar Keys, Fla. — 2, 3, 4, P (ISO), wi; Government party. 

32. Chicago, 111. — 1, 2 ; several observers. 

33. Madison, Wis.— 1, 2. 

34. Northfield, Minn 3, m. 

35. Iowa City, Iowa — 1, 2. 

36. Ann Arbor, Mich. — 1, m. 

37. San Antonio, Tex. — 3, 4, P (204), m ; Government party. 

38. San Antonio, Tex. — 3, 4, /j*, m; Belgian party. 

39. Fort Selden, K Mex.— 1, 2, 3, 4, P (216), m; Government party. 
Potsdam, Prussia — 1, 2, P*, «, m. 

Jamaica — 1, 2, 3, 4. 

Puebla, Mexico — 1, 2, 3, 4, /i*; French party. 

Chapultepec, Mexico— No contacts; P* (13). 

Cape Town, South Africa — 1, 2, P; (?) American Government party. 

Durban, South Africa — 1, 2. 

Tasmania — 3, 4, P; (?) American Government party. 

Melbourne, Australia— 3, 4, P* (33). 

New Zealand— 3, 4, P (236) ; American Government party. 

Santiago, Chili — Completely successful; P; (?) American Government 

party. 
Santiago, Chili — Completely successful; h*,m; Belgian party. 

COMETS. 

Comet-seeMng. — That the search for comets may be systematic and 
as general as possible in this country, the following provisional ar- 
rangements have been suggested by the Science Observer, an4 almost 
universally commended by observers interested in the study of comets: 

" 1. It is proposed to divide the sky into zones of declination, of which 
each observer has selected or been allotted one or more. 

"2. Each observer has expressed his intention to sweep carefully once 
at least during each month the region selected by him, and some will 
sweep their zones several times each month. It is to be clearly under- 
stood that no observer is in any way confined to his zone, but is allowed 
to sweep anywhere, according to his judgment or circumstances. 

"3. As there are at present in the country three obserA^ers who are 
constantly engaged in comet-hunting as their principal work, it is pro- 
posed to secure the complete covering of the sky once during each 
month by these observers, they having selected the following regions : 



294 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Swift, + 90° to + 450 ; Brooks, + 45^ to + 15°, and Barnard, + 15^ 
to — 450. 

"4. To the other observers, who, from college duties or other regular 
work, can devote a varying part only of their time to comet-seeking, 
smaller zones have been allotted, as follows : TifiFany, + 45° to + 30° ; 
Wendell, + 30° to + 15° ; Sharpless, + 15° to 0° ; Larkin, 0° to — 15°, 
and Eebasz, — 15° to — 45°. 

" 5. Other observers will keep a record of their observations, but can- 
not agree to sweep regularly enough to take charge of a zone. 

"6. This arrangement of zones secures the sweeping of the sky twice 
during each month, and their relation to each other provides, as well 
as possible at present, that the same storm, unless very extensive, will 
not be likely to interfere with both observers in the same region at the 
same time. 

" 7. One of the important results of an organization will be the accu- 
mulation of data concerning comets and comet-seeking. It has ac- 
cordingly been agreed upon by all observers that records of their 
work will be kept. These will include a statement of the weather, the 
clearness of the sky, the time spent in search, the region covered, and 
any matters of general interest that may be of value. Blanks will be 
furnished to each observer, including a duplicate set for his own use, 
and these blanks, being returned on the first of each mouth, will be 
regularly ijublished in such detail as may be necessary in the Science 
Observer.''^ 

Daylight observations of WelW comet. — At the Dudley Observatory, 
Albany, this comet was observed on the meridian as early as June 5, 
just before noon, and again on June 11 and 12, 1882. The aperture 
of the object-glass of the transit-circle is 8 inches ; the focal length of 
the telescope 10 feet. A detailed description, with engraving of the 
instrument with which these notable observations were made, will be 
found in Vol. i of the Annals of the Dudley Observatory. On June 5 
the comet was not perceived until forty seconds after transit, and was 
observed with difficulty on a single wire, but the jiositions obtained on 
the subsequent dates were considered very satisfactory. The true nu- 
cleus was seen at the observation of June 11, made about sixteen hours 
after the perihelion passage, and the estimated diameter of the disc 
was 0".75. The nebulosity of the coma was uniform and faint, abou^ 
10'' in diameter. It is stated that " while the nucleus was observed 
for position, the coma was scarcely noticed at all." The atmospheric 
conditions on this day were such as are well known to conduce to easy 
vision of objects in daylight. " The sky was sparsely covered with 
cumulus clouds, while the intermediate clear spaces were exceedingly 
transparent." On June 12 the nebulosity had increased in brightness, 
but the image was very unsteady, and "either for that reason, or be- 
cause of the increased brightness of the nebulous screen, the nucleus 
pioper could not be seen." 



ASTRONOMY. 295 

We are not aware that any complete observation of a comet on tlie 
meridian at noonday has been made since the year 1744. The grand 
comet in the early part of that year, first remarked by Klinkenberg 
at Harlem on December 9, 1743, attained an extraordinary degree of 
brilliancy towards the end of February. We find Bliss writing on 
February 12 (O. S.) to Lord Macclesfield, who had fitted up an 'observa- 
tory at Shirburn Castle, thus : " The comet appeared so very bright 
last night, equaling the light of Venus, that Dr. Bradley agrees that 
it may be seen on the meridian, and being engaged himself, has desired 
me to request your lordship to try to observe it. The elements which 
he left at Shirburn appear, to our last night's and former observations, 
to give the ])lace true within 2' of longitude and latitude." As a mat- 
ter of fact the comet was observed on the meridian near noon at Shir- 
burn on the 28th and 29th of February, and at Greenwich on the 29th; 
these observations will be found reduced in Mr. Hind's paper on the 
comet of 1744. [Af-tron. Nach., vol. xxvii.) 

Photometric observations of Wells' Comet. — Exact photometric observa- 
tions of comets have been rare; but Dr. ]\Iuller, of Potsdam, has 
succeeded in obtaining a good series of observations of Comet Wells 
with a Zollner's photometer, attached to one of Steinheil's refractors. 
Having found considerable difficulty in measuring the brightness of a 
comet with this i:)hotometer, owing to the great difference in appearance 
between the comet and the artificial stars, he removed the disk that 
bore them and substituted an artificial nebula; and the observations 
from April 21 to May 19, 1882, were conducted with this latter. But 
as the brightness of the comet increased he reverted to the original 
disk. Thus his observations form two series which are not exactly 
comparable. The entire series of observations, which were obtained on 
21 days, from April 21 to June 6, showed that the comet increased in 
brightness much more rajiidly than was to be expected from theoretical 
considerations and calculations, so that it must be concluded that a 
very remarkable development of the comet's own light took place. The 
time when this growth of intensity commenced was in the latter half of 
May, about the time that the bright lines of sodium were discovered in 
the spectrum. The photometric observations by themselves would have 
justified the conclusion that in the middle of May extraordinary changes 
took place in the physical condition of the comet, and this conclusion 
was thus fully confirmed by the revelations of the spectroscope. From 
the comparision of the nucleus of the comet with the stars D. M. 49°, 
No. 30G2, and D. M. 49°, No. 3059, it was found that the nucleus of the 
comet was equal in brightness to a star of the third magnitude ou 
June 6, whilst on May 19 it only equaled one of the eighth or ninth. 

Daylight observations of comet 1882 a. — Prof. Julius Schmidt writes 
to the Astronomische Nachrichten that on June, 10, after 3 p. m., in an 
exceptionally clear sky at Athens, he observed the comet, though with 
difficulty, in the 6- foot reflector of that observatory. 



296 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

The great comet of 1882. — It is very seldom that any discovery unites 
in itself so many and such important points of interest as bas been the 
case with the great cometnow engaging so ranch attention. The report 
of the discovery by M. Cruls of a new naked-eye comet was in itself 
enough to arouse a keen degree of interest; for as three such objects 
had already been observed within the last twelve months, that a f* urth 
should follow in such quick succession was quite an unprecedented 
event. M. Cruls' discovery had scarcely been published in England 
before a yet more unusual observation was made. Mr. Common, of 
Ealing, who ever since the accidental discovery of the comet "Tewfik," 
during the total eclipse of May 16 last, had persistently examined the 
neighborhood of the sun with what might well have appeared to be the 
forlorn hope of detecting some comet wandering there, was at length 
rewarded, on Sunday, September 17, by the sight of a splendid comet 
close to the sun, of which he obtained observations. 
• In the extreme south of Europe more favorable conditions prevailed; 
and the comet was seen on September 18 at a large number of i^laces 
in Italy, Spain, and Algeria in full daylight, when only 4° from the 
sun. And, indeed, Mr. Common was not the oidy person who was 
fortunate enough to see it on September 17, before perihelion ; for a 
dispatch from Reus, near Tarragona, announced that there the inhabit- 
ants were astonished to see a comet close to the sun, so that, though 
only 1°.5 distant from it, it was bright enough to catch the eye of casual 
gazers. Indeed, it was so bright that it could be seen even through 
light cloud. Its tail could readily be detected by means of an opera- 
glass furnished with a dark glass. On the following daj', however, M. 
Thollon, at Nice, was able to detect some portion of the tail without 
even this assistance, for he says : "The coma and part of the tail visi- 
ble to the naked eye were nearly 20' in length. Their outer contour 
took the shape of a half-ell ii)se of eccentricity about 4, and the fairly 
large and very brilliant nucleus occupied a position intermediate be- 
tween the apex and the focus.'' 

The same cloud-bank which baffled English observers on this and the 
following days covered the north of France likewise, and in despair of 
its breaking up, M. de Fonvielle resolved to rise above it, and on Friday, 
• September 22, prepared for a balloon ascent. Fearing, however, that 
hiis own sight was not sufficientlj' good, he resigned his place in the car 
to M. Maurice Mallet, whom he duly instructed as to the observations 
tx) be obtained. The small dimensions of the car greatly hampered the 
adventurous astronomer, who, however, succeeded in making a sketch, 
and in obtaining a rough estimation of the distance from the sun and 
position- angle of the comet. 

The cloudy weather rendered it diflBcult to obtain sufficient observa- 
tions to form an orbit; but Mr. S. C. Chandler, jr., of Harvard College, at 



ASTRONOMY. 297 

length succeeded in deducing approximate elements, which showed a 
remarkable resemblance to those of comet I, 1880, and I, 1843. 

Per. pass. = 1882, September, 17.38, G. M. T. 
Long. (Per. - node) = 00° 45' ^ 

Long, node =342 29 J^Mean equinox, 1882.0. 

Inclination : . = 1 40 1 7 j 

Log. q = 7.54407. 

The resemblance of the orbit of the great comet of 1880 to that of 
the still finer one of 1843 had attracted the earnest attention of astrono- 
mers at the time, and most had been led to consider them one and the 
same body. 

And now the appearance of a third magnificent object on the same, 
or nearly the same, track revived the discussion which took place in 
1880. Then three leading theories had been started. 

The first, of least probability and but little received, saw in the comet 
of 1843 a return of the comet of 1GG8, and supposing the comet of 1702 
to have been another return of the same object, considered that we had 
here a comet with a period of about 35 years, which had been apparently 
slowly increased to one of 37 years. But this theory rested on but very 
slender foundations; and, if true, it is obvious that our present visitor 
can claim no identity with his predecessors in the same path. Professor 
Weiss, of Vienna, holding a somewhat simOar view, ascribed to the comet 
a constant period of about thirty-seven years, and identified it with 
those of HOG. 1179, 1363, 1511, and 1695, but not with that of 16G8. 

A second theory suggested that the comets of 1843 and 1880 might 
now be independent comets traveling on the same track, the original 
parent comet having suffered disruption at some much earlier visit, and 
the fragments having become so widely separated that an interval of 
thirty-seven years now takes place between their perihelion passages. 
In any case it was felt that the hypothesis that so brilliant an object 
could have frequently returned without any observation having been 
made of it was quite incredible. 

A third and more popular theory regarded, indeed, the comets of 
16G8, 1843, and 1880 as one and the same object, but supposed that its 
period was gradually being shortened through the resistance experi- 
enced by the comet whilst passing through the solar atmosphere at 
perihelion. M. Meyer went farther back, and regarded Aristotle's comet, 
B. C. 371, as the next earlier appearance to that of 1G68. This theory 
seemed to receive strong confirmation by the apparition of the present 
comet, and further information seemed to lend it greater force. 

The great comet which had borne the names of Thollon, Common, and 
Cruls, who had each in turn discovered it independently, now proved 
to have been still earlier discovered by Mr. Finlay, first assistant at 
the Cape Observatory, who remarked it at five o'clock in the morning 



298 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 



of September 8, and who obtained the following place for it on the fol- 
lowing day: 



Cape mean time. 
September 8, IT*^ 23^ 58* 



R. A. 
144° 59' 51".4 



Decl. 
-Oo 45' 30".0 



Mr. Finlay had been more fortunate than the subsequent discoveiers, 
not only in thus anticipating them by several days, but in being able 
to retain his hold on the comet right up to its conjunction with the 
sun; and Mr. Gill was able to inform the Astronomer Eoyal that, "on 
Sunday, September 17, the comet was followed by two observers with 
separate instruments, right up to the sun's limb, where it suddenly 
disappeared at 4^ 50"" 58^ Cape mean time." This observation is wholly 
unprecedented in the history of astronomy, and proved most valuable as 
showing how exceedingly unsubstantial the comet was, for the sun's bril- 
liancy could not, as some have supposed, account for the disappearance. 
Had it been so bright as to have become invisible, neither bright nor 
dark, in the center of the sun's disk, it would have appeared as a bright 
object when seen against the comparatively dull background of the 
regions near the limb. Had it harmonized with the degree of splendor 
of the limb, it would have looked dark on the disk. There was not, 
therefore, enough solid matter, or that matter was not sufficiently aggre- 
gated, for it to appear as a spot or a cloud, bright or dark, whilst in 
transit. 

Mr. Hind had meanwhile computed an orbit, which compares as fol- 
lows with those which Mr. Tebbutt obtained for the 1880 comet, and 
those of Professor Plantamour for the comet of 1843: 



Comet 1843. 



Comet 1880. 



Comet 1882. 



I'er. pass. 

« 

Q 



Motion 



278° 18' 3".0 

51 4.1 

35 45 39 . 

0. 005807 

Ketrograde. 



277° 22' 53". 4 
358 22 48 . 6 

36 41 41 .9 
0. 0067243 

Ketrograde. 



Sept. 17, 2169 
*270° 14' 36" 
*346 6 58 
*37 58 59 
0. 0080656 
Retrograde. 



*App. eq., Sept. 25. 
Sun's radius 0.004664 (sun's mean distance = 1). 

But this orbit would give the comet's distance from the center of the 
sun at the time of Dr. Gill's remarkable observation, on September 17, as 
only 10'.9; that is to say, it should have been far on the disk, and fully 
5' from the limb at the time when it was actually seen to be only just 
entering the limb. Mr. Hind cannot think this discrepancy due to 
faults in the elements, for they represent the middle position within 1', 
and the first observation was taken only twenty hours after the one at 
the Cape with which the elemeuts are in so little accord. There is, 
therefore, strong reason to believe that the comet's sj)eed received con- 
siderable alteration whilst in the immediate neighborhood of the sun, 
and Mr. Hind suggests the probability of its return in October, 1883. 



ASTRONOMY. 



299 



Mr. Chandler, using the above-mentioned Dun-Echt observation, 
with one made at Washington, September 23, and Cambridge, United 
States, September 30, found that a parabolic orbit gave considerable 
deviations in the middle place, and deduced therefore the following 
elliptic elements. The elliptic elements obtained by Professor Planta- 
mour, for the comet of 1843, and by M. Meyer, for that of 1880, are 
given for comparision: 



Comet 1843. 



Comet 1880. 



Comet 1882. 



Per. pass . 
fi 



Mean eq . 
Log. q... 



Period . 



355° 46' 48". 4 

77 43 57 .9 

143 1 31 .2 

1880. 
7. 8394780 
0.999117 
7. 82165 
21. 875 years. 



356= 16' 43". 2 

77 53 55 .9 

143 7 46 .8 

1880. 

7. 7720095 

0. 99D467 

11. 08690 

36. 91 years. 



Sept. 17, 1880. G. M. T. 

346° 51' 58" 

71 39 3 

• 142 35 51 

1882. 

7. 943416 
0. 997898 
4. 17535 

8. 532 years. 



A comparision of the orbit with whatever observations were avail- 
able seemed to Mr. Chandler to confirm the periodical nature of the 
comet, although further observations will be necessary to fix the period 
with precision. 

The physical appearance of the comet which, like that of 1843, and 
unlike that of 1880, showed at first a decided nucleus, together with 
the above intimation of a period very considerably greater than that 
of the internal from 1830, January 27, the date of perihelion of the 
1880 comet, suggest that perhaps the 1843 comet suffered disintegration 
when at its nearest approach, and that the 1880 comet was a i)ortion of 
its less condensed material, whilst the body of the comet, with the prin- 
cipal nucleus, suffering less retardation than the separated part, has 
taken two and a half years longer to perform a revolution. The re- 
markable discovery made by Professor Schmidt, of Athens, on October 
8, of a second comet only 4° S. W. of the great comet, and having the 
same motion, would seem rather to confirm this view. 

The spectroscopic observations of the comet have only been less in- 
teresting than the questions of its orbit and identity. M. ThoUon, who 
examined its spectrum on September 18, with a Steinheil spectroscope, 
having one jDrism of 60° of dense flint, in conjunction with a horizontal 
telescope of 9 inches aperture, into which the light of the comet was 
reflected by means of a siderostat, gives the following description of it: 

"Although working in full daylight, the spectrum of the comet was 
very bright; its leading characteristic was the presence of the bright 
lines of sodium. We at once saw in the field of the instrument a tolera- 
bly distinct spectrum, due to the scattered light of our atmosphere, in 
which the dark Fraunhofer lines could be distinguished. Upon the 
background of this spectrum a narrow and much more brilliant contin- 
uous spectrum, given by the nucleus of the comet, was seen clearly de- 
tached. From the height of the spectrum we estimated the apparent 



300 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

diameter of the nucleus as about 15". This spectrum stretched very 
far into the violet. The bright lines of sodium T>i and D2 were given 
at the same time both by the nucleus and by the neighboring regions- 
From their length we estimated the apparent diameter of the part of 
the comet which displayed them at l.'o. • They were neither diffused 
iLor broadened, but narrow and perfectly separated, and exceedingly 
bright, especially in the spectrum of the nucleus. They were nearly of 
the same brilliancy, however, the most refrangible seemed a little the 
brighter, and they were, in short, exactly like the lines given by a flame 
moderately charged with sodium, both in brightness and in their essen- 
tial charaxjteristics. Of their identity there can be doubt, for besides 
the characteristics which we have just pointed out, we compared their 
positions with those of the Fraunhofer lines Di and D2, given by the spec- 
trum of the diffused daylight. We ascertained that the bright lines of 
the comet were not exactly superposed on the Fraunhofer lines, but 
were both displaced towards the red by a very small amount, the same 
in each case, equal perhaps to J or 1 of the interval between D; and D>. 
We therefore concluded that the comet was traveling away from the 
earth at that moment. We intended to measure this displacement the 
next day, and prepared a more powerful spectroscope for this purijose; 
but the state of the sky did not give us the opportuuity. No part of 
the comet showed us the bands of carbon, nor any band or line other 
than those of sodium, perhaps on account of the diffused light, which 
would be able to mask bands of small brilliancy. 

"The singular analogy between the spectrum of this comet and that 
of comet Wells, observed some months ago, will doubtless aj^pear the 
more remarkable, as preceding comets have never shown the lines of 
sodium." 

But as the comet has receded from the sun, the ordinary cometary 
hydrocarbon bands have made their appearance, and the ordinarj^ yel- 
low, green, and blue bands had become very conspicuous on October 
1, whilst the sodium lines were very much fainter. M. Ricco, at Palermo, 
observing up to October 11, found the spectrum of the tail perfectly con- 
tinuous, and could trace it right to the end. The three hydrocarbon 
bands were only given by the nucleus and a region of some 5' radius 
Bound it. 

These changes in the spectrum, as the comet recedes from perihelion, 
combined with the reverse changes witnessed in that of comet Wells 
as it approached it, seem to render it not unlikely that sodium would 
appear in the spectrum of any comet which should approach the sun 
sufficiently nearly; that it is, in fact, an indication of excessively high 
temperature, as the hydrocarbon bands are of one not quite so great. An 
intermediate spectrum of which no definite details have yet been sup- 
plied seems to have been observed at Dun-Echt and elsewhere. M. 
Eicco speaks of having seen many lines up to September 27, a band in 
the red, a line iu the yellow near and after Di, two others in the greeo, 



ASTRONOMY. 301 

and au enlargement of the continuous spectrum in the green and blue, 
but was able to make no measures. Had determinations of the posi- 
tions of these lines been possible, we might have had much very inter- 
esting information. 

The tail of the comet has throughout resembled that of the 1843 comet, 
it being nearly straight and very brilliant. M. Cruls represents it 
as being about 30'^ long about ten days after perihelion. M. Eicco 
gives its breadth as varying on different days from 1° 48' to 2° 28'. 
The southern edge has appeared stronger and brighter than the north- 
ern, sometimes remarkably so, and, though nearly straight, it is slightly 
convex towards the south. The nucleus, circular at first, has shown a 
strong tendency to lengthen, and M. Eicco has observed it as double. 

Astronomers will continue to seize on every possible opportunity of 
watching this most remarkable and interesting object as long as it re- 
mains within our view, even without the stimulus afibrded by the ex- 
pectation of seeing it plunge into the sun, as it has been confidently 
prophesied it will shortly do. If it should turn out as here suggested, that 
the present is but its second return, in modern times at least, we may 
have to wait longer for the final catastrophe than is perhaps generally 
expected ; and the present behavior of the comet would perhaps seem to 
indicate that its fate wdl be accomplished rather by a gradual disinte- 
gration than by a sudden headlong plunge into the solar orb. — Observa- 
tory^ 1882, November. 

The comet of May 17, 1882. — M. Tripled, in an account of his observa- 
tions made in Egypt during the total solar eclipse of May 17, which was 
communicated to the Academy of Sciences on the 19th instant, has the 
following interesting note : 

" Towards the middle of totality, I perceived to the right of the sun, 
a streak of light, slightly curved at the lower part, having a singular 
appearance and in evident discordance with the rest of the corona. I 
did not for an instant suppose that it could be a comet, and only recog- 
nized its nature an hour after the eclipse on comparing my sketch with 
one of the photographs obtained by Dr. Schuster. That photograph 
plainly showed the nucleus at a distance from the edge of the sun a 
little greater than the diameter of that body; the direction of the tail 
agreed well with what I had drawn, but I had stopped tlje streak at 
much too short a distance from the edge. I did not, however, believe 
that it would be allowable for me to change anything in my drawing." 

The sketch referred to is copied in the Gomptes rendus of the above 
sitting of the Academy. M. Trepied further remarks : 

"The brightness of the comet appeared to me the same as that of the 
external parts of the corona." 

The position of the observing station, as provisionally determined by 
M. Tripled, is in longitude 1^ 57™ 40« east of Paris, and latitude 2Go 
33' 21", where the middle of totality occurred at 8^ 31™ 53^ a. m. local 
nean time. M. Trepied says in the week following the eclipse he searched 



302 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

for the comet many times before sunrise and after sunset, but without 
detecting it. 

The comet has been sought for elsewhere, though unfortunately with- 
out success. 

The refractive poicer of comets. — The great comet 1881, III, passed 
near to faint stars on several occasions, so near that the stars were 
certainly shining through the cometic substance. During three such 
opportunities. Dr. Meyer, at the Geneva Observatory, made a series of 
micrometer measures on the relative positions of the star and the 
comet's nucleus. This last was sharp and well defined like a star. 

The preliminary reduction of these measures showed that the light 
of the star suffered a refraction in its passage through the comet's head. 
The whole question of such a refraction was examined by M. Cellerier 
(Archives des Sciences, etc., de Geneve, October, 1882) under the sup- 
position of a variable density to the cometic matter, which was further 
supposed to act like a true gas. The theoretical solution of the prob- 
lem is given in a simple form. Dr. Meyer has applied the theory to the 
cases in hand, and obtains from the three stars the following values of 
e, which is the refractive power of the cometic matter (supposed gaseous): 

29 June, 1882, e = 0.00000916; 14".3 = di. 

13 July, 1882, e = 0.00000299; 2o".3 = d^. 

1 August, 1882, e = 0.00000317; 24".6 = <?3. 

The numbers di, d^, d^, are the shortest distances of the stars from 
the comet's nucleus, reduced to what they would have been if seen all 
from a distance 1. Supposing the density of the gas to be proportional 
to the square of the distance, and the refractive power of the gas to be 
directly proportional to the density, the three values of e above can be 
reduced to the following three numbers which express (on this hypoth- 
esis) three different determinations of the refractive power of the gaa 
at a distance of 14".3 = 102,000 kilometers. 

29 June, e^ = 0.0000091G. 

13 July, = 0.00000936. 

1 August, = 0.00000938. 

Dr. Meyer epitomizes his results as follows: 

" The substance which composed the head of comet 1881, III, behaved 
optically like a gas, and its refractive power at a distance of 102,000 
kilometers from the head was 0.0000093. This refractive power, and 
hence the density of the gas itself, varied as the square of the distance 
from the comet's nucleus." 

Professor Bredichin has issued the first part of Vol. viii of Annales 
de V Observatoire de Moscou, which, in addition to meridian observations, 
contains a continuation of his researches upon the tails of comets, the 
present publication including the comets 1881 h and c, and the fourth 
or great comet of 1825. Professor Bredichin has reprinted the long 
series of physical observations on the latter body made by Dunlop at 



t 



ASTROXOMY. 303 

Paramatta, N. S. W., which origjiiially appeared in Brewster's Edinburgh 
Journal of iScience, 1827, and which have been a good deal overlooked, 
that periodical, on the Continent at least, not being easy of access. 
Dunlop's drawings are reproduced, and there are several figures of the 
two bright comets of 1881. Wiih regard to his investigations generally, 
Professor Bredichin concludes: 

"My researches on all the comets of which I have been able to find 
observations in astronomical literature (3G comets), place me now in a 
condition to calculate in advance, for each great comet that appears, 
the positions and the figure of its tails of all three types. It is evident 
that the relative amount of matter in tails of different types cannot be 
determined in advance, and, consequently, observation alone can show 
us the relative brightness of the types and the possible absence of one 
or another of them. But, in every case, the positions and the general 
form of such of the tails as become visible will be in accord with the 
positions and figure calculated beforehand." 

PLANETS. 

Vulcan. — In the report of the director of the Washburn Observatory 
for 1882, is given an account of experiments with the Watson Solar 
Observatory. This we give in full, as it probably will not be published 
elsewhere, and on account of the general interest in the success of this 
experiment. 

The solar observatory was devised for the purpose of seeing a planet, 
or stars in the daytime. 

It consists essentially of a covered cellar large enough to contain an 
observer and a six-inch telescope. From the north wall of this cellar 
a tube 12 inches in diameter and 55 feet long is directed to the north 
pole. At the upper (north) end of this tube a heliostat, or mirror 
driven by clock-work, is to be placed. The idea is that the images of 
stars will be reflected down the tube by the mirror and seen by an ob- 
server in the cellar througli the telescope. When I took charge of this 
observatory the building was entirely incomplete, and no instruments 
were available for trying the experiment. I have borrowed from Profes- 
sor Langley, director of the Allegheny Observatory, a heliostat suitable 
for the purpose, and the regents of the university have bought from 
Mr. Burnham, of Chicago, his six-inch Clark telescope ; and the build- 
ing has been completed. Six weeks have been spent in thoroughly try- 
ing the experiment. The trial is now concluded, and the result is that 
the solar observatory is not suitable for showing stars as faint as the 
third magnitude in the daytime, even when they are distant from the sun. 

Therefore there is no use in proceeding further with this means in 
the search for Vulcan, which was estimated by Professor Watson to be of 
the four-and-a-half magnitude, and which, from the nature of the case, 
must always be near the sun. The. details of the experiment are given 
in the following extract from the annual report : 



304 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

'' The solar observatory was destined by Professor Watson for two pur- 
poses: First, spectroscopic and photographic observations of the sun 
itself; and, second, for observations of the immediate neighborhood of 
the sun for the detection of a planet (Vulcan) interior to Mercury. 

"ThemaguitudeofYulcan was estimated by Professor Watson atfour 
and one half, that is, it has a light about one-twentieth as brilliant as that 
of an average first-magnitude star — Alpha Lyr?e, for example. If seen 
at all, it must be seen in the daytime, and close to the sun. 

" During the months of June and July experiments were made to de- 
termine the fitness of the observatory for the detection of Vulcan. In 
these experiments the six-inch telescojie bought by your Board from Mr. 
Burnham was mounted in the cellar of the solar observatory on June 8 — 
its objective and eyepiece having been carefully adjusted previously. To 
get an idea of the advantage gained by the inclined tube of the solar 
observatory I reduced the aperture of the fifteen-inch telescope in the 
dome to six inches, and put on an eyepiece similar to that used on the 
small refi'actor. Both telescopes were then pointed to the north pole. 
Two observers, one at each telescope, noted times of the first a])pear- 
ance of the small stars about the north pole as evening twilight dis- 
appeared. A map had been prepared previously giving these stars. If 
the fifty five-foot dewcap gave a material advantage, then these stars 
should have been first seen with the solar observatory telescope. In 
fact, they were first seen by this, but only by about two minutes on the 
average. This experiment was tried on June 8, 11, and 12. 

" The excellent heliostat lent by Dr. S. P. Langiey, director of the 
Allegheny Observatory, was placed on its ])ier June 12, and adjusted. 
This instrument was exactly fitted for the purpose, and was in perfect 
order. 

" Observations were made to find stars in the daytime every clear day 
between June 15 and Jnly 12, without result. The place in the sky to 
which the heliostat mirror was pointKl was fixed by setting on the sun 
at a given hour ; and the fact that this setting was not changed by ac- 
cident was established by observing the position of a small pointer 
which was added to the heliostat. 

"The latter trials were made with a heliostat mirror, set for the place 
of the brightest star in the Pleiades, and on three days this group was 
looked for about the time of its passing the meridian. Forty or fifty 
minutes were thus spent daily. 

" There must have been in the field of the telescope (30 degrees) the fol- 
lowing stars : 

" Eta Tauri — 3.4 mag. (twice as bright as Vulcan). 

"6 Pleiadum — 4.5 mag. (as bright as Vulcan). 

" d Pleiadum — 5 mag. (fainter than Vulcan). 

"/ Pleiadum — 4.5 mag. (as bright as Vulcan). 

" h Pleiadum — 5.6 mag. (fainter than Vulcan). 

"At this time the sun was some 50 degrees east of the Pleiades. Xo 
stars were seen at any lime. The position of the mirror for the Pleiades 
was verified by finding a group of stars at night-time in the j)rediGted 
place. The original setting was made' through the sun. 

"I am satisfied, therefore, that there is no use in prosecuting this par- 
ticular experiment further. The instruments employed were as perfect 
as possible. Every conceivable precaution was taken, and it was shown 
that this apparatus was not suitable for seeing stars of the magnitude 
of Vulcan, even distant from the sun. It would, therefore, be a waste 
of time to look for such stars close to the sun. 

"It is to be ncticed that no evidence has been collected in regard to 



I 



ASTRONOMY. 305 

the existence or non-existence of Yulcan. It has simply been shown 
that this device is not suitable for detecting such a planet. 

"I may mention that, during the summer of 1881, this same experi- 
ment was tried by Dr. Langley, with far more satisfactory arrangements 
than those of the solar observatory, and that it was a failure with him 
•also, and that Professor Harrington, of Ann Arbor Observatory, also 
failed to find any material advantage with a (horizontal) tube 150 feet 
long." 

/', 

The Earth. — We extract from the Academy the following review (by 
G. F. Eodwell) of an important book entitled The Physics of the Earth'' s 
Crust,, by the Eev. Osmond Fisher: 

^'The author in twenty-one chajiters discusses the principal facts con- 
nected with the interior heat of the earth, the elevations and depres- 
sions of its surface, and the causes and effects of volcanic action. He 
shows that the rate of increase of temperature, as the distance beneath 
the earth's surface is augmented, is, on the whole, an equable one, and 
may be taken to average about 1^ F. for every fifty-one feet (misprinted 
degrees, p. 267) ot descent. And thus at a depth of about thirty miles 
all known rocks would be in a state of fusion. As to the condition of 
the interior of the earth, we are first led to a discussion of the density. 
The surface density is between 2J.56 and 2.75, while the mean density 
of the whole earth is 5.5. Thus the density considerably increases as 
we approach the center of the earth. Everything points to the conclu- 
sion that the earth has once been in a molten condition ; the main ques- 
tion for consideration is whether it is still molten within, or whether 
this condition has passed away, and it is now solid. It has been thought 
by some, however, that the interior of the earth may be 'potentially hot' 
— that is to say, really solid, on account of the enormous pressure to 
which it is subjected, but ready to become fluid at any moment when 
the pressure is diminished or removed. Having discussed the argu- 
ments of Hopkins and of Sir William Thomson, the author asserts that 
the requisite great rigidity which the earth must possess in order to en- 
able it to resist the deforming influence of the attraction of the sun and 
moon does not require that the earth should be absolutely solid from the 
center to the circumference. A rigid nucleus nearly approaching the 
size of the whole globe, covered by a fluid substratum of no great thick- 
ness in comparison with the radius, with an outer crust of less density 
floating upon it, would meet the difliculty. 'This is the supi^osition,' 
says the author, ' as to the condition of the earth, which appears, on 
the whole, to satisfy best the requirements both of geology and of phys- 
ics.' Thus the solid nucleus would owe its solidity to the great super- 
incumbent pressure, while the outer crust would owe its solidity to hav- 
ing become cool through radiation, while the fluid substratum would re- 
main in that condition because it would not be submitted to sufficient 
pressure to render it solid, while it would retain sufficient heat to render 
it molten. As to the density, von Waltershausen has calculated that 
H. Mis. 26 20 



306 SCIENTIFIC EECOKD FOR 1882. 

the density at the centeroftbe earth is 9.59 under a pressure of 2,500,000 
atmospheres, and he thinks it probable that the magma beneath the 
outer crust consists of felspathic materials, passing k)wer down into au- 
gitic, and finally, at the center, into a magnetic magma. 

"The next ijroblem to be discussed relates to the manner in which 
the heat and the gravitation of the earth have produced the elevations 
and depressions and pitckerings of the surface. To explain this it is 
generally thought that, as the cooling of the earth proceeded, the 
interior retreated from the solidified crust, and that the latter became 
crumpled and contorted by the lateral pressure. The author has cal- 
culated that the pressure available for this purpose would be equal to 
that of a column of rock of the surface density, having the same section 
as the stratum, and 2,000 miles in length — a pressure equal to 830,200 
tons on the square foot, and more than sufficient to perform the opera- 
tions assigned to it. • 

"Volcanic eruptions probably arise from liquid masses of the substra- 
tum gaining access to the surface, and we must conceive that the water 
which accompanies all volcanic phenomena must be present in the mag- 
ma of the substratum. 'We may look upon the state of igneoaqueous 
solution, ' observes the author, ' as one in which the water-substance is 
in a gaseous state, and the combination between the water-substance 
and the rock is probably of that kind which has been termed " occlusion" 
of gas by a liquid. An examination of the amount of contraction which 
would have produced the existing inequalities of the earth's surface 
shows that the ocean basins are not the result solely of depressions in 
the upper surface only of a crust of uniform density, but that they are 
due to the greater density and general depression of the suboceanic 
crust.' 

''According to the author, volcanic energy is the cause of the compres- 
sion of the earth's crust. Thus he reverses the theory of Mallet, which 
makes volcanic energy the result rather than the cause of compression, 
and he shows that the utmost conceivable amount of heat capable of 
being obtained by his theory is inadequate to the purpose assigned to 
it. He considers, moreover, that the geographical distribution of vol- 
canoes is better explained on the supposition of a thin crust and fluid 
substratum than upon any other. 

" 'Their linear arrangement points to their being situated along great 
systems of fissures ; and such systems of fissures are indicative of a thin 
crust. Fissures which run for long distances in nearly straight courses 
point either to a movement perpendicular to the fissured surface or else 
to a rending pressure within the fissure itself; while on the other hand 
fissures which are caused by contraction in a direction parallel to the 
earth's surface would divide up an area into polygonal fissures. The 
former arrangement of the fissures accords best with the distribution - 
of volcanic ranges and suggests a thin crust.' 

" Volcanic regions are either oceanic or appertaining to the coast, and 



ASTRONOMY. 307 

it is probable that the latter are closely connected with elevations of 
the continents which they skirt, while the oceanic volcanoes are uofc 
concerned with true elevatory action. The great volcanic chain of the 
Pacific approximately divides the earth into two parts, one of whi(;b 
contains the chief proportion of land, while the other contains Australia 
and nearly all the ocean. And perhaps the area of Australia has been 
elevated within the ocean hemisphere on account of the deflection of 
the great Pacific line of action by the northwest line, which passes 
through Sumatra and the Malay Archipelago, and which meets it at 
the southeast corner of Asia. 

" Although many of the subjects discussed by Mr. Fisher must remain 
open questions until we are far better acquainted with the conditions 
of volcanic action, we think that he has cleverly argued his points, and^ 
by the frequent application of a rigid mathematical treatment, has re- 
moved his oj)inions from the domain of those pure speculations which are 
too often applied to the explanation of obscure phenomena connected 
with the physics of the earth." 

Geodesy of Europe. — Two very interesting charts have just been dis- 
tributed as supplements to the proceedings of the sixth general con- 
ference of the European Geodetic Survey (held at Munich, in 1880). 
One of these gives all the telegraphic determinations of differences of 
longitude, and the other gives all the determinations of latiUide and 
azimuth (separately). Such charts for the United States would be 
most valuable. 

Atmospheric refraction. — An important memoir on refraction has beei] 
lately published by M. Eadan, who, after a discussion and comparison 
of previous theories, gives formulae and tables for refraction, in which 
allowance may be made for difference in the rate of decrease of tempera- 
ture with the height above the earth's surface at different seasons of the 
year. M. Eadan also discusses the case in which the surfaces of equal 
temperature in the atmosphere are inclined to the earth's surface. 

The Moon. — Selenography has lately received a valuable contribu- 
tion by the publication of the sketches of portions of the mqon's disk 
which were made by Tobias Mayer, at Gottiugen, in the middle of the 
last century. Mayer was the first observer who constructed a general 
map of the moon in which the positions of the chief lunar spots were, 
laid down from actual measurements, and not from mere eye-drafts. 
The intended publication of his lunar sketches at the end of the last 
century was frustrated by the death of Lichtenberg, who had under- 
taken it, and Mayer's smaller general map remained the only accessible 
"result of his selenographical labors. To the discussion of an^-'questions 
referring to physical changes on the moon's surface, the evidence which 
may be derived from trustworthy sketches made at an early period is 
obviously of considerable importance, and the publication of Mayer's 
old sketches is therefore a welcome addition to the available sources of 
information. There are forty sketches made between June, 1748, and 



308 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

June, 1750, and these are reproduced by photoheliograpLy, so that tlie 
■copies are faithful representations of the originals. They are accompa- 
nied by a copy of Mayer's large general map, of nearly fourteen inches 
diameter; and thus the results of his old selenographical observations, 
obtained with humble means, have at last become available, and a debt 
long due to him has been paid by the Gottingen observatory. 

Mr. Henry Harrison, of New York, has published a colored lithograph 
Tepresenting the moon as the " three-days-old crescent," or as it appears 
three days after the time of new moon. As the ordinary lunar maps 
are constructed with the object of exhibiting the general topograyjhy of 
the whole visible surface, they do not represent, and are not intended 
to represent, the real aspect of the moon at any time; and it is necessary 
to have special maps for special phases of illumination if they are to 
show the shadows and other variable features which are so strikingly 
■characteristic of the moon's appearance at different hours of the lunar 
■day. Mr. Harrison's lithograph is such a special representation, and, 
as regards general resemblance and artistic effect, may be called a suc- 
•cess. Though it does not show more than a small portion of the in- 
numerable details which the telescoi^e reveals, it gives a good notion 
•of the telescopic appearance of the young moon as seen with a com- 
paratively^ low power. The moon's image is eighteen inches in diameter, 
the phase represented corresponding to the time when the crater Messier 
has emerged into the light of the rising sun. 

The plate is accompanied by a little descriptive hand-book and an 
outline map. Its publication will be followed by that of five more plates 
containing similar representations of five of the most interesting phases. 

Experiments have repeatedly been made with the object of produc- 
ing natural imitations of the craters and inequalities visible on the 
moon's surface, and it has been found that the figures of the lunar in- 
equalities can be closely imitated by throwing pebbles upon the surface 
of a smooth, plastic mass such as mud or mortar. Mr. Meydeubauer, 
of Marburg, uses a basis of dextrine for the purpose and drops small 
quantities of the same material from a moderate height upon that basis. 
A photograph of various figures which are thus produced show a re- 
markable resemblance to the various inequalities visible on the moon's 
surface. (A. Marth, in the London Academy.) 

The topography of the planet Mars. — Professor Schiaparelli has pub- 
lished a second important memoir, entitled " Osservazioni Astronomiche 
e Fisiche sull' Asse di Eotazione e sulla Topografia del Pianeta Marte 
- - -." (Reale Accademia dei Idncei, anno cclxxviii, 1880-'81,) By 
combining his observations at the oppdsition 1879-'80 with those made 
at the favorable opposition of 1877, he finds the position of the equa- 
tor of Mars referred to the earth's equator as follows : Ascending node 
(1880), in 480 7' .8 inclination 36° 22' .9— figures differing little from 
those provisionally adopted by Mr. Marth. 



ASTRONOMY. 



309 



Schroeterh observations. — The TJDiversity of Leyden having acquired 
in 1876 the manuscripts and copper plates of Scliroeter's great unpub- 
lished work on 3fars, "Areographische Beitrage zur genauern Kennt- 
niss und Beurtheilung des Planeten Mars,^' Professor Bakhuyseu is 
about to bring it out. Schroeter had all but completed it at the time 
of his death, and had, indeed, it would appear, thoroughly revised the 
greater portion of it. Professor Bakhuysen states that having reduced 
Schroeter's observations for the position of the axis of Mars, he finds its. 
longitude 352° 59' and the latitude 60° 32'. 



Asteroids. 

1882: 



-The following is a list of the Asteroids discovered iui 



Discovered. 


No. 


By- 


Discover- 
er's No. 


Jan. 18 


221 

222 
223 
224 
225 
226 
227 
228 
229 
230 
231 


Falisa . 


30 


Feb. 9 


do 


31 


Mar. 10 


do 


32 


Mar. 30 


do 


3J 


April 19 


do 


34 


July 19 


do . 


35- 


Aug. 12 


Prosper Henry 


» 


Aug. 19 


36 


Aug. 23 


do . 


37 


Sept. 2 


L. de Ball 


1 


Sept. 10 




38 







The mass of Jupiter. — Dr. Schur has made a new determination of the> 
mass of Jupiter from heliometer measures of the satellites, an equal 
number of observations being made on each satellite. His results 
are: 

From satellite I, m = 1-4- (1050.918 ± 1.667.) 
From satellite II, m = I4- (1046.026 i 1.425.) 
From satellite III, m = 1-=- (1047.665 i 0.046.) 
From satellite IV, m = 1- (1046.818 ± 0.484.) 
so that having regard to the weights, the mass of Jupiter is 1-^(1047.232 
=L 0.365), the sun being taken as unity. Bessel's published result by the 
same method was 1-^(1047.879), but Dr. Schur has reduced Bessel's 
work anew, having regard to the corrections proposed by Auwers to the 
constants of the heliometer (periodic error of screw, temperature coeflQ- 
cient, etc.), and finds, in the mean for Bessel, 1048.629 i 0.198, and com- 
bining by weights, the final mass of Jupiter from observations of the 
satellites by Bessel and Schur is, 1-^(1048.311 ± 0.174). 

Dr. Schur brings up some interesting questions in regard to the per- 
sonal errors of observations of the satellites, for an account of which 
reference must be made to the original paper. 

Various other series of measures of the satellites are discussed, but 
no changes are made in the concluded mass of Jupiter. 

The mean motions and the periods of the satellites require only ex- 
tremely small changes. 



310 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

The disTc of Jupiter. — Prof. G. W. Hough's annual report as director of 
the Dearborn Observatory- at Chicago, for the year 1882, is mainly de- 
voted to the reduction and discussion of the numerous series of observa- 
tions on the spots upon the disk of the i)lanet Jupiter, made with the 
18| inch refractor, including measures for position of the great red spot, 
of equatorial white spots and other markings, and angles of position of 
the equatorial belt. The observations extend over the period from 
September, 1879, to March, 1882. Those made in 1879 and 1880 showed 
that the red spot was retrograding with accelerated velocity, and this 
drifting has continued with such uniformity that Professor Hough con- 
eiders "the position of the spot at any future period can be verj- accu- 
rately computed." It was found that all the observations could be fairly 
represented by a period of rotation, varying directly with the time, 
and the discussion leads to the following formula: (1879, September 
25-\-tx 0.00209s.,) which gives 9^ 55'" 35*.9 for the mean period between 
September 25, 1879, and March 29, 1882, comprising 916 days, or 2,214 
rotations of the planet. 

Hence, it is inferred that the apparent rotation-period has increased 
about four seconds since the opposition of 1879, showing a total drift 
of the red spot in longitude of 40,000 miles ; and Professor Hough 
regards his observations as evidence that the great red spot is not the 
solid portion of the planet. "An immense floating island," nearly 30,000 
miles in length, and more than 8,000 in breadth, has "maintained its 
shape and size, without material change, during more than three years." 
He has failed to recognize any fading of the color of the spot, which, 
on February '2 in the present year, he judged to be a light pink, as 
formerly. Although the dimensions of the spot may not be said to 
have materially changed, the micrometrical measures do indicate a 
diminution in length to the extent of 0".95 between the oppositions of 
1879 and 1881, at which latter epoch it was 11".30 (reduced to Jupiter's 
imean distance). 

The direction of the south edge of the equatorial belt was nearly 
parallel with the planet's equator, as given in Marth's ephemeris; the 
aiorth edge of this belt was found to be slightly concave. 

The elliptical whife spots were more numerous in 1882 than previ- 
ously, but, with the exception of two situated south of the red spot, they 
were seen with difficulty, and were only measurable under the best 
vision. The two spots named were observed systematically during the 
three months from I^ovember 21, 1881, to February 23, 1882. The fol- 
lowing of the two appeared to be at rest relatively to the red spot from 
^November 22 to December 6, and subsequently to di'ift in the direction 
of rotation to the extent of about 41°; the average drilt during the 
last two months was at the rate of fifteen miles per hour. The preced- 
ing spot also did not retain the same relative position in longitude with 
respect to the great red spot. Professor Hough adds: "The observa- 
tions of the small white spots during 1880 and 1881 prove that the 



ASTRONOMY. 311 

whole surface of tlie planet outside the margin of the equatorial belt 
rotates with nearly the same rate." The approximate rotation-period 
for the principal white spot between the edges of the great equatorial 
belt was 9^ 50™ 9^8 from observations over more than eight months, 
which is the same as for the second spot observed during 1 880. Hence, 
these equatorial white spots drift in the direction of the planet's rota- 
tion, at about 260 miles per hour, or through a complete revolution in 
about 45 days. 

Twelve tinted drawings of the appearance of the disc of Jupiter 
accompany the report. The first of two made on July 3, 1880, shows 
the second satellite j ust entering ou the great red spot at 15^ 43™.5, and 
the other, made nine minutes later, shows it nearly over its center. A 
notch was formed so soon as the satellite touched the end of the red spot, 
and when completely entered it appeared as white as when outside the 
planet's disk. 

OBSERVATORIES. 

Observatories of the United States. — It will be remembered that at the 
accession of Professor Pickering to the directorship of the Harvard 
College Observatory he obtained by the subscription of some 70 persons 
in Boston the sum of $25,000 ($5,000 a year for five years). A pamphlet 
report on the scientific work accomj)lished has just been published, 
which shall be summarized here. The work is spoken of under the head- 
ings of the various instruments employed. 

Large equatorial : This has been chiefly devoted to photometry and 
many new (successful) forms of photometers have been devised. The 
brightness of the satellites of Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus (two only) 
and Keptune has been determined. Some 200 double stars and about 
100 bright stars with faint companions have been measured in the same 
way. All the planetary nebulae have been similarly measured and sev- 
eral new ones have been discovered by their spectrum only. 

Many variable stars have had their light curves determined photo- 
metrically, and several new ones have been discovered. Fifty points on 
the moon have also been determined. Bond's zones of faint stars near 
the equator are shortly to be revised. 

Meridian circle : The zone (50° to 55° K.) has been finished. It con- 
tains 8,300 stars from 1 to 10th mag., each of which has been observed 
twice. Two hundred and fifty-eight stars have been observed, each 6 
times, for the Coast Survey. One hundred standard stars are regu- 
larly observed with the sun. This work has continued for 3 years, and 
will require 2 more. The graduation errors of one circle have been 
determined. 

Meridian photometer: Every star visfble to the naked eye has had 
its light determined photometrically on at least three nights, many on 
more ; over 100,000 observations were made in 3 years, and this work is 
now completed. Other similar work is planned. Other miscellaneous 



312 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

work of importance has been done, but is not mentioned here. This 
brief summary will be sufficient to show the extraordinary amount of 
the work which has been accomplished during the 5 years by the aid of 
the additional endowment. The reasons for this Professor Pickering 
summarizes as follows, and they deserve careful attention : 

"It will be noticed that the increased work is quite out of proportion 
to the increase of income. This is to be expected, since a large part of 
the expense is the same in either case, and the increase is directly 
available for the attainment of scientific results. The formation of a 
corps of skilled assistants also requires time, and a delay in securing a 
continuation of our present income would seriously reduce our capacity 
for attaining results with the greatest economy both of time and money. 

"As an increased expenditure was undertaken before the completion 
of the subscription, it is deemed best not to limit the present report to 
a period of exactly five years, but to include all the work undertaken 
since my first connection with the observatory in February, 1877. 

" The effect of the subscription may be summarized in a few words. 
Without it only one instrument, the meridian circle, was kept actively 
at work, the large telescope being comparatively idle. The reductions 
even of this one instrument could not be kept up, but every year fell 
more and more behindhand. With the subscription, the large telescope, 
the meridian circle, and the meridian photometer are in constant use. 
A large number of the old observations have been published, while the 
remainder have been reduced, and before long will be ready for publica- 
tion. One volume of the recent observations with the large telescope 
has already been published ; another volume of meridian photometer 
observations is now passing through the press. The unfinished volumes 
of Annals were completed, so that, as is shown below, our work is now 
known through twelve quarto volumes, while in 1876 but four had been 
given to the public. Eight more volumes of Annals will be needed 
to complete the publication of the observations already made. The in- 
creased rate of work ensues simply because the corps of assistants has 
been more than doubled." 

Willets Point. — A very interesting report is published by General H. 
M. Abbot, of the Corps of Engineers, U. S. Army, on the astronomical 
work which has been done during 1881 at the engineer post of Willets 
Point, New York Harbor. It is to this school of application that young 
officers of engineers are sent to learn the practical application of tlieir 
studies at West Point. They are taught the practice of military sur- 
veying, mining, torpedo service, etc., and also the application of astron- 
omy to military and boundary surveys. Each year a general order is 
issued, giving the results of the past year's work. The order for 1882 
may be summarized as below : • 

For local time, each officer makes a long series of determinations with 
various instruments, and in various ways. Using the portable transit, 
the time of transit is at first recorded by an assistant, at the word given 



ASTRONOMY. 313 

by the observer ; next, the observer records his own time by the relai/ 
beat of a chronometer every 1 second ; next by the chronographic method, 
and lastly by the beat of the chronometer itself (every 0.5 second). Be- 
ginners nse these methods in succession in the order named. 

Personal equation is studied by means of Eastman's machine (see 
Wash. Ast. Obs., 1875), and an interesting table of results by the second 
method of marking time (the relay beat) is given. 

The time determinations are given for each day of observations, with 
the probable errors. 

Time determinations by sextant observations are also given, and by 
means of the (known) correction of the standard chronometer the error 
of each observation and observer is determined. 

We quote below the errors of the sextant Delta t's so determined. 
(Usually 10 altitudes of an east star and 10 of a west were employed.) 
4«.0; KO; 1«.5; 13«.7;8«.2; 24M; 1«.7; 0«.4; 1«.8; 0«.7; 3«.3; 2«.8; 5«.6^ 
5^.0. These are the observations of students. 

The latitude is determined, first by zenith telescope, and the first 
process is the evaluation of the level division. This is done by each 
student, and of the set for 1881 the largest probable error is +0".008. 

The observations for latitude are given in detail. From 326 observa- 
tions of 84 pairs in 1880, the latitude was found to be + 40° 47' 21".59 
± 0".082. From 591 observations of 104 pairs in 1881, it was found to 
be -f 40° 47' 2L".47, a difference of about 12 feet only. Sextant observa- 
tions for latitude were also made. The errors of the several determina- 
tions were l".l; 30".5; 14".8; 7".4; 0".9; 0".5, respectively. 

The longitude is determined — 

1st. By lunar culminations. The errors were found to be (of one night's 
observations), 7^01; 6^99 5 3M4; 15«.97; 3«.74; 21«.06; 14«.29; 24«.84; 
20«.58; 25^04; 4«.06; 2«.28; 1«.81. The errors of each limb of the moon 
are separately shown. 

2d. By Jupiter's satellites. Errors: 21«.02; 29«.48; 25«.95. 

3d. By lunar distances (sextant). Errors: 4«.0; 25^0J 40^.65 13«.7^ 
34«.7; 6«.4; 5^7. 

The value of a revolution of the micrometer screw of the small (five- 
inch) equatorial was twice determined, as follows : 

R = 19".362 i 0".018 Polaris. 
= 19 .287 rt .057 " 

The displays of the aurora have been regularly noted since 1870, Feb- 
ruary 1. The number for each year is as below : 

1870, 99; '71, 104; '72, 94; '73, 92; '74, 35; '75, 27; '76, 17; '77, 13 j 
'78,4; '79, 16; '80, -2; '81, 44. 

What has been given as an abstract of one year's work in one depart- 
ment only of this school of application for young engineer officers i» 
sufficient to show that we have at present no better school of practical 
astronomy in America. 



314 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1882. 

Halstead Observatory. — The new telescope at Princeton is now at last 
in position and nearly ready for work. It was made by A. Clark & 
Sons, of Cambridge, the glass disks being furnished by Feil, of Paris. 

The diameter of the object-glass is 23 inches, and the focal length 
within an inch or two of 30 feet. At present its only superiors in the 
United States are the 26-inch telescopes of the Naval Observatory, at 
Washington, and of the University of Virginia. In Europe the 27-inch 
refractor of the Vienna Observatory and the 25-inch telescope of Mr. 
JSTewall surpass it. Five other instruments of larger dimensions are in- 
deed now constructing, two in Paris, and three in Cambridge ; but it 
will be some time before any of them are finished. 

In the Princeton telescope the lenses which compose the object-glass 
are separated by a space of nearly seven inches, allowing a free circu- 
lation of air between them, and securing a rapid equalization of temper- 
ature. This construction also prevents the "ghosts" (formed by re- 
flections between the lenses), which are very troublesome in somelifrge 
instruments. 

The spherical and color corrections are very fine in the Piinceton 
telescox^e, and the performance of the object-glass, so far as can be 
judged from a few nights' use, is entirely satisfactory. It is intended 
to devote the instrument for the present mainly to spectroscopic obser- 
vations of the stars. The spectroscope is of Christie's direct vision form, 
which has been successfully used at Greenwich for several years. Mr. 
Christie (Astronomer Eoyal) very kindly supervised its construction 
(by Hilger, of London), and there is every reason to hope that it wOl 
prove a magnificent instrument. It is much larger and more powerful 
than anything ever used before in stellar work ; it is nearly six feet long, 
and admits through the prisms a beam 2^ inches in diameter. 

A four horse-power gas-engine works the dome and shutters. It also 
drives one of Edison's dynamo machines, which furnishes a powerful 
current for purposes of "illumination, and for producing the spectra of 
metals or gases to be compared with those of the stars. 

Yale College Observatory. — From a late report of Prof. H. A. New- 
ton, director of Yale College Observatory, we leaiu that the Board of 
Managers are to i)roceed at once to erect suitable buildings on the ob- 
servatory grounds for the new heliometer just received from Messrs. 
Repsold, of Hamburg, and the new equatorial telescope, purchased of 
Howard Grubb, of Dublin, last summer. The towers for these instru- 
ments are now being erected, and the heliometer is expected to be in 
place by the first of August, that the observers may have ample time 
to prepare for the best use of the instrument at the transit of Vemis in 
December, 1882. The new equatorial of eight inches aperture is ex- 
pected from the makers about the middle of August, and it will also be 
ready for use early in the autumn. The domes for these instruments 
were made by Mr. Grubb. The longitude of the transit house of this 
observatory was recently determined by exchanges of telegraphic sig- 



ASTRONOMY. 315 

nals on four nights by Prof. W. A. Eogers, of Cambridge, and Dr.TValdo, 
an exchange of observers being made on two nights. The difference of 
longitude between the meridian circle of Harvard College Observatory 
and the transit of Yale College is 0"^ 7°^ 10«.353 ± 0«.0091. 

Tbis report also contains the second annual statement of Dr. Waldo, 
astronomer in charge of the Jiorological and thermometrical bureaus of 
the observatory. This kind of work has not been undertaken anywhere 
else in this country; and the manner in which it is done reflects credit 
on all concerned. 

Liclc Observatory. — The Lick trustees have ordered from Messrs. Rep- 
sold, of Hamburg, a 6-inch meridian circle of the design of that of the 
Strasburg Observatory. The objectives of the instrument and of the 
north and south collimators are of six inches aperture, and will be made 
bj^ Alvan Clark & Sons. The objective and eye end of the circle are 
interchangeable. There are two divided circles, A and B. A is fixed on 
the axis and divided to 2'. B is movable on the axis and is divided to 
2' at four points 90"^ from each other. Every degree of each circle is 
numbered with an engraved figure. There are four microscopes to each 
circle, one revolution of their micrometers being 1', and one part being 
1". The setting is done by a reflecting microscope with two eye-pieces, 
one north, the other south. The axis of the circle is itself a telescope, 
and a collimator east or west is used to rectify its position. The hang- 
ing level is so arranged that it can be api)lied while the instrument is 
pointed to the nadir. 

The flint disk for the 36-inch objective to be made by Alvan Clark & 
Sons for the Lick Observatory has arrived in this country. Its diameter 
is 97<="' (38.19 inches), its thickness 55<='" (21.65 inches), and its weight 
170 kilograms (375 pounds). A month was required in the cooling. 
A crown disk has also been cast by M. Fell (flls) who made the flint. 

A sidereal clock ordered by the Lick trustees, from A. Hohwu, of 
Amsterdam, has arrived in this country. It is in all respects similar to 
the normal clock of the Washburn Observatory, described in its publi- 
cations. Vol. I, 1881, p. 12 ; and to a clock just delivered to the Pulkova 
Observatory. Its cost is about $447. Similar clocks are mounted at 
the observatories of Upsala, Leyden, Strasburg, Brussels, and Tashkent. 
This clock bears the number 33. 

West Foint Academy. — Alvan Clark & Sons are making a 12-inch equa- 
torial for the observatory of the United States Military Academy at 
West Point. 

The following list of dates may have some interest : 
The coUimating eye-piece was first proj)Osed (by Bohnenberger) 

in the Astronomiclie Nachrichten, Yol. IV, p. 330 in 1825 

Used at Madras Observatory - 1834 

Tried at Konigsberg 1837 

Used at Edinburgh for nadir 1840 

Used at Oxford for nadir 1843 



316 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Used at Cambridge 1845 

Used at Washington 18 15 

Used at Greenwich 1847 

McCormick Observatory. — Prof. Ormond Stone of the Cincinnati Ob- 
servatory, has been appointed director of the Leander McCormick Obser- 
vatory of the University of Virginia. The institution is already in pos- 
session of the great refracting telescope made by the Clarks a few years 
ago for Mr. McCormick, who generously presented it to the university 
in 1877. It cost nearly $50,000. The friends of the university have 
contributed $75,000 to endow the chair of astronomy. 

Warner & Swaze}', of Cleveland, have completed arrangements with 
the director of this observatory (Prof. O. Stone) by which they are to 
build a 45-foot iron and steel dome to contain the 26 J-inch Clark refractor. 

The dome is to turn on a live ring, on Grubb's plan, but the rolls are 
to be mounted in an ingenious manner which does away with most of 
the friction, and allows of the most accurate placing of the ring on the 
track. It is guaranteed that the dome (45 feet) will revolve with a 
direct pressure of fifty pounds. 

Foreign observatories. — The last number of the Vierteljahrsschrift der 
AstronomiscJien Oesellschaft contains reports of the proceedings of some 
twenty of the observatories in Europe during the year 1881. At Berlin 
observations for the zone -f 20° to 25^, were actively continued, upwards 
of 10,000 being made in the year. The 9 inch refractor was employed 
for comets and small planets, etc., the physical appearances of the comet 
1881 III, receiving special attention. With the Declinograph 1,200 small 
stars were observed, making, up to the end of 1881, 12,329 stars, mostly 
from the eleventh to the thirteenth magnitudes, thus determined in con- 
nection with the identification and observation of the small jdanets. 
At Bonn the southern '' Durchmusterung " furnished observations of 
upwards of 14,000 stars, so that rapid progress is being made with this 
work under the direction of Professor Schoenfeld. At Brussels astro- 
nomical physics, as well as meridian observations, have been attended 
to; the meteors of the August period were extensively observed over 
Belgium; Christiania was mainly occupied, under Dr. Fearnley, with tlie 
zone 65° — 70<^, and the curious circumstance of the existence of four 
variable stars in this zone within a radius of 1° is recorded ; the first, 
in 20^ 59'^ 20« + 66° 8 "5, has been estimated by various observers 
from 5m. (Lalande) to 9m. (Argelander) ; the second is in 20^ 59" 48» 
+ 67° 35' .9 ; the third in 21" 7"^ 33« + 67° 54'.4, and the fourth in 211^ 
llm 493 ^ QQo o'.9, for 1855.0. Baron v. Eugelhardt, at Dresden, has 
zealously observed the various comets of the year, and has made 111 
observations of 19 minor planets. The principal instrument in the 
Baron's observatory is an equatorial refractor by Howard Grubb, of 
Dublin; aperture 306™"». A new jihysical observatory has been erected 
at Her^ny, Hungary, by Eugen and Alexander von Gothard, the posi- 



ASTRONOMY. " 317 

tiou of which is 12™ 49.8« east of Berlin, in latitude 47° 16' 37". 
The observatory is provided with a 10^-inch equatorially-mounted re- 
flector by Browning, of London. Observations were commenced in the 
second week of ISI^ovember, and chiefly consisted of the examination of 
star-spectra. At Keil an 8-inch refractor by Steinheil has been received. 
Meridian observations here were largely devoted to circumpolar stars 
4- 79° to 82°, but according to the present plan the observations will be 
continued to the pole. Leipsic is now under the direction of Prof. 
H. Bruns. At Lund the zone undertaken by the observatory was con- 
tinued, more than 5,200 stars being determined. From the observatory 
of Brera, Milan, Professor Schiaparelli makes the welcome announce- 
ment that the late Baron Dembowski had confided to him all his astro- 
nomical manuscripts, with the condition that they were to be utilized 
to the best advantage for the science. His measures of double stars, 
upwards of 20,000 in number, will be published under the auspices of 
the Accademia Reale dei Lincei ; they are to form four volumes, of which 
the first will contain the measures made by Dembowski at Naples with 
his Plossl Dialytic in the years 18o2-'58 ; the second and third, the obser- 
vations made at Galarate on stars of the Dorpat Catalogue, and the 
fourth, the measures of stars in W. Struve's appendix, the Pulkowa 
Catalogue, and double stars discovered by ^ther astronomers, more 
especially by the eminent American observer, Mr. Burnham. The first 
volume is in course of preparation. At Plonsk Dr. Jedrzejewicz con- 
tinues, in his private observatory, measures of double stars as his prin- 
cipal work. The passages of the red spot on Jupiter, by the middle of 
the disk, were micrometrically determined from November 25, 1880, to 
February 5, 1881, from 174 rotations. The period was found to be 9^ 
So"! 34,418. ^ 0.13^, and at the same time the jovicentric latitude of 
the center of the spot was found — 22o.8, and its length in degrees of 
the parallel 26^.4 ; the third and fourth comets of 1881 and Encke's 
comet were also observed for position. The i^hysical observatory at 
Potsdam was in full activity, and, in addition to the more special sub- 
jects of observation undertaken by this important establishment, an 
extensive series of observations of variable stars was secured in 1881. 
From Stockholm Dr. Hugo Gylden notifies his determination of the par- 
allax of the star Bradley 3077, or Bo. 240 in Argelander's Calalogue of 
250 stars, forming part of the seventh volume of the Bonn observations. 
The resulting value is 0".283 ± 0".0468. This star has considerable 
proper motion. Prof. E. Wolf communicates from Zurich the monthly 
number of days with and without sun spots, and the relative numbers. 
In the whole year's observing days the sun was free from spots on five 
days and exhibited spots on 297. 

From the report of the director of the Paris Observatory, we extract 
the following : The asteroids, which have been observed at Paris and 
at Greenwich for the past fifteen years, are now to be observed at Paris 
only. It has been found at Greenwich that the bad weather seriously 



318 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

interferes with the progress of the work ; and Admiral Mouchez has 
therefore undertaken the whole of this labor at Paris. 

The observation of the stars of Lalande has been going on at Paris 
for some years, as is well known. During the past three years this 
task has been made the chief work of the meridian service, and it is 
hoped that the whole of these observations will be finished in 1882. 
The catalogue will be published in Paris, and it is expected that part 
1, comprising 23,640 stars, will be sent to the printer during the year. 

This will be the most important contribution to stellar astronomy 
that could be rendered. 

The eighteen observers of the meridian service have made 28,747 ob- 
servations during the year. The observations of the sun, moon, planets 
and comets amount to 1,018. These are reduced by the Bureau des 
Calculs. The equatorials are employed as before in observations of 
planets, comets, and asteroids. The large reflector will be resilvered 
and devoted to photographic and spectroscopic work. 

The meteorological observations, the time-services, and the astronom- 
ical school of Montsouris continue as formerly. 

Visitors are admitted (by the written permission of the director) once 
a month. Four hundred persons come on the average, and the uses of 
the various instruments are explained to them by four of the astrono- 
mers, in regular turn. 

The observatory is about to undertake an investigation of the varia- 
tions of the vertical, which have been remarked by Messrs. D'Abbadie 
and Darwin. From the terms in which this research is spoken of in the 
report, it is evident that it is not considered to be one w'hich promises 
to be very fruitful in results. The large refractor is still in process of 
construction. It will be clear, from the brief resume here given, that 
the observatory of Paris is engaged in work fully worthy of its great 
name and of its past services to astronomy. 

The commission appointed by M. Ferry to report on the construction 
of the rotating dome for the large refractor of the Paris Observatory 
has held numerous meetings at the Conservatoire des Arts et Metiers, 
Colonel Laussedat, director of the establishment, being in the chair 
Only two projects have been reserved for final choice. M. Eiffel pro- 
poses to use a saline solution in a horizontal circular channel placed on 
tbe wall to diminish the weight of the* rotary roof. 

Owing to the exertions of Admiral Mouchez, magnetical observations 
will soon be resumed at the Paris Observatory, in subterranean cham- 
bers which have been excavated in the newly annexed grounds. These 
observations will be self- registering by photography, in conformity with 
the instruments established by M. Mascart at the College de France. 
Direct observations will also be conducted with the old instruments 
which were used by Arago, which were famous for his prognostications 
of aurorse, at a period when, the electric telegraph not having been. 



ASTRONOMY. 319 

iuvented, many clays must elapse before the arrival in Paris of news 
from the northern parts of Europe. 

A credit of 96,000 francs ($19,200) has been granted by the Chambers 
of Belgium to found an observatory at the University of Li^ge. It will 
be chiefly devoted to the instruction of students in geodesy and geo- 
graphical surveying. 

A new observatory has been founded at Tashkent, under the direc- 
tion of Lieutenant Pomerantzeff. The principal instruments are — 

1. A Repsold meridian circle of 4.82-inch aperture and 55.27 focus, 
with a circle divided to 2' and read by 4 microscopes. 

2. A Merz equatorial of 6.34 inches aperture. 

3. A sidereal clock by Hohwu. 
The geographical position is : 
Latitude, 40° 18' 32".2. 

Longitude, 2^^ 35'" 52M5, east of Pulkova. 

From two letters, printed in I/Astronomie, we learn that Don Jose 
Gonzales has built and equipped and also endowed a small observatory 
in Bogota, Colombia. Its principal instruments are a 4-inch equatorial, 
a small meridian circle, spectroscopes, &c. The fa9ade bears the inscrip- 
tion: '• Observatoire Flammarion. — A la France. — A Flammarion. — " 

ASTRONOMICAL BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

The fourth and last fascicule of the second volume of Bibliograpliie 
de VAstronomie, by J. C. Houzeau, director of the Eoyal Observatory 
of Brussels, and A. Lancaster, librarian of the same, has lately ap- 
peared. The authors have tabulated the number of astronomical papers 
by the dates of publication, from 1600 to 1880, and have plotted there- 
suits in a curve of astronomical works, which illustrates with striking 
effect the rapidity with which the number of these articles is increasing 
with time. Political revolutions have but slightly aflected this pro- 
gressive activity — excepting onlv the great wars of the first French 
empire, which occasioned a remarkable decrease in the number of pa- 
pers, the epoch of greatest depression being the year 1815. Important 
astronomical discoveries and events have had the most marked effect 
in stimulating the production of astronomical works ; for example, the 
last transit of Venus, 1874, and the discovery of Neptune, 1846. Of 
some 1,800 articles indexed in this volume of the Bibliographie, 6,000 
are written in the French language, 5,800 in English, 4,400 in German, 
800 in Italian, and 600 in Latin, the remaining 400 being divided un- 
evenly among nine other languages. The four most prolific names are 
those of Secchi, Lalande, Zach, and Bessel, while those who have aver- 
aged the greatest number of papers per annum during the period of 
their activity are Flammarion, Secchi, and Proctor. The sections of 
this volume are nine in number, and relate to the History of Astronomy, 
Astronomical Biography, Spherical Astronomy, Theoretical Astronomy, 
Celestial Mecliauics, Astronomical Physics, Practical Astronomy, Mon- 



320 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

ographs on the principal bodies of the Solar System, and Stellar As- 
tronomy. The first and third volames, being thought of less pressing 
importance than the second, will be published subsequently, and will 
relate, the first to works (or separate publications), and the third to 
observatories and the observations made at them. 

This work has been epitomized in the Vade-mecum de CAstronomie, 
8vo, 1 vol., 1882. 

The Greenwich Observatory, always prompt in its publications, is 
this year even more iDrompt than usual. The volume of 1879 has been 
distributed ; parts of the volume for 1880 have also been sent out, and 
the whole volume is nearly printed ; and at the date of writing, the vol- 
ume for 1881 is nearly ready for the i)riuter. 

Professor Folie, director of the new observatory at Luttich, has 
published new tables for computation of the precession, nutation, etc. 
These are more complete than CofQn's and Hubbard's tables in the 
Washington observations for 1847, and according to the account of 
them in V. J. S. der Ast. Oesell., 1881, p. 291, they are also more con- 
venient, as the argument (E. A.) does not vary uniformly, as in the 
"Washington tables, but is varied so as to make the interpolation easy. 

The German Astronomical Society is about to issue another volume 
of its publications (the quarto series). It has for title, Syzygien- Tafeln 
fur den Mond, nehst ausfithrlicher Anweisung Hires Oebrauchs, von Th. von 
Oppolzer. 

The publication (by Scribners) of Trouvelot's "Astronomical draw- 
ings of the sun, planets, comets, and nebulse" gives us a work never at- 
tempted before on such a scale, and only recently made possible. 

The plates represent to the general student and the public, with 
accuracy and beauty, the chief celestial objects and phenomena, almost 
exactly as the power of modern instruments now presents them to the 
trained eye of the astronomer. Not only are the general appearauce 
and relative positions of the different objects accurately given, but their 
peculiar and delicate colorings are reproduced with excellent effect — a 
result which photography is wholly inadequate to secure. 

The fifteen years' study of which this is the fruit has involved the 
preparation of about seven thousand larger and smaller drawings, in 
which telescopes of all powers have been used, from the great 2G-inch 
equatorial in Washington to instruments of 6J inches aperture. The 
whole series consists of 15 large plates. 

Neic astronomical journal. — M. Flammarion has recently founded a 
new popular astronomical journal, having for title : IP Astronomie, revue 
7nensuelle d'Astronomie popiilaire, de Meteorologie et de Physique du Globe. 

No. I is dated March, 1882, and contains a good account of the observ- 
atory of Paris, with wood-cuts of its appearance in 1672 and at present. 
A list of the instruments now in use is given, which we copy : 



ASTRONOMY. 321 

Aperture inches. 

Gambey trausit 5.91 

Gambey mural circle 4. 74 

^1) Eichens meridian circle 9. 48 

(2) Eichens meridian circle 7. 48 

Lerebours equatorial 14. 96 

Secretan equatorial 12. 20 

Secretan equatorial 9. 44 

A short and interesting history of the administrations of the various 
directors is given, most attention being naturally paid to the present 

one. The salaries paid are : 

Francs. 

Director 15,000 

Vice-director 12, 000 

Astronomers 7, 000 to 10, 000 

Adjunct astronomers 3, 500 to 7, 000 

The meridian observations are to-day chiefly devoted to a reobserva- 
tion of the Lalande stars, some 48,000 in all. Probably the places of 
some 23,000 Lalande stars will be ])rinted in 1882. The ten observers 
obtain some 28,000 observations yeiirly. 

The six observers with the equatorials are engaged on the observa- 
tion (and discovery) of asteroids, double stars, &c. The reflector of 47 
inches aperture is not in use. The large refractor of 29.13 inches aper- 
ture will be mounted shortly. 

It is announced that with the year 1883 a new journal, Science, will 
be published in Cambridge, Mass., with Mr. S. H. Scudder as editor and 
the principal scientific men of the country as coadjutors. It is intended 
to fill a corresponding place to the English Nature, and certainly it 
starts with the fairest prospects, and occupies a field in which there is 
much to do. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Standard time. — The two following papers (which do not exhaust the 
subject, however,) may be taken to show the general interest in the 
question of a standard or of many standards of time. For America the 
question should be settled after careful discussion and general consent, 
and not be allowed to drift to its solution : 

" In response to the circular of the general time convention, asking 
for communications bearing upon the matter of a standard time for the 
railways of the United States and Canada, Admiral Kodgers, late Super- 
intendent of the United States Naval Observatory, wrote the following : 

'"The various countries of the world generally have their own prime 
meridian, as Greenwich, Paris, Pulkova, etc., and the national maps 
are drawn to the respective national prime meridians. The maps of the 
United States are drawn with reference to the meridian of Washington. 
The observatories of Europe — Pulkova, Greenwich, Paris, etc. — give 
time to their respective nations. In England the differences of longi- 
tude are not great, and all England uses Greenwich time. But the 
H. Mis. 26 ^21 



322 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

extent of the United States renders a single time impracticable, for by 
the hour at any place is only sought an expression for the relative posi- 
tion of the sun in regard to that place. At the noon of any locality the 
sun is on its meridian ; at 1 o'clock it is one hour past the meridian ; at 
midnight it is on the lower meridian, or just under the feet, and at 1 
o'clock at night it is one hour past the lower meridian. All this is very 
elementary, and is known to every one. 

"'By local time man must live, move, and have his being. Other 
standard for his daily avocations is chimerical, fit for speculation, but 
utterly impracticable. Sailors have for a long time kept on board ship, 
for their practical purposes, two times — namelj', local time, for the daily 
uses of life, and the time of the national meridian, for astronomical pur- 
poses. This is Greenwich, Paris, Pulkova, or other, according to nation- 
ality. This arrangement at sea is in constant use by a community far 
from a learned one, according to shore standards. The system must be 
plain and practical to landsmen, since it is plain and practiced by sea- 
men. 

"'The plan of time zones seems to me a plan for legalizing diver- 
sity. It is against diversity that the country protests, as applied to rail- 
road service. Two neighbors, separated by a fence, may live in differ- 
ent zones, or two villages near one another may have different zones 
and different legal times, in which case business will be carried on be- 
tween them with more difficulty than with natural time, by which people 
dwelling near one another will have, substantially, agreement in their 
watches. Two railroads on different sides of a river may have different 
zones, and trains collide for want of agreement. Except in towns of 
some size, no one would know his zone, for the zones cannot be marked. 
The State lines are too irregular in shape to serve for a guides nor have 
we custom-houses on the borders to inform travelers of the name of the 
State into which they enter. 

" 'Learned societies may recommend artificial time for the use of man, 
but it is to be apprehended that ^he community may refuse to accept 
it. When the laborer, who has worked from sunrise until noon, is 
gravely told that noon comes at 1 o'clock, will he not object ? In short, 
men will continue to keep natural time for their daily uses, whatever 
different practice conventions may recommend. 

"'In conclusion, I beg leave to recommend that in the railroad guides 
the time of Washington, the national meridian of the United States, be 
published opposite to the movements of through trains, leaving, the 
trains to run on Boston time, or Ogden, or San Francisco, or such other 
time as the directors may prefer. This plan invades no right now en- 
joyed ; it changes no practice ; it only adds to the tables a few columns 
of figures. 1 would also recommend that the clocks at railroad stations 
be furnished with two sets of hands, gilt hands for Washington time, 
and black hands for local time. These hands, separated by a constant 
difference equal to the differences of longitude, will always show at a 
glance the time required, whether local or Washington.'" 

The second paper referred to, is an essay read by Dr. Ulbricht, at a 
convention of engineers, which met at Dresden last winter, and is as 
foUows : 

" In most of the European countries the inconvenience of various local 
times has been partially done away with, by accepting the true time at 
the capital city for the standard time for the rest of the country, as has 
been partly done by the railroad companies in the United States; whole 



ASTRONOMY. 323 

trains arrive at and leave the intermediate stations by Xew York or 
Chicago time. 

" Dr. Ulbricht then spoke with approbation of the ingenious plan 
proposed by President Barnard, of Columbia College, New York, at the 
convention held recently at Cologne to discuss some of the debated 
points of international law. President Barnard's scheme is to have 
the earth divided by twenty-four meridian lines corresponding to the 
number of hours in a solar day, and to have the inhjibitants of each 
spot on the globe reckon time by the true time at the nearest meridional 
line. By this plan, all places would register minutes and seconds sim- 
ultaneously, all over the world, the name of the hour only being differ- 
ent at each meridian line. If this much could be secured, it would be 
a vast improvement on the present irregular system, but it would neces- 
sitate perfect standards and exceedingly careful and accui ate distribu- 
tion of time from the appointed centers or standard clocks. 

"The 'time ball' on the Wartberg (a mountain near Heilbrunn), 
which was set up more than a hundred years ago by that many-sided 
genius, Goethe, is a primitive mode of distributing time from a cential 
station to the surrounding stations, and modern science is rapidly per- 
fecting this system, so that the complete unison between all the clocks 
of a country is only a question of t'ime. 

"The pneumatic system gives unqualified satisfaction in Vienna, 
where it has been thoroughly tested, and other places are introducing 
it; but the most infallibly accurate means for distributing time either 
long or short distances, is electricity. Simultaneous action in clocks, 
no matter how widely separated they may be, is insured by the Hipp 
system of electric communication, or the Jones system, which is in suc- 
cessful operation at Greenwich, Berlin, and several other places. In 
this latter system the pendulums receive their impulse by the opening 
and closing of the electric circuit, so that all have a simultaneous vibra- 
tion. Of course, this system makes no allowance for the difference 
between the time of different localities. 

"The Siemens and Halske electrical clocks are provided with a 
simple little apparatus which allows the minutes and seconds to be re- 
corded on each clock in unison with the central clock, but as the hour 
strikes it moves the hands back or forward to the place where they 
belong according to the true time of the place. 

"The system invented by Dr. Ulbricht himself, and in use in many 
of the principal depots in Germany, requires the pendulum-rod to be 
somewhat shorter than usual, so that the clock will gain a trifle each 
hour. This is remedied by an automatic arrangement that, as the hour 
strikes, stops the motion of the pendulums in all the secondary clocks 
until the center clock has caught up with them, when all vibrate again 
in unison. 

"President Barnard's proposition for 'cosmopolitan time,' as he calls 
it, comprehended still further changes in the system now in use, which 
can be briefly summed up as follows: After having decided upon the 
location of the twenty-four meridional lines, the whole world should 
reckon time from a certain one of these lines. For general convenience 
(and to avoid showing undue partiality to any special country, probably), 
President Barnard suggests the meridian passing through Behring 
Strait and the Pacific Ocean, for the starting point, and the time mid- 
night. 

" The hours of the day should be counted from one to twenty-four, 
inclusive, doing away with the unnecessary annoyance of dividing the 
solar day into p. m. and A. M. He suggests also that the hours might 



324 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

be designated by the tweuty-four letters of the alphabet (leaving out J 
and W). 

" By the general adoption of this system, or even a modified form of 
it, all the countries in the world would thus be brought into harmony, 
and 'cosmopolitan time' would be recorded simultaneously on the faces 
of all the clocks in the world, the incalculable advantages of which must 
be seen to be fully appreciated. 

"A convention of geographers lately held in Venice passed resolutions 
expressing their' approbation and admiration of President Barnard's 
plan, prophesying that the present zealous agitation of this subject will 
before long bring about a radical change in the systems now in use." — 
(From the Allg. Jour, der JJhrmacherkunst.) 

Astronomical prizes, salaries, &c. — The French Academy of Sciences 
has recently awarded the Lalande prize to Dr. Lewis Swift, of Eoches- 
ter, N. Y., for his discovery of seven comets in four years. One of them, 
Comet E, 1880, which is identical with Comet III, 1869, discovered by 
Tempel, is a short-period comet. The Valz prize was awarded to Dr. D. 
Gill, astronomer at the Cape, for his researches on the solar parallax, 
especially for his observations of Mars, at Ascension, in 1877. 

From the British navy estimates for 1881-'82, the following items of 
interest are extracted: '■''Greenwich Observatory, total, £5,144. The 
salary of the Astronomer Eoyal (to be reconsidered on the appointment 
of a successor to Sir G. B. Airy), £1,200; of the chief assistant, £000; 
two first-class assistants, £787; four second-class assistants, £1,017; 
expenses for repairs, apparatus, &c., £2,639. Gape of Good Hope Ob- 
servatory, total estimate for salaries, apparatus, «&c., £2,703. Nautical 
Almanac, £3,203, including salary of the suiierintendent, £550. The 
average annual sale of the almanac for the last five years is estimated 
at 16,749 copies. The chronometers of the royal navy cost £1,432; and 
the expenses of the compass department are £2,146." 



GEOLOGY. 



By Prof. T. Sterky Hunt, LL. D., F. E. S. 



EOZOIC ROCKS. 

The study of the Eozoic, or, as they are often called, the Archaean 
rocks — the Primary rocks of older writers — continues to occupy more and 
more the attention of geologists. It is now generally understood that 
these rocks, like those of Secondary and more recent periods, are capa- 
ble of subdivision into great stratified groups, the relations between 
which, in the absence of organic remains, must be determined by strat- 
igraphical and lithological characters. Of these, three great groups — 
first established in North America, and named Laurentian, Huronian, 
and Montalban — are now recognized in many parts of the old World. 

The existence in the Alps of an older granitic gneiss, corresponding 
to the Laurentian, and a younger gneissic series, the representative of 
the Montalban, has long since been recognized by Gerlach, Giimbel, 
and others, and the relations of the former to the great greenstone or 
pietre verdi series of northern Italy, rightly referred by Gastaldi to the 
Huronian, has attracted attention. It should, however, be said here 
that this scries, as defined by him, included also the younger gneisses 
Geological studies of the Simplon, with reference to the proposed rail- 
way-tunnel through the mountain, made by Eenevier, show the exist- 
ence thereof an older gneiss, called by Gerlach the gneiss of Antigorio, 
which is well seen in the Yal de Vedro, where it is brought up by an 
anticlinal from beneath a mass of younger gneisses, with micaceous and 
hornblendic schists and crystalline limestones. This latter series has 
a great thickness, and is probably, like the upper gneiss of the St. 
Gothard, Montalban, here resting directly upon Laurentian. 

The careful geological studies of Stapfl", the director of the St. Goth- 
ard tunnel, show at the base a granitoid gneiss (veined granite of other 
observers), to which belongs the Finsteraarhorn, overlaid by a great 
series of gneisses and mica-schists, with serpentine and hornblendic 
rocks, through which the greater part of the tunnel passes. These form 
the southern slope of the St. Gothard, as well as the basins of IJnseren 
on the north and the Ticiuo on the south" side. They have, according 
to Staplf, an aggregate thickness of not less than 15,000 meters, 
but the possibility of repetition by faults and undulations should not 
be lost sight of. Von Hauer has recognized two similar series of 

325 



326 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

gneisses in the Austrian Alps, besides an intermediate group, which he 
comijares with the Hurouian. Hunt, from his recent observations, 
announces that the upper gneissic series, as examined by him on the 
southern slope of the St. Gothard, and in the Ticino, are clearly of the 
type of the Montalban of North America, seen in the White Mount- 
ains of New Hampshire, and near Philadelphia. The tunnel of the 
St. Gothard passes through about 2,000 meters of the older gneiss, on 
the north, and 13,000 meters of the younger series, the strata of this 
along the line being generally at a very high angle, and much con- 
torted and faulted, but often lying at low angles in the Ticino. The 
typical pietre verdi, or Huronian 'series, is here wanting, though seen over 
large areas in northern Italy, with its serpentines, argillites, chloritic, 
steatitic, epidotic, hornblendic, and feldspathic rocks, including so- 
called gabbros and euphotides. Hunt has given in this connection an 
account of his recent observations near the foot of Mont Viso, in the 
vicinity of Biella, in the province of No vara. Here he found the older 
gneiss highly contorted, having the characters of the Laurentian, and 
including bands of granular limestone, with graphite, pyroxene, quartz, 
and other characteristic minerals. This is overlaid to the westward by 
an area of the pietre verdi orHuronian series, which is immediately suc- 
ceeded on the west by Montalban gneisses and mica-schists. The south- 
ward course of the eastern border of this series is such as to rapidly 
reduce in this direction the considerable breadth of the Huronian, and 
if continued for a mile or two beneath the superficial deposits in the 
valley of the Cervo would bring the newer gneisses in juxtaposition 
"with the Laurentian, as in the St. Gothard section. 

The gneisses and mica-schists of the Saxon Erzgebirge have, accord- 
ing to the same observer, the lithological characters of the Montalban 
or younger gneiss series (and the same is true of the Granulitgebirge of 
Saxony), with their included beds of gabbro and serpentine. It may be 
here remarked that the characteristic Montalban gneisses in America 
pass into granulite or leptinite on the one hand, and into gneiss and 
quartzose mica-schist on the other. 

Saner has found in several localities in the gneiss and mica-schist se- 
ries of the Erzgebirge, conglomerates holding, in a crystalline gneissic 
matrix, pebbles occasionally of quartzite or granular limestone, but more 
often of gneiss. These rolled masses, often several inches in diameter, 
represent different varieties of gneiss common to the older series of the 
Alps, and in the opinion of Hunt, who has examined them, are doubts 
less pebbles derived from Laurentiau strata. He has noticed a similar 
occurrence of granular limestone jjebbles in a hornblendic gneiss in the 
White Mountains. Pebbles of gneiss are also found in like conditions 
in gneisses in Sweden and in southeastern France. 

The age of these Saxon gneisses is, according to Credner, clearly pre- 
Cambrian. The late researches of the geological survey of Saxony have 
shown that this is also true of the gneissic area formerly supposed by 



GEOLOGY. 327 

Naumann to be of Paleozoic age, which is found to be continuous with 
the other gneisses. 

Marr has kitely noticed the crystalline rocks which underlie the 
Cambrian strata in Bohemia, and has compared the older or basal se- 
ries of gneisses with limestones to the Dimetran of Wales (Laurentian). 
They are succeeded unconformably by a newer crystalline series of green- 
ish schists, with conglomerates, &c., which, according to him, resemble 
the Pebidian of Wales (Huroniau). These constitute the stage A of 
Barraude, and are succeeded, after a stratigraphical break, by fossilif- 
€rous Cambrian and Silurian rocks. 

The crystalline rocks of the Taunns were regarded by Dumont as 
altered Devonian, a view also defended by Lossen, but Gosselet and 
Koch have shown on stratigraphical grounds that they must be older, and 
are, in part at least, Huronian. Hunt had already examined the con- 
tinuation of these rocks in tbe Ardennes, which, from their association 
with Oldhamia, must be at least at the base of the Cambrian, and had 
compared them with Huronian. The question of the development of 
crystalline minerals in sedimentary rocks will be discussed elsewhere. 

Von Eichthofen has examined the crystalline rocks of northern 
China, where they occupy a great area, and are divided by him into two 
groups, which he compares with Laurentian and Huroniau, respectively. 
The first of these is again subdivided into two parts ; the older is a 
gneiss, often granulitic, with steep dips and a prevailing northwest 
strike. Eesting unconformably upon it are newer gneissic rocks, some- 
times hornbleudic and chloritic. Both of these Eichthofen would refer 
to the Laurentian. Eeposing ia discordance upon these is a third divis- 
ion, described as a series of green schists with micaceous and horn- 
bleudic beds, quartzites, and crystalline limestones, presenting many 
variations in different districts, but regarded by Eichthofen as the 
probable equivalents of the Huronian, and having a thickness of at 
least 10,000 feet. These crystalline strata, after having been folded, 
faulted, and penetrated by intrusive rocks, were subjected to great 
erosion before the deposition of the succeeding series, called by Eicht- 
.hofen Sinisian, to be noticed below. With reference to the twofold 
division of the Chinese gneisses, it will remain for further studies to 
determine whether we have here the representative of two great divis- 
ions of the Laurentian, and whether we have also to do with newer 
gneisses, which occasionally, in the Alps, as in parts of North America, 
rest directly on the pre-Huronian gneisses. 

The rocks to which Eichthofen has given the name of the Sinisian 
system are developed with similar characters over wide areas, and have 
an aggregate thickness of from 12,000 to 20,000 feet. They are de- 
scribed as consisting of three groups in concordant succession : A lower 
one of reddish sandstones and quartzose breccia, a middle graup of 
limestones, sandstones, and argillites, and an upper of limestones, in 



328 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

•which organic remains appear for the first time. These forms are Cam- 
brian, and are compared with the Potsdam of North America. 

The late publications of its geological survey enable us to arrive at 
some general views with regard to the Eozoic rocks of India. In the 
peninsular region of that country we find, stretching from Ceylon to 
the mouth of the Ganges, a broad area, almost unbroken, of granitoid 
gneissic rocks, having the general lithological characters of the Lauren- 
tian, and in many parts accompanied by crystalline limestones, whose 
mineralogical resemblances to those of our older gneissic system are 
well known. The Bundelkhand gneissic area, lying a little to the north- 
west of the great belt, is conjectured by the Indian survey to be distinct 
from and older than the latter. To these gneisses succeed a great un- 
conformable series of what are described as transition or submetamor- 
phic strata. These include quartzites, crystalline limestones, jasper-like 
rocks, which, in some cases at least, have the composition of petrosilex 
and are porphyritic ; beds of specular iron-ore, hornblendic and mica- 
ceous schists, sometimes with garnet, staurolite, and andalusite. It is 
probable, as supposed by the Indian geologists, Medlicott and Blanford, 
that these transition rocks include two or more distinct groups. They 
are of great but undetermined thickness. 

To these succeed what is called the Yindyhan series, which, though 
generally unconformable, seems, in some parts of its wide distribution, 
to exhibit such transitions from the series just described as to lead to 
the conjecture that some of the strata included in the former are really 
parts of the lower division of the Vindyhan series, to wiiich is assigned! 
a minimum thickness of 2,000 feet. It includes limestones, quartzites, 
argillites, and, in some parts, crystalline schists, recalling some of those 
referred to the older transition series. It contains diamonds, of which 
it has been conjectured to be the i)arent rock. The upper division of 
the Vindyhan series is supposed to be unconformable to the lower, and 
has a thickness of 20,000 feet, consisting of sandstones, limestones, and 
argillites. No organic remains have as yet been observed anywhere in 
this great series, which is consequently classed by the Indian survey 
with Azoic rocks. It is well argued that such a great succession of 
varied sediments would seem to offer the conditions for the preservation 
of the remains of ordinary Paleozoic life, had such existed in the wide 
Vindyhan area. This series suggests a comparison with the Sinisian 
rocks in northern China, lying below the Cambrian (Potsdam) beds. 
In peninsular India the Vindyhan is unconformably overlaid by the 
Gondwana system, the base of which is upper Paleozoic. While these 
ancient Vindyhan rocks of the peninsula are very little disturbed, we 
find in northern or extra-peninsular India, to the north of the great 
Indo Gangetic plain, a mountain-region in which even the Tertiary 
strata bear evidence of the great disturbing forces that were displayed 
in the elevation of the Himalayas. The gneissic rocks of this region 
are distinguished from the reddish syenitic gneisses of the peninsula by 



GEOLOGY. 329 

being white or gray in color and are associated with much mica-schist. 
Other observers have described, in the region of the Upper Himalayas^ 
syenitic gneisses resembling those of the peninsular type, succeeded by 
various crystalline schists, with greenstones and soft talcoid slates. 

The Eozoic rocks, to which Hicks, in Wales, gave the name of Pebid- 
ian, were some j-ears since compared lithologically with the Huronian. 
Hunt, in pointing this out, after his comparative studies in the British 
Islands, referred certain crystalline schists in eastern Ireland to the 
Montalban series, which, as he had previously shown, is represented in 
Donegal and in the Scottish Highlands, where Pebidian rocks are also 
largely displayed. Hicks has since found there a series of crystalline 
strata, which succeed the Pebidian, and which he has called Upper 
Pebidian. These, as they are the predominant rocks in the Grampian 
Hills, he proposes to designate the Grampian series. They consist in 
large part of tender gneisses or granulites, with mica-schists, and accord- 
ing to Hunt have the lithological characteristics of the Montalban series, 
as seen in the Alps and in North America. 

CaUaway has contributed important observations to the question of 
the age of the younger gneisses found in northwestern Scotland, in 
Dunness, where they are found in close association with an older gneiss 
recognized as Lewisian (Laurentian), a quartzite, a limestone with a 
lower Paleozoic (Arenig) fauna, and a younger flaggy gneiss. This 
latter, regarded by Nichol and others as pre- Cambrian, has been by 
Murchison and his followers supposed to overlie the fossiliferous lime- 
stones, and to consist of more recent or so-called Silurian strata in an 
altered condition. Callaway has shown that the evidence of this super- 
position is defective, and that on the contrary we are forced to conclude 
that the flaggy gneiss belongs to an older series which underlies uncon- 
formably the limestones. The conclusion to be deduced from all the 
observations up to this time seems to us to be that the crystalline strata 
of the Scottish Highlands, regarded by the geological survey of Great 
Britain as altered Paleozoic strata, include representatives of various 
pre-Cambrian groups, including Montalban (Grampian), Huronian (Pe- 
bidian), and Arvonian, to which series Hicks refers the hdlleflintcb 
series found in Glencoe. 

Callaway has also described the pre-Cambrian rocks of county Wex- 
ford in Ireland, and finds beneath, the argillites of the Longmynd group 
with Oldhamia, rocks which he compares with the Pebidian and Dime- 
tran of Wales and Anglesea. He maintains that there is here no evi- 
dence whatever of a gradual passage, such as had been asserted, from 
the crystalline to the uncrystalline series, either in Wexford or in other 
localities examined by him, and elsewhere says : " every case of sup- 
posed metamorphic Cambrian or Silurian has been invalidated by re- 
cent researches, and we are driven to the conclusion that within the 
English and Welsh area there is a i)resumj)tion in favor of the suftpo- 



330 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

eition that any district of altered rocks that may be discovered is of 
ArchEean age." 

Bonuey, continuing his studies in the vicinity of the Lizards, in Corn- 
wall, has described the crystalline schists of the region, of which he has 
as yet published only a preliminary note. These rocks, once regarded 
as altered Paleozoic, are shown to be Eozoic, and are by him divided into 
three groups, the first or lowest of which consists of greenish, often 
micaceous schists, with hornblendic minerals, which he compares with 
the Pebidian of Xorth Wales and Angiesea ; the second group is char- 
acterized by black hornblende, and the third or uppermost is described 
as a granulitic group with bauds of quartzo-feldspathic rock, the last 
two groups beiug remarkable for their display of bedded structure, and 
the three apparently forming one continuous series, with a general 
northwest strike. The upper portions recall the Montalbau series. 
We shall notice further on the serpeutines found in these Eozoic rocks, 
both in Cornwall and Angiesea, together with those of the Alps. 

W, O. Crosby has rendered a service to comparative geognosy by 
resuming the facts known with regard to the Eozoic rocks of eastern 
South America, where they occupy two great areas, the one north of 
the Amazonas, extending east to the Orinoco, which includes the vari- 
ous districts known by the name of Guiana ; and the other, and still 
larger region, to the south of the Amazonas, which forms the highlands 
of Brazil. This area, extending through thirty degrees of latitude and 
twenty-five degrees of longitude, is separated from the Andean region 
by a broad expanse of newer rocks, stretching down to the mouth of 
the La Plata. Hartt has shown that these crystalline areas of Guiana 
and Brazil were above the sea in the earliest Paleozoic ti mes. They may 
be compared both geographically and geolognostically with the Lauren- 
tides and the Atlantic belt of Xorth America. The older observations 
of Darwin, Pissis, and Liais with regard to these rocks are confirmed by 
the later ones of Hartt and of Derby. The basal rocks of the Bra- 
zilian highlands are gneisses, often granitoid, with crystalline limestones, 
oceasionally serpentinic, with Eozoon. To these succeed a fine-grained 
gray gneiss or leptinite, often schistose, followed by mica-schists and 
gneisses, with subordinate beds of quartzite. The two types correspond 
to the Laurentian and Montalban, respectively. Elsewhere in south- 
ern Brazil are found large areas of petrosilex rocks, and of others having 
the characters of Huronian. These same great types are also recog- 
nized in the Andes, from Peru to Patagonia. 

In Guiana, in like manner, there is found a series of gTanitoid and 
gneissoid rocks, compared by Jannetaz to the older gneisses of Brazil. 
To these succeed a great series described as felstones and quartzifer- 
ous porphyries, which are probably the same with the petrosilexes of 
southern Brazil. Accompanying these in Guiana is a series of horn- 
blendic and schistose rocks having the characters of the Huronian, suc- 
ceeded by a newer series, described as resting in different places upon 



GEOLOGY. 331 

the preceding groups, and consisting largely of gneisses with hornblendic 
and micaceous schists, the latter often abounding in garnet and stau- 
rolite, and including great veins of endogenous granite, the whole re- 
sembling the upper gneisses of Brazil, which appear to belong to the 
Montalban series. 

It would thus seem that the great series of crystalline rocks marked 
by distinct miueralogical characters, which were first defined and named 
in eastern Xorth America, are repeated with the same stratigraphical 
relations in the British Isles, in central Europe, in Asia, and in South 
America. 

THE TACONIC EOCKS. 

Under the name of the Taconic system, as is generally known, have 
been described the quartzites and sandstones, with granular limestones 
and intercalated crystalline schists and argillites, found in eastern North 
America, which were by Eaton, and subsequently by E. Emmons, as- 
signed to a horizon between the older crystalline series and the lower 
Paleozoic strata, a portion of which, under the name of Upper Taconic, 
was at first included in the Taconic system. The Lower or true Taconic 
(Taconian), first recognized in the Taconic range of western New Eng- 
land, includes the Primal and Auroral of Kogers in eastern Pennsylva- 
nia, and the Itacolumite series of Lieber in the Carolinas. 

The granular limestones or marbles of the'Taconian have been by dif- 
ferent geologists referred to various horizons more recent than that 
assigned to them by Emmons. They have been regarded as infra-Tren 
ton (Calciferous, Chazy,or Quebec group), Trenton, and (Upper) Silurian 
or Devonian. Each of these views has been sustained by specious argu- 
ments from stratigraphy, and by others based on organic remains found 
in rocks supposed to belong to the limestones in question, and found within 
the limits of the Taconic belt. That fossils characteristic of each of these 
horizons occur in such associations is certain, but whether the great mass 
of the limestones belongs to any one of these three, or, as supposed by 
others, to a still older Taconic horizon, is a question which many geolo- 
gists, unacquainted with the whole of the facts in the case, regard as 
unsettled. Hunt has maintained the view of Eaton and of E. Emmons, 
that these rocks belong to a series older than the Potsdam sandstone of 
New York, and has endeavored to show that they are represented in 
their geognostical and lithological relations by the Hastings series of 
the geological survey of Canada, which, a little to the north of Lake 
Ontario, rests upon the Huroniau, and is overlaid uncouformably by the 
Trenton limestone. 

Crosby has pointed out that the resemblances already traced between 
the geognosy of eastern North and South America are further shown in 
the development of a great series of rocks resembling the Taconian, 
alike in Brazil, Guiana, and the island of Trinidad. In Brazil these 
have been described as a newer series, resting, according to Derby, un- 



332 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

conformably upon the older crystalline rocks, and consisting in great part 
of quaji^zites, often granular and sometimes flexible, constituting the 
80-called itacolumite, with unctuous talcoid schists, containing hydrous 
micas, chloritic and argillite beds, specular schistose iron-ore (itabirite), 
and great masses of crystalline limestone. The analogies between this 
Brazilian series and tho Taconian or Itacolumite series, as studied by Lie- 
ber in South Carolina, were long siuce pointed out by him, and the close 
resemblance between a collection of these rocks from the province of 
Minas-Geraes, in Brazil, where they are largely developed, and the Ta- 
conian in Pennsylvania, was later insisted upon by Hunt. The ancient 
series in Brazil has aflbrded no organic remains, but being unconform- 
ably overlaid by older Paleozoic rocks is conjectured by Derby to be 
altered Cambrian. 

This Itacolumite series is the source of the diamonds of Brazil, as 
shown by Gorceix and by Derby. While these gems are also met with in 
secondary and derived rocks, they are found in the district of Diaman- 
tina, in certain unctuous banded clays which are seen to be derived by 
subaerial decay from schistose beds belonging to the Itacolumite series, 
which here has a considerable dip to the eastward. These clays are of 
various colors (red, white, or black), from disseminated iron-oxide. 
Associated with the diamonds in the clays are tourmalines, rutile, ana- 
tase, martite, and oligist, most of which minerals have been found in 
quartz veins, with pyrites and gold, traversing the Itacolnmite series. 
Similar clays, derived from the decay of the accompanying schists, are 
found with the Taconic quartzites and limestones throughout the Apal- 
lachian valley. It is in these that chiefly occur the deposits of limon- 
ite derived by epi genesis both from siderite and from pyrite, which are 
so extensively mined from Vermont to Alabama. 

A similar Itacolumite series is seen in Guiana, and has been compared 
by Jannetaz with that of Brazil. Eocks apparently the same occur 
in the island of Trinidad, where they were many years since studied 
by Wall and Sawkins, who described them as the Caribbean group. 
Since this they have been examined by Guppy, and more recently by 
Crosby. This series, which is, according to him, not less than 10,000 
feet thick, consists of quartzites, with argillitesand hydrous mica schists, 
with a great body of crystalline limestone or marble, sometimes mica- 
ceous, succeeded by argillites, hydrous mica schists, and sandstones, the 
whole, according to Crosby, strongly resembling the Taconian as seen 
in Massachusetts. Overlying unconformably this ancient series, which 
appears to be unfossiliferous, is a dark-colored, compact, fossiliferous 
limestone, with interbedded shales, in which, among many obscure forms, 
Guppy recognized Murchisonia Anna and M. linearis^ both found in the 
Calciferous sand-rock in Canada. 

Analogies both stratigraphical and lithological serve to connect the 
Caribbean group of Trindad with the Taconian and Itacolumite group 
of North and South America, and to assign to all these a positicn below 



GEOLOGY. 333 

the Cambrian. Inasmuch as the rocks of this infra-Cambrian series in 
Ontario contain the remains of Eozoon^ the Taconian may be desig- 
nated as Eozoic. The great unfossiliferous Sinisian series of China, and 
the Vindhyan series of peninsular India, may i^erhaps be found to belong 
to the Taconic horizon, in which connection the association of diamonds 
with the latter rocks in India, and with the itacolumite in the southern 
United States is not without significance. 

PALEOZOIC ROCKS. 

The nomenclature of the Lower Paleozoic rocks, from the base of the 
Catobrian to the top of the Silurian, has long been a matter of discus- 
sion. The Cambrian, as originally defined by Sedgwick, extending 
above the Bala group in W ales, included the Llandovery ; from which 
to the summit of the Ludlow, was the Silurian of Sedgwick (Upper Silu- 
rian of Murchison), corresponding to the third fauna of Barrande, and 
including in North America the rocks from the base of the Oneida to the 
summit of the Lower Helderberg. The Upper Cambrian of Sedgwick, 
embracing the Arenig, Llandeilo, and Caradoc divisions (the Bala group), 
which hold the second fauna of Barrande, was from the first claimed by 
Murchison as a lower member of the Silurian system. Subsequently the 
Middle Cambrian, including a large part of the first fauua of Barrande, 
was also claimed under the name of Primordial Silurian, Murchison wish- 
ing to reserve the name of Cambrian for the lowest division only of the 
original Cambrian system (the Bangor group of Sedgwick), which other 
geologists have since attempted to annex to the Silurian ; thus obliterating 
the Cambrian from geological nomenclature. While this extreme view 
has had its advocates, others would maintain entire the Cambrian as 
originally defined by Sedgwick, and others still have proposed to limit 
the name of Cambrian to the lower and middle divisions, and to give to 
the upper division, originally claimed by Murchison as Lower Silurian, 
the name of Siluro-Cambrian or of Cambro-Silurian. Lapworth has 
adopted a new solution of the difficulty by giving to the Upper Cam- 
brian of Sedgwick (Lower Silurian of Murchison) the name of Ordovi- 
cian (sometimes contracted by him to Ordovian), from the Ordovices, 
a British tribe who, at the time of the Eoman conquet, held Korth 
Wales as the Silures did South Wales. The upper limit of the Ordovi- 
cian or second fauna is, according to Hicks, the bottom of the Lower 
Llandovery, and its base the summit of the Lower Tremadoc, the so- 
called Upper Tremadoc or Arenig being included in the Ordovician.* 

In North America the Oneida forms the base of the Silurian, and the 
Ordovician will embrace the Loraine, Utica, and Trenton (including the 
Birdseye and Black Eiver) divisions of the New York series. The suc- 
ceeding Chazy, sometimes absent, perhaps belongs rather to the Ordo- 
vician than the Cambrian, which latter, as thus limited, will embrace the 

* Geol. Magazine, n, vi, 1. 



334 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Menevian, Potsdam, and Calciferous, including also the Quebec group 
(Upper Taconic of Emmons). 

The base of the Ordovician, as thus defined, is marked by a great 
stratigraphical break, attendant on continental movements, in eastern 
North America. As a result of these conditions, this series, so largely- 
developed in the valley of the Saint Lawrence and the great lakes, rests, 
as is well known, in many places directly upon the Eozoic crystalline 
rocks of tlie Laurentides and the Adirondacks, To the south and east- 
moreover, the effects are seen in the diminished thickness, in changes in 
lithological characters, and even in the absence of portions of the series. 
Examples of these changed conditions are the absence of the Chazy. in 
localities where the Trenton rests on the Eozoic, as well as in others, 
where it rests on theCalciferous; and, moreover, in the thinning out of 
the Trenton itself, and its disappearance, or its replacement by argil- 
laceous beds resembling those of the Utica or of the underlying Que- 
bec group, as noted by Whitfield and others in the vicinity of Albany. 
Similar strata of Ordovician age, as long since pointed out, are found 
in eastern Canada, apparently dipping beneath the older Cambrian 
(Quebec group), in which they were by Logan included. Eecently 
Selwyn has found in this region portions of these newer fossiliferous 
strata lying to the east of a belt of crystalline Huronian rocks, and rest- 
ing directly upon the latter. Such outliers of Ordovician strata, with 
fossils of Trenton or Utica age, have now been found in several places 
among the crystalline schists of the Green JVIountain belt in the prov- 
ince of Quebec, in connection with lines of fault and downthrow, which 
have protected these newer strata from erosion. Eecently, also, Dodge 
has found graptolitic slates, referred to this horizon, in Penobscot 
County, Maine. 

These, and other similar facts show the former extension, under more 
or less modified conditions, of Ordovician rocks over the Cambrian, and 
still older series to the south and east of the Saint Lawrence, Champlain, 
and Hudson valleys. The great belt of uncrystalline sedimentary rocks 
stretching throughout these regions along the western base of the crys- 
talline range was by Mather, and later by Logan, described as the Hud- 
son Eiver group, and sujiposed to belong to a horizon above the Trenton 
limestone; while by Emmons, who subsequently assigned it to a posi- 
tion below this limestone, it was called Upper Taconic, and afterwards 
•was by Logan, who adopted the view of Emmons, named the Quebec 
group. Eesearches in Canada and in Vermont have long since shown 
that in this greatly disturbed and involved belt are included fossiliferous 
strata, holding all three of the great lower Paleozoic faunas, Cambrian, 
Ordovician, and Silurian. 

The rocks of the so-called Hudson Eiver group, near Poughkeepsie, 
N. Y., have recently been made the subject of studies by Dale, Whit- 
field, Dana, and Dwight, with the result of discovering there fossilif- 
erous beds referred to the various horizons of the Loraine, Trenton, 



GEOLOGY. 335 

Chazy, and Calciferous, tbe beds of the latter yielding an abundant and 
remarkable fauna. The strata are here affected by several folds, some 
of them involving even the newest strata, and generally have a steep 
easterly dip. Recent observations by Dwight show a direct superpo- 
sition of Trenton upon the Calciferous, probably unconformably, as is 
seen elsewhere in the valley, where the Trenton lies upon the slates of 
the so-called Quebec group. The greater portion of this latter doubtless 
belongs to a series which includes the typical Calciferous as a stage, but 
the stratigraphical relations of the latter, as seen near Poughkeepsie, to 
the Cambrian slates remain to be determined. 

Marr has lately studied the lower Paleozoic rocks of Bohemia, where he 
found the stages B and C of Barrande to rest unconformably upon stage 
A, the latter being composed of crystalline rocks, which Marr compares 
with the Pebidian of Wales (Huronian) ; B he considers to represent 
the Harlech beds, at the base of the Welsh Cambrian, while C and D 
are equivalent to the Lingula flags and the Tremadoc, followed, how- 
ever, by representatives of the Arenig and Bala. These divisions thus 
include representatives of the first and second faunas of Barrande, 
while the succeeding stages B and F contain his third fauna. It is 
in D that are found, according to Barrande, what he described as 
" colonies " of the third fauna, which he supposed had existed there con- 
temporaneously with the second fauna. Marr, however, after detailed 
stratigraphical studies, considers these apparent associations to be due 
entirely to physical disturbances, or, in other words, that they are to be 
explained by faults and folds by which the younger have been involved 
in the older strata. 

Marr has also discussed the question of nomenclature and classification 
of the lower Paleozoic rocks, in opposition to the views of Barrande, and 
in supi3ort of the use of the term Cambrian in its original and historic 
sense. The difficulties in the way of arriving at a general application of 
the term Cambrian to the upper division of Sedgwick's system, which 
Murchison, by a mistake in stratigraphy, included in his Silurian, are, 
however, so great that its general adoption seems impossible, and it is 
to meet this state of things that the distinctive term Ordovician or 
Crdovian has been proposed for this division of the lower Paleozoic 
rocks. 

Lai) worth, in the Geological Magazine for June and July, 1S81, has 
made a detailed comparison between the lower Paleozoic rocks of Great 
Britain and Scandinavia, and Schmidt has done the same for the Baltic 
provinces of Eussia. 

CLASSIFICATION OF EOZOIO AND PALEOZOIC KOCKS. 

For the better understanding of the nomenclature of the great sub- 
divisions of the Eozoic and lower Paleozoic rocks referred to in the 
preceding pages, a brief summary is subjoined, numbered in ascend- 
ing order. 



336 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

A. — EOZOIC OR ARCH^AN. 

1. Laurentian. (Logan and Hunt, 1854.) — Lower Laurentian of Logan. 
This, as originally defined by tlie geological survey of Canada, included 
a lower division of granitoid gneiss, apparently without limestones 
^Ottawa gneiss of Hunt), and an upper division (Grenville series of 
Logan) consisting of gneisses with bands of granular limestone, 
quartzite, and iron-ores, a probable unconformity existing between the 
two. The lower of these may probably correspond to the Lewisian and 
the upper to the Dimetian of Great Britain, and it may be found de- 
sirable to adopt the name of Lewisian for the Ottawa gneiss, and to 
restrict the name of Laurentian to the Grenville series. Both of these 
are probably included in the older gneiss of the Alps. 

2. Norian. (Hunt, 1871.) — Upper Laurentian or Labradorian of Lo- 
gan. The hypersthenite rocks of Macullocli and Emmons, a series 
in which granitoid and gneissoid rocks, essentially composed of anor- 
thic feldspars, predominate, with, however, intercalated gneisses, quartz- 
ites, and limestones resembling those of the Laurentian. 

3. Arvonian. (Hicks, 1878.) — The hdlleflinta or petrosilex group of 
Sweden and Wales, consisting essentially of granular or cryptocrystal- 
line quartzo-feldspathic rocks, often jasper-like, but becoming gneissoid 
or porphyritic, interstratified with more or less of argillaceous, chloritic 
and hornblendic rocks like those of the succeeding Huronian series, in 
the base of which it was at first included in Korth America, but from 
which it seems generally separated both in North America and in Wales 
by a stratigraphical break. 

4. Huronian. (Hunt, 1855.) — The Pebidian of Hicks, and the lower 
part of the pietre verdi or greenstone group of Italy. 

5. Montalban. (Hunt, 1871.) — The younger gneisses, leptinites, horn- 
blendic and micaceous schists of North America and central Europe ; 
the Upper Pebidian or Grampian of Hicks ; included by Gastaldi in the 
pietre verdi zone of northern Italy. 

6. Taconian. (Hunt, 1878.) — Primitive quartz-rock, lime-rock, and 
largillite of Eaton; Lower Taconic of Emmons. Primal, Auroral, and 
Matinal of Eogers, in eastern Pennsylvania; Itacolumite group of 
Lieber. 

[In 1870, the name of Terranvan was proposed by Hunt to include 
the groups above numbered 5 and 6; but was abandoned by him in 
1871, when the name of Montalban was suggested for 5.] 

7. Keweenian. — The name of Keweenaw group, 1873, and Keweenian, 
187(3, was employed by Hunt to distinguish the so-called Upper Cop- 
per-bearing rocks of Lake Superior, which have been shown to be 
younger than the Huronian and Montalban, and older than the Cam- 
brian (Potsdam). Though they occuj)}' a horizon not far from the Ta- 
4}onian they difl'er widely from it in character, and constitute a distinct 
series whose chronological relations to the latter cannot yet be deter- 
imined. 



GEOLOGY. 337 

B. — PALEOZOIC. 

8. Cambrian. — Lower and Middle Cambrian of Sedgwick j Cambrian 
and Primordial Silurian of Murchison, containing the first fauna of 
Barraude. Embraces in North America the Menevian or Acadian, the 
Potsdam and Calciferous divisions of the Nevv' York sj^stem, and the 
Upper Taconic of Emmons or Quebec group of Logan. 

9. Ordovician or Ordovian. (Lapworth, 1879.) — Upi)er Cambrian of 
Sedgwick; Lower Silurian of Murchison; Cambro- Silurian and Siluro- 
Cambrian of others, containing the second fauna of Barrande. Em- 
braces in Korth America the Chazy, Trenton, Utica, and Loraine divi- 
sions of the New York system. 

10. Silurian. (Sedgwick) — Upper Silurian of Murchison, containing 
the third fauna of Barrande. Includes in North America the Oneida, 
Clinton, Niagara, and Lower Helderberg, of the New York system, with 
the intercalated Onondaga or Saliferous group. 

11. Devonian, or Erian of Dawson ; the Erie division of the New York 
system. 

12. Carboniferous. 

PALEOZOIC KOCKS OF COLORADO. 

S. F. Emmons has given in the report of the United States geological 
survey for 1881, an account of the geology of the Leadville district in 
Colorado, where the Paleozoic rocks are associated with numerous erupt- 
ive masses and contain large deposits of argentiferous lead-ores, which 
have given to the region its economic importance. To the west of the 
Front or Colorado Eange rises, with a gentle slope to the east, the Mus- 
quito or Park Range, attaining 11,000 feet, and sinking abruptly on 
the west to the Arkansas Valley. This, which is sixty miles long and 
fifteen miles wide, is limited to the west by the broad and lofty Sa- 
watch Eange. Within the valley, on the western flank of the Musquito 
Eange, is situated Leadville, 10,150 feet above the sea. We here find 
reposing on the Eozoic rocks of the range a series of Paleozoic strata 
consisting in ascending order (1) of 200 feet of strata, chiefly quartzites, 
described as Cambrian ; (2) 200 feet of white dolomitic Silurian lime- 
stone, to which succeed (3) about 4,000 feet of Carboniferous strata, 
having at their base 200 feet of blue limestone, and at the summit from 
1,000 to 1,500 feet, the Weber grits and shales intervening. The Kanab 
section on the Colorado exhibits a similar thickness, a remarkable con- 
trast with the Wahsatch in Utah, where King found a series of 30,000 
feet of Paleozoic strata, including at the base 12,000 feet of sandstones 
and shales, regarded as Cambrian, but without observed fossils save in a 
few feet at the top, which carry a Potsdam fauna. The Mesozoic of the 
Leadville region, which probably attained 1,000 feet, has been removed, 
but the Paleozoic strata include eruptive rocks, mostly of the Mesozoic 
period. These, which are described as quartziferous porphyries, some- 
times granite-like, and diorites, are found in the Paleozoic series as inter- 
H. Mis. 26 22 



338 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

posed sheets, wliicli were spread out between deep-lying sedimentary 
strata before tbe folding and faulting of the latter. A layer of white 
quartziferous i)orphyry overlies the blue limestone in the lower part of 
the Carboniferous, and varies from 1,000 to 100 feet in thickness, or thins 
out altogether. Other sheets of eruptive rock are found in the quartz- 
ite below and at various other horizons, in parts of the region as high 
as the Jurassic. The ores of the district, principally argentiferous 
galena, and the products of its alteration, are found chiefly in the blue 
limestone beneath the great porphyry sheet, but also in the white dol- 
omite below, and even in the quartzite. They occur, as is usually the 
case in deposits of this nature, in irregular cavities in the limestone. Em- 
mons is disposed to believe the source of the metals to be in the erui)tive 
rocks, from which they have been dissolved by infiltrating waters and 
deposited among the sedimentary rocks. But it is to be remembered 
that we find similar ore-deposits in limestones where eruptive rocks are 
absent, as in parts of Nevada, for example, and in the Mississippi Val- 
ley. The deposition of the ores at Leadville is, however, shown to have 
been posterior to the intrusion of the igneous rocks and anterior to the 
faulting of the strata. 

GRAND CANON OF THE COLORADO. 

Dutton, in his studies of the Grand Canon district, just published by 
the United States Geological Survey, has given important details with 
regard to its geological history, which throw light on the differences ob- 
served in the thickness of the Paleozoic rocks in different jiarts of the 
great western region. He shows that while Cambrian, Siluriau, and 
Devonian beds are frequently met with, the great Carboniferous series, 
for the most part, rests directly in this region on the Eozoic. Where 
the older Paleozoic strata underlie the Carboniferous, they are uncon- 
formable and have been subject to erosion. This is the case in Nevada, 
Utah, and in central and western Arizona. Beginning at the base of 
the Carboniferous, there is throughout this region apparently a contin- 
uous and conformable series of sediments to the top of the Cretaceous. 
The Grand Caiion of the Colorado, some 5,000 or 6,000 feet in depth, is 
excavated from 4,000 to 4,500 feet in the Carboniferous, the remainder 
being in Eozoic and in some parts in lower Paleozoic strata. The 
Carboniferous here has at its base about 1,800 feet of limestone, followed 
by shales and sandstone, and terminated by about 700 feet of limestone. 
Above this come Permian, Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous rocks, suc- 
ceeded by the Eocene, which forms the High Plateau region of southern 
Utah, the interval from the top of the Eocene to the Carboniferous be- 
ing there from 4,000 to 5,000 feet. Eastward, towards the Uinta Mount- 
ains, the Eocene itself, however, attains a greater thickness, making 
there the whole volume of deposits above the Carboniferous not less 
than 10,000 feet. Dutton concludes that while the lower limestones of 
the Carboniferous were formed in somewhat deej) water, the whole 



GEOLOGY. ■ 339 

of the succeeding" deposits were laid down in shallow seas near tide- 
level, thus indicating a gradual subsidence from Carboniferous time, 
going on ^jan passu with sedimentation. The Cretaceous sea, which 
marked the close of this order of things, appears to have extended from 
the Gulf of Mexico to the Pacific, with the exception of narrow land- 
areas. At the close of the period, great movements took place in this 
area, followed by erosion, which allowed Eocene fresh- water beds to be 
deposited in some places over Jurassic strata to the thickness in parts, 
as we have seen, of 5,000 feet. It is difficult to separate the succeeding 
Miocene from the later Eocene, and we have here no evidence of Plio- 
cene deposits. These were times of gradual emergence. At the close 
of the Miocene was an uplift of 2,000 or 3,000 feet, and at the close of 
the Pliocene a still greater one of 3,000 or 4,000 feet. In these later 
Tertiary times came the great nortli and south faults of the Plateau 
region, already described by Powell, producing displacements of many 
thousand feet, and bringing in one case the Eocene against the Carbon- 
iferous. 

The great and widely- spread volcanic activities of the region began in 
Miocene and continued until recent times. The first erosion of the Grand 
CaQon took place at the close of the Cretaceous, or a little later. The 
process went on rapidly through the subsequent times of elevation, but 
has now reached g, period of comparative quiescence. The glacial age, 
succeeding the Pliocene, was, according to Dutton, here marked by 
pluvial rather than glacial action. 

J. J. Stevenson, in a report on the geological survey under Captain 
Wheeler, has given details of the geology of parts of southern Colorado 
and New Mexico, along a continuation of the Sangre de Cristo Eange, of 
which he notices the Eozoic rocks, before designated by Hunt as in 
part, at least, Laurentian. Upon these, to the eastward, rest Carbonif- 
erous strata, while farther east Cretaceous strata repose either directly 
upon the latter or upon the Eozoic, together with some beds which may 
be Jura-Trias, and elsewhere Tertiary rocks. Stevenson discusses at 
some length the relations of the Laramie group, and gives new reasons 
for believing it to be true Upper Cretaceous. 

TRIAS OF EASTERN NORTH AMERICA. 

W. M. Davis has studied the Trias of the Atlantic border, with its 
included trappean (diabasic) rocks, as seen in the Connecticut Valley 
and in New Jersey. These igneous rocks, according to him, occur in 
three different relations to the associated sandstone : (1) as dikes cut- 
ting the strata, (2) as intruded sheets, often of great extent and thick- 
ness, lying in nearly all cases conformably between the layers of sedi- 
mentary rock ; (3) as overflowed sheets, equal in extent and thickness 
to the last, but poured out at the surface during the formation of the 
sandstones. Examples of the dikes are seen near New Haven, Conn., 
from 100 to 200 feet thick, with a transverse columnar structure. These 



340 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

mark probably the channels through which the material of the great 
sheets was brought up. They have produced a very limited alteration 
proportionate to their breadth, of the adjacent strata. The beds of 
trap of the second class have altered the sedimentary strata both above 
and below them, and are not accompanied by amygdaloids. To this 
class belong, according to Davis, the Palisades of the Hudson and the 
range from West Eock northward near 'Sew Haven. To this may be 
added a great dike at Lambertville, on the Delaware, above which 
tourmaline, epidote, and specular iron have been developed in the 
sandstone. The existence in the regions in question of trappean 
masses of the third class, or overflows, has not been generally 
recognized, although maintained by Edward Hitchcock for the Con- 
necticut Valley, and also by Dawson for the Trias of l!^ova Scotia. 
These subaerial or subaqueous beds are generally very amygdaloidal in 
their upper portions, and sometimes at their base. The underlying sed- 
imentary rock is but slightly affected, and the overlying bed not at all. 
Tufaceous layers sometimes accompany these overflows, and fragments of 
trap are occasionally found in the overlying sediments. These, as Daw- 
son has shown, are frequent in Nova Scotia. Examples of these over- 
flows are seen in Mounts Tom and Holyoke, in the Connecticut Valley, 
and in their continuation in the Hanging Hills of Meriden; also, as 
lately shown by Professor Emerson, in the Deerfield mass. Davis next 
proceeds to consider the question of the general monoclinal arrange- 
ment of the strata in the two Triassic areas in question, the dip in the 
Connecticut Valley being to the eastward at angles generally from 10° 
to 20°, and more, and in New Jersey and Pennsylvania to the westward, 
with a similar inclination. H. D. Eogers supposed an original obliquity 
of deposition; Kerr, a broad anticlinal fold in originally horizontal 
strata, the belts of eastward and westward dipping beds representing 
respectively the eastern and western portions of such anticlinals, from 
which the remainder had been removed by erosion; while E. Hitchcock 
and Le Conte imagined a simple monoclinal tilting. This would involve 
an enormous thickness of strata, amounting, as Persifor Frazer has 
shown, to over 50,000 feet for one measured section in Pennsylvania, a 
conclusion for many reasons inadmissible. In the view of Davis, lateral 
compression of the horizontally deposited beds produced a series of 
folds with peculiar distortion, having the form of long, " shallow oval 
dishes or boats, of gentle curvature, canted over a little, and faulted 
on the side of the general monoclinal dip." A careful study of the over- 
flows has enabled him to establish well-marked horizons, and thus sat- 
isfactory evidence is obtained that the strata have been both folded and 
faulted. In this way is explained the general crescent-like forms of the 
trappean beds, which everywhere present their convex sides to the up- 
ward slope; that is to say, westward in the Connecticut VaUey and 
eastward in New Jersey. The great intruded sheets of trap which occur 



GEOLOGY. 341 

only near the base of the sandstone series are compared with the west- 
ern laccolites. 

It is satisfactory to find that the monoclinal structure of these Meso- 
zoic areas is due to an arrangement not unlike that which is to be met 
with in the Paleozoic and still older rocks along the western border of 
the Atlantic belt from Quebec to Alabama, where, as the result of faults 
with uplifts on the eastward side, the newer rocks not only seem to 
pass beneath the older, but in many cases are actually overlaid by them. 
J. J. Stevenson has lately re-examined and carefully mapped the suc- 
cessive parallel faults in southwest Virginia, by which the basal beds 
of the Paleozoic are repeatedly brought up against the coal measures. 

SEKPENTINE EOCKS. 

Serpentine was, by the older geologists, tegarded as intrusive, and 
by many supposed to be derived from various eruptive rocks by a proc- 
ess of metasomatosis, while others have supposed it to be formed, as 
is doubtless often the case, by epigenesis from olivine rock, which was 
iilso regarded as eruptive. The late studies by Brogger and others of 
the olivine rocks of Norway have shown these to be clearly of aqueous 
■origin, and contemporaneous with the inclosing strata, thus supporting 
the views of those who have always held to the aqueous origin of the 
great rock-masses of serpentine. 

The serpentines of Anglesea, of Cornwall and of parts of Scotland are, 
according to Bonney, to be regarded as intruded among the accompany- 
ing crystalline schists, while Hicks and others regard these same ser- 
pentines in Anglesea and in Scotland as contemporaneous stratified de- 
posits in Huronian (Pebidian) rocks. The indigenous character of the 
serpentines and gabbros from the granulite rocks of Saxony is, accord- 
ing to Credner, not doubtful. These latter, as already noticed, are 
probably to be referred to the Montalban or younger gneiss series, in 
which, as Hunt has shown, are included also the bedded serpentines 
and olivine rocks found in the Blue Eidge in North Carolina. 

The question of the eruptive or the indigenous character of the simi- 
lar serpentine rocks (often containing olivine) found in the upper gneisses 
of the St. Gothard has been discussed at length by Stapft, who has had 
a favorable opportuity of studying them in directing the construction 
of the railway-tunnel just opened through that mountain. He main- 
tains, with regard to the origin of serpentines, the view first put forth 
by Hunt, that the material of these serpentine rocks was originally de- 
posited from water, as hydrous magnesian silicates, in conformably inter- 
posed beds among the inclosing sediments. 

In the subsequent crystallization of the sediments he supposes the 
magnesian silicate to have become an anhydrous olivine or enstatite- 
rock, from which by epigenesis at a later j)eriod serpentine has been 
formed, a process not yet complete, as shown by the presence of included 
grains of olivine. Movements of the earth's crust by folding and fault- 



342 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

ing have distorted and broken up the magnesian strata, and have 
forced the tough and hard rock through or along fissures in the surround- 
ing and more yielding strata, thus giving rise to the deceptive appear- 
ance of intrusion. Stapft adduces evidence to show that these displace- 
ments took lilace while these rocks were in the solid state, and cites the 
existence of polished and striated surfaces, and of fissures filled with a 
friction -breccia as evidence of this. In parts of the section at the St. 
Gothard, the conformable interstratification of the serpentine with other 
rocks is aijparent. 

In some parts of Italy, notably in Tuscany and Liguria, are areas oj 
serpentine which, appearing in regions among Tertiary strata, have 
been by most geologists regarded as eruptive and posterior to these. 
These serpentines are, however, accompanied by euphotides and schist- 
ose rocks, and are admitted to resemble very closely the serpentines 
which, with similar associations, are found in the pietre vercU or Hu- 
ronian series of northern Italy. Gastaldi, as is well known, asserted 
that these so-called newer and eruptive serpentines were but portions of 
this underlying ancient series, which, as the result of uplifts, faults, and 
erosions, are exposed in the midstof more recent deposits. This opinion, 
although much controverted, is shared by Jervis and by Hunt. The 
latter, from his examinations of these rocks, in parts of Liguria and of 
Tuscany, maintains that this view is the only one in accordance with 
the facts. 

ANTHRACITE COAL. 

The generally received opinion that anthracite has been formed by a 
subsequent alteration of bituminous coal, and is in some way connected 
with disturbance of the inclosing strata, has been contested. The present 
writer has long maintained that differences connected with the original 
conditions of formation have given rise to the anthracite, bituminous, and 
semi-bituminous coals of Pennsylvania, which " have been the result of 
decomj)ositions going on at ordinary temperatures." Later studies by 
Franklin Piatt, of the geological survey of that State (Eeport G (r.), 
are in point. In Sullivan County, to the northwest of the great anthra- 
cite region, where the strata are affected only by broad, gentle undula- 
tions, is a small outlying coal-area known as the Bernice or Loyalsock 
basin. Here are exposed two coal-seams near the base of the measures. 
The upper one, eleven feet thick, lying beneath eighty feet or more of ■ 
thin-bedded sandstones, is an anthracite, while sixty-five feet below is a 
seam of two feet, beneath five feet of shale, which has the composition of a 
semi-bituminous coal. The ratio of volatile matters to the fixed carbon, 
deducting ash, water, and sulphur, is, according to Mr. Creath, for the 
first, 1 : 10.289 5 and for the second, 1 : 4.132. Another seam in this 
basin not certainly identified with either of the above consists of two 
benches separated by six feet of shale, the upper bench being semi- 
bituminous and the lower an anthracite, with ratios, respectively, 1:2.527 



GEOLOGY. 34(J 

and 1 : G.932. The upper coal of the Bernice basin is largely mined and 
sold as anthracite, but is softer, and lacks the usual conchoidal fracture, 
resembling rather that of the Lykens Valley than the more eastern 
anthracites. 

CHEMICAL GEOLOGY. 

That watery solutions have been the efficient agents in the formation 
of metalliferous depo.sits is now generally admitted, alike for those con- 
temporaneous with the stratification, and for posterior accumulations, 
whether in cavities produced by erosion, as in limestone rocks, or in 
fissures resulting from movements in the earth's crust. That the proc- 
ess of the transport and deposition of metals by solutions has been 
going on from very early geological periods to the present has also been 
recognized. The comparative recency of deposits like the great gold 
and silver bearing Comstock lode, for example, is well known, and Phil- 
lips and Holland have shown that thermal waters are even now giving 
rise to deposits of sulphureted ores, which lead to the conclusion that 
the great lode in question has been formed by mineral solutions, of which 
the hot springs of the vicinity are the actual representatives. 

In the Coast Kange of California the Cretaceous and Tertiary strata 
were greatly disturbed at the close of the Miocene, following which, as 
is well known, was a period of volcanic activity prevailing through Plio- 
cene time and perhaps later. The springs of heated waters charged 
with soluble and gaseous sulphids (solfataras), still abundant in the re- 
gion, are probably connected with this former vulcanism. Of this solfa- 
taric action the Sulphur Bank, as it is called, on Clear Lake, ninety 
miles north of San Francisco, furnishes a remarkable example. Here a 
layer of volcanic rock, described as augite-andesite, which overlies the 
highly inclined sedimentary strata, is found decayed at the surface to a 
white granular earth, while lower down in the mass are " bowlders of 
decomposition," consisting of nuclei of the same rock, still uudecomposed. 
The interstices of the mass are filled with crystalline sulphur, which in 
descending is replaced by cinnabar. An open cutting to a depth of about 
forty feet in the nearly vertical sedimentary strata, not far from the edge 
of the volcanic cap, discloses between harder layers a stratum consist- 
ing of a soft breccia of fragments of sandstone and shale, with interposed 
bluish clay or mud, impregnated with cinnabar and pyrites, through 
which rise hot alkaline waters, carrying sulphydric, carbonic, and boric 
acids. The outcrop of this bed of rubble or breccia has been traced, and 
elsewhere mined for cinnabar. 

Messrs. Joseph Le Conte and W. B. Eising have described further 
observations made in levels driven from a shaft sunk with the object of 
exploring the strata beneath the lava-cap. One level, at a depth of 150 
feet, after traversing seventy feet or more of barren sandstone and shale, 
comparatively dry and cool, reached a belt of brecciated rock made up 
of fragments of sandstone and shale resembling that alreadv described, 



344 SCIENTIFIC RECORD lOR 1882. 

and like it serving as a channel through which rise waters having a tem- 
perature of 160° r., holding carbonates and sulphids of sodium and 
ammonium with borates and sulphureted hydrogen ; free carbonic 
acid bubbling up abundantly. The interstices of this breccia are lined 
with cinnabar, "pyrites, and silica, the first predominating, and some- 
times alternating with the silica, which is gelatinous, caseous, and occa- 
sionally chalcedonic in character. This irregular metalliferous deposit, 
now in i^rocess of formation, is in large part in the brecciated stratum, 
but is not confined thereto, sometimes disappearing, to reappear in 
another stratum, with barren rock between, and at other times diffused 
through the shattered sandstone on one side or the other of the brec- 
cia. The authors conceive this to have been originally a stratum of 
breccia, which, beiug less coherent than the adjacent beds, presented a 
l^lane of weakness, and was more shattered by the movements of the 
strata than they. Where the inclination was less steep, however, the 
disruption, and consequently the ore-bearing fissures, extended to the 
adjacent beds. These deposits, which are wrought for cinnabar, con- 
tain no sulphur, except near the surface, where its separation is due to 
the action of atmospheric oxygen. The agency of the alkaline sulphids 
in transporting and depositing the cinnabar seems clear. Details of 
the condition of the sulphids and the silica are wanting, but this locality 
yields beautifully crystallized cinnabar enclosed in opaline silica. J. A. 
Phillips moreover has shown that the silica deposited from certain 
thermal waters in California, and from the Steamboat Springs in Washoe 
County, Nevada, is of the nature of crystalline quartz. 

The authors insist upon the twofold character of the action going on 
in connection with these solfataras. The oxidation of sulphureted 
hydrogen under certain conditions gives rise, as is well known, to sul- 
phuric acid, which, carried downward by atmospheric waters, exerts a 
solvent action on the decaying rocks and by neutralizing the ascending 
alkaline waters, helps to diminish their solvent power, to which result, 
however, diminished temperature and pressure contribute. These 
studies are important as throwing light on the formation of veins and 
other posterior deposits of minerals in rock-masses. When we recall, 
in this connection, the effects of thermal waters, as seen in the masonry 
of ancient Roman baths, where various crystalline silicates and other 
mineral species have been developed in historic times, we are able to 
understand many cases of so-called local metamorphism, not only in 
visible proximity to igneous masses, but elsewhere in sediments far 
removed from such, where faults or i)ermeable strata have served as 
channels to heated waters from below. Matters dissolved in these 
waters, and others present in the sediments, contribute alike under 
these conditions to the genesis of crystalline minerals. 

Hunt has described the reactions going on independent of solfataric 
or thermal waters in the auriferous gravel of California. This consists 
in large part of the ruins of feldspathic and hornblendic rocks, holding 



GEOLOGY. 345 

pyrites and lignite in the form of scattered trunks of trees. Where it is, 
from drainage, subjected to subaerial decay, tlie pyrites is oxidized, 
and the silicates are decomposed with liberation of bases and much 
silica, which is deposited in a crystalline form in the fissures and cavi- 
ties of the gravel, and also produces a veritable petrifaction of the lig- 
nite, by a process which is marked by three stages. The first of these 
is the filling up of the pores in the wood, the organic tissues remain- 
ing ; the second, the slow removal of these by oxidation, and the third, 
a filling up the vacant spaces thus left. After the second stage, the 
silicious casts of coniferous wood are often separable in the form of 
fibers which have been mistaken for asbestos. A similar condition of 
things has been observed by Kerr in the auriferous gravels of Forth 
Carolina, where also the decay of silicates and the silicification of fossil 
wood is going on. 

The oxide of tin, cassiterite, which, like quartz, occurs crystallized in 
ancient granitic veinstones, appears like it also to have been deposited 
from solutions in recent times. Collins, in the Transactions of the Royal 
Geological Society of Cornwall, has described his examinations of deer's 
horns from the tin-bearing gravels of the region, which are impregnated 
with cassiterite, and even contain visible crystals of the mineral. Some 
of these horns are so rich in tin-ore as to be sought by the smelter. A 
specimen examined by Collins of the horn of the red deer ( Cervus ela- 
phiis) contained 2.6 per cent, of oxide of tin and 1.6 per cent, of pyrites, 
both of which were seen by the microscope to be inclosed in the cells 
of the horn. The process of stannification is thus, like that of silicifi- 
cation, one in progress in modern times, though under conditions as yet 
unknown to us. 



GEOGRAPHY. 



By Commauder F. M. Gkeen, TJ. S. Navy. 



lu cousidering the geographical work of the world in 1881 and 1882, 
while there does not seem to be any startling fact or great discovery 
to announce, it is evident that the general interest in geographical 
studies and researches is not diininishiug. So many nations are taking 
an active part in the endeavor to solve geographical problems; so many 
interests, commercial, scientific, political, and missionary, are earnestly 
pushing inquiry in every direction, that each year thjp field for extensive 
and striking discovery becomes more limited. English, French, Ger- 
mans, and Belgians have been vying with each other to discover new 
regions where their trade may be extended, and new routes by which 
merchandise may be transported with ease and economy; especially is 
this the case in Africa. 

Large portions of South America, Asia, Africa, and Australia still 
remain comparatively unexplored, and for many years to come ample 
opportunities will be afforded for the scientific traveler to complete 
our knowledge of details in regions imperfectly, known. 

As soon as any discovery of any importance is made it is at once 
published to the world, in English, German, and French, in the excel- 
lent geographical periodicals, from which, in fact, this summary is 
condensed. 

At the meeting of the British Association, at York, in September, 
1881, it being the fiftieth anniversary of the foundation of the associa- 
tion, especial attention Avas paid in the geographical section to a review 
of the progress of geographical knowledge during the last fifty years, 
and a most valuable essay, by the hydrographer to the Admiralty, Sir 
F. J. Evans, on the progress of hydrographic surveys, was read. 

Sir Frederic Evans called special attention to the increased accuracy 
in determining astronomically geographical positions, j)articularly with 
reference to longitudes. Of the fifty positions selected some years ago 
for secondary meridians by the Admiralty, the longitudes of thirty either 
have been exactly verified, or are in course of verification, by means of 
the electric telegraph, nineteen of these verifications being made by the 
labors of officers of the United States Navy and Coast Survey. 

An extensive work of this sort has just been completed by United 

347 



348 eCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

States naval officers who Lave measured differences of longitude tbrough 
submarine cables from Madras, by way of Singapore, Hong-Kong, 
Shanghai, and Nagasaki, to Wladiwostok in Siberia, connecting there 
with the chain of measurements made from Pulkowa Observatory by 
Eussian officers, andjoiningatthe Madras end to the Indian longitudes 
also determined electrically from Greenwich by officers of the great 
trigonometrical survey of India. 

So accurately is it now possible to perform work of this kind that the 
great polygon from Greenwich by way of Suez, India, China, Japan, 
Siberia, and Russia, back to Greenwich, closes with an error only of 
thirty-nine one-hundredths of a second of time. 

HYDEOGEAPHT. 

In almost all parts of the world hydrographic surveys have been 
progressing by the labors of officers of different nations, although the 
year has witnessed neither the inception nor the completion of any great 
undertaking. In considering the constant hydrographic work in prog- 
ress on the shores of our own country, as well as others, it must be 
borne in mind that from the nature of the work it must be piactically 
interminable, for no sooner is a chart of a harbor or coast line published 
than corrections are made necessary by the changes in the bottom, and 
consequent depths of water, caused by the action of tidal and other cur- 
rents, as well as by the never-ceasing elevations and depressions of the 
shore line, which geologists tell us are all the time going on. 

On the coast of the United States the work has been prosecuted zeal- 
ously by the officers of the United States Coast Survey, some of the more 
important pieces of hydrographic work performed being, in Maine, the 
survey of Dyer's and Gouldsborough bays ; in Massachusetts, the exam- 
ination of Salem and Gloucester harbors and of Pollock Eip shoal ; in 
New York, the resurvey of the lower bay of NewTork; an examina- 
tion of changes in Delaware and Chesapeake bays ; a resurvey of Chin- 
coteague shoals j a resurvey of Norfolk harbor; examination of shoals on 
the coasts of North and South Carolina; a resurvey of Beaufort harbor; 
continuation of the hydrographic survey of the east and west coasts of 
Florida, including the bars of Saint George's sound and Pensacola har- 
bor; a resurvey of Key West harbor, and a continuation nearly to com- 
pletion of the coast of Texas. On the Pacific coast, the general hydro- 
graphic survey of the Californian coast has been continued, as well as 
a survey of bays, inlets, and ports in Puget Sound, and a reconnaissance 
of the waters of Southern Alaska. 

The only imjiortant surveys executed under the orders of the Navy 
Department have bieen on the west coast of Mexico, by Commander 
Philip, in the U. S. S. Eanger, and a survey of the Bay of Samana,in the 
island of Santo Domingo, by Commander Bridgeman in the U. S. S. 
Despatch. Tbis survey embraced the Yuna and Barracouta Rivers as 



GEOGKAPHY. 349 

far as navigable. In the circulation and exchange ot important hydro- 
graphic information and the correction and publication of charts, the 
United States Hydrographic Office has silently aud unostentatiously 
contributed a very great deal to geographic knowledge. 

The Coast Survey, from an early period in its existence, has devoted 
much time and expense to investigations of the currents and tempera- 
ture of the Gulf Stream ; but the apphances for both sounding and 
ascertaining temperatures were very imperfect. The invention and per- 
fection of the wire sounding-machine and the deep-sea thermometers 
have afforded opportunities for correcting former errors and discovering 
new features in hydrographic science, so that the results of the last ten 
year's work are of more importance as far as our knowledge of the deep 
sea goes than all the work done before. During the last two years 
Commander J. E. Bartlett in the U. S. Coast Survey Steamer Blake 
has been engaged in an examination of the Gulf Stream not only after 
its full development has been reached on the coast of the United States, 
but where the currents manifest themselves at the entrances from the 
Atlantic Ocean to the Caribbean Sea. 

From the very numerous soundings and temperatures taken during 
Commander Bartlett's cruises, and previously by Commander Sigsbee, 
in the Gulf of Mexico, the following deductions may be drawn, subject, 
however, to modification in minor details : * 

The equatorial current of the North Atlantic is deflected northward 
by the coast of South America, a portion of it passing along the shore 
of the Spanish Main, between Grenada and Trinidad. A larger portion, 
however, pours into the Caribbean Sea, between the Windward Islands, 
and another part, proceeding westward, north of Hayti, enters the Carib- 
bean Sea by the Windward Passage, still more continuing along the 
north shore of Cuba to the Straits of Florida. The water, warmed by the 
sun while passing over a series of shoals and banks, is several degrees 
warmer at the Windward Passage than at the Windward Islands. 
Proceeding westward, the current, entering the Gulf of Mexico from the 
Caribbean Sea, does not make the cii:cuit of the Gulf, and has no nec- 
essary connection with the currents of the Gulf of Mexico, but passes 
to the northward and eastward, issuing from the Straits of Florida with 
such addition as may come from between Cuba and the Bahama Bank. 

The temjjerature of the Gulf Stream, in the early part of its course, 
rarely exceeds 83° in June and July, except under a very hot sun in 
calm weather. By carefully measuriug the area of the cross-section of 
the stream between Jupiter Inlet and the Little Bahama Bank, as well 
as its velocity, it is shown that the delivery is very much less than the 
amount called for by the volume of warm water extending over the At- 
lantic Ocean from Cuba to Norway, and heretofore ascribed to the out- 

* For these deductions the compiler is indebted to an excellent article in the Nation, 
October 5, 1882. 



350 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

pour from the Gulf. The stream varies from 50 to 100 miles in width, aud 
its velocity and temperature are both greater in the middle tha,u on the 
edges. The maximum rate of the current observed is said to be five 
miles per hour, and its average rate is perhaps two and a half. 

Instead of running in a trough, as some observers have described it, 
the stream from the Bahama Banks to Hatteras passes over a rather 
even plateau, growing narrower to the northward. The mistake of sup- 
posing a trough or groove to exist has evidently been made by the cur- 
rent carrying away the bight of the sounding-line, and thus a greater 
deiJth being shown. This error is common to all soundings made with 
rope in a current. The bottom in the path of the stream, at 400 fath- 
oms, seems to be swept clean down to the hard coral rock. The cold 
bands described by previous observers do not seem to have been met 
with, and appear to have been due to local rain-squalls or other causes 
producing accidental inequalities of temperature. Before the limits and 
velocity of the Labrador or inshore cold current can be described accu- 
rately, further soundings and serial temperatures are necessary. 

A deep-sea thermometer devised by Dr. Siemens was used on board 
the Blake, and was found principally useful in verifying the tempera- 
tures, which can be ascertained with much more ease and rapidity by 
the Miller-Casella thermometer. 

The action of the Siemens tliermometer depends upon the variations 
in the electrical resistance of metals caused by changes of temperature. 
Two resistance coils, one of which is so arranged as to be lowered into 
the sea to any required depth, are connected with a Wheatstone's bridge 
and a Thomson's mirror galvanometer. The galvanometer being ad- 
justed to show zero when the resistances experienced by the coils are 
equal, the resistance of the coil on board ship is made equal to that of 
the one lowered overboard by applications of ice or warm water, and its 
temperature, which will be that of the submerged coil, ascertained by an 
ordinary thermometer. In all trials the accuracy and trustworthiness 
of the Miller-Casella deep-sea thermometer were demonstrated. As 
opportunities offer this examination of the Gulf Stream is being con- 
tinued. 

Under the direction of the British Admiralty, hydrographic surveys 
have been prosecuted on the shores of Great Britain, in the Eed Sea 
and Indian Ocean, and on the coasts of Borneo, China, Corea, Japan, 
Australia, the Fiji Islands, West Indies, and Newfoundland, employing 
five sloops of war, six smaller vessels, seventy-nine officers and nearly 
six hundred men. 

The officers of the Indian marine survey have continued the survey 
of the long Indian coast line and the publication of excellent charts. 

French surveyors have been engaged in perfecting detailed surveys 
of the French coasts and the northern coasts of Africa and correcting 
the charts of the Grecian Archipelago, while pushing forward the sur- 
veys of the coasts and rivers of Cochin China and the Gulf of Tonquin. 



GEOGRAPHY. 351 

Under the direction of a (jovernment commissiou composed of MM. 
Milne-Edwards, Vaillant, Perrier, Marion, de Falin, and Fischer, the 
French gunboat " le Travailleur," commanded by Lieutenant Eichard, 
has carried out an extensive programme of sounding and .dredging in 
the Bay of Biscay, off the coast of Portugal, and in the eastern part of 
the Mediterranean Sea. The greatest depths found were 2,789 fathoms 
in the Atlantic, and 1,454 fathoms in the Mediterranean. 

The Spanish Government has undertaken a new survey of the Med- 
iterranean shores of the Spanish kingdom, and are also energetically 
pushing a purvey of the entire Philippine group. 

FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 

In Appendix No. 8 to the United States Coast Survey Eeport for 1879, 
Mr. 0. A. Schott discusses the deflection of the plumb line along the 
oblique arc from Calais, Me., to Atlanta, Ga., and demonstrates the su- 
perior accuracy of Clarke's elements of the spheroid figure of the earth 
over those determined by Bessel. So evident is this superiority that 
the substitution of Clarke's spheroid for Bessel's as the surface of de- 
velopment for all Coast Survey maps of the Atlantic and Gulf coasts 
is recommended, it having already been adopted for the charts of the 
Pacific coast. When this arc, already 1,200 miles long, is extended-4Jo 
farther to Mobile Point, the Atlantic and Gulf coast systems of triangu- 
lation will be united, and the value of the arc for geodetic purposes will 
be increased 25 per cent. 

The European Association for the Measurement of Degrees, formed 
by geodesists of various nations in 3861 under the auspices of Lieuten- 
ant-General von Baeyer, and having for its objects the measurement of 
arcs of meridian and parallel, are making arrangements for the comple- 
tion of an arc measurement extending from Palermo to Levanger in 
Norway. 

Work is now in progress to connect the general system of Swedish 
triangulation from a point on the frontier south of Ohristiania with 
Levanger as well as another point in Sweden farther north. This meas- 
urement will give an arc covering 25 Jo of latitude, and its discussion 
will afford a valuable addition to geodetic knowledge. 

Eenewed interest has been manifested within the last few years in 
the observations of pendulum vibrations as bearing on the figure and 
density of the earth, and pendulum work which had been suspended for 
many years has been resumed by the Government surveys in Europe, 
America, and India. The pendulum so well used by Major Herschel, 
E. E., in the work of the great trigonometrical survey of India, has been 
carried by Mr. Edwin Smith of the United States Coast Survey, to 
he stations in New Zealand where he observed the transit of Venus 
in December last, and he will observe its vibrations there, and afterward 
at Batavia, Hong-Kong, Tokio, Point Barrow, and San Francisco. 



352 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

NORTH AMERICA. 

The geographical work of the United States Coast Survey has con- 
sisted, as heretofore, of topographic surveys for thfe exact definition and 
delineation of the shore line, hydrographic surveys and resurveys where 
changes have taken place, of the coast, harbors, and rivers, and in the 
interior the continuation of the observations for the connection by tri- 
angulation of the Atlantic and Pacific coasts, as well as astronomical de- 
termination of important inland points and the carrying of a double line 
of geodesic levels from the Atlantic coast at Sandy Hook to^the Missis- 
sippi Eiver at Saint Louis. This line of levels is marked by permanent 
bench-marks from 2 to 40 miles apart, and when completed to San Fran- 
cisco will be of great value in furnishing reference points for measure- 
ments of elevation. As the details of all this important work will be 
found in the United States Coast Survey Reports for 1881 and 1882, it 
is not worth while to enumerate them here. 

The United States Geological Survey was organized in the spring of 
1879, taking the place of several independent geological and geograi)hical 
surveys which had previously been conducted under the direction of 
the Interior and War Departments. During the first two or three years 
of its existence comparatively little geographical work was done. The 
labors of the survey being confined mainly to mines and mining, the 
surveys were in grej't part limited to the making of detailed maps of 
mining districts. There was, however, some topographical work done 
in Southern Utah and iforthern Arizona, in the neighborhood of the 
Grand Canon of the Colorado, in order to complete a map commenced 
and nearly finished by the survey of the Eocky Mountain region. In 
addition to this, a survey was made of the volcanic region of the San 
Francisco peaks in Northern Arizona. Some geographical work was 
also done in connection with Mr. G. K. Gilbert's investigation of the 
history of the ancient lakes in the Great Basin, and the climatic changes 
indicated by them, but this was not of a connected character. 

In the year 1881 it was decided to increase the topographical force 
with a view of preparing maps for the use of the geological corps. 
Work was commenced in the western part of New Mexico, in the neigh- 
borhood of Fort Wingate, where a base line was measured and triaugu- 
lation extended therefrom in the neighboring region. A small area of 
country was mapped in this neighborhood and also in the neighborhood 
of the Moqui towns in Northeastern Arizona. 

In 1882 the topographical force was largely increased and work was 
commenced simultaneously in several different sections of the country. 
Besides the detailed surveys of mining regions, a division consisting of 
two topographical parties commenced work in Northern California with 
the view of mapping eventually the great volcanic range of the Cascades 
extending across Oregon and Washington Territory, preparatory to a 
study of its geological phenomena. The triangulation for this division 



GEOGRAPHY. 353 

was based upon points located by the Coast and Geodetic Survey. 
About 3,000 square miles were mapped in the Coast and Cascade ranges 
and in the volcanic region lying eastof the latter. 

Another division, consisting of one triangulation party and two topo- 
graphical parties, commenced work near Bozeman, Mont., having in 
view the mapi)ing of this country about the heads of the Yellowstone 
and Missouri Eivers and a connection with the triangulation of the old 
survey under Dr. Hayden, which had been extended from the line of the 
Union Pacific Railroad northward to the Yellowstone Park. The tri- 
angulation was expanded from a base measured in 1879, near Bozeman, 
by the surveys west of the one hundredth meridian. The expansion 
was effected and several stations occupied in the mountains, but an 
unusually early winter put a premature stop to all operations, and but 
little topographical work was done. 

A third division, consisting of one party for triangulation and two for 
topography, contiuued the work commenced in the preceding year in 
Western New Mexico and Eastern Arizona. The triangulation was 
extended to include a very considerable area, and about 1,500 square 
miles were mapped. 

Congress having authorized the Geological Survey to extend its opera- 
tions into the older States outside the public domain, work was com- 
menced this year simultaneously in Western North Carolina, Southern 
Virginia, and Eastern Kentucky and Tennessee. Four surveying par- 
ties, including one for carrying on primary triangulation, were organized 
for this work and have been carrying it on rapidly and satisfactorily. 
The triangulation was based upon that of the Coast and Geodetic Sur- 
vey along the Blue Eidge, and was thence extended westward nearly to 
the Cumberland Mountains, and about 4,000 square miles were mapped, 
the larger portion of which is in the high mountainous region of North 
Carolina. It is the intention of the survey' to push the work of this 
the Southern Appalachian division as rapidly as possible, as it is be- 
lieved that no section of the country will so amply repay in a directly 
economic manner the labors of the geologist as this. Its immense 
resources of coal and iron are just beginning to be known, and its mag- 
nificent forests of hard and soft wood timber are rapidly assuming 
great importance in view of the unprecedented destruction of valuable 
forests in other sections of the country. 

With the view of commencing operations in the Ozark Hills of Arkan- 
sas and Missouri, a base line was measured at Malvern, Ark., just at the 
south-western border of the hills, from which work will be carried on 
quite extensively during the coming year. 

The State geological survey of New Jersey has recently commenced 

a detailed map of that State on a scale of one mile to an inch. The 

ju-imary triangulation is supplied by the Coast and Geodetic Survey. 

The topooraphical work is done with the plane-table; contours are run 

at vertical intervals of ten feet in the flat countrv and twenty feet in 
H. Mis. 26 23 



354 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

the hilly regions. The first sheet has recently been published (1882), 
comprising the northeastern portion of the State. 

The second State geological survey of Pennsylvania, while making no 
pretense of publishing a map of the State, has surveyed very considera- 
ble areas in connection with its study of the mineral deposits, and a large 
number of maps have been published during the last three or four years 
upon various scales suited, to the character of the investigation which 
they are designed to illustrate. 

The State geologist of North Carolina has recently published a map 
of that State on a scale of 10 miles to an inch, embodying the results 
of his own labors and those of Professor Guyot. 

The State survey of New York is steadily continuing its triangulation, 
as evinced by the brief annual reports of the director. 

A great part ofthe region tributary to the lines of the Northern Pa- 
cific Railway, lying in Washington, Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, and 
Dakota Territories, is almost unexplored geographically, and its resour- 
ces are still less known. To obtain an adequate knowledge of the capa- 
cities of this extensive country a survey has been organized on behalf 
of the railroads under the able superintendence of Mr. Eaphael Pum- 
pelly. The organization is divided as follows: division of mineral 
resources; division of climate, rivers, and irrigation; division of soil; 
division of forests; division of economic botany; laboratory; division 
of topography. 

Topographical work was began in September, 1881, between the Cas- 
cades and the Columbia Eiver, about 2,500 square miles of country being 
mapped. During the season just x)assed three topographical parties 
were emjiloyed, one extending the ma])s of the region just mentioned, 
one east of the Colville reservation, and one between the Yellowstone 
and Missouri Rivers, making altogether between 20,000 and 30,000 
square miles of territory surveyed and plotted. It is proposed to show 
all the information developed by the survey in a cartographic form, so 
that all the important physical facts will be shown on the maps. The 
topograj)hical survey will show the form of the surface by contour lines 
of 200 feet of vertical distance, and in addition the maps will show the 
grades of the streams, the extent of the bottom and bench land, and the 
extent and conformation of the uplands. 

On one set of maps will be shown the minimum volume of water at 
different seasons in the principal streams and the classified distribution 
ofthe soils. On another set of maps will be shown the climatic condi- 
tions, giving the rainfall and temperature by months from the observa- 
tions of a long series of years. Another set of maps will show the dis- 
tribution and relative abundance of forage plants, with the climatic 
facts affecting stock grazing; and still another set will show the min- 
eral resources. The Avork will be so carried on as to be able to represent 
on the maps each winter the results of each season's work. A more j 
valuable work to the prospective immigrant, to say nothing of its im 
portance to the companies themselves, can hardly be imagined. 



GEOGRArilY. 355 



SOUTH AMEKICA. 



After a residence of seven years in Bolivia as engineer to the Govem- 
meot, Mr. J. B. Mlncbln has published, through the medium of the Eoyal 
Geographical Society, a great deal of information regarding this produc- 
tive and fertile but little known country. In fact there is hardly any 
country of the world so little known as Eastern Bolivia. With an area 
of 500,000 square miles its productions are so numerous and valuable 
that, settled by a working population, it would become one of the most 
prosperous in South America. Its great need is a route for conveying 
its exports by way of the Madeira and Amazon Rivers to the sea. In 
addition to determining the latitude, longitude, and height of numerous 
points, Mr. Miuchin has published an excellent map of Bolivia, shoVing 
the river systems as far as they have been explored. He has devoted 
much attention to the depth and rapidity of the various rivers which 
may be used for navigation, and a great deal of information regarding 
them has now for the first time been published. Mr. Minchin has also 
surveyed and described a part of the vast Andean table-land and salt 
desert not hitherto visited or described. He finds from an ancient 
water-mark, 200 feet above the present level of Lake Poopo, unmis- 
takable evidence that a vast sheet of water, some 20,000 square miles 
in extent, once covered a great part of this table-land, and considers 
that the gradual subsidence and escape of the waters of this lake to the 
Pacific may have contributed to the formation of the great nitrate de- 
posits of the coast. 

In continuation of the work of the late Professor Orton, Mr. Edwin 
R. Heath has been engaged in exploring the Beni and other rivers of 
Bolivia. Starting in September, 1880, from Cabinos, a rubber camp on 
the Madidi, a small afiduent of the Beni, he discovered a new river enter- 
ing the Beni from the south, a short distance above its junction with the 
Madre de Dios, which he reached on October 8, and determined care- 
fully the latitude and longitude of the confluence. Continuing to de- 
scend the Beni he discovered a new branch coming in from the north 
which he called the Orton. Between this point and the junction of the 
Beni and Mamor6 ho found navigation interrupted by falls and rapids, 
but making a short portage he reached the river below the falls and as- 
cended the Mamor6 for 300 miles to Santa Ana, thence across the pam- 
pas to Reyes. Dr. Heath's claim to have been the first white man to 
see the mouth of the Madre de Dios is probably erroneous, as there seems 
to be no doubt that the ^ladre de Dios was descended in 18G1, by Don 
Paustiuo Maldonado, who was afterward drowned in the rapids of the 
Madeira. 

Dr. Jules Crevaux, whose explorations in Guiana and on the Amazon 
have added so much to the knowledge of those regions, in 1880 was 
engaged in exploring the Upper Guyabero in Colombia, Accompanied 
by M. Lejanue, after crossing the Cordillera from the Upper Magdalena, 



356 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

he embarked on a raft on the Guyabero, and with great difiQculty and 
danger made the descent to Bolivar by way of the Orinoco, losing the 
raft in the rapids and having one of their men killed by the poisoned 
arrows of the Indians, Dnring their journey 2,550 miles were traversed, 
of which 1,275 were through new country. In the latter part of 1881 
Dr. Crevaux left France, intending, under the direction of the French 
ministry of public instruction, to pass, by one of the branches of the 
Paraguay, to the Amazon water shed, but on arrival at Buenos Ayres 
he was induced to undertake the exploration of the Pilcomayo, about 
which little was known. After discovering some important Indian ruins 
at or near Salta, he had prepared to embark his expedition in canoes on 
the headwaters of the Pilcomayo, not far from Tupiza, in Bolivia, when 
he was massacred, in April, 1882, with his party by the Tobas Indians. 

An exploration of the upper part of the river Cuyun6 has been made 
by Mr. McTurk, an oflicial of British Guiana, who penetrated about 40 
miles farther mto unknown Venezuelan territory than has been done by 
any other white man, and found numerous Carib settlements. 

Mr. Edward Whymper, F. R. G. S., made, in 1880, a most adventur- 
ous journey among the Andes of Ecuador, from which much information 
of value may be derived. Mr. Whymper fairly tested aneroid barome- 
ters for determining mountain heights, and concludes that generally 
speaking they are untrustworthy. He also compared systematically 
the results of elevation measurements made by boiling water and those 
by mercurial barometers, and finds that in all cases the boiling-point 
observations yielded lower altitudes than the barometers. Mr. Whym- 
per also states that, contrary to the showing of most of the maps of that 
at region, the Cordilleras do not lie in two parallel ranges. 

The elevations of a large number of mountains were measured, the 
results generally agreeing with those of Drs. Reiss and Stubel, but 
Mount Saraurcu, reputed to be a volcano, was found to be non-volcanic 
and only 15,500 feet high, 1,900 feet lower than stated by Villavicencia. 

During a residence of several years in Magdalena, United States of 
Colombia, Mr. F. A. Simons made extensive and numerous journeys 
through the region of the Sierra Nevada. He has described the river 
system at length in the Journal of the Royal Geographical Society, and 
has made many measurments of mountain heights. The greatest height 
he was able to determine was 17,500 feet, ascertained from the boiling 
point of water. 

A new boundary line has been agreed upon between the Chilian and 
Buenos Aj-rean possessions in Patagonia, which finally settles, it is to 
be hoped, this long disputed subject. The Andes, stretching south to 
Mounts Sarmiento and Darwin, will be the dividing line, while the 
southern limit of the Argentine Republic will be formed by a line from 
Cape Virgin to a point on the Andes, in latitude 52° south, longitude 
72° west from Greenwich. The coasts of the Straits of Magellan are 



GEOGRAPHY. 357 

thus allotted to Chili, and the straits are declared free to vessels of all 
nations. 

In the course of an address before the geographical section of the 
British Association, Mr. John Ball calls attention to the remarkable 
contrasts existing between the climate of the eastern and western sides 
of South America. Not only is there an immense diflerence between 
the rainfall of the two coasts, there being a portion of the west coast 
{formerly Bolivia) where no rain ever falls, but a radical difference 
exists in the climate of neighboring places on the western coast only 
one hundred miles apart. Mr. Ball finds that the reasons heretofore 
adduced for these remarkable differences are entirely insufficient, and 
likewise fails to find any adequate reasou for the exceptionally mild 
climate of the Straits of Magellan. 

ARCTIC REGIONS. 

Beyond the more accurate delineation of one or two coast lines, the 
geographical results attending the numerous Arctic expeditions of the 
last few years cannot be said to be very great in spite of the energy and 
devotion of the explorers, attended in so many cases with extreme hard- 
ship and loss of life. 

During a lon^ succession of years numerous attempts were made to 
sail from Europe to the Pacific Ocean by the north of Asia; no less 
than thirteen expeditions having been fitted out at various times and 
by different nations for this purpose. The only successful expedition 
was the last one, in 1878, commanded by Prof. A. E. Nordenskjold, in 
the Swedish steamer Vega, which, after passing the strait south of Nov- 
aya Zemlya on August 1, found the Kara Sea nearly free of ice, and, 
dredging, sounding, and surveying as they went along, succeeded in 
reaching a point within 120 miles of Behring's Strait on the 28tli of 
September, but were there ice-bound all winter, only passing into the 
Pacific on the 20th of the next July. This expeiience seems to have 
convinced Professor Nordenskjold that voyages could be made every 
year from the north of Europe hy way of the Kara Sea to the mouths 
of the rivers Yenesei and Obe, affording a much better means than for- 
merly of conveying the wheat and other products of Southern Sibe- 
ria to Europe, but subsequent events do not appear to justify this con- 
clusion. 

In the summer of 1880 steamers were not able to pass through any 
of the passages into the Kara Sea, owing to an ice-field 20 to 30 miles 
wide, on the east coast of Kovaya Zemlya, which entirely blocked the 
mouths of the Waigat and the Matyuskin Shar. The passage north of 
Novaya Zemlya by the Orange Islands was also tried, but the sea was 
full of ice, and the steamers escax)ed with difificulty late in the season 
by way of the Matyuskin Shar. Late in September, M. Sibiriakoff suc- 
ceeded in passing the Jugor Strait with two steamers and reached the 
mouth of the Yenesei, too late, however, to return. 



358 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

In 1881 the edge of the ice-pack is said to have laid nearer to the 
coast of Norway than is known to have been the case before. The 
Matyuskin Shar and the straits south of Novaya Zemlya were heavily 
blocked with ice, but the northern passages seem to have been clear, 
and possibly in September vessels might have made their way to the 
Yenesei. 

In 1882, in spite of several determined efforts, steamers could not pass 
the ice which blocked the approaches to the Kara Sea, and were obliged 
in October to return. 

The facts seem to indicate that no reliance can be placed on the navi- 
gability of these northern waters, except perhaps for steamers con- 
structed expressly to struggle against the ice, and that the outlet for 
the products of Southern Siberia must be looked for in the development 
of railways and canals. 

The reports of the survivors of the unfortunate Jeannette expedition 
seem to show that beyond the discovery of three islands to the north- 
eastward of the New Siberia grouj) and the more exact delineation of 
the shores of Wrangell Land, no important geographical results are to 
be expected from their labors except the confirmation of the belief that 
the waters surrounding the pole are constantly covered with a mass Of 
ice heaped up and impassable, or, in other words, that Sir George Nares' 
theory of the Paleocrystic Sea is the true one. 

The Jeannette left San Francisco on the 8th of July, 1879, fitted for 
three years' stay in the Arctic regions, under the command of Lieut. 
Commander G. W. De Long, U. S. N., with four other ofi&cers and twenty- 
four men of the naval service and two civilian attaches. On the 26th 
of August the ship started north from Saint Lawrence Bay, inclining 
toward the coast of Siberia with the hope of communicating with the 
Vega. On September 5 the ice-pack was entered, and on the 8th the 
Jeannette was frozen in solidly and never escaped ; the ship after this 
time drifting helplessly with the masses of ice until June, 1881, a period 
of one year and nine months. The drift was with the wind, covering a 
large area of ground and having a general direction towards the north- 
west, and demonstrating that the only lands in this region were the 
small, rocky, uninhabited islets called Jeannette and Henrietta Islands. 

On June 12, 1881, the Jeannette was crushed by the ice and sunk, 
giving time, however, for the crew to land and to secure provisions, &c., 
and on the 17th of June, with five sleds and three boats, the whole party 
started in good order for the coast of Siberia. 

Progress over the rough and melting ice was slow and difficult, and 
in was not till the 29th of July that Bennett Island, in latitude 76^ 38' 
north, longitude 148° 2(y east, was reached. This island, small, high, 
and rocky, and the Jeannette and Benrietta islets, form the only geo- 
graphical discoveries of this unfortunate expedition. 

After a few days' stay to rest the exhausted crew, the men and officers 
were divided between the three boats and progress southward was re- 



GEOGRAPHY. 359 

sumed by way of the open leads between the ice-floes. On the 28th of 
August, Thaddeus Island, of the New Siberia group, was reached, and 
a delay of ten days ensued from the ice openings being closed. It was 
not until September 12 that a start could be made for the coast of Si- 
beria, and very soon afterward the boats were separated in a gale of wind. 
The boat commanded by Lieutenant Chipp, and having a crew of eight 
men, has never since been heard of. Lieutenant-Commander De Long's 
boat reached the Lena delta, where all the party but two seamen died of 
starvation and exposure ; while the party in the third boat, commanded 
by Chief Engineer Melville, safely reached the Russian settlements on 
the Lena, terribly exhausted and frost-bitten. 

The officers of the United States steamer Eodgers, Lieut. E. M. Berry 
commanding, while engaged in a search for the Jeannette in the autumn 
of 1881, made a thorough examination of Wrangell Land, which was sui)- 
posed by the late Dr. Petermann to form a i)art of an extensive Arctic 
continent, but has now been definitely ascertained to be an island about 
70 miles long, east and west, and 35 miles broad, including the sand-spits 
which make out from the north and south coasts from G to 10 miles. 
The whole island is a succession of peaks and valleys, one peak near 
the center of the island rising to a height of 2,500 feet, with a range of 
high hills extending round the island near the coast line. One small 
harbor was found on the southern coast. Lieutenant Berry explored 
the island thoroughly and made a chart of it. 

After leaving Wrangell Island, Lieutenant Berry picked his way 
through the lloes of ice to a point 132 miles farther north, in latitude 
73° 44' — the highest latitude ever attained in this sea. From the mast- 
head at this point no indication of land could be seen to the northward, 
and the depth (82 fathoms) here was increasing as the vessel proceeded 
northward. Lieutenant Berry found no evidences of a current in this 
sea, other than that produced by the ebb and flow of the tide. 

After a fall discussion of the various alleged currents of Bering's 
Sea (Appendix No. 10, Coast Survey Report for 1880), Mr. W. H. Dall, 
whose experience entitles his opinions to great respect, comes to the 
conclusion that no warm current from the southwest enters Bering's 
Strait with the excej^tion of water from the adjacent rivers or sounds; 
that the Kuro Siwo, or Japanese Gulf Stream, sends no recognizable 
branch northward into Behring's Sea, and that the strait is incapable 
of carrying a warm current of sufficient magnitude to have airy marked 
eftect on the water of the polar basin. He agrees with Lieutenant 
Berry in considering the currents as chiefly tidal, and finds nothing de- 
veloped in his investigation to sui)port in the slightest degree the 
hypothesis of large areas of water in the Polar Sea free from ice. The 
opinion of Mr. Dali, that the movements of the ice are largely depend- 
ent on prevailing winds, is fully borne but by the experience of the 
oflicers of the Jeannette. During- Mr. Dall's examination of the currents 



i]GO SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

and tides, most valuable determinations of geographical positions were 
made along the coast of Alaska by the party under his command. 

The voyages of Mr. Leigh Smith in the English steam yacht Eira will 
hereafter take an important position in the annals of Arctic discovery. 
In June, 1880, the enteri^rising explorers left Great Britain, and after 
an ineffectual attempt to reach the east coast of Greenland, finding the 
ice impassable, the ship's head was turned to the eastward, and passing- 
south of Spitzbergen, on the 14th of August the coast of Franz- Joseph 
Land was reached. Between this time and the 1st of September, Mr. 
Smith explored 110 miles of the south coast of Franz- Joseph Land and 
its off- lying islands, landing frequently and keeijing a very full journal. 
Geological and botanical specimens were obtained and great numbers 
of walruses and seals were seen. From the 1st to the 10th of September 
the Eira endeavored unsuccessfully to find an opening in the ice pack 
which would enable the explorers to reach Wiche's Island east of Spitz- 
bergen, but it was necessary to take a homeward course as the season was 
advancing, and on the 24th of September the Eira reached Hammerfest. 

Among the important results of the voyage was the demonstration 
of serious errors in the Admiralty charts of the regions about Walter 
Thymeu's Straits and other places frequented by vessels every year. 
Mr. Clements Markham, a most capable judge, i^ronounces this voyage 
of the Eira to have been the most important summer cruise ever made 
in the Arctic regions. 

Again, in June, 1881, Mr. Smith sailed in the Eira with the hope of ex- 
tending his discoveries of the previous year. The autumn and winter 
passed with no news of the expedition, and in June, 1882, a relief ship 
was sent to search for the missing explorers. On reaching Novaya 
Zemlya it was found that the Eira had been sunk by the ice in August, 
1881, and that after wintering on Franz-Joseph Land Mr. Leigh Smith 
and his companions had fortunately escaped in their boats to Novaya 
Zemlya. As they had not been able to save any provisions from the 
ship they would all have starved to death but for the walrus and bear 
meat they were enabled to obtain. 

Under an international arrangement stations have been established in 
the Arctic regions by observers of various nations for the purpose of 
making meteorological and other i)hysical observations. 

Although no announcements of geographical discovery have yet been 
received from any of these parties, it is to be expected that, in addition 
to meteorological observations, valuable contributions will be made to 
our geographical knowledge by the able officers at the head of these 
parties. 

The United States have established two stations, one five miles west 
of Point Barrow, under charge of Lieut. P. H. Ray, United States Army, 
and one commanded by Lieut. A. W. Greely, United States Army, on 
the shores of Lad}' Franklin Bay, in Grinnell Land. 

In July, 1882, as previously arranged, a relief shii) was dispatched to 



GEOGRAPHY. 361 

communicate with the party at Lady Franklin Bay, but failed to reach 
that place on account of unusually heavy jmckice. Depots were estab- 
lished on Cape Sabine and Lyttelton Island for use in case Lieutenant 
Greely's party should be forced to retreat, and as soon as the season 
opens in 1883 a determined effort will be made, under command of Lieu- 
tenant Garlington, United States Army, to reach the beleaguered 
colony. 

The British station has been established at Fort Eae, in the northern 
part of British America, under the direction of a committee of the Eoyal 
Society. 

On the island ctf Jan Mayen a party of Austrian observers have 
been left, to be relieved in 1883. The Danes have chosen Godhaab, iu 
Greenland, where six skillful observers under the leadership of Mr. A. 
Paulsen have been placed ; and the Dutch party, under charge of Dr. 
bnellen, of the Utrecht Observatory, are established at Dickson's Haven, 
at the mouth of the Yenesei. The Norwegian station is situated at Boze- 
kop, on the Alten Fiord. The Russians have chosen a point at the mouth 
of the river Lena and at Moller Bay, in Novaya Zemlya. The Swedes 
have established observers on Spitzbergen ; and the Germans, in addi- 
tion to placing a staff of observers under command of Dr. Giese on the 
shores of Cumberland Sound, Davis Strait, have sent another party, 
under Dr. Schrader, of the Hamburg Observatory, to the island of South 
Georgia, 1,100 miles east of Cape Horn. 

ASIA. 

The most important geographical event relating to Central Asia is 
the completion of the expedition commanded by Colonel Prejevalsky, 
and the return of its members to Russia. The first part of the account 
of this famous journey in Thibet and China has been issued. It is di- 
vided into two i)arts, and is illustrated with maps and engravings. A 
German translation is in course of preparation. Under the auspices of 
the Imperial Russian Geographical Society, Colonel Prejevalsky ])to- 
poses to start in March, 1883, on his fourth expedition to Central Asia, 
chiefly with a view to studying the volcanic phenomena presented by 
the Tien Shan, and also to penetrate, if possible, into the mountains of 
Thibet. 

In an address before the British Association, Sir Richard Temple, in 
giving a summary of all existing knowledge relating to the geography 
of the central plateau of Asia, calls attention to the imperfection of that 
knowledge, the importance of the region, and the field offered by it for 
research and discovery. The principal geographical problems in Asia 
yet unsolved relate largely to this unknown region. 

The Pamir, by which name is known the elevated region immediately 
south of Chokand,in Central Asia, and called by Asiatics the "Roof of 
the AVorld," has frequently been described by geographers as a jiart of 



362 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 188i. 

this great plateau; but M. Severtsof, who has been engaged in exploring 
that region, states that the Pamir is not a table-land, and, up to tho 
height of about 12,000 feet, has no steppe formation. Up to the height 
of about 14,000 feet the rivers flow in narrow valleys never exceeding 
about thirteen miles in width. There are no lofty plateaus in the Pamir, 
the mountains rising 6,000 or 7,000 feet above the level of the valleys, 
elevations above the sea of 19,000 feet being frequently found, with three 
mountain groups attaining a height of 25,000 feet. From evidence ob- 
tained by M. Severtsof, he considers that elevation is continuously and 
steadily going on. 

M. and Mme. Ujfalvy have accomplished a long jo^irney in Kashmir 
and Little Thibet, bringing with them an important collection, valuable 
from a geographical and ethnographical point of view, and which is to 
be preserved in the Ethnographical Museum of Paris. 

Among the many obligations which geographical knowledge owes 
to enterprising newspaper correspondents must be reckoned the ac- 
count given by IMr. E. O'Donovan of the supposed desert of Merv. Mr. 
O'Donovan, who penetrated into this region from Persia under circum- 
stances of great peril and hardship, states that so fiir from the country 
being a desert, the soil is fertile, and only requires that the irrigation 
works be repaired by dams on the Murghab and Tejend Rivers to be- 
come productive again. Mr. O'Donovan further states that though the 
ruins of two cities, one Alexandrine and one Mussulman, can be traced 
and show evidences of a high degree of civilization, no such city as 
Merv exists at present. 

Mr. P. M. Lessar. an employ^ of the Russian Government, has been 
engaged in exploring the country bordering on the southwest portion 
of the Caspian Sea, and lying between that sea and Herat, in order to 
ascertain the possibility of constructing a railway from some port on 
the Caspian toward the frontier of British India. He finds the physi- 
cal obstacles easily surmountable, and demonstrates that, in the region 
to be traversed, the Paropamisus, or high range of mountains, which 
north of Cabul rise to an elevation of 20,000 feet, dwindle as they rang© 
to the westward to mere hills less than 1,000 feet in height. 

Dr. Albert Regel has, under the auspices of the Imperial Russian 
Geographical Society, been engaged in the exploration of the region 
surrounding the headwaters of the Amu Daria River. The year 1881 
was devoted to the investigation of the Bokharan province of Drwvag ; 
and a translation of his report of proceedings up to September, 1881, is 
published in the Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society. 

In carrying a chain of spirit -level observations across the Indian 
peninsula from Bombay to Madras, by the officers of the grand trigono 
metrical survey of India, the result seemed to show that the mean sea 
level is about three feet higher at Madras than at Bombay. After a 
very careful investigation the surveyor-general has concluded that this 
anomalous result is due to an accumulation of minute errors in tha 



GEOGRAPHY. 363 

course of the observations and not to any real difference in the mean 
sea level. 

The English, always alive to the importance of establishing new trade 
routes, have eagerly sought to open a road by which Western China 
would be open to receive British manufactures from ludia by way of 
Assam. With this end in view, and assisted largely by money contrib- 
uted by English merchants, Mr. A. R. Colquhoun, of the English consular 
service, has just performed a journey from Canton, through Southern 
China and Bumah, to Bhamo on the Irrawady, and thence to Eangoon, 
Being provided with passports from the Chinese Government and ac- 
companied by a Chinese interpreter, Mr. Colquhoun j)roceeded, in Feb- 
ruary, 1882, up the Canton or Si-Kiang River as far as Pe-se, the limit 
of navigation. It was found that the river is navigable for about 400 
miles above Canton for steamboats drawing 4 feet, but none are allowed 
there. The travelers -were obliged to adopt complete Chinese costume 
to escape notice and insult, as a great deal of hatred was shown toward 
the Fan-qui or western devils. 

From Pe-se the Yunnan plateau was ascended and crossed, but on 
reaching Ssumao, where Mr. Colquhoun intended to turn southward 
toward Moulmen, his progress was effectually barred in that direction 
by the hostility of the Chinese mandarins, and he was obliged to take a 
northward course over the mountains to Ta-li and thence to Bhamo, a 
route which he pronounces entirely unfit for trade caravans from the 
natural obstacles. After discussing the various x)roposed routes for 
trading with Southwestern China, Mr. Colquhoun pronounces in favor 
of a railway extending from British Burmah and already partially con- 
structed. 

AFRICA. 

Although explorations have been carried on with much success, on a 
small scale, so that the unknown regions are constantly being dimin- 
ished, there have been no very striking discoveries on the continent of 
Africa. The principal journey to chronicle is that of the Italians, Lieu- 
tenant Massari and Dr. Matteucci, from Suakin, on the Red Sea, by way 
of Khartum, across Kordofan and Darfur, thence, by a southwesterly 
course, to Egga on the river Niger; then descending this river in one 
of the West African Company's steamers they reached home, after a 
journey of sixteen months. Although English and German travellers 
had previously traversed this region, these two travellers have added 
to the knowledge of it, and have fixed the latitude and longitude of 
many towns. 

Mr. H. M. Stanley, whose name is so noted in African explorations, 
has succeeded in making a practicable route between the Lower Congo 
and Stanley Pool, at the head of a long series of falls and rapids on 
the Congo River, and has also been engaged in exploring the Congo 
above Stanley Pool. 



364 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1682. 

M. Savorgnan de Brazza returned to France from his second expedi- 
tion to the Ogow6 and Congo Eivers, and in June, 1882, gave an ac- 
count of his travels to the Geographical Society of Paris. He has 
explored the river system of a large tract of country between the 
Ogow6 and Congo Eivers, and has at least attempted to take pos- 
session of some parts of it for the French Government. 

Dr. Junker, who is known by his former journeys to the west of the 
Albert Nyanza Lake, has been endeavoring to explore the Welle River, 
which it seems should be called the Makua. The reports thus far re- 
ceived of his journey seem rather vague, but his return will enable 
a great deal of uncertainty about the maps of the equatorial region 
and of the southwest affluent of the Nile to be cleared up. 

Mr. Joseph Thomson has proceeded to Zanzibar, under the direction 
of the Royal Geographical Society, to explore a direct route to the shores 
of the Victoria Nyanza, and to examine Mount Kenia. 

The difficult country between the southern border of Abyssinia and 
Lake Victoria Nyanza is being examined by Mr. Schuver and Dr. 
Stecker, who are, however, working separately. No trustworthy report 
of their labors has yet been published. 



METEOROLOGY. 



By Cleveland Abbe. 



IfOTE. — The followiDg' collection of notes and extracts from Nature 
(Volumes xxiii to xxvi) presents a summary of progress in meteor- 
ology during 1880, '81, and '82, so far as it has been recorded in that 
journal, and is supplementary to the meteorological record published 
in the annual report for 1881. 

SYisropsis, 

I. — a lustitutions ; h Special stations and work ; c Individuals and necrology. 

II. — a General treatises; h History ; c Climate. 

III. — a Aeronautics; 6 Barometers ; c Thermometers ; d Anemometers : e Miscella- 
neous apparatus and methods. 
IV. — Physical questions. 

V. — a Solar radiation ; h Terrestrial temperature. 

VI. — a Evaporation ; I Condensation ; c Rainfall. 

VII.— Win^H. 

VIII. — Barometric pressure. 

IX.— Storms. 

X. — a Atmospheric electricity; h Terrestrial magnetism; c Ground currents; <! Au- 
roras. 

XI. — a Refract ion and mirage ; 1) Halos. 

XII. — a Periodicity and sunspots ; 6 Hypsometiy ; c Geology, physical geography, 
glaciers, hydrology: (i Climate and biology ; e Vulcanology and seismology. 

I. — rt Institutionsj & Special stations and work; c Individuals 

AND NECROLOGY. 

Perhaps the most imi)ortant event that has characterized the year 
1883 has been the actual inauguration of the first year of international 
observations in accordance with the programme of the Polar Commis- 
sion. The original proposition made in 1875 by Lieutenant Weyprecht 
has finally become a successful effort at international co-operation in 
taking special simultaneous meteorological and magnetic observations 
in the arctic and antarctic regions, while the permanent observatories of 
the temperate zones continue tlieir regular work. The following gives 
a general history of the undertaking, and a list of the stations occu- 
pied by the various nations, and the works undertaken by them. The 
instructions under which these stations carry on the work have been 
printed in the official Mittfieilungen published by the International Polar 

Commission. 

365 



3G6 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Much of modern progress in science is due to co-operation on a large 
scale; and this is especially true of geography and astronomy. Dur- 
ing the i)resent century the rapid progress in meteorology and terres- 
trial magnetism has been remarkably furthered by international con- 
ventions, and by agreements among the leaders of these scientific 
enterprises, until now it would be regarded as injudicious to attempt 
any great undertaking in these departments without a mutual under- 
standing between the interested nations. 

In September, 1875, Lieut. Carl \Veyprecht, a well-known arctic 
explorer, proposed that the nations of the world should unite in one 
uniform system of simultaneous magnetic and meteorological obser- 
vations at as many stations as possible in the arctic and antarctic 
regions. 

This was an important extension of the international work already 
in hand within the temperate zone, and was considered so certain to 
result in a great advance of our knowledge that the idea was univer- 
sally approved. 

The details of the plan were elaborated at an International Polar 
Congress, held at Hamburg, in August, 1879, and at another held at 
Berne, in July, 1880. As a result of the agitation of this question, 
ten delegates met at St. Petersburg, in August, 1881, and organized 
an official " Polar Commission," all the members of which had author- 
ity to act for their respective Governments. 

. Since the organization of this commission, other nations have en- 
listed in the work; the observing parties have all been dispatched 
to their respective destinations, and they now are actually engaged 
in the contemplated observations. The stations will be occupied for 
at least one, and, in some cases, for three years, and may be divided 
into two classes, namely, (1) the special polar stations within 30^ 
of the north or south pole, and (2) the auxiliary stations, which are 
spread over the rest of the habitable globe. Besides these land sta- 
tions, observations made on shipboard are extensively called for, and 
it is hoped that enough observations will be accumulated to allow 
the making of a complete map of the weather, and of the magnetic 
disturbances throughout the whole globe, for any amount of time dur- 
ing the period in question. In addition to the main work of these 
international stations, all possible attention will be given to numerous 
collateral subjects. The great extent of the work will be appreciated 
by an examination of the following list of the objects of observation, 
and the number of stations to be occupied. 

The observations which are considered obligatory are as follows : 

I. Meteorological: 1. Temperatureof theair; 2. Temiieratureoftbesea; 
3. Barometric pressure; 4. Humidity; 5. Wind — direction and force; 
6. Clouds — their kind, amount, and motion; 7. Painfall; 8. Weather 
and optical phenomena. 

II. Magnetic: 1. Absolute declination; 2, Absolute inclination; 3. Ab 
solute horizontal intensity; 4. Variations of declination; 5. Variations 
of inclination; 6. Variations of horizontal intensity. 

All the preceding observations are to be made hourly, except on the 
1st and 15th days of each month, w^hen the readings will be made every 
five minutes. 

III. — Miscellaneous : 1. The aurora — shape, color, motion, and posi- 
.Jtion; 2. Astronomical latitude and longitude; 3. Astronomical time. 

The observations, which are considered desirable and will be gener- 
ally undertaken, but which are not obligatory, are as follows: 1. Varia- 



METEOROLOGY. 



«„„s of temperature -^^^''''ig'jt^fiH^^'rtbel.'^^^^^^^^ I liS"^ 
4. Galvanic earth currents; o. P"^"''^"' !,"ts. g. Tdal observations; 
observations on the ?"'''ir^;i;0j4°"^XTu Atmospheric electric- 

^ff.^^i^^^'^S:,^^^^^.^^ be eventually published 

lished. 

Co-overatic. of tU renpeoti.e nation, in m Intermtional Magnetic and 
Meteorological Observations. 



UNITED STATES. 

Lat Long. 

Polar stations. Sib 20' W. 04^58' 

1. Lady Franklin Bay, Grinnell Land §' 710 18' W. 150° 24' 

2. Point Barrow, Alaska 

Auxiliary stations. ^ ^^^ ^o, ^y^ n^o 16' 

3. Los Anjjeles -■ n'59O00'W. 68° 00' 

4. Fort Cbimo, Ungava Lay N 550 00' E. 168° 00' 

fi CoDDer Island, ]{:anitcliatka J^" " V • 

6 P??,^aration of Daily International Weather 
Bulletin and map for the entire globe. 

AUSTRIA-HUNGAKY. 

Polar stations. ^ ^^^ ^^, ^- go 35' 

1. JanMayen • - 

Auxiliary stations. . 

2. Special course of observations on telegraphic 

earth currents will be made by the tele- 
graphic department at 12 or 14 stations. ^^^ ^_^^ ^ ^^^ ^^, 

3. Pola 

DENMABK. 
Polar stations. ^ ^^^ ^^, ^ ^^o 45' 

1. Godthaab ; 

Auxiliary stations. 

2. A special north polar expedition started to 

explore north of Siberia, but the latest news 
reports it frozen up near Nova /embla. 

FINLAND. 

Polar stations. ^^^ 24/ E. 26° 36' 

1. Soudan Kyla 

Auxiliary stations. ^ ^^^ ^^, ^ 250 00' 

2. Helsingfors N. (jS^ 00' E. 21° 05' 

3. Wasa 



3GS SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Lat. Loug. 

4. Kuopio K62054' E. 27° 10' 

5. Wartsila N. 60° 32' E. 21° 19' 

G. Telegraphic ground currents will be observed 

on two telegraph lines. 

FRANCE. 

Polar stations. 

1. Cape Horn S. 56° 00' W. 67° 00' 

Auxiliary etatious. 

2. Paris K 48^ 50' E. 2o 20^ 

3. The two vessels carrying the party to Cape 

Horn will explore and take observations in 
the Antarctic Sea until they biing the party 
back again. 

GERMANY. 

1. South Georgia Island .' S. 54° 30' W. 38© 00' 

2. Kingawa N. 67© 30' W. 07° 30' 

(Hogarth Inlet, Cumberland Sound.) 
Auxiliary stations. 

3. Munich K 48° 09' E. lio 34' 

4. Hoiienthal, Zoar, Nain, Ramah, Hebron, 

Okak, on the coast of Labrador. 
S.Potsdam K 52o 25' E. 13° 00' 

6. Breslau N. 51° 00' E. 17° 00' 

7. Falkland Islands S. 51° 30' W. 60° 00' 

8. Will also observe ground currents on 6 or 8 

telegraph lines. 

GREAT BRITAIN AND CANADA. 

Polar stations. 

1. Fort Rae or Fort Simpson on Great Slave 

Lake ... • K. 62° 30' W. 115^ 40' 

Auxiliary stations. 

2. On all vessels on the Atlantic Ocean, extra 

observations have been called for, and 
daily maps will be prepared for the entire 
year by England. 

3. Toronto: observations will be made bv 

Canada .N. 43° 39' W. 79° 23' 

HOLLAND. 

Polar stations. 

1. Dickson Haven or Port Dickson K 73© 30' E. 82^ 00' 

Auxiliary stations. 

2. Special observations will be made on the reg- 

ular annual voyages of Government vessels 
to I^ova Zembla. 

3. Utrecht N. 52° 05' E. 5° 07' 

ITALY. 

Polar stations. 

1. Puuta Arenas, Patagonia S. 53° 10' W. 70° 55' 



METEOROLOGY. 369 

Auxiliary stations. Lat. Long, 

2. Colou, near Montevideo S. 34° 22' W. 57° 50' 

3. Paysander, Buenos Ayres S. 34° 45' W. 58° 20' 

4. ^^^ples N. 40° 52' E. 14° 18' 

5. San Nikolas, ) pataoonia S. 40° 55' W. 63° 00' 

6. Carmen, ) '^ 

7. Moncalieri ]^. 45° 00' E. 7° 42' 

NORWAY. 
Polar stations. 

1. Bossekop N. G90 5G' E. 23° 00' 

Auxiliary stations. 

2. Will send Professor Tromboldt to observe 

auroras at Kautokeiuo, Finmark K. 69° 00' E. 23:]o 00' 

RUSSIA. 

Polar stations. 

1. Nova Zembla (Karmakule Bay) N. 72° 30' E. 53° 00' 

2. Mouth of the Lena N. 73° 00' E. 124° 40' 

Auxiliary stations. 

3. Pavlosk (St. Petersburg) X. 60° 00' E. 30^ 00' 

4. Observations of gronnd currents on four tele- 

graph lines will be made, two in southern 
and two in central Russia. 
The Eus.sian Geographical Society will maintain the following spe- 
cial meteorological stations in Siberia : 

5. Preobrashensk - K. 59° 30' E. 107° 00' 

6. Werchojansk I^. 08° 00' E. 133° 00' 

7. Orlensk K. 73° 00' E. 122o 00' 

8. Orlekminsk ^^ 60° 30' E. 121o 00' 

9. AYitimsk I>^. 59o 25' E. 112° 30' 

10. Kirensk N. 57° 00' E. 108° 30' 

11. Nochtuisk N. 60O 00' E. 117© 00' 

SWEDEN. 

Polar stations. 
1. Spitzbergen . . . /. . . .N. 79° 53' E. 16^ 00' 

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC. 

Auxiliary stations. 
1. Steps have been taken to establish a mag- 
netic observatory at Cordoba- S. 31° 30' W. 64° 30' 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Special simultaneous observations will be made by the local phys- 
ical observatories at — 

1. Tiflis N. 41° 43' E. 44o 47' 

2. Havana . - N. 23° 08' \T. 82P 28' 

3. Gottingen N. 61° 30' E. 10°' OO' 

4. Lisbon K. 38° 42' W. 9° OS' 

5. Stonyhurst - N. 53o 51' W. 2o 28' 

H. Mis. 26 24 



370 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Lat. Long. 

C. Breslau X. 51° 07' E. 17° 02' 

7. Zi-ka-wei (Shanghai) .- N. 31° 10' E. 121o 30' 

8. Manila .• . N. 14° 35' E. 121° 00' 

9. Batavia S. 0° 10' E. lOGci 50' 

Signal Office memorandum. 

The International Polar Commission held its third annual meeting* at 
St. Petersburg September (August) 1, 1881. The instructions that had 
been issued to the United States parties (which were now already in the 
field) were presented to the members. 

The first subject discussed was the time at which observations should 
be taken, and their fVequency. Observations will begin for all the expe- 
ditions in the polar regions, as also for observations in the temperate 
zones, as soon as i)ossible after August 1, 1882, and will finish as close 
as possible to September 1, 1883. All the meteorological and magnetic 
phenomena will be observed hourly during all this time; and besides 
there will be taken on the 1st and 15th of each month magnetic obser- 
vations every five minutes for twenty-four hours, and every twenty 
seconds during someone hour of the day fixed on in advance, and every- 
where according to the mean time of Gottiugeu. These latter observa- 
tions have for their especial end to obtain a perfect knowledge of per- 
turbations or magnetic storms, and their connection with the aurora 
borealis. 

The assembly approved three proposals by Count Wilczek : (1) To 
found, if possible, a special publication to convey more quicklj^ to the 
knowledge of the scientific world, as well as to the leaders of the 
expeditions, the proj osals and reports concerning the expeditions, as 
also their first results. (2) To leave, if possible, on the spot, the build- 
ings and other arrangements likely to be useful to future expeditions of 
the same kind, and to recommend them, in each country, to the care of 
navigators, or to the inhabitants. (3) To ask steamboat and railway 
companies to grant a reduction in the fares for the staff and effects of 
various international polar expeditions. The stations proposed are, two 
on the north coast of Siberia, one in Nova Zembla, one in Spitzbergeu, 
one on Jan Mayen Island, one on the west coast of Greenland, one in 
Lady Franklin Bay, one in Behring Strait region; and the participating 
countries are, Eussia, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, Austria, and tbe 
I nited States. {Nature, September, 1881, Vol. xxiv, p. 479.) 

Loewy states that the International Polar Scientific Exi)edition sent 
by France to Cape Horn will carry out a piogramnie of observations 
as arranged by Angot; direct observations will be made every four 
hours, self-recording ai)pai atus will also be kept in operation. Special 
attention will be given to the austral auroras. {Nature, xxvi, p. 192.) 

According to General Hazen's Annual Report for 1881, the United 
States Arctic stations at Lady Franklin Bay and Point Barrow are es- 



METEOROLOGY. 371 

tablislied for the purposes of meteorological researches and not polar 
.ueographic explorations. 

In regard to tbe subject of i:>olar researches, the English journal, 
^'«ti/re, November 18, 1880, says: "To squander £30,000 in one huge at- 
tempt to reach the pole would be as mad as for a merchant to embark all 
his capital in one hazardous undertaking. Polar research and polar 
expeditions are not incomi>atible, but as Dr. Neumayer showed, in an ad- 
mirable address at the Dantzic meeting of the German Association, the 
former must be subordinated to and guided by the results of the latter. 
The days of Arctic campaigns are past. We have reached the precincts 
of the citadel itself, and now the sappers and miners begin their slow but 
sure work, to be capped at the proper time by a grand assault. Ger- 
many, Austria, Russia, Sweden, ISTorway, Denmark, the United States, 
and, we believe, Canada are all to take part in this great work by estab- 
lishing observing stations at suitable points all around the polar area, 
while Italy is to send out next year a scientifically equipped expedition 
to the Antarctic regions, our knowledge of which is meager and uncer- 
tain. This last will be an observing as well as an exploring expedition, 
preparatory to the establishment of an Antarctic station. 

"As Dr. iSTeumayer said, in the address alluded to, men of science do not 
demand practical or so-called utilitarian reasons before giving their ad- 
hesion to any new work ; it is enough if it can be shown that such work 
will conduce to the advancement of knowledge. And that Weyprecht's 
scheme of polar observatories, of which so many Governments approve, 
will lead to vast additions being made to scientific knowledge, no man 
of science needs be told. In meteorology, terrestrial magnetism, biology, 
geology, and glacial physics the gains would be immense, and the his- 
tory of science has taught us over and over again that the surest path 
to practical and beneficent results is through the gate of pure scientific 
research. Everyday is the science of meteorology becoming more and 
more important." {N'atiire, November, 1880, xxiii. p. 50.) 

In connection with the Panama Canal, De Lesseps B:as established a 
meteorological station at Colon. Stations on both sides of the isthmus 
have lopg been desirable, and it is to be hoped that such will be well 
maintained. 

The Scottish Meteorological Society has, since the spring of 1S81, main- 
tained a series of daily observations on the summit and sides of Ben 
Nevis. The summit is 4,40G feet above sea-level and is the highest spot 
in the British Isles. The importance of building a residence for the 
observer, and maintaining at the summit more frequent if not more 
continuous observations, is strongly urged. The society accepted a 
handsome offer by Mr. C. Li Wragge, who has had experience of such 
work, to climb to the top of Ben Nevis every morning in time to make 
observations there at 9 a. m. A complete set of the best instruments 
has been procured. The barometer (a Fortin) is an excellent Instru- 
ment, and is constructed to read as low as 23.000 inches, in the procur- 



372 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

ance of which Mr. Scott, of the Meteorological Office, kindly gave his 
assistance. On Tuesday, May 31, 1881, Mr. Wraggo, with Mr. Living- 
stone, of the ])ablic schools, and nine workmen, ascended the mountain, 
and the instruments were fixed and secured in their proper posilioni:;; 
and all, including the barometer, were found to be in good working- 
order. The regular observations began on the following day, June 1, 
Mr. Wragge being at his post on the top of the Ben, 4,40G feet above 
the sea at 9 a. m. He remains an hour i^t the top, and makes three 
observations, viz, at 9, 9.30, and 10 a. m. Even during tbe stormy 
weather of Saturday last the observations were made and the observer 
back at Fort William at 1.30 p. m., on which occasion the temperature 
at the top was as low as 28o.O. 

Simultaneous with the Ben Nevis observations a complete series of 
observations are also made near sea-level hj Mrs. Wragge. These ob- 
servations, together with the observations made at the neighboring- 
stations of Eoy Bridge, Oorran, Landale, Airds, Lismore, and Dalnas- 
pidal (1,400 feet above the sea), will give the data required in dealing 
with some more important problems in meteorology. [Nature, June, 
1881, Vol. XXIV, p. 131.) 

The daily observations by Mr. C. L. Wragge, which ended with Octo- 
ber- 1881, have been supplemented by those of Mr. Livingstone, who bas 
offered to climb to the summit once a month, whenever practicable, 
during the winter. [Nature, December, 1881, xxv, p. 135.) 

Mr. Livingstone ascended Ben Ts'evis for the second time on Satur- 
day, February 10, 1882. He found the snow much deeper than usual. 
[Nature, February, 1882, xxv, p, 37-'.) 

Mr. Wragge has made every effort to secure land for a i)ermaneut 
summit observatory, but thus far without success — meeting with oppo- 
sition from unexpected quarters. [Mature, March, 1S82, xxv, p. 491.) 

The observations on Ben Nevis and at Fort William were recom- 
menced June 1, 1882. A series of very frequent observations are made 
at Fort William from 5 a. m. to 9 p. m., simultaneous with those taken 
by Mr. Wragge on his ascent and descent. Self-recording thermome- 
ters, spectroscopes, and actinometers and additional rain-gauges have 
been provided. [Nature, June, 1882, xxvi, p. 112.) 

Mr. Wragge has established a subsidiary station at Stafibrd where 
full series of observations will be made at 9 a. m. daily. On the morn- 
ing of July 23 Mr. Wragge found that wanton mischief had been done 
to some of the instruments at the intermediate stations ofltedburu Cross- 
ing, and he appeals to the public to co-operate with the attempt to pre- 
vent such wantonness. [Nature, August, 1882, xxvi, p. 330.) 

The Swedish Government has decided to send a scientific expedition 
to Mossel Bay, for the purpose of collecting meteorological information. 
The expedititJn will be directed by Captain MitJmberg, and will have to 
remain during the summer of 1882 and the winter of 1883 in ortler to 
obtain the observations of the entire vear. Mossel Bav is situated to 



METEOROLOGY. 373 

the north of Si)it/.ber^en, latitude 79° 54', longitude 10° 15' east. The 
locality is well known to the Swedes. Professor ISTordensXiold staid 
there in the winter of 1872 and '73 with three ships. A Swedish man- 
of-war wiil take the expedition to Mossel Bay, nnder the command of 
Ca])tain Palandcr, who, after haviii<>' fixed the special meteorological 
station of Captain Malmberg-, will return to Sweden. {Nature, July, 
1881, XXIV, p. 295.) 

The proposed Physical Observatory in Hong-Kong is, we regret to 
see, still under consideration, notwithstanding Major Palmer's complete 
scheme was in the hands ot the colonial ofQce in 1882. It is to be hoped 
that he may be engaged upon the work before he leaves China. {Na- 
ture, XXVI, p. llo.) 

The Shanghai General Chamber of Commerce has received an elabo- 
rate report from Father de Chevrens, of Zikawei, on the proposed me- 
teorological system for the protection of the Chinese shipping. He 
recommends that the Zikawei Observatory should receive twice daily 
observations telegraphed from Manila, Hong-Kong, Amoy, Tientsin, 
!N"agasaki, and Vladivostock, {Nature, xxv, p. 3G8.) 

Woeikotit' suggests that Chinese typhoon warnings will always be 
unsatisfactory until telegraphic connection is made with Formosa and 
the Loo Choo Islands. {Nature, xxv, p. 410.) 

The Chamber of Commerce at Shanghai has failed to secure the co- 
operation of the Chinese maritim customs in meteorological observa- 
tions on the coast of China, but as the latter, under the inspectorate of 
Sir Robert Hart, has long since promised to establish its own system, we 
may still hope to see that realized. {Nature, xxvi, p. 136.) 

Sir Eobert Hart, inspector-general of Chinese maritime customs, has 
directed that meteorological observations at all Chinese ports be sent 
regularly to Shanghai; we presume that this is part of the meteorolog- 
ical system promised by Mr. Hart at the Vienna Conference in 1874. 
[Nature, XXVI, p. 414.) 

The telegraph line between Shanghai and Pekin — which is the first 
of any length in China — has been opened to traffic, and has already 
found some useful aijplication in the distribution of weather informa. 
tion. 

Maxwell Hall, of Kingston, Jamaica, writes that he is slowly pro- 
gressing in his efforts to establish a proper meteorological system for 
the West Indies. An international system of observation, reports, storm 
warnings, &c., will be fully practicable only when the British colonial 
government takes steps to encourage his labors; meanwhile he is 
elaborating a system of observations for Jamaica that will, he hopes, 
eventually cover the whole isle, and will be found practically useful in 
weather i:)redictions and in the development of special agricultural and 
botanical enterprises. {Nature, xxv, p. 18.) 

The observations made in Iceland for the Scottish Meteorological 
Society by Mr. Thorlacius, show that in that island the mean barometric 



374 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 188':i. 

pressure was remarkably low while the temperature was high during 
the winter of lS81-'82. This mild winter has been followed by a very 
cold summer. A general study of the distribution of pressure and 
temiDerature over Northern Europe during this period has been under- 
taken by Wild. {Nature, xxvi, p. 322.) 

Dr. Steineger, of Norway, has been sent to establish meteorological 
stations on the Eussian side of the Bering Sea. [Professor Wild writes 
that he has also made some effort to procure observations in that re- 
gion. A knowledge of the storms of the North Pacific would seem to 
be. an important desideratum to the United States Signal Service if ever 
it is to make early predictions of the storms that arrive on the Pacific 
coast.] {Nature, xxvi, p. 113.) 

The scientific results of the Jeannette expedition were partially lost, 
but the many important records will, it is believed, be published as a 
part of the proceedings of the Board of Inquiry which has been investi- 
gating all the particulars relating to this expedition and that of the 
Rodgers, which vesselw as sent in search of the former. The Jeannette 
was 20 miles northeast of Herald Island on September 5, 1880, when she 
was frozen in, and for twenty-one months thereafter was drifting towards 
the northwest in the ice-pack. She was lost on June 13, 1882, at 77^"^ 
north and 155° east. {Nature, xxvi, p. 479.) 

The International Meteorological Committee, Messrs. Wild, Scott, 
Buys-Ballot, Cantoui, de Brito Capello, Haun, Mascart, Mohn, Neu- 
mayer, appointed by the Congress of Eome, held its first meeting at the 
Observatory, Berne, from the 9th to the 12th of September, 1880. 
All the members of the committee were present. The committee recom- 
mend that each national meteorological office carry out a comparison of 
its own standard instruments with those of other countries ; it also re- 
commended that all organizations publish regularly the mean values for 
the most important meteorological elements for the telegraphic and in- 
ternational stations. Messrs. Scott and Ilellmanu were appointed to act 
as a committee on publication of a catalogue of meteorological literature, 
the cost of which was estimated at £550 ibr the manuscript and £750 for 
the publication. 3Iessrs. Mascart and Wild were appointed to prepare 
a plan for collecting and publishing numerical tables for the reduction of 
observation^. 

The second meeting of the Internaiional Meteorological Committee took 
place at Copenhagen, August 1, 1882. The following are among the pro- 
ceedings of this meeting: It was rasolved, Jirsf, to organize in London an 
exhibition of storm-warning and other correlated apparatus; second, to 
collect information relative to meteorological observations; third, to re- 
quest precise observations as to the time of rain, &c.', fourth, to request 
that monthly means be published promptly; ./(/YA, to secure observations 
in distant localities; sixth, to encourage the publications of daily weather 
charts of the Atlantic Ocean ; seventh, to recognize the importance of 
weather telegrams from Iceland and the Faroe Islands; eighth, to publish 



METEOROLOGY. 375 

the international reduction tables ; ninth, to draw up a scheme of instruc- 
tions for the observation of cirrus clouds; tenth, to invite different nations 
to prepare catalogues of the meteorological literature of the respective 
countries. {Nature, xxvi, p. 370.) 

Lieutenant-Colonel Donnelly, 11. E., made some introductory historical 
remarks to Professor Stokes's first lecture of April, 1881, at the South 
Kensington Museum, which was the first of the series, from which we 
extract the following: 

" It has been considered desirable that some explanation be given of 
what has led to the formation of this Committee on Solar Physics, and 
what has led to the giving of these lectures. 

" Our history commences in the year 1875, when the Eoyal Commis- 
sion on Scientific Instruction and the Advancement of Science made 
their eighth and final report, strongly recommending the establishment 
by the state of an observatory for solar physics. 

'' In 1876 a very large and influential deputation from the British Asso- 
ciation had an interview with the then lord president of the council, the 
Duke of Richmond and Gordon, with the view of urging on the Govern 
ment the necessity of taking action on this and other recommendations 
of the royal commission. 

" The representation by the council of the British Association was fol- 
lowed by a memorial from a number of eminent men of science. It was 
4mder those circumstances that the lords of the committee of the Council 
of Education, in August, 1877, referred the question to Professor Stokes, 
Professor Balfour Stewart, and General Strachey, for their opinion as 
to whether a start could not be made by utilizing the advantages offered 
'V the laboratories at South Kensington. 

''Just at that particular time the Indian Government had made arrange- 
ments for having daily photographs taken of the sun's disk at Dehra-Doon, 
in the ^STorthwest Provinces, by Mr. Meins, who, while he was sapper in 
the Eoyal Engineers, had been trained by Mr. Lockyer. The corbmittee 
of three, already referred to, reported at the end of 1877, and they state 
what, in their opinion, may be done at once and without entailing any 
serious cost. The report is published in the Parliamentary paper of 
March 20, 1879. Nothing, however, was done at that time, and in S^o- 
vember, 1878, the Duke of Devonshire, as chairman of the Royal Com- 
mission on Scientific Instruction and the Advancement of Science, wrote 
again, calling attention to the subject and strongly urging that the 
reportof this committee should beacted upon. In 1879asmall sum, £500, 
was taken in the estimates for the expenses of the Committee on Solar 
Physics, and this has been continued ever since. As soon as that vote 
had been put in the estimates with the sanction of the treasury a com- 
mittee was formed, consisting of the gentlemen already mentioned, 
namely, Professor Stokes, Professor Balfour Stewart, and General 
Strachey, to whom were added Mr. ISTorman Lockyer, Captain Abney, 
and Colonel Dounellj^, R. E. This committee make annual reports to 



376 SCIENTIFIC BECORD FOR 1882. 

both houses of Pailiaraent, collect and reduce the solar observations 
commenced bj; Mr. Meins in India, and report on all items relatingto this 
subject. They also have inaugurated the present course of lectures on 
Solar Physics." {Nature, October 20, 1881, xxiv, p. 594.) 

At the annual meeting of the Meteorological Society, London, January 
18, 1882, the secretary reported the society in a remarkably flourisliing 
condition : the number of active fellows was 555, the annual receipts 
£840 (sterling) and expenditure £197 (sterling) ; number of meteoro- 
logical stations maintained, 83, the observations of which are regularly 
published in the record. The president for the succeeding year is J. 
K. Laughton. The society has published instructions to observers and 
an index to the jmblications of English meteorological societies. [Kafure, 
XXV, p. 307.) 

Mr. G. J. Symons, president of the Meteorological Society of London 
in his annual address traced the history of English meteorological 
societies from 1723 to 1880. The earliest English effort at forming an 
English meteorological society, or at any rate securing observations 
made with comparable instruments, recorded upon a uniform system, 
was made in 1723, by Dr. James Jurin, then secretary to the Royal 
Society. In a Latin address made that year by Dr. Jurin, he antici- 
pated nearly all the conditions which are now considered essential for 
comparable observations. This appeal did not lead to much being done, 
and in 1744 another attempt was made by Mr. Eoger Pickering, F. P. S., 
who read before the Royal Society a paper entitled "Scheme of a diary 
of the weather, together with drafts and descriptions of machines sub- 
servient thereunto." The Meteorological Society of the Palatinate was 
established in 1780 under the auspices of the Elector Charles Theodore, 
who not only gave it the support of his public patronage but entered 
with spirit and ability into its pursuits and furnished it with the means 
of defraying the expense of instruments of the best construction, which 
were gratuitously disiributed over Europe and even to America. One 
of the first acts of the association was to Avrite to all the principal uni- 
versities, scientific academies, and colleges, soliciting their co-operation 
and offering to present them with all the necessary instruments, projierly 
verified by standards and free of expense. The offer was accepted by 
thirty societies, and the list of distinguished men who undertook to 
make the observations shows the importance which was attached to the 
plan and the zeal with which it was promoted in every part of the con- 
tinent. In 1823 the first meeting of the Meteorological Society of Lou- 
don was held, and was attended by Luke Howard, Thomas Foster, Dr. 
Birbeck, and others. After 1824 the society languished but was never 
regularly dissolved. Owing to several letters and articles which ap- 
peared in Loudon's Magazine of Natural History, a meeting was held on 
Xovember 15, 183G, at which the society was revived, W. H. White 
appointed secretary, and regular meetings resumed. Application was 
made to the Royal Society for permission to compare the instruments 



ilETKOROLOGY. 377 

of the society with the Royal Society's standards, and leave was granted 
March 13, 1838. A vokime of Transactions was intblished in 1839, and 
among other articles contains one entitled "Kemarks on tlie present 
state of meteorological science, by John i.nskin." The cost of the pnb- 
lication of this volume exhausted the funds of the society, but in 1841 
Mr. Gutch undertook personally the pecuniary risk of a new publica- 
tion entitled the Quarterly Journal of Meteorology ; bur this does not ap- 
pear to have been very successful owing to the high rate of postage. 
Shortly after this the society practicalh* came to an end. On April 3, 
1850, a meeting of some friends of the science was convened by Dr. Lee, 
at Hartwell, when the "British Meteorological Society" was established, 
and Mr. S. C. Whitbread elected president. The first general meeting 
of the members was not held till IMarch 25, 1851, but in the meanwhile 
several important steps had been taken by the council. Annual reports 
were published from 1851 to 18GI, and since then five volumes of the 
Proceedings and six volumes of the Quarterly Journal have been pub- 
lished. Up to 1858 nothing had been done towards forming a library, 
but in 1862 a catalogue was published containing about 200 titles. In 
1876 a new catalogue was issued, which extends to 80 pages and con- 
tains over 1,200 entries. On January 27, 1866, the society obtained a 
royal charter of incorporation, and has since been known as the "Mete- 
orological Society." On April 4, 1872, the council resolved upon taking 
a room for an oflBce and for the protection of the library-, and appointed 
Mr. Mariott as their assistant secretary. The subsequent eight years 
have been characterized by great progress, A series of second-order 
stations has been organized, which are systematically inspected and at 
which strictly comparable observations are made. On January 1, 1880, 
another and larger series of stations, called climatological, was started, 
at which the observations are less onerous than those at the second- 
order stations, but at which they are required to be equally accurate. 
Observations on natural periodical phenomena are also made at many 
places, and discussed yearly by the Rev. T. A. Preston. 

At the request of the society a conference has been appointed, con- 
sisting of delegates from several other societies, to prepare accurate 
instructions respecting the erection of lightning-conductors. {NaturCf 
January 27, 1881, xxiii, p. 307.) 

Prof. W. Forster, the director of the Berlin Observatory, made an 
interesting communication to the Geographical Society of Berlin re- 
garding one of the most important tasks of travelers in unknown 
regions, i. e., the exact determination of latitude, longitude, and eleva- 
tion above sea-level. In several of the results of recent German 
expeditions serious errors in this regard were detected. Professor 
Forster stated that the Berlin Observatory staff" would shortly be in a 
position to undertake the practical and theoretical instruction of trav- 
elers and to superintend the selection, testing, and packing of the neces- 



378 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

sary scientific instruments for the various expeditions before starting. 
{Nature, March 3, 1881, xxiii, p. 420.) 

A meteorological observatory lias been erected at Portau-Priuce, 
Hayti, under the care of Rev. Father Wick, on ground granted by 
the state. It is an octagon of two stories and a platform. Besides 
the indispensable instrument it has electric clocks (for communicating 
time to clocks outside), telephones, microphones, phonograjihs, radiom- 
eters, &c. [Nature, March 31, 1881, xxiii, p. 516.) 

A meteorological conference was held at Sydney in November, 1879, 
the representatives of the different colonies being Messrs. James Hec- 
tor, of New Zealand, Charles Todd, of South Australia, E. L. J. EUery, 
of Victoria, and H. C Eussell of New South Wales. The whole ques- 
tion of weather telegrams was under consideration. The system then 
in operation embraced only the colonies of South Australia, Victoria, 
New South Wales, and Queensland, but a resolution was passed declar- 
ing it desirable to secure the co-operation of the Governments of West- 
ern Australia, Tasmania, and New Zealand in the system of intercolonial 
weather telegrams. The conference voted that weather telegrams and 
forecasts shall in all cases depend ui)on the observations used for gen- 
eral meteorological and cliinatological statistics. Much emphasis was 
laid on the establishment of high-level stations with a more special view 
to the investigation of the winds, and the conference recommended that 
there be established in each of the colonies, upon a high mountain ])eak, 
a meteorological observatory for the special study of winds and other 
meteorological phenomena. (Nature, xxii, p. IGO.) 

Prof. Sophus Tromholt, of Bergen, Norway, writes that in order to 
get nearer, if possible, to the unraveling of the mysteries of the au- 
rora borealis, he has in the course of the last two years endeavored to 
procure a greater number of observations of this phenomenon in Nor- 
way, Sweden, and Denmark. He has succeeded in engaging through- 
out the above-named countries several hundreds of observers, who, led 
only by scientific interest, have given him their assistance, and from whom 
he has already received a considerable amount of information. These 
observations are to be continued, as there is reason to suppose tliat the 
aurora borealis in the near future "will appear much more frequently 
than has been the case during the last years. Finland and Iceland will 
also now be drawn within the circle, and it would be most desirable that 
similar observations were made also in Great Britain, which country, 
especially in the maximum years of the appearance of the aurora bore- 
alis, certainly would yield characteristic contributions in this respect. 
He therefore invites friends of science to make such observations in 
accordance with the system which he has introduced in Scandina\ia. 
A schedule for recording observations, along with the necessary instruc- 
tions, will be sent to any one who desires them. {Nature, xxii, j). 192.) 

Miss Pogson has been appointed meteorological reporter to the gov- 
ernment of the Madras Presidency, India. 



METEOROLOGY. 379^ 

The German Governnieut has beeu requested by many eminent hydrol- 
ogists to estabhsh a hydrological " Eeiche-Centralstelle." They con- 
sider hydrological researches extending over the whole empire neces- 
sary for the general welfare, with regard to the general utilization of 
water and for the general protection of arable lands against floods and 
inundations. As these researches would necessarily often be combined 
with meteorological observations, it is proposed to connect the Hyc\ro- 
logical Oflice with the Meteorological Central Office. The work would 
have to be done principally by hydrologists and meteorologists, but 
the staff would have to comprise geologists, agriculturists, and forest- 
rangers. {Nature, July 21, 1881, Vol. xxiv, p. 265.) 

Sir G. B. Airy, in his annual report, June 4, 1881, reviews the rela- 
tion of Greenwich Observatory to meteorology, navigation, and the sub- 
jects in which he has taken an interest as bearing on navigation. The 
self recording apparatus of the observatory has all been altered, so that 
the time scales are uniform throughout. The earth-current register on 
ordinary telegraph lines indicates the existence of numerous petty fluctu- 
ations that almost completely mask the jiroper feature of earth currents. 
The photographic records of currents on buried lines continue to be 
maintained with regularity. A new pressure plate has been supplied to 
the Osier anemometer. Campbell's sunshine recorder has continued in 
action during. this its fifth complete year. The discussion of the elec- 
trometer results for 1879 shows that on days of magnetic disturbance, 
when aurora is visible, nothing unusual is shown by this instrument. 
The greatest electric disturbances are observed in showery weather and 
during thunder-storms. The Greenwich and Deal time-balls are dropped 
regularly at 1 p. m., and an hourly bell to be established at The Start is 
urged. [Nature, June 9, 1881, xxiv, p. 128.) 

The first annual report of Mr. Christie, Astronomer Eoyal, June 8, 
1882, shows that these observations are kept up as usual. {Nature, 
XXV, p. 140.) 

The voluntary retirement of Sir G. B. Airy, in the eightieth year of 
his age, and the appointment of Mr. Christie to the directorship of the 
Eoyal Observatory will not materially affect the maintenance of the 
long series of magnetic and meteorological observations conducted at 
Greenwich. 

The Algerian system of meteorological observations extends to forty- 
eight stations, of which thirty-six send daily reports by telegraph. Storm 
warnings are sent from the central station to twelve sea-coast stations. 
The office is under the control of military engineers, and is independent 
of the French Bureau at Paris. {Nature, xxv, p. 492.) 

The London Meteorological Council have taken every practicable step 
to obtain the largest possible number of meteorological observations 
from the North Atlantic Ocean during the years 1882 and 1883. Their 
circular inviting these observations states that they propose to prepare 
daily weather charts similar to (but possibly more elaborate than) those 



380 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1S82. 

that have for some years been published by the Army Sigual Office. 
As the latter office has received reports from about 500 vessels, it is 
evident that the proposed work of the London office is one of no small 
magnitude. We bope that it may give a great stimnlus to meteorolog- 
ical observations at sea. {Nature, xxv, p. 606.) 

Mr. Cruls, temporarily director of the observatory at Eio Janeiro, 
has established the publication of the astronomical bulletin of that ob- 
servatory. He has also established a time-ball similar to that at Green- 
wich. {Nature, xxvi, p. 352.) 

A great international fisheries exhibition will be held in London, at 
the Gardens of the Eoyal Horticultural Society, in 1883. At the Copen- 
hagen meeting of the International Meteorological Committee it was 
resolved to invite the weather bureaus of all countries to contribute at 
the same time towards a complete display of all systems of forecasting 
weather and forewarning of storms, and of whatever else in their work 
seemed to bear upon the fishing industries. {Nature, Vol. xxvi,p. 480.) 

Bischoffsheim, the member of the French Deputies for Nice, liaving 
built a fine observatory near that city, on Mont Gros, at an altitude of 
about 1,000 feet, and within a park of 80 acres, has appointed Perrotin 
director of the observatory, Carvallo assistant director, and Puiseux 
in charge of meteorologic and magnetic observations. The observa- 
tory will be under the general charge of the Bureau of Longitudes, its 
entire cost and endowment having been donated by the munificent 
banker. 

The French departmental meteorological commissions hold an annual 
meeting under the presidency of the minister ot iiublic instruction. 
At the meeting of April 18, 1882, it was announced that the Central 
Bureau receives daily 97 telegrams from foreign parts and 52 from 
France. Five maps are drawn in the morning and three in the evening ; 
warnings are sent by telegraph to aid agricultural and maritime districts; 
82 per cent, of verifications are claimed. {Nature, xxi, p. 593.) 

A geographical association was established in 1882 at Jena, under 
the presidency of Dr. E. E. Schmid. 

At the annual distribution of prizes by the Paris Academy of Sciences, 
February 6, 1882, the prize of 5,000 francs was awarded to Brault for 
his studies in marine meteorology. 

The Eoyal Agricultural and Commercial Society of British Guiana 
proposes to publish meteorological information in its journal, edited by 
Mr. E. F. Im-Thurn. It is to be earnestly hoped that the meteorology of 
this interesting part of the world may be more thoroughly studied. {Na- 
ture, xxv, p. 419.) 

Neumayer and Buys-Ballot have respectively received gold medals 
from the Dutch Society of Sciences at Harlem for eminent services in 
meteorology. Among the prize subjects announced by this society for 
the year 1883 are the mariner's compass, the ditfusion of light, the con- 



METEOROLOGY. 381 

deusation of gases on solid siibstauces, and electric discLarge iu laivtied 
gases. {Nature, xx.^^ I, p. 510.) 

Sir Cbarles Wyville Thomson, born 1830, Man;b 5, at Liulitbgow, 
Scotland, died Marcli 10, 1882, atLdinburgb, specially known to meteor- 
ologists by his great contribntions to our knowledge of ocean temi)era- 
tures, depths, and currents. {Nature, xxv, p. 4G7.) 

Thomas Eomney Eobinson, D. D., born in Dublui, April 23, 1792, died 
at Armagh, March 7, 1882. In 1824 Dr. Robinson was appointed «li- 
rector of the Armagh Observatory, and has long been the oldest liv- 
ing English astronomer. In meteorology he is especially kux)wn by his 
invention and theory of the hemispherical cup or Eobinson anemometer. 
{Nature, xxv, p. 408.) 

Mr. J. L. E. Dreyer, formerly of the Duusink Observatory, has been 
appointed to succeed Dr. Eobinson. 

Prof. W. B. Eogers, president of the Massachusetts Institute of Tech- 
nology, born in Philadelphia, December, 1805, died suddenly in Boston, 
May 30, 1882. Although especially active in geology, yet of late years 
the whole range of physical sciences were enriched by his remarkably 
lucid presentations. {Nature, xxvi, p. 182.) 

Prof. Dr. J. C. F. Zollner, born November 8, 1834, at Berlin, died iu 
1882 at Leipsic. His papers on celestial photometry and spectroscopy 
of the solar prominences have important bearings on meteorology. 
During recent years he is said to have had almost entirely confined his 
attention to non-scientific subjects. {Nature, xxvi, p. 88.) 

Dr. P. A. Bergsma, well known by the important and meteorological 
work that he has for the past fifteen years carried on as director of the 
Observatory of Batavia, was returning to Holland, where he was to 
have been settled in an important scientific position when, u»fortu- 
nately for science, on the way through the Eed Sea he died on May 1, 
1882. 

Mr. Scott Eussell, the eminent engineer, died on Thursday, June 8, 
1882, in London, iu the seventy-fifth year of his age. Beside his im- 
portant work in engineering he is especially known to physicists by 
his researches upon weaves and wave-motions, the resistance of moving- 
water, &c. {Nature, xxYl, p. 159.) 

J. A. Gautier, born in 1792 died December, 1881, at the age of eighty- 
nine. Gautier was the Nestor in the scientific circles of Switzerland, 
and has been long known as a worker in ajstronomj' and terrestrial 
magnetism. 

Dr. Isaac I. Hayes, well known by his meteorological observations 
in the Arctic seas, died December 18, 1881, in New York City. 

Eobert Mallet, born in Dublin June 30, 1810, died November 5, 1881. 
Besides his numerous valuable improvements in departments of engi- 
neering, he has made his name famous by his labors in terrestrial physics, 
especially in whatever related to earthquake phenomena and volcanic 
energy. 



382 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Prof. Jolin William Draper, born in En/^^Iand May 5, 1811, died in 
New York January 4, 1882; best known by his scientific work in acti- 
nometry and by bis valuable historical and medical works. 

Prof. E. Plantamour, born in Geneva in 1815, died September 7, 1882, 
Beside his extensive works in astronomy and geodesy, pendulum, &c.y 
he will always be remembered in meteorology for his contributions to 
barometric hypsometry. {Nature, xxvi, p. 505.) 

The death is announced, in July, 1882, of G. C. Brauer, for a long 
time mechanician to the Pulkova Observatory, and latterly, also, to the 
Central Physical Observatory. Kussiau astronomers and physicists 
have greatly profited by his remarkable ability in the construction of 
scientific instruments. 

Liitke, the well-known Eussian navigator and explorer, born at St. 
Petersburg September 20, 1797, died August, 188!?. His explorations 
of the coast of ISTova Zembla, J 821 to 1824, and his voyage around the 
world, 1826 to 1828, in which Lenz was the chief of the scientific staif, 
gave him a prominent i)osition in the geographical world. {Nature^ 
XXVI, p. 447.) 

Giffard, born in 1825, died April, 1882. This eminent French engi- 
neer is known the world over as the inventor of the famous injector, and 
to meteorologists by his construction of the great captive balloon at 
Paris and its utilization for meteorological observations. {Nature, xxi^ 
p. 591.) 

The Eev. Humphrey Lloyd, D. D., provost of Trinity College, Dub- 
lin, died on the 17th of June, 1881, at the age of eighty-one years. Dr. 
Lloyd's contributions to scientific literature have been many and im- 
portant. His father had been provost before him, and his own life has 
been equally divided between devotion to science (1824 to 1862) and to 
education (1862 to 1881). Optics, magnetism, and meteorology have all 
been advanced by his labors. In company with Sir John Herschel he 
succeeded in carrying out the desire of the British Association for the 
Advancement of Science, that tke British Government should carry on 
magnetic and meteorologic observations throughout the globe. {Nature^ 
January 20, 1881, xxiii, pp. 275 and 292.) 

IL — a General treatises; & History; c Climate. 

The second edition of Thomson and Tait's Treatise on Natural Phi- 
losophy, Vol. I, Parts I and II, is in the press; so also a volume of 
mathematical and physical papers, by Sir William Thomson, relating 
especially to thermodynamics and to be followed soon by other vol- 
umes. The second and third volumes of Professor Stokes' mathemati- 
cal and physical papers are also nearly completed. {Nature, xxv, p. 613.) 

Professor Oberbeck publishes in Wiedeman's Annalen a memoir on the 
motions of the atmosphere on the surface of the earth, in which the most 
recent principles of aero-dynamics find full application. This work m 



METEOROLOGY. 385 

therefore virtually an extension of Ferrel's well-known memoirs, in which 
latter only the simpler mathematical principles are involved. 

E. D. Archibald furnishes English readers with a highly appreciative 
review of the important meteorological researches of Prof. William Fer- 
rel. He finds that Ferret's results are in every way confirmed by the 
statistical works of Ley, Meldrum, and others. Viewing the work as a 
whole, he says : " The author may be congratulated on having presented 
to the world a memoir of such luminous research. When we compare 
his work with the numerous crude treatises and h,ypotheses evolved dur- 
ing the past half century we feel a deep sense of relief at finding the 
question dealt with by a mathematician of ability." [Nature^ xxvi, pp. 
8 and 33.) 

Chevreul communicates to the Paris Academy of Sciences evidence 
that General Joseph Hubert, the friend and successor of Poivre in the 
island of E^uuion, recognized as early as 1788 (some ten years before 
German and English savants) the gyratory character of cyclones. In 
1818 Hubert got the complete and correct formula expressing their 
double motion of gyration and translation (several years before Dove). 
{Mature, xxvi, p. 496.) 

Bjerknes, of Christiania, after devoting fifteen years to the mathe- 
matical theory of the mutual action of vibrating bodies immersed in a 
liquid, has been able to so completely master the subject as to devise 
apparatus that perfectly exemplifies his theoretical results, and shows 
that the action of such vibrating planes and spheres upon the surround- 
ing incompressible fluid reproduces nearly all the phenomena of mag- 
netic and electrical attraction, diamagnetism, and magneto-induction. 
His apparatus was shown at the Paris electrical exhibition, 1881, and is 
well illustrated in Nature, xxv, p. 272. 

A recent number of the Japan Gazette contains a translation of a 
work written in 1821, entitled " Ideas about Heaven and Earth," which is 
essentially an exposition of Japanese ideas on meteorology. Of course 
this is mostly of the nature of the most primitive philosophy, and it is 
said that the work represents the ideas of educated Japanese fifty years 
ago, but that the present generation has entirely outgrown them. {Na- 
ture, XXVI, p. 15.) 

Amoug the bibliographical works we notice a complete index of works 
and papers published by different members of the Bohemian Associa- 
tion at Prague. This valuable work is published in the tuinual reports 
of the society. {Nature, xxvi, p. 165.) 

Piazzi Smyth communicates to the Royal Society of Edinburgh a pa- 
per on the meteorology of Madeira. The humidity at Madeira is traced 
by him to the influence of the Gulf Stream. Observations with the 
psychrometer and spectroscope prove the climate of Madeira to be re- 
markably humid. {Nature, xxvi, pp. 47, 48.) This subject is. further 
elaborated in his littie volume, "Madeira Meteorology." 



384 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Among recent climatological changes perhaps none are more interest- 
ing than the conclusion of Dr. Lenz with reference to the African Sa- 
hara, which region Dr. Lenz explored in 1880. The northern portion of 
the Sahara is a plateau, 1,200 feet high, consisting of horizontal Devonian 
strata. South of this are depressions 400 feet above sea-level, but the 
remainder of the desert is 800 or 900 feet high. Evidences were fre- 
quently seen of the ancient fertility and population of the desert. Dur- 
ing his forty-three days' travel through the Sahara, Dr. Lenz observed 
that the temperature was not excessive; it usually was from 34° to 
30° C, and only in the Igidi region it reached 45°. The wind blew 
mostly from northwest, and it was only south of Taudeni that the trav- 
eler experienced the hot south winds (edrash) of the desert. As to the 
theory of northeastern trade-winds being the cause of the formation 
of the desert. Dr. Lenz remarks that he never observed such a wind, 
nor did his men; it must be stopped by the hilly tracts of the north. 
Another imjjortaut remark of Dr. Lenz is what he makes with respect 
to the frequent description of the Sahara as a sea-bed. Of course it was 
under the sea, but during the Devonian, Cretaceous, and Tertiary periods. 
As to the sand which covers it now, it has nothing to do with the sea; 
it is the product of destruction of sandstones by atmospheric agencies. 
Northern Africa was not always a desert, and the causes for its being 
so now must be sought for, not in geological but meteorological influ- 
ences. {Nature, XXV, p. 211.) 

Dr. r. Augustin communicates to Sitzungsherichte a paper on the cli- 
mate of Prague, being a summary of meteorological observations made 
since 1840, and also a paper on the influence of cloudiness on the diurnal 
march of temj)erature at that station. The average temperatures are 
for winter, — 0^.56 C; for spring, 8°.71; for summer, lOo.Ol; for autumn, 
QO.GO; for the year, 9o.l8. {Nature, xxvi, p. 165.) 

The London Meteorological OfiBce has published a volume of charts 
on the meteorology of the ocean in the neighborhood of the Cape of Good 
Hope. These charts, among other things, show by means of Galton's 
wind rose the j)robability for any particular ])lace and season of a wind 
from any point of the com])asts. Li coml)ining the wind observations, 
an attempt has been made to allow for the tendency of the marine ob- 
servers to overestimate adveise winds. The charts show in an inter- 
esting manner the intermingling of hot and <,'old water currents in that 
jjortion of the ocean. {Nature, xxv, p. 140.) 

From seven and a half years' observation at Alexandria, Egypt, the 
following summary of its climatological features is derived. Atmos- 
pheric presisure is remarkably steady, the annual range being three- 
tenths of an inch. During the winter months, northerly and southerly 
winds are almost equally frequent, but during the summer months 
northerly. The lowest relative humidity occurs during winter, and the 
maximum in July; but the average cloudiness is a maximum, namely, 
0.4 in winter, with a minimum of 0.1 in summer. The minimum tern- 



METEOROLOGT. 385 

perature is 58<^ in January, and the maximum 79° in August. The mean 
annual rainfall is 8.12 inches. During these seven and a half years, on 
thirteen occasions the rainfall for one day exceeded an inch. On ad- 
vancing from the Mediterranean southward into the interior the rainfall 
becomes less, the air becomes drier and the sky clearer, the sun's heat 
stronger, the nights cooler. {Nature^ xxvi, p. 339.) 

In reference to oceanic influences upon climate, Eev. Samuel Haugh- 
tou writes : 

"The Gulf Stream of the North Atlantic, so far from 'feuding off' 
imaginary cold-water streams from the polar regions, is the cause of 
their existence. If there were no Gulf Stream, there could be no Labra- 
dor current of cold water running south. The same statement is true 
of the Kuro-Siwo of the North Pacific, of the Brazilian current of the 
South Atlantic, and of the Mozambique current of the Indian Ocean. 

"If the globe were covered with water, or in the conditiou of an archi- 
pelago, pretty uniformly distributed, there would be no exchange be- 
tween the tropics and the poles, and consequently no effect upon climate. 
Within the tropics there would be a broad, slow current of warm water 
moving from east to west, and producing no effect upon climate. In 
the temperate zones there would be in the northern hemisphere a feeble 
interchange of southwesterly and northeasterly currents, and in the 
southern hemisphere a similar interchange of northwesterly and south- 
easterly currents, both incapable of affecting climate to any sensible 
degree. 

"If a north and south barrier be constructed to the westward of a 
locality like the west of Europe, such a barrier as North and South 
America affords, a gulf stream is at once formed and a corresponding 
Labrador current running in the opposite direction. The effect of the 
Gulf Stream is to raise the temperature of the west of Europe to its 
maximum, and the effect of the Labrador current is to depress the tem- 
perature of the east coast of North America to its minimum. 

"It is impossible to suggest any rearrangement of land and water 
which shall sensibly raise the temperature of the west of Europe or sensi- 
bly depress the temperature of the east of North America.''^ [Nature, 1880, 
xxiii, pp. 98, 99.) 

In reviewing the daily simultaneous weather maps of the northern 
hemisphere and the accompanying monthly means, as published by the 
Army Signal Office, Nature says: "The questions which a perusal of 
these maps raises are of the first importance, whether we consider the 
atmospheric changes they disclose, these being repeatedly so vast as to 
stretch across four continents at one time, besides being often profoundly 
interesting from their influence on the food supplies and the commercial 
intercourse of nations, or the large problems hereby presented, with 
hints toward their solution, which underlie physical geography, climat- 
ology, and other branches of atmospheric physics. We have thus had 
shown us from month to month, in a way not hitherto possible, the great 
n. Mis. 26 25 



386 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

atmospheric changes by oceans and continents, including the important 
parts played in bringing about these changes by mountain ranges, ex- 
tensive plateaus, and i)hysically "well defined river basins. Much yet, 
however, remains to be done, princijially by extending the net-work of 
observation in order that the weather-maps may show, in an approxi- 
mately adequate manner, the meteorology also of the North Pacific and 
southern hemisphere. Till this be done many fundamental questions 
cannot be discussed, such as the inter-relations of the diiferent conti- 
nents and oceans of the globe in their bearings on successive meteoro- 
logical changes; and the important inquiry as to whether the pressure 
of the earth's atmosphere be practically a constant from month to month, 
and if not, what are the conditions or forces on which the observed dif- 
ferences depend. For the bringing of this great international work to 
so happy consummation we look with confidence to the War Depart- 
ment of the United States, since this implies no more than a continuance 
of the same energy and enlightened liberality that have won for the 
Americans their position in meteorology." {Nature^ 1880, xxiii, p. 40.) 

III. — a Aeronautics : h Barometers ; c Thermometers ; d Ane- 
mometers ; e Miscellaneous apparatus and methods. 

On September 1, 1881, an Aeronautical Society was founded at Berlin, 
under the presidency of Dr. William Augerstein. 

Mouchez has proposed to undertake meteorological observations at 
an elevation of over one mile by means of a captive balloon, in connec- 
tion with the investigation of atmospheric refraction. {Nature^ xxv, 
p. 137.) 

According to Nature, xxv, p. 565, this project has been given up, but 
the captive balloon will be established at the Mont Souris Meteorolog- 
ical Observatory. 

The British War Office is systematically experimenting with a view 
to improvements in the application of the balloon to military operations, 
and has also offered to co-operate with the meteorological office in the 
utilization of its ascensions for the study of the atmosphere. 

The celebrated American aeronaut, S. A. King, has lately made sev- 
eral instructive voyages, notably one in which the Signal Service took 
part wherein the balloon lay becalmed for twelve hours. It is very 
desirable that such work should be more systematically carried on. 
{Nature, xxiii, p. 113.) 

A special department of aeronautics has been established in the En- 
gineers and Architects' Union at Vienna. The application of aeronautics 
to meteorological study is esi;)ecially cultivated. {Nature, xxiii, p. 232.) 

The aeronautic organization in the French army display their system 
of captive balloons, for signaling, reconnoitering, and photographing 
at the fetes in Paris in September, 1882. The Paris Academy of Aero- 
station also made a full trial of their system of aerial panoramic pho- 
tography. {Nature, xxvi, \), 482.) 



METEOEOLOGY. 387 

Some of the results of the observations made from the two balloons 
sent up from the Crystal Palace, London, on Thursday, October 21^ 
1880, are as follows : The direction of the wind was remarkably steady, 
as during the run the two balloons were constantly kept in view of each 
other in spite of the want of light and of aerial transparency. This result 
is all the more to be noted that the variations in the altitude of the two 
balloons were frequent and considerable, 10 to 5,000 feet. The varia- 
tion of temperature did not amount to more than 5° C. between the 
maximum of the readings and their minimum. A peculiar current was 
observed just on arriving on the coast, which is usual under such cir- 
cumstances. The composition of the clouds was very complex. First a 
layer of transparent fog covered almost the whole of the land and gave 
a watery appearance to it ; second, cumuli described as analogous to 
pulled bread were floating at a height of 1,000 meters and descended 
gradually as the sun was nearing the horizon; and, lastly, a large 
number of parallel strati stretching southwesterly in the direction of 
the sun, and seemingly diverging from it. The velocity of the wind 
was about half a mile per minute, and pretty well determined by ob- 
servers located in one of the two towers of the Crystal Palace. As to 
the prognostication of the route, it was nicely done by Mr. Coxwell, 
who told M. de Fouvielle that he should land between Portsmouth and 
Winchester. A question arose between M. de Fonvielle and Commander 
Cheyne about the bearing, the latter's compass having been reversed 
by an optical illusion, but the azimuth was given with great accuracy^ 
and the uncertainty between the two would not have lasted for a minute 
if the possibility of the error could have been ascertained. The swing- 
ing of the balloon round its axis was sufQcient to prevent the use of a 
new compass designed on purpose for aeronauts. {Nature, xxii, p. 615.) 

M. Jules Godard, the well-known aeronaut, has invented an electrical 
warner; when the balloon is descending an electrical bell is set in 
operation; when it is ascending another bell riugs. This effect is ob- 
tained very simjjly by a valve which is in equilibrium when the balloon 
keeps its level, but is moved by a slight wind. (A similar result is ob- 
tained by the use of the horizontal balanced fan or vane introduced by 
the writer in 1873 and 1881 in balloon ascents* for the Signal Office.) 
[Nature, August, 1881, xxiv, p. 340.) 

M. W. de Fonvielle, editor of VElectricite, and M. Lippmann, one of 
his contributors, made a balloon ascent on July 2, 1881, shortly after 
midnight. The descent took place near Kambouillet, at a quarter past 
five, the distance traversed being 18 kilometers. The ballonists carried 
with them a small Plante accumulator with a special safety electric 
lamp constructed by Trouve, composed of a platinum wire inclosed in a 
glass tube. While the ai)paratus did not weigh more than 1 kilogram, 
it gave sufQcient light for reading the barometer and thermometer, and 
writing notes with accuracy. A special luminous compass for aeronauts 



388 SCIENTIFIC RECOED FOR 1882. 

will be constructed on this plan and sent to the Exhibition of Elec- 
tricity. (Nature, July, 1881, xxiv, p. 225.) 

At the festivities in Paris, 1882, two balloons will ascend connected 
by telephone wires, and it is hoped if such connection can be maintained 
to make interesting observations on sound, wind, electricity, &c. 

One of the greatest velocities recorded in aeronautic voyages is that ex- 
perienced on the trij) of Mr. Joseph Simmons on June 10, who passed 
from England to France, 170 miles, in If hours, or very nearly 100 miles 
per hour. (In 1869 Prof. S. A. King traveled from New York into 
Canada, 400 miles, in 4 hours.) (Nature, xxvi, p. 160.) 

Carlier has made a number of .balloon ascensions in Paris in order to 
test the possibility of steering a balloon by means of a large oar with a 
wooden handle, and weighing altogether about 25 pounds ; the surface 
of the blade of the oar was about 2 square yards, and its efficacy in 
sculling seems incontestable. {Nature, xxvi, p. 17.) 

One of Jordan's glycerine barometers (see Nature, xxi, p. 377) has 
been erected at the office of the London Times, and its records are pub- 
lished daily in that paper. It seems unquestionable that an instrument 
showing like this on a large scale the minute changes in atmospheric 
pressure will be very useful for public use in seaports, collieries, &c. 
{Nature, xxii, p. 614.) 

Professor Kraevitch, of St. Petersburg, exhibited at the annual 
meeting of the Association of Russian Naturalists, 1879, his new self- 
recording barometer, which amplifies 140 times the oscillations of a 
common mercury barometer, and is very sensitive. {Nature, xxii, 
p. 208.) 

Professors Dufour and Amstein describe a simple registering barom- 
eter, now in use in the Meteorological Observatory of Lausanne. It 
depends on displacement of the center of gravity of a glass tube con- 
taining mercury. The form of the tube may be described as that of an 
L leading down to a U by a vertical portion. The lower end is open. 
The tube swings in the plane of its angles on a horizontal axis placed 
above the center of gravity; with increased barometric pressure it 
inclines to the right, with decreased pressure to the left; and these 
movements are recorded by means of a stj^le attached to the U part 
and applied to a moving strip of paper. By a simple contrivance 
the pendulum of the clock is made to impart a slight shock every 
second swing to the tube so as to destroy any adherence of mercury. 
{Nature, xxv, p. 374.) 

Kraevitch has investigated the limit of rarefaction possible to be 
obtained by means of the mercury pumj). He maintains that the tube 
will always remain filled with vapor of mercury and the vapors of the 
desiccating substances, so that it is impossible to obtain the low press- 
ure of 0.00004 as maintained by Mr. Orookes. After a sketch of difter- 
eut air-pumps, he recommends that of Mendelieff. By means of this he 
says "that the elasticity of the permanent gases may be reduced to 



ilETEOROLOGY. 389 

0.0002, but the pressure of the vapor of mercury always remains." {Na- 
tare, xxv, p. 377.) 

At the meeting of the Physical Society, June 23, 1882, Dr. Braun 
exhibited a somewhat modified Huyghens barometer, which had both at 
the upper and the lower meniscus of mercury points for exact measure- 
ment, and which served to measure both the variations and the amount 
of air pressure. {Nature, Vol. xxvi, p. 240.) 

J. T. Brown communicates to Nature an historical summary of the 
various forms of barometer, mercurial and aneroid, including self- regis- 
tering. The various forms which this instrument has assumed during 
the past two hundred years form a very instructing study and should 
receive the attention of tho^e novices who are perpetually inventing 
and patenting the so-called new devices. American literature on this 
subject seems to have been only partially examined by Mr. Brown, as 
we find only very imperfect notices or entire omissions of some well- 
known names. Of foreign names, we especially miss Ernst, Fuess, and 
Wild & Brauer, of St. Petersburg, and especially Mendelieff, whose 
method of isolating all gases that may chance to remain in the vacuum 
chamber seems to us a capital suggestion. (Nature, xxvi, p. 282.) 

In a further communication on his gravity barometer, Mascart states 
that he made a rough trial of his instrument in his journey to Norway. 
He finds that it is easily transportable, and its precision is apparently 
not less than that obtained with the i^endulum. One has merely to 
observe the mercury-level and the temperature, and the installation 
may be done in less than an hour in a hotel room. {Nature, xxvi, p. 616.) 

J. Joly, of Dublin, communicates a description of a barometer record- 
ing by electricity ; the idea being that as the barometer rises and falls 
an electric current passing through a fine wire dipped in the mercury 
will have its potential altered by every change in the height of the 
barometer. {Nature, xxv, p. 560.) 

Hagen makes to the Physical Society at Berlin a report on experiments 
for measuring the vapor-tension of mercury at various temperatures. 
The values given by Eegnault are very unsatisfactory. Hagen's a])- 
paratus consists of a U-shaped tube, by ha\'ing at the lower part along 
straight tube united to it by fusion, while above either branch termi- 
nated in a tube twice bent at a right angle and closed at the lower end. 
By means of a Hagen air-pump this tube-system was gradually evacu- 
ated to a pressure of x^owo oir ™™ mercury, and the long straight tube 
opened under mercury at the lower end. The mercury rose in both 
branches of the U-tube to barometric height. One of the lateral ends 
of the apparatus was now kept constant at 0"^, while the other was first 
cooled to — 42° and then heated to various temperatures. Each time 
the position of the mercury in the two branches was observed with a 
cathetometer, and the difference of their heights gave the vapor-teusiou. 
The values so obtained for the vapor-tension of the mercury were less 
for all temperatures than those given by Eegnault. Thus, e.g., Herr Ha- 



390 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

gen found the tension at 0^ = 0.015"", Eeguault, 0.02 ; at 20^, Hagen, 
0.021, Eegnault, 0.037; at lOOo.Hagen, 0.61, Eegnault, 0.75; at200o, Ha- 
gen, 16, Eegnault, 19.9"™. Though the values now found have no claim to 
absolute accuracy (owing to the difficulty of taking readings with the 
cathetometer through round glass), these exi)eriments at least make 
certain that the Eegnault values for the vapor-tension of mercury, which 
have passed into all text-boohs, are considerably too large. {Nature^ 
XXVI, p. 168.) 

Professor Eucker, in a x)aper "On the calibration of mercurial ther- 
mometers, byBessel's method," stated that the late Mr. Welsh, of Kew 
Observatory, described to the British Association, in 1853, the methods 
which he introduced of making and correcting mercurial thermometers. 
The correction with which the author dealt was that due to the variations 
in the bore of the tube. Mr. Welsh's method of making this correction, 
which is still employed at Kew, is leso theoretically perfect than others, 
and has been unfavorably criticised abroad. The author, in conjunction 
with Professor Thorpe, has recently corrected a number of thermome- 
ters with great care by Bessel's method. One set of three thermometers 
was made for them at Kew and calibrated according to Welsh's method. 
Afterwards the measurements necessary for the application of Bessel's 
method were made by the Kew authorities, the calculations beiug per- 
formed by the author and Professor Thorpe. The Kew thermometers 
werethus subjected to the mostrigorous possible test, and they were able 
to announce that in one instrument the errors left after the application 
of Welsh's method were not greater than four-thousandths of a degree 
centigrade, and in no case did they exceed one-hundredth of a degree. 
As it is impossible to read on these thermometers less than a hundredth 
of a degree with certamty, Welsh's method, as applied at Kew, is prac- 
tically perfect. {Nature, September, 1881, xxvi. p. 467.) 

The alteration of the zero of thermometers after undergoing sudden 
changes of temperature is a well-known i)henomenon, as is also the 
gradual rise in the zero in thermometers during the first few months 
after they have been made. M. Pernet has lately examined tbe ques- 
tion whether the distance between the " boiling point" and the " freez- 
ing point" of a thermometer is constant at all different stages of secular 
alterations in volume of the bulbs, and finds that this is so, provided 
the freezing point be determined immediately after the boiling point. 
On the other hand, if the boiling point be determined and a long inter- 
val elapse before the zero is determined, there is considerable error. 
Sui^pose a thermometer to be (owing to recent heating or to long rest) 
in any particular molecular state. In this state its reading will prob- 
ably be in error ; but this amount (so far as due to the above cause) 
may be ascertained by immediately plunging the thermometer into 
ice, and observing the error of the zero reading. In order that a ther- 
mometer should read rightly at any particular temperature it should be 
exposed for a considerable time to the temperature for which exact 



METEOROLOGY. 391 

measure is desired, or else for a few minutes to a sliglitly higher tem- 
perature. {Nature, July, 1881, xxiv, 294.) 

Mr. Crafts commuuicates to the Paris Academy of Sciences, a i^aper 
on the depression of the zero point of the mercurial thermometer. He 
finds that the greater the interval between the temperature that has 
produced a depression and that at which the thermometers are kept in 
order to raise it again, the slower is the movement j he gives a table 
by which the depression through heating may be estimated. {Nature^ 
XXVI, p. 72.) 

Dr. Leonard Waldu suggests slight changes in the manufacture of 
the Kew standaid thermometers as follows: 

1. The calibrating chamber at the top of the thermometer is now 
made as in the figure, where cal> is the capillary column, which expands 
at a into the calibrating chamber. Instead of being rounded off at d, 
the capillary column is continued a short distance to 1). This causes 
serious inconvenience in the transportation of the instrument, or in its 
calibration, because a small particle of mercury readily detaches itself 
from that in the chamber a, and once in 6, with a cushion of air between 
it and the remainder of the column, nothing but heat will dislodge it. 




It does not require very great skill on the part of the glass-blower 
to form the chamber a by means of the pressure of the mercury itself 
against the walls of the capillary column. The glass-blower, as is per- 
haps well known, can soften the finished tube at a, and while the glass 
is in this condition the gentle application of the flame to the bulb will 
force the mercury into the part at a, and the careful application of both 
flames will then form a pear-shaped cavity of a form which will not 
retain a particle of niercury, and is exceedingly convenient in use. 

2. It is often desirable to hang these thermometers in a comparator 
or other place, and it would facditate this if a glass ring were attached 
to the upper end, as is the case with ordinary chemical thermometers. 
It is observed that the plane of this ring should be parallel to the 
enameling in the tube. 

3. It is often convenient to know the kind of glass used in the tube, 
and the date of filling. Something more exact than the commercial 
name of the glass would be needed in stating the former, but both of 
these particulars might with propriety be engraved on the tube. 
{Nature, June 2, 1881, xxiv, p. 100.) 

H. T. Brown describes a new self-recording thermometer for reading 
the approximate temperature of any region, which is telegraphed to the 
observer by a system of electric connections. {Nature, xxiii, p. 464.) 

The London Meteorological Society, in March, 1882, erected thermom- 
eters at the summit and base of Boston church tower, 270 feet high. 



392 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1882. 

The details of the apparatus are as follows: At the summit one of Dr. 
Siemens's electrical thermometers (kindly placed at the society's dispo- 
sal by Messrs, Siemens, Bros. & Co.), and an ordinary thermometer are 
mounted in a small screen fixed to one of the pinnacles of the tower; 
on the roof of the belfry, which is 170 feet above the ground, a Steven- 
son screen has been mounted, containing maximum, minimum, dry, and 
wet bulb thermometers. In the church-yard another Stevenson screen 
has been fixed containing a similar set of thermometers, for comparison 
with those above. All the thermometers will be read every morning at 
nine o'clock. The electrical thermometer consists of a coil of wire wound 
round a cylindrical piece of wood inclosed in a small brass tube; a third 
wire is joined to one of the wires ; and the three, insulated by gutta-per- 
cha, form a light cable which is brought down to the base of the tower 
and connected to a galvanometer, the terminals of which are in connec- 
tion with the two poles of a six-cell Leclanche galvanic battery. The 
instrument is read by depressing a key, which causes the needle of the 
galvanometer to deflect; a pointer vernier (moving a contact roller upon 
a wire in a circular groove) is then pushed to the right or to the left 
upon a divided scale until the needle remains stationary on the zero 
point, when the electrical resistance of the wire is measured upon the 
scale. The number indicated by the vernier is then read off, and by re- 
ferring to a table of equivalents the actual temperature in degrees of 
Fahrenheit is readily ascertained. Simultaneous readings of the elec- 
trical thermometer at the summit of the tower and of the dry-bulb ther- 
mometer in the church-yard will be made frequently during the day by 
the verger of the church. (iVWwre, xxv, p. 470.) 

Siemens describes the deep-sea electrical thermometer used by the 
Coast Survey in recent researches. This is, he states, a modification of the 
apparatus suggested by himself in 1871 and used by Weiuhold for high 
temperatures in 1873. The observations made with it by the Coast Sur- 
vey in the summer of 1881 have every indication of being more accu- 
rate than those made with the protected Miller-Casella thermometers. 
About five minutes are required to enable the resistance coil to assume 
the temperature of the water surrounding it, and a second period of 
five minutes is needed for adjusting the temperature of the comparison 
coil on deck. (Similar apparatus can of course be used for measuring 
underground temperatures, as has indeed been done by Becquerel at 
Paris.) Siemens's apparatus consists of a coil of silk-covered iron wire 
.15°"° diameter, and about 432 ohms resistance, attached to an insu- 
lated cable by which it can be lowered to the required depth, and con- 
nected so as to form one arm of Wheatstone's bridge. The correspond- 
ing arm of the bridge is formed by a second coil made precisely similar 
to the former one and of equal resistance. This coil is immersed in a 
copper vessel filled with water, and the temperature of the water is 
adjusted by adding iced or hot water until the bridge is balanced. The 
temperature of the water in the vessel is then read by a mercurial ther- 



METEOROLOGY. 393 

mometer, and this will also be the temperature of the resistance coil. 
To avoid the error, which would be otherwise introduced by the leads 
of the resistance coil, the cable was constructed of a double core of in- 
sulated copper wire, protected by twisted galvanized steel wire. One 
of the copper cores was connected to each arm of the bridge, and the 
steel wire served as the return earth connection for both. Sir W. Thom- 
son's marine galvanometer with a mirror and scale was employed to 
determine the balance bridge. (Nature, xxvi, p. 190.) 

Commander Magraphi has invented an improved form of iN'egretti 
and Zambra's deep-sea thermometer, the so-called upset thermometer. 
In this form the straight thermometer tube is retained in jjlace of the 
original siphon shape. The revolving fan of the depth meter ceases its 
action the moment the thermometer is upset. The act of hauling up 
is that which stops the fan and upsets the thermometer. Any number 
of thermometers may be fastened upon the sounding line, and all make 
their record at the same moment when their line is hauled up. {Nature, 
XXVI, p. 15.) 

Professor Tait has made an exhaustive examination of the corrections 
to the deep-sea protected thermometers furnished by Casella to the 
Challenger exploring expedition. These were not wholly protected 
according to the plan proposed by Sir William Thomson, and were 
subject to larger errors than was necessary. Tait says corrections of 
a half degree Fahrenheit per mile may seriously aliect our theories of 
oceanic water circulation, and demands minute investigation. The 
Challenger thermometers were all of the Six pattern, and had both 
maximum and minimum indices, set by means of magnets. Tait also in- 
vestigated two wholly protected thermometers belonging to Sir C. Wy- 
ville Thomson, but whose indices are not easily set for recording. His 
testing apparatus consisted principally of a Frazer cannon, whose avail- 
able interior was 4^ inches diameter and 4 feet long, affording abundant 
room to experiment on several thermometers at once. 

The effect of pressure upon ordinary thermometer tubes is very appre- 
ciable, notwithstanding the relative thickness of the glass sides. A very 
interesting study of the distortion due to pressure is given by him. The 
compression is the same for every portion of the glass tube, but it is 
accompanied by a shear that increases towards the inner surface of the 
tube until the resulting extension disrupts that surface. When a tube 
is exposed to dilation by force from within, the dilation of the walls 
aids the shear. A thin tube is much better able to resist external than 
internal pressure. {Nature, xxv, p. 90.) 

All the thermometers which have large aneurisms have had special 
calculations made for them, but in no case does the correction to be 
applied to the minimum index exceed 0.14° F., or about one-seventh of 
a degree per mile of depth. The appendices to Professor Tait's report 
give every detail of his formulae and observations, and afford data for 



394 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

application to many other problems in thermometry and the measure- 
ment of pressures and of compressibilities. (Nature, xxv, pp. 00-127.) 

Professor Tait found it necessary to determine the pressure within 
his Frazer gun to within a certainty of about 1 per cent., correspond- 
ing to the reading of his thermometers to within 0°.l F. His pressure 
gauge was founded on the principles adopted by Amagat in his measure- 
ments of volumes and pressures of gases, and consisted essentially of a 
small reservoir full of air, the compression of which is measured by the 
amount of mercury forced into the vessel and retained there by a small 
self-acting wedge or triangular pyramid of glass. In his later experi- 
ments the amount of mercury forced into the gauge is shown by the 
chemical action of the mercury upon a thin film of silver with which the 
interior of the tube is coated, and the dissolving of which leaves a per- 
fectly definite record of the distance to which the mercury has advanced. 
Professor Tait says that he is at present engaged in measuring, by 
means of a gauge of this kind, the compression of various gases up to 
pressures of 10 tons to the square inch, or four times those used by Ama- 
gat. Professor Tait finds that no less than five different causes con- 
tribute to produce errors in the Challenger thermometers when tested 
in this apparatus, namely: 1st. The direct effect of external pressure 
upon the exposed part of the thermometer tubes; 2d. The heating of 
the water by compression ; 3d. Heating due to friction within the pum^) ; 
4th. Heating due to the compression of the massive vulcanite slabs em- 
ployed in the mounting of the thermometers; 5th. The temperature 
effect produced by ijressure upon the protecting bulb surrounding the 
true thermometer bulb. This latter is the most difficult of all ; but of 
these four causes which are active in the experimental apparatus, only 
one is present in the actual use of the thermometer in deep-sea sound- 
ing, for in the latter case the heating of the water and the vulcanite by 
compression and pumping is absent. Therefore, as a final conclusion, 
Tait asserts that if the Challenger thermometers had had no aneurisms 
(or enlargements of the bores of the tubes), the amount of corrections 
to be applied to the minimum index would have been somewhat less 
than 0°,5 F. for every ton of pressure or for every mile of depth. 
{Nature, xxv, pp. 90, &c.) 

Michelson describes a very sensitive thermometer, in which the motion 
of a mirror is effected by hardened caoutchouc. {Nature, xxv, p. 615.) 

As a practical application of the diurnal fluctuations of temperatures, 
we note the invention of Biji, who has constructed an apparatus by 
means of which these variations excite thermo-electric currents, which 
in their turn are continually winding up the driving weight or spring 
of a clock. (It may be remarked that this is a pretty clear case of per- 
petual motion, depending for its efficiency principally on the diurnal 
rotations of the earth.) {Nature, xxvi, p. 384.) 

Eev. F. W. Stow describes a new metal screen to replace the Steven- 
sou wooden screen, from which it differs only in the following particulars: 



METEOROLOGY. 395 

1st. It is somewhat larger; 2d. It lias a single set of double ziuc lou- 
vres ; 3d. It is partly closed at the bottom to cut off radiation. [Nature, 
XXVI, p. 215.) 

J. T. Brown has communicated to Nature an historical memoir on 
methods of regulating temperature. Although the methods he enu- 
merates are especially applicable to small masses in the physical lab- 
oratories, yet some of them will find extensive application in testing 
meteorological instruments. {Nature, xxvi, p. 116.) 

Dr. F. D. Brown presents to the Physical Society some notes on ther- 
mometry, apparently executed with the partial assistance of Professor 
Guthrre. He describes a convenient method of calibrating ; he finds 
that a constant zero temiierature is best obtained by a mixture of ice 
and distilled water ; the attention is called to the changing of zeros in 
thermometers in heating. (Nature, xxvi, p. 71.) 

G. M. Eldredge communicates to the Franklin Institute at Philadel- 
l^hia a simple form of thermograph, in which a mercurial thermometer 
having a tube of large bore, the upper end of which is open, records its 
fluctuations by pricks upon a sheet of paper by means of an electro- 
magnet. The entire thermograph differs only in minor details from 
those which have been introduced by Hough and others. {Nature, xxvi, 
p. 163.) 

Riviere has observed the cooling of a i)latiuum wire heated by an 
electric current in dry air within a glass cylinder whose surface is kept 
at a uniform temperature. He finds the formula of Dulong and Petit 
to give too rapid cooling, and that of Rosetti to agree somewhat better 
with the results. {Nature, xxvi, p. 520.) 

Prof. J. M. Crafts communicated a paper to the chemical section of the 
British Association on the use of the hydrogen thermometer ; this is an 
air thermometer of constant volume, in which the air is replaced by 
hydrogen because of the more rapid flow of that gas through a capil- 
lary tube, and because the bulb of the thermometer could be greatly 
reduced in volume. He redetermined the boiling point of mercury as 
357° C., and investigated the boiling i^oiuts of a large number of carbon 
compounds. {Nature, xxvi, p. 466.) 

J. K. Laughton, at the March meeting of the London Meteorological 
Society, gave an exhaustive historical sketch of all kinds of anemome- 
ters known to him. In conclusion, he stated that all forms of anemom- 
eters give very unsatisfactory results, and what we need is not so 
much an improved apparatus as a more thorough investigation of the 
errors and method of action of the best forms of instruments now in 
use. {Nature, xxv, p. 547.) 

Eev. T. R. Robinson, of Armagh, Ireland, has j>ublished results of 
further studies on his anemometer. Two similar instruments were 
established side by side, in one of which the friction was more variable ; 
their revolutions were recorded chronographically. The equation of an 
anemometer's motion is Y^ -{- v^ — 2 V vx — (/ -^ a) = 0. 



396 



SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1382. 



where V is the uukuown velocity of the wind, a and x two constants 
which are to be determined. Each obseirvation gives two equations in 
which there are four unknown quantities, for it is found that the value 
of V changes from one instrument to another ; this is partly owing to 
eddies caused by the buildings, but also in great measure to the irregu- 
larity of the wind itself. It is, however, also found that these wind-differ- 
ences are as likely to have + as — signs, and therefore it may be ex- 
pected that their sum will vanish in a large number of observations. 
The ordinary methods of elimination fail here even to determine with 
precision a single constant, and Dr. Kobinson therefore proceeded by 
approximations. He tried five different types of anemometers, and ob- 
tained very unexpected results, for he found that the x varied as some 
inverse function of the diameter of the cups and the arms. He gives its 
values : 



No. 



Diameter of Eadius of 
cups. I arms. 



Limit. 



Original instrument 
Ke-w pattern 

Do!!!!"!"!!!! 

Do 

Do 



Inches. 
12 
9 
9 
9 
4 
4 



Inches. 
23.17 
24 
12 
8 
26.75 
10.67 



: 1. 5880 
1. 5919 
1.7463 
2. 1488 
1. 8587 
2. 5798 



2.812 
2.831 
3.035 
4. 051 
3.425 
4.958 



!!sro. 6 is similar to !N'o. 2, and it might be expected that their constants 
would be equal. The cause of these differences is partly the eddies 
caused by the cups which are more powerful when the arms are short, 
but still more the presence of high powers of the radii and diameter 
occurring in the expressions of the mean pressures on the concave and 
convex surfaces of the hemispheres. In the present state of hydro- 
dynamics we cannot assign these exi^ressions, but we know enough to 
see that such powers may be present. 

As each type of anemometer has its own constants, the author would 
suggest to meteorologists the propriety of confining themselves to one 
or two forms. For fixed instruments he considers the Kew as good as 
any, and would wish to see it generally adopted. For portable ones 
he has no experience except with Casella's 3-inch cups, 6-inch arms, 
which he found very convenient; he has not, however, determined its 
constants. Some selection of the sort seems necessary if it is wished to 
have a uniform system of wind-measures. {Nature, xxii, p. 404.) 

An unpublished investigation of the accuracy of the Kew anemometers 
was made by IVIessrs. S. Jeffoy and G. IVI. TV hippie about 1S73 at Kew and 
the Crystal Palace. These observations have been discussed by Prof. 
G. G. Stokes, who concludes as follows : 

" 1. That at least for high winds the method for obtaining a factor for 
an anemometer which consists in whirling the instrument in the open 
air is capable, with proper precautions, of yielding very good results. 

"2. That the factor varies materially with the pattern of the anemom- 



METEOKOLOGl. 397 

eter. Among those tried, the anemometers with the larger cups regis- 
tered the most wind, or, in other words, required the lowest factors to 
give a correct result. 

" 3. That with the large Kew pattern, which is the one adopted by the 
Meteorological Office, the register gives about 20 per cent, too much, 
requiring a factor of about 2.5 instead of 3. Even 2.5 is a little too 
high, as friction would be introduced by the centrifugal force beyond 
what occurs in the normal use of the instrument. 

"4. That the factor is probably higher for moderate than for high 
velocities ; but whether this is solely due to friction the experiments 
do not allow us to decide. - - - 

"The problem of tbe anemometer may be stated to be as follows: Let 
the uniform wind with the velocity V act on a cup anemometer of given 
pattern, causing the cups to revolve with a velocity v, referred to the 
center of the cups, the motion of the cups being retarded by a force of 
friction F ; it is required to determine i? as a function of Y and F, F 
having any value from 0, corresponding to the ideal case of a friction- 
less anemometer, to some limit Fi, which is just sufficient to keep the 
cups from turning. I will refer to my appendix to the former of Dr. 
Eobinson's papers {Phil. Trans., 1878, page 818), for the reasons for con- 
cluding that F is equal to V^, multiplied by a function of V4-v. Let 
"T-V- v—^, F -^ v^=f}-) then if we regard c and -q as rectangular co-ordi- 
nates, we have to determine the form of the curve lying within the posi- 
tive quadrant I O^j, which is defined by these co-ordinates. 

"We may regard the problem as included in the more general problem 
of determining i? as a function of Y and F where Y is i)Ositive, but F 
may be of any magnitude and sign, and therefore v also. Xegative 
values of F mean, of course, that the cups, instead of being retarded by 
friction, are acted on by an impelling force, making them go faster than 
iu a frictionless anemometer, and values greater than Fi imply a force 
sufficient to send them around with the concave sides foremost." (Ma- 
ture, July, 1881, xxiY, p. 253.) 

C. E. Burton describes as follows an integrating anemometer that gives 
the quadrantal components of the movement of the wind: "A roller 
with a spherical edge is made to revolve with a velocity proportional to 
that of the wind as recorded on an anemogram. This roller presses on 
a plane table carried by two mutually perpendicular pairs of rails in 
planes parallel to that of the table. The lowest of the pair of rails is 
supported by a frame carried on the extremity of a vertical shaft. The 
point of contact of the roller with the table lies in the prolongation of the 
axis of the shaft. The table can rotate with the shaft, but not inde- 
pendently. By a simple arrangement the shaft and, consequently, the 
table are caused to take up positions corresponding from moment to 
moment with the direction of the wind-record on the anemogram. A 
style concentric with the shaft presses lightly against a compound sheet 
•of tracing and carbonized paper attached to the under side of the table. 



398 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Arrangements are also made for obtaining the sum of the movements 
of the table toward each of the four cardinal points. If the roller be 
moved with a velocity proportional to that of the wind, whether directly 
by a cup anemometer or by a mechanical translation of the trace as 
given by such an instrument, while the table simultaneously assumes 
orientations corresponding to the direction of movement of the air, the 
line drawn by the style will be a miniature copy of the path of an im- 
aginary particle animated by the movements actually belonging to the 
masses of air which successively afi'ect the anemometer at the given 
station during the selected period, rigorously in accordance with the 
principle known as Lambert's." {Nature, October, 1881, xxiy, p. 583.) 

H. S. Hele Shaw and Dr. Wilson have invented a new integrating 
anemometer. An ordinary Robinson's cup anemometer is used to drive 
a train of wheels, and thus ultimately a serrated roller, which moves a 
board in the direction of, and with a velocity proportional to, that of the 
wind. On the board, which is horizontal and about two feet square, is 
placed a sheet of paper, upon which the roller presses, and in turning 
leaves the required trace, at the same time moving the paper underneath 
it. The board is prevented from having a rotary motion by means of a 
j)air of frames, the upper moving by means of wheels on the lower, each 
of which can move only in one direction, and these directions are per- 
pendicular to each other. By a clock-work adjustment the time element 
is able to be introduced, which, taken in connection with space, gives 
velocity. {Nature, September, 1881, xxiv, p. 467.) 

Messrs. Burton and Curtis have published the result of a series of 
observations on the distribution of pressure over the surface of a flat 
plate exposed perpendicularly to the action of the wind. They obtain 
this distribution by inserting on the rear of this plate a number of small 
Bitot's tubes, each of which gives the pressure for its own location. 
They find, of course, the maximum pressure at the center diminishing 
to scarcely one-half of that near the edge of the plate, the rates of dimi- 
nution varying with the size and shape of the plate. {Nature, xxv, p. 
427.) 

Ventosa describes an integrating anemometer invented by himself 
very nearly identical with that proposed by Shaw and Wilson, and sim- 
pler than that of Von Oettiugen. {Nature, xxv, p. 79.) 

Bourdon describes to the Paris Academy of Sciences a new form of 
multiplying anemometer. His system consists of convergent divergent 
tubes. In one such tube, made according to Veuturi's proportions, is 
fixed concentrically a second, much smaller, and having its divergent 
end exactly at the jjoint where the truncated summits of the cones of 
the larger tube unite. (For very small velocities a third tube may be 
similarly fixed within the second.) A hollow sleeve is fixed round the 
union of the truncated cones of the wide tubes; its interior communi- 
cates with that of the latter and with a manometer, on which the press- 
ure is read. If a manometer at the mouth of the large tube register 1 



METEOROLOGY. 399 

with a current, tlie otlier manometer will register, e. g., 65 the pressure 
here is negative, and due to acceleration of the velocity of the current. 
[Nature, XXV, p. 356.) 

Prosser having exhibited a drawing of the anemometer of D'Ons en 
Brays at the anemometer exhibition of the London Meteorological ^50- 
ciety, under the impression that it was the earliest self-registering ane- 
mometer, also gives in Nature, Yol. XXV, i^age 505, references to tlie 
anemometer invented by Sir Christopher Wren, as described in Birch's 
History of the Eoyal Society, published in 1663. (If we combine his 
references with the description of an anemometer given in Sprat's His- 
tory of the Royal Society, London, 1667, we must be convinced that to 
Sir Christopher Wren is due the invention of that form of anemometer 
that has of late years frequently been styled Wild's tablet anemometer ;, 
indeed, to him seems to be due almost wholly the early stimulus given 
to meteorological observations in England.) Prosser also refers to the 
famous paper hy Edgeworth on the pressure of the wind upon surfaces 
of different forms, published at page 136, Phil. Trans, for 1783. 

In order to avoid tlie assumptions that seem necessary in reducing 
ordinary anemometric observations at sea, Abbe has proposed to estab- 
lish at various parts of a vessel triple anemometers, recording respect- 
ively the three vertical and horizontal rectangular components of the 
compounded motions of the wind and the instruments. As a first step 
in this investigation, throe anemometers were, in October, 1882, set up 
at different points on the steamship Ohio, and observations kept up by 
Mr. Frank Waldo between Baltimore and Hamburg. 

Mr. W. Bailey exhibited to the Physical Society of Loudon on the 
10th of June a model of the new integrating anemometer. The disk is 
revolved by means of Eobinson's cups. {Nature, xxvt, p. 167.) 

The brothers Brassart, of Eome, philosophical-instrument makers, 
have devised a simple inexpensive anemoscope and anemometer, about 
forty of which are now at work at various Italian stations. {Nature^ 
XXVI, p. 511.) 

MM. Mignan and Ranard have constructed an integrating hygrom- 
eter for precipitating the vapor of the atmosphere^ and analyzing 
the products, if required. It is composed of an iron tube, filled with 
liquor ammonisB; by gently opening a tap the ammonia is absorbed 
by water, and the hygrometer is covered with moisture, which is col- 
lected in a cup arranged for the purpose. During the recent dry weather 
the amount of precii>itation was 3 grams of water in twenty minutes. 
The weight of liquor ammonite was 31 grams. A peculiarity is that 
a number of floating particles are precipitated with the humidity of the 
air. It has been suggested by M. W. de Fonvielle that the hygrometer 
might be used for analyzing the matter of clouds where the precipita- 
tion of a few grams will be a question of a very few minutes. (Nature, 
XXV, p. 565.) 

Crova describes a new condensation hygrometer. A small tube of 



400 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

nickel-plated brass, carefully polished within, is closed at one end witli 
ground glass, and at the other with a lens of long focus, through which 
one looks along the tube towards a source of light. Through two 
parallel tubulures the air to be examined is drawn into the tube, which 
is cooled by means of sulphide of carbon traversed by an air current 
in a metallic envelope round the tube. The changes of aspect in the 
tube at the temperature of saturation enable one to estimate the dew- 
point to one-tenth of a degree. {Nature^ xxvi, p. 108.) 

J. F. D. Donnelly calls attention to the recent perfections introduced 
into the spectroscope by Mr. Hilger, who has managed to secure in- 
creased dispersion and an excellent vision of the so-called rain band; 
the spectroscope is also fitted with a telescope and with a second object 
glass in front of the slit, for the purpose of bringing light from external 
objects to a focus on it. (Nature^ xxvi, p. 501.) 

The Oomit^ International, representing several countries of Europe, 
the United States, and South America, has published an important 
volume of memoirs by Drs. Broch, Pernet, Ren^-Benoit, and Marek, on 
subjects relating to the determination of units of measure and weight. 

As the intensity of weight varies with the geographical height and 
position above sea-level, the committee give in their first memoir tables 
of the ratio of acceleration of weight at the level of the sea for difterent 
latitudes to its acceleration at latitude 45° (Paris), to which latitude 
they recommend that all weighings be referred. 

In the second memoir, which relates to the tension of aqueous vapor, 
certain corrections of hitherto accepted results are also indicated, par- 
ticularly the errors of calculation in Regnault's tables, as shown by 
Moritz, and new tables are given for tensions at all temperatures on the 
new scale of normal degrees from — 30° to + 101° C. 

With reference to the fixed points of mercurial thermometers, the 
Comity adopted the proposition that the point 0° of the centigrade 
thermometer should be fixed at the pressure of 760™™, when determined 
in 45° latitude and at the mean level of the sea. Also at the Congress 
of Meteorologists at Rome, in 1879, there was adopted the proposition 
of Dr. Pernet to fix the boiling point of water, 100*^ C, under the above 
pressure, so as to render strictly comiiarable the temperatures observed 
at different places. Degrees of temperature between these points are 
called normal degrees. 

Tables are also given by which may be calculated the weight of a 
liter of pure air in different latitudes and at different altitudes. In 
London (latitude = 51° 30^, altitude = 6.7'°.) the weight is 1.2938 grams. 
[Nature, August, 1881, xxiv, p. 384.) 

Schloesing, as the result of experiments on the absorption of volatile 
bodies with the aid of heat, is led to propose the application of his 
method to the determination of the quantity of nitric acid in the atmos- 
phere. {Nature, XXVI, p. 24.) 

Mr. C. V. Boys read before the Physical Society, London, a paper on the 



METKOROLOGY. 401 

new meter for measuring electric currents. He says : '' The force due to 
an electric current is proportional to the square of the current; hence if 
j)art of an electric circuit is capable of vibrating under an electro-mag- 
netic force, the speed of vibrations will be proportional to the strength 
of the current. If, then, such a contrivance takes the place of a balance 
of a pendulum clock, the latter will measure electric currents instead of 
time." {Nature, xxv, p. 355.) 

Mascart describes to the Paris Academy of Sciences his method of 
determining the quantity of carbonic acid contained in the atmosphere. 
He measures directh' the diminution of pressure of a mass of air conse- 
quent on the removal of the carbonic acid. Travelers will find it more 
convenient to fill glass flasks M'ith the air of their localities, and submit 
the contents to analysis on their return borne. {Nature, xxvi, p. 119.) 

The application of mechanical methods to replace laborious mathe- 
matical computations is sometimes so ingenious that there is every 
reason to hope that mechanical methods may yet be devised for taking 
into account the numerous disturbing elements that affect the motions of 
the atmosphere, thus enabling us to quickly predict from the weather- 
maps of to-day what the weather-map of to-morrow will be, instead of 
going through the laborious use of tables and estimates that always 
have the appearance of empiricisms. We are led to these remarks by 
reading the resume of a paper on integrating machines presented by 
Mr. C. V. Boys to the London Physical Society. {Nature, xxv, p. 1C7.) 

G. H. Darwin, in connection with his tidal investigations, has drawn 
some conclusions with reference to Jupiter's atmosphere, which latter he 
believes to be the cause of the well-known belts. He finds that tbe rapid 
rotation of the nucleus is not sufficient to explain the belt ; but that 
with it we must assume a proportionately large amount of gas in its at- 
mosphere and a high temperature for the nucleus. {Nature, xxv, p. 300.) 
■ Prof. J. J. Thomson has communicated to the Royal Society of Lon- 
don a memoir on the vibration of a vortex ring and the action of two 
vortex rings upon each other. This was an important paper on hydro- 
dynamics, bearing as it does directly upon the question of the repre- 
sentation of optical phenomena by the vortex -ring theory of the con- 
stitution of matter. {Nature, xxv, p. 354.) 

Chardonnet communicates his experimental study of actinic power 
and the influence of specular polish. This polish increases the total 
quantity of radiations reflected, but the relative intensities of different 
portions of a spectrum depend on the material of the mirror. {Nature, 
xxYi, p. 520.) 

Yiolle describes a calorimeter depending on cooling, and adapted 
especially to very high temperatures. It consists of a small, narrow- 
necked bottle of thin glass, with double envelope, and a vacuum pro- 
duced in the interval before the closure. Through the neck are intro- 
duced a thermometer and a stirrer. {Nature, xxvi, p. 168.) 

Deprez described, at the La Kochelle meeting of the French Associa- 
H. Mis. 26 26 



402 SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR J 882. 

tion, a new apparatus for determiuing the mechanical equivalent for heat, 
and hopes to obtain its real value to within .001. {Nature, xxvi, p. 470.) 

The velocity of the motion of a ship through the water is ordinarily 
given by the observations of some form of log. Froude and Burnet 
invented an electric log, on which, however, Mr. Kelway has made 
some decided improvements. The complete instrument has many and 
important applications, and its adoption is to be encouraged. {Nature, 
XXV, p. 585.) 

Professor Bramwell exhibited and explained the method of action of 
a speed indicator in use on railroad trains. It consists of a drum, on 
which are marked by two pencils the speed of the train and the condition 
of the track. On a calm day a railroad train weighing 125 tons and 
moving at the rate of 45 miles an hour ran 5 miles and 5 yards after 
the steam was cut off. {Nature, xxvi, p. 495.) 

Professor Riicker j)resented the report of the committee on methods 
of calibrating mercurial thermometers, in which, as the result of a long 
investigation, it is concluded that labor is saved and equal accuracy 
secured by the repetition of Gay-Lussac's method of correction, instead 
of the employment of more elaborate schemes. {Nature, xxvi, p. 458.) 

G. J. Symons, after relating the history of progress in our knowledge 
of the subject of diminution of rainfall with elevation, explained the 
theory of Stanley Jevons — that it depended on eddies about the gauge 
itself, and gave an account of the comparative researches of Mr. Roger 
Field, who took the matter up a few years ago, and who has shown (1) 
that the ratio of the rainfall on the tower to the rainfall on the ground 
depends on the force and direction of the wind ; (2) that when there is 
no wind the rainfall on the tower is about the same as the rainfall on 
the ground; (3) that when there is wind the amount of rain falling on 
the tower will vary on different portions of the tower, the portion near- 
est the point at which the wind strikes the tower receiving less rain 
than falls on the ground, and the portion farthest from the point at 
which the wind strikes the tower receiving the same or more rain than 
falls on the ground ; (4) that the excess of rain falling on the portion 
of the tower farthest from where the wind strikes will, to a large ex- 
tent, compensate the deficiency of rain on the portion nearest to where 
the wind strikes, but whether to a sufficient extent to make the average 
amount of rain falling on the tower equal to that falling on the ground 
cannot be determined from these experiments. From these conclusions 
it is clear that if the building be flat and large, the fall in the middle 
of the roof ought to be nearly the same as on the ground, and in two 
instances this is so — first at Messrs. Marshall's factory at Leeds, and 
secondly, at Mr. Dine's, on a roof with 5,000 square feet of area. Thus 
finally experimental evidence has corroborated the views of Mr. Stanley 
Jevons, given above. {Nature, September, 1881, xxiv, p. 401.) 

One of the features of the International Electrical Exhibition and 
Congress at Paris in September, 1881, was the meteorograph of M. 



METEOROLOGY. 403 

Van Eysselberghe, exhibited by the Koyal Observatory of Brussels. 
It gives its records not only at the place of observation but at one or 
more distant stations, and gave every night at Paris a record of the 
indications of the instruments at Brussels. Once every ten minutes it 
comes into action, and registers one after the other the six following 
elements: 1, temperature; 2, humidity; 3, water in rain-gauge ; 4, di- 
rection of wind; 5, barometer; 6, velocity of wind. It also makes a 
mark about every half-second, due to the action of clock-work at the 
sending station. 

The registration is made by a diamond point on a thin plate of zinc, 
which is bent round the surface of a revolving cylinder, which is 
covered with lampblack to make the marks more visible. This plate 
serves afterward for printing any number of copies. There may be 
several of these cylinders at as many different stations, all receiving 
simultaneously the indications furnished by any one station. By one 
line wire and oue diamond point the curves for six instruments are 
drawn at a station which may be 200 or 300 miles distant. The 
value of such an instrument for furnishing the director of a central 
station with accurate data on which to base his weather predictions 
speaks for itself; and as regards expense, all the expenses of photog- 
raphy and of reducing and engraving photographic traces are saved. 
It has been worked in Belgium over a wire of the length of 750. miles. 
[We do not, however, understand that such instruments can possibly 
replace the services of a corps of intelligent observers ; certainly each 
instrument would require an attendant mechanician.] {Nature, Octo- 
ber, 1881, XXIV, p. 588.) 

M. Dufour describes an apparatus for indicating the variations of 
chemical intensity of the sunlight. It has some likeness to Draper's 
tithonometer ; its principle is opposing the variable action of light on 
a mixture of chlorine and hydrogen, with an electric current (of varia- 
ble intensity and measurable each instant), which by its i^assage causes 
decomposition of a quantity of hydrochloric acid equal to that pro- 
duced by action of light on the mixture of chlorine and hydrogen. The 
apparatus is like a Rumford differential thermometer ; in one bulb is 
some hydrochloric acid solution, with carbon electrodes; in the other 
some sulphuric acid. The light acts on the former. One mode of meas- 
urement is to note the time taken in displacement of the sulphuric acid 
column a certain distance along the connecting tube. Then bring back 
the column to its original position by passing the current. [Nature, No- 
vember 25, 1880, XXIII, p. 87.) 

An instrument has been recently introduced by Messrs. Francis & 
Co. (telegraph engineers, Hatton Garden, London) for the purpose of 
receiving the " Greenwich time signal" at the various telegraph sta- 
tions of offices and private firms who may be in communication with 
the postal telegraph service. Hitherto the passage of the time-signal 
current at 10 a. m. along the wires gave no indication of its pres- 



404 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1882. 

ence than a deflection of the needle of ordinary instruments and 
a corresponding movement of the armature of the Morse ink-writer 
and sounder, so that unless a sharp outlook be kept with the eye con- 
stantly directed to the instrument the actual time of the signal may 
be lost, perhaps also to be lost again on the following day through 
similar accident. By the new instrument, however, the instant the 
current is sent the needle on its dial is deflected, and simultaneously 
a bell rings and continues to ring as long as the current is passing; the 
index needle, or, in other words, the needle of the galvanometer, which 
is the principal feature of the invention, when deflected, presses against 
a small spiral spring surrounding the stops or ivory jnns on the dial 
plate, and by this contact the galvanometer forms itself into a " relay '^ 
and brings a local battery in circuit with the bell, which is contained 
in the same instrument, so that when the first jiart of the time signal is 
sent the needle is deflected and at the same moment the bell rings j 
thus attention to the time is at once arrested. It should be mentioned 
that the resistance to the line, although low, is intended to be inserted 
only during the transmission of the time signal, as by means of what 
is generally termed a " switch " the instrument is put on and ofl' the 
circuit at will, and employed only during the time set apart for the 
transmission of the Greenwich time signal. However feeble the cur- 
rent may be, the galvanometer is so sensitive that a deflection of its 
needle is absolutely certain, whilst the bell cannot fail to answer to the 
power of its local battery. We are informed that not only is Messrs. 
Francis & Co.'s new instrument capable of doing what we have already 
stated, but it may be available for communication from different parts- 
of the building, an advantage which is certain to be recognized and 
approved by many conducting large business establishments, where the 
saving of time in conveying messages and giving orders is a matter 
which is frequently of great importance. {Nature, February 10, 1881, 
XXIII, p. 347.) 

R. A. Smith has devised a new actinic process by means of which he 
hopes to investigate the absorbing power of the atmosphere and other 
gases. From some preliminary remarks we extract the following: The 
fundamental idea is that when iodide of potassium in solution is treated 
with nitric acid, so small in quantity as to cause no change of color in 
dull diffused light, a change takes places when the same mixture is 
brought into clear light — iodine is set free and the solution becomes 
yellow. The amount of iodine freed can be triturated with great ex- 
actness by the use of hyposulphite ; this constitutes the whole process. 
Some slight allowance for time and temperature may have to be made. 
After giving a few samples of experiments with iodide of potassium 
triturated with nitrogen. Dr. Smith says: "There seems, therefore, no 
reason to doubt that this is a true i)hotometric process, with special 
capacities to be developed in time. I may add that I did obtain better 
results at the window of my house than at the observatory at the same 



METEOROLOGY. 



405 



time, the latter being nearer the center of the town. Thus the process 
has clone the duty it was intended for, although only once tried for this 
special purpose. I am looking to it as an agent specially for the ex- 
aniination of climate, but of course it may have many uses. This proc- 
ess does not aim at delicacy, but at accumulation of eflect. I have 
not spoken of a standard; the results are only comparative, but the 
process may be made to supply its own standard." 

Since writing the above it appears that by using sulphuric acid some 
of the fears at first entertained may be avoided. 

The strength of solutions and the kind of acid to be used may vary. 
Similar results may vary by using bromide of potassium, but it is less 
delicate. The surface exposed and other questions require attention. 

(Nature, xxii, p. 71.) .^ ^ t i .i^ 

rrofessor Fornioni has recently described to the Instituto Lombardo 
a simple nefodoscope or instrument for measuring the direction of motion 
of clouds (the instrument of the kind known as that of Braun being 
thought expensive and inconvenient to use). It consists of a flat com- 
pass case, with pivoted needle, above which is fixed horizontally a 
plane mirror, occupying the whole of the case. On the surface of the 
mirror are drawn diagonal lines corresponding to the rose of winds. 
• The amalgam is removed in a narrow circular arc extending from north 
to northwest, so that the end of the needle may be seen for the purpose 
of orientation, and this arc is graduated. A rod with terminal eye freely 
pivoted on the edge of the case completes the instrument. 

When the direction of a given cloud is to be determined the nefodo- 
scope is placed in a horizontal plane and properly oriented. The rod 
is then moved to such a position that the observer's eyes see three 
points in a straight line, viz, the eye of the rod, the center of the mirror, 
and the reflected image of a selected point of the cloud. The direction 
of the displacement which the latter undergoes (after a time propor- 
tional to the velocity of the cloud, and inversely as its distance) is the 
required direction. {Nature, xxii, p. 132.) 

Mascart communicates to the Paris Academy of Sciences a method 
of measuring variations of gravity by utilizing the pressure of a given 
mass of gas at constant temperature, and finds the method capable ot 
great precision. He uses a kind of siphon -barometer, with the short 
branch closed and holding CO,, introduced at a pressure sufiicient to 
balance a mercury column of 1- when the tube is vertical. The in- 
strument is placed in a metallic cylinder filled with water, which is 
a-itated by an air-current, and contains a thermometer measuring joo 
de-ree. The divided scale is fixed on the tube; one sees it by reflec- 
tion on a gilt surface, which sends the virtual image into the axis of the 
tube, and the mercury is seen through the gold layer. Thus one can 
see, with a single microscope, the mercury-level and the corresponding 
division of the scale. {Nature, xxvi, p. 312.) 



406 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 18S-2. 

IV. — rHYSICAL QUESTIONS. 

B. J. Hopkins suggests tliat specimens of the atmospheric dust that 
are to be examined with reference to the question of the presence of 
meteor dust should be collected regularly by apparatus attached to 
properly constructed captive balloons, so as to avoid the presence of a 
mass of dust of terrestrial origin. {Nature, xxv, p. 339.) 

Professor Schuster, in the report of the committee on meteoric dust, 
says that the occurrence of magnetic particles in dust, especially that 
discovered by Tissandier in the snows of Mont Blanc, is explicable only 
on one of three hypotheses : First, the particles may be of volcanic origin ; 
second, they may come from the smoke of our own chimneys; third, 
they may have a cosmic origin. The latter hypothesis is strongly fa- 
vored by the consideration that the iron particles issuing from our chim- 
neys contain neither nickel nor cobalt, while these metals do exist in 
the microscopic magnetic particles of atmospheric dust. Schuster finds 
that the sand near the great pyramids and the desert of liajpootana, 
and also from the Isile mud near the canal, all contain these rare metals. 
As regards their origin, he concludes that at high elevations the pro- 
portion of oxygen in the atmosphere is very small, and that inasmuch 
as there is still a line in the aurora spectrum that has not been recog- 
nized as belonging to any known substance, he is convinced that it is 
due to some unknown gas of very small density. It is the contact of 
the meteors with this gas that fills the upper regions with meteoric dust 
which first makes it possible for the aurora to exist at those elevations, 
and afterwards, settling towards the earth, is brought down by the 
snow and rain to the surface. {Nature, xxvi, p. 488.) 

Prof. F. A. Abel, in a lecture before the Eoyal Institution on atmos- 
pheric dust, shows the various dangers to which the hum.an race are 
thereby subjected. Passing by the microscopic germs of disease float- 
ing in the air, he confined his attention to the larger dust particles, for 
instance, those of coal dust in mines, the sulphur dust in powder mills, 
finely divided cotton fibers in cotton mills, and the dust in flour and 
rice mills ; all these and many other forms of dust, when sufliciently 
abundant in the air, make a dangerously explosive mixture, and there 
can be no doubt many explosions in coal mines have been due to dust- 
laden air rather than fire-damp. The lecturer paid special attention 
to the suggestion of methods for the avoidance of danger from these 
sources. {Nature, xxvi, p. 20.) 

Miintz and Aubin have observed the relative proportion of carbonic 
acid in the upper and lower regions of the atmosphere thej' observed 
on the Pic du Midi and the plain around — the difference seems inap- 
preciable. {Comptes liendus, Paris, November 14, 1881.) 

Dumas communicates to the Paris Academy some observations on 
the amount of carbonic acid in the atmosphere. After noticing the 
defects of several methods of measurement, lie commends the exactness 



METEOROLOGY. 407 

of M. Ticrset's and accepts his results, that about 3 volumes iu 10,000 rep- 
resent the jjeneral ratio of CO2 in air. The variations through great 
movements of the atmosphere now require study, by observers placed 
at many different and distant stations, and the transit expeditions 
should keep this in view. MM. Miintz and Aubin's methods are most 
suitable for this. {Nature, xxv, p. 47C.) 

Berthelot has communicated to the Paris Academy of Sciences an 
important memoir on the propagation of the waves of explosion as dis- 
tinguished from waves of sound. An explosion starting in a mixture 
of oxygen and hydrogen propagates itself at a rate of 28.14™ per second, 
butthe velocity of sound is 514; he therefore concludes that the explosion 
wave is not an acoustic wave, but a wave of chemical action, and he 
attempts to explain its nature on principles suggested by the kinetic 
theory of gases. [Nature, xxv, p. 44.) 

Sir William Thomson read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh n 
paper on the thermodynamic acceleration of the earth's rotation. He 
shows that there must be tides in the atmosphere, and that the line of 
crests, namely, the maximum of atmospheric pressure, so lies with respect 
to the line joining the earth's center and the sun's that the couple due to 
the sun's attraction upon the ellipsoidal mass of air always acts in the 
direction of the earth's rotation, and therefore accelerates it slightly. 
[Nature, xxv, p. 380.) 

Stanley has published a volume on experimental researches into the 
properties and motion of fluids. The author, in writing section second, 
seems not to have taken advantage of the works of the best modern 
students on meteorology and the motions of the atmosphere. 

Maj. John Herschel has completed the pendulum experiments recom- 
mended by the Royal Society, and, having swung one of the original 
Kater pendulums in India and Europe, and finally in New York and 
Washington, has deposited it with the United States Coast and Geodetic 
Survey. The latter has, we understand, immediately started it again 
on its travels in connection with its own most elaborate pendulum work 
under the direction of Prof. C. S. Peirce. 

Joly, at Munich, .has attempted to determine the force of gravitation 
by means of a delicate balance, from each of whose scale-pans was hung 
by a wire, at a depth of about GO feet, another pair of pans. A heavy lead 
ball is brought under one of the lower scale-pans, while a small body 
can be placed in either an upper or lower pan at will, and thus have its 
weight determined under the influence of the lead ball and again when 
beyond its influence. The result of his experiments has given him for 
the mean density of the earth, 5. 092 plus or minus 0.068, agreeing closely 
with the results of the torsion balance. (Nature, xxv, p. 137.) 

Tyndall has in a series of brilliant experiments introduced Bell's 
radiophone as a means of easily deciding the question as to the absorp- 
tion of radiant heat in its passage through gases and vapors. He finds 
every observation to completely justify the position he has so long main- 



408 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

tained, enforcing the diathermancy of gases and the opaqueness of 
vapors. He also further claims that his views are independently con- 
firmed by observations of Professor Langley on Mount Whitney. Tyn- 
dall states that in November, 1880, he resumed investigations in ref- 
erence to radiant heat, and it is to be hoped that his recent work will 
ere long be published in full. (Nature, xxv, p. 233.) 

Captain Abney in a lecture on solar physics has given a general view 
of the theory in practice of the photography of the ultra-violet and 
especially the ultra-red portion of the spectrum. It is to be hoped 
that the study of this subject and the application of Rowland's perfect 
cylindrical gratings will enable us to fix for future study those bands 
due to the absorption of solar radiation by our atmosphere that have 
been so laboriously studied by Langley with the help of his bolometer. 
(Nature, xxv, p. 162.) 

In Nature, xxvii, p. 15, will be found all necessarj'^ details as to his 
method of photographing the infra-red portion of the spectrum. He 
states that in lihotographs taken at an elevation of 1,000 feet the general 
absorption due to water almost vanishes, but the presence of other ab- 
sorbents, especially alcohol vapor, still higher up, becomes demonstrable. 
Fuller details of Professor Langley's results were communicated by 
him in immediate connection with the address of Captain Abney to the 
British Association at Southampton, and are published in Nature, 
XXVI, p. 526. 

Langley also communicated his results to the Paris Academy of Sci- 
ences, and he estimates that the solar heat on a square centiraeterat the 
outer surface of the atmosphere would raise one gram of water in one 
minute about 3° C. Of all this solar energy one-fourth is to be found 
in the visible spectrum and ultra-violet portion; the other three-quar- 
ters exist in the infra-red. In general, absorption increases as the wave 
length diminishes. (Nature, xxvi, p. 520.) 

Professor Langley communicates to Nature, and also to the Paris 
Academy, a short account of some results derived from the spectro- 
scopic and bolometric observations on Mount Whitney, in Southern 
California, at elevations from 4,000 to 15,000 feet. The expedition was 
largely at the expense of the Signal Service and a private citizen of 
Pittsburgh. His observations were directed first to the amount of heat 
that the sun sends to the earth, and he concludes that the true solar 
constant is at least one-half greater than that given by Pouillet, and 
again that the so-called temperature of space must be lower than that 
assigned by Pouillet, and finally the bolometer observations show a dif- 
ferent distribution of solar energy at the upper station from that of the 
lower, so that without our atmosphere the sun will appear with a strong 
bluish tint. [The full report of Professor Langley's observations will 
soon be iniblished by the Army Signal Office.] (Nature, xxvi, 316.) 

Desains communicates to the Paris Academy of Sciences a memoir 
on the distribution of heat in the dark regions of solar spectra with glass 



METEOROLOGY. 409 

prisms. The spectrum is prolouged much further on the side of the 
rays of great ^vave length. At tlie same meeting Egoroflf communicated 
his researches on the absorption spectrum of the terrestrial atmos 
phere ; he observed the electric and other lights as seen at the Paris 
Observatory. (Mature, xxvi, p. 520.) 

Egoroff', as the result of some observations made at the Paris Observ- 
atory on the absorption spectrum of our atmosphere, finds that dry air 
and aqueous vapor are the only elements producing sensible effects. 
His experiments included observations of the absorption of an electric 
light by the layer of air between the observatory and Mount Valerian. 
{Comptes Re7idus, Paris, November 14, 1881.) 

C. P. Smyth, in an appeal to physicists not to neglect spectroscopic 
observations of his so-called rain-band, says: "While in Scotland a 
rain-band of intensity marked 2 usually produces a little rain and 3 
produces much, yet in Lisbon during the same months the so-called 
rain-band marked 4 and yet no rainfall, but with 5 or 6, the tempera- 
ture remaining the same, rain will come down even in that dry coun- 
try. - - - Mr. T. G. Ejlands has accumulated much experience as 
to the advantage of supplementing spectroscopic observations with 
a polariscope. - - - I rather prefer the spectroscope alone, but 
greatly increased in size and power." Professor Smyth recommends 
as that the daily notation of the strength of the rain-band be made at 
a fixed hour, say 9 a. m., and be recorded, not in absolute measures but 
differentially in terms of some other band which is not connected with 
aqueous vapor; for such comparison he recommends a low sun-band 
which is on the yellow side of the D line. {Nature, xxyi, p. 553.) 

Ealph Abercromby says there is one case in which the rain-band may 
give valuable information, namely, when we have a vapor-laden over- 
current with a dry surface wind. This often occurs in winter, and with 
a warm southwest current over an area of frost and east wind. In prac- 
tice this almost invariably makes itself visible by the long converging 
line of cirrus which so often precedes a rain or thaw ; but, still, cases may 
occur where no cirrus is formed or where it is otherwise visible or where 
it is otherwise invisible. Abercromby further says : "There are strong 
grounds for believing that an air spectrum may vary not only with 
the amount of pure vapor quantity, but it seems probable that its em- 
ployment may be still further extended. There are strong grounds 
ibr believing that an air spectrum may vary, not only with the amount 
of j)ure vapor, but also with the size, aggregation, and physical condi- 
tion of the condensed vapor suspended in it. For instance, take the 
so-called rain lines. These may appear either alone or with a rain- 
band of any intensity ; so that if the band is due to pure vapor onl^', 
the lines must depend on some other condition. Again, in sunset tints 
we have a natural spectroscope whose colors certainly are the product 
of both the quantity and quality of the total moisture suspended in the 
air. I have made a large number of observations on the lurid, coi)pery, 



410 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

yellow, green, and red skies, wliicli form sucli a large portion of all 
weatlier lore, but witliout decisive results, for sunset spectra are too 
complicated and too fleeting to be unraveled by a small instrument. 
They certainly seem to differ, but tlieir spectra are not so marked as 
tlieir appearance to the naked eye. But even supposing that this idea 
is completely verified, and that the spectroscope can be used as a new 
weapon of research to discover the still unknown nature of clouds, and 
that we should be able to say that such and such an absorption spectrum 
belongs to such and such a kind of sky, there are no grounds for believ- 
ing that we can ever regard these spectra otherwise than as a new set 
of sky prognostics, or that as such they will be of more use in forecast- 
ing than those already known. What the use of any prognostics is in 
forecasting, and how they are related to synoptic charts, and how iso- 
baric lines map out the shape of rain areas, are other sides of the great 
l)roblem of weather forecasting which cannot be discussed here." {Na- 
ture, XXV, p. 573.) 

Messrs. Lecher and Pernter have studied the absori)tion of radiant heat 
in gases and vapors. They consider " vapor-hesion" to have been an 
important source of error in Tyndall's experiments. In their own 
method the thermopile and the heat source were brought into the same 
vessel. Air-currents were avoided by causing the surface of radiation 
to be heated in each case suddenly from without, by means of a steam 
jet, to 100^ C Among other results the absorption of water vapor is 
found, in opposition to Tyndall, immeasurably small. Violle found on 
Mont Blanc that a meter of the air absorbed only 007 per cent, of the 
whole radiation ; according to this a layer of 300™ length would be 
necessary to produce, with water vapor saturated at 12°, that absorp- 
tion which Tyndall obtains in 1.22"". This and the author's own experi- 
mental results are considered to i)rove beyond dispute the very small 
absorption of aqueous vapor. The results for gases agree pretty well 
with Tyndall's. Xo simple connection between absorption and pressure 
of the substance was discoverable. The absorption, even for radiation 
of a heat source of 100° C, is selective. The authors found the absorp- 
tion of certain substances of the fat series examined to increase rapidly 
with increasing proportion of carbon. It seems to be otherwise, how- 
ever, with bodies from other groups; thus, e. g., benzole, notwithstanding 
its six carbon-atoms, has a fairly small absorptive power. {Nature, 
XXII, p. 543.) 

Dr. Lecher has made new observations, especially as to absorption of 
solar radiation by the carbonic acid in the atmosphere. Experiments 
with a gas lamp and a glass cylinder first showed that carbonic acid in 
a length of 214™'^ gave passage to 94.8 per cent, of the radiation; 530™"', 
93.8 per cent; 917"°, 89.0 per cent. At Greifenstein, outside of Vienna 
(chosen for pure air), the sun's rays were also proved to undergo con- 
siderable weakening in passages through carbonic-acid gas. A layer 
of this gas 1 meter thick absorbed 13 per cent, when the sun had an 



METEOROLOGY. 411 

altitude of 59°; the number, however, diminished in proportion as the 
sun got lower. This shows that absorption of solar radiation by car- 
bonic acid is selective, and that the absorbable wave lengths become more 
rare the greater the atmosi)heric layer the rays have already traversed. 
The author calculates from his experiments the proportion of carbonic 
acid in the atmosphere, finding it 3.27 in 10,000 i)arts by volume, a 
number agreeing so well with results of chemical analysis as to in- 
dicate that this is a good way of determining the carbonic acid in the 
atmosphere and its variations, applicable, too, at heights when direct 
measurements are impossible. {Nature, December 30, 1880, xxiii, p. 
209.) 

Prof. William Crookes has published some observations on radiation of 
heat from thermometers inclosed in air at very low pressure. His results 
have an important bearing on radiation, conduction, and convection of 
heat. An accurate thermometer, with pretty open scale, was inclosed 
in a 1^-inch glass globe, the bulb of the thermometer being in the center 
and the stem being inclosed in the tube leading from the glass globe to 
the air-pump. There are two ways in which heat can get from the glass 
globe to the thermometer : (1 ) By radiation across the intervening space; 
(2) By communicating an increase of motion to the molecules of the gas, 
which carry it to the thermometer. It is quite conceivable that a con- 
siderable part, especially in the case of heat of low refrangibility, may be 
transferred by " carriage," (as I will call it to distinguish it from con- 
vection, which is different,) and yet that we would not perceive much 
diminution of transference, and consequently much diminution of rate 
of rise with increased exhaustion, so long as we work with ordinary 
exhaustions up to 1 millimeter. For if, on the one hand, there are 
fewer molecules impinging on the warm body (which is adverse to the 
carriage of heat), yet on the other the mean length of i)ath between 
collisions is increased, so that the augmented motion ii carried further. 
The number of steps by which the temperature passes from the warm- 
er to the cooler body is diminished, and accordingly the value of each 
step is increased. Hence the increase in the difference of velocity 
before and after impact may make up for the diminution in the number 
of molecules impinging. It is therefore conceivable that it may not be 
till such high exhaustions are reached that the mean length of path 
between collisions becomes comparable with the diameter of the enclos- 
ure that further exhaustion produces a notable fall in the rate at which 
heat is conveyed from the case to the thermometer. 

The above experiments show that there is such notable fall ; a reduc- 
tion of pressure from 5°» to 2"', produces twice as much fall in the rate 
as is obtained by the whole exhaustion from 7G0 millions to 1 million. 
"We may legitimately infer that each additional diminution of a millionth 
would produce a still greater retardation of cooling, so that in such 
vacua as exist in planetary space the loss of heat, which in that case 



412 SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1882. 

would take place only by radiation, would be exceedingly slow. {Nature, 
January, 1881, xxiii, pp. 235 and 237.) 

C. I. McNally, in reference to the heat indicated by thermometers 
wrapi)ed in hygroscopic coverings and breathed upon by the warm moist 
breath, writes : "That the eflects of friction and compression of air are so 
slight that they may be disregarded, has been proved, and the rise ha^ 
been clearly traced to absorption of aqueous vapor. It has yet to be 
determined how much of this heat may be accounted for by the reduc- 
tion of aqueous vapor to the fluid state and how much by capillary 
action and absorption of water, with or without chemical union, and its 
reduction to the solid state, all of which may be included in hygroscopic 
action. This determination would involve some intricate investigations 
which some scientific specialist may find leisure to undertake. That 
more than simple vapor condensation is concerned in the production of 
hygroscopic heat is shown by the rise of temperature on adding water 
to a non-saturated hygroscopic substance." {Nature, January 13, 1881, 
XXIII, p. 244.) 

Amagat having repeated his experiments on the elasticity of rarefied 
gases, asserts that they still follow the law of Maiiotte even down to the 
lowest attainable pressure. (The .01 of an inch was his lowest.) {Na- 
ture, XXVI, p. 384.) 

Maxwell's theory of the viscosity of gases has been elaborately in- 
vestigated by W. Crookes, who by the perfection of his vacua has been 
able to fully corroborate Maxwell's views, according to whom the vis- 
cosity should be independent of the temperature. {Nature, xxiii, p. 420.) 

Stevenson states that as a first result of his observations on the law 
of wind velocities at diflerent heights he finds that the curves traced 
out by the velocities in relation to the heights were most nearly repre- 
sented by the formula Y z=v \/(H -f 72) -^ {h -f 72), where H and h 
represent respectively the heights in feet of the high and low level 
stations above the ground, and V and v the respective velocities at those 
levels. 

He has since then been making observations with the view of ascer- 
taining the relative resistance of land and water to the aerial cur- 
rents. These observations are very far from being complete, but the 
following results in the mean time maybe interesting: 

Sand. Water. 

6-iuch waves, 12.8 : 13. 8 miles per hour = 1 : 1.08 
6-inch waves, 13.65 : 14. 375 miles per hour = 1 : 1.06 
3-inch waves, 7.96 : 9. 19 miles per hour = 1 : 1.155 

^ Grass. Water. 

9-inch waves, 8. 4 : ,10. 7 miles per hour = 1:1. 274 
3-inch waves, 10. 13 : 14. 75 miles per hour =1:1. 456 

The velocities given are the means of observations taken every five 
minutes for about an hour. 



METEOROLOGY. 413 

From this it will be seen that the resistance is least for water, some- 
what greater for smooth sand, and greater still for grass. Further ob- 
servations are not only required on this subject, but also on the velocity 
of the wind over the water in relation to the height of the waves. {Na- 
ture, XXV, p. GOT.) 

Some experiments have lately been made by the Eev. Dr. Haughton 
and Prof. Emerson Eeynolds to evaluate the coefidcient of friction (i e., 
the "drag") of air upon air and of water upon water. In these ex- 
periments a spherical ball of unpolished granite of 22 kilograms weight 
and 25 centimeters in diameter was suspended freely by a pianoforte 
wire, and was set rotating in the air or in water, the period of the vi- 
brations and the decrement of their amplitudes being observed by 
means of indices attached to the brass collar by which the ball was 
suspended. A discussion of the equations of motion led to a simple 
working equation for the reduction of results. The mean coefficient of 
friction found for air upon air was/= 6F52T) though this value appar- 
ently differed slightly according to barometric and thermometric con- 
ditions. For the " drag " of water upon water the value found was 
/= 3^iy. These experiments involved friction at low velocities only, 
for which it could be assumed that the friction was proportional to the 
velocity. The authors of this research point out that these results 
tend to negative the theory of Dr. Carpenter that the phenomena of 
ocean circulation are due to the greater height of the water at the 
equator as compared with that at the poles. (Nature, xxii, p. 207.) 

P. Volkmann has made a new determination of the specific gravity of 
pure mercury, in which he makes allowance for a new source of error 
depending on the change of volume of the vessel due to the internal 
pressure of the heavy liquid. Assuming the density of water at 0° 
centigrade to be 0.999881, he finds the density of mercury at 0° to be 
13.5953 ± 0.0001, which is a little less than the lowest of the values 
given by Regnault, whose average result, 13.596, is the value ordinarily 
adopted. 

V. — a Solar radiation; h Terrestrial temperature. 

C. W. Siemens has advanced a thoroughly original theory of the con- 
servation of solar energy in a paper read at the Koyal Society, March 
2, 1882. He supposes stellar space to be filled with highly rarefied gas- 
eous bodies besides solid material in the form of dust. Each planetary 
body and the sun attracts to itself an atmosphere, and the solar system 
as a whole contains an interplanetary atmosphere, denser than the 
extremely rarefied stellar space. He considers that aqueous vapor and 
carbon compounds are present in stellar or interplanetary space ; that 
these gaseous compounds are capable of being dissociated by radiant 
solar energy while in a state of extreme attenuation ; again, that these 
dissociated vapors are capable of being compressed into the solar pho- 
tosphere by a process of interchange with an equal amount of reasso- 



414 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882 

dated vapors, this interchange being effected by the centrifugal action 
of the sun itself. {Nature, xxv, p. 441.) 

As this theory has given rise to considerable discussion during the 
past year, we give the following references : See (1) criticisms, E. D. 
Archibald {Xature, xxv, p. 524), and Siemens's reply to him on the same 
page; (2) criticisms of Charles Norris and T. Sterry Hunt, and Sie- 
mens's reply. {Nature, xxv, pp. 601-603.) 

Fitzgerald raises several pertinent objections to Dr. Siemens's solar 
hypothesis, to which a full reply is given by the author. {Nature, xxvi, 
p. 80.) 

Crova communicates to the Paris Academy of Sciences the results of 
ii year's experiment by a Government commission at Montpellier with a 
solar mirror and boiler. (Similar experiments have been made at Con- 
stantine.) The maxima of yield generally correspond to the minima of 
intensity of radiations. The absolute quantity of heat utilized depends 
essentially on the temperature of the air. In the climate of England it 
is not possible to reach half the utilization attainable in the most favor- 
able circumstances, and the sun does not shine continuously enough to 
favor the practical use of the apparatus. {Nature, xxv, p. 596.) 

Next in order after the attempts to utilize the direct heat of the sun 
must be mentioned the idea suggested by Mr. Milne, of Tokio, as to the 
possibility of utilizing the internal heat of the earth. He states that 
" there is an unlimited supply of energy in the interior of the earth, and 
which crops out upon the surface in the form of hot springs, volcanoes, 
&c. The heat of these springs could easily be converted into an elec- 
tric current." {Nature, xxvi, p. 211.) 

We see no reason to doubt that ere long it will be found that the 
cheapest method of warming some cities will be by means of hot water 
and steam pipes, communicating with a deep artesian well. 

Professor Everett has presented an elaborate report on behalf of the 
underground temperature committee of the British Association, contain- 
ing a summary of all their results and preceding fifteen reports. This 
is published apparently in full in Nature, xxvi, pp. 564-589. 

Passing by the innumerable details, we summarize the following gen- 
eral conclusion: The mean increase of temi)erature per foot, as deduced 
from all reliable observations throughout the whole world, is found to 
be 0.01563, or about J^ of a degree Fahrenheit. This is a slower rate than 
has been generally assumed. From this he deduces 0.000285 as the rate 
in degrees centigrade per centimeter of depth. If this be multiplied 
by the conductivity of the earth's crust, for which 0.0058 is adopted, 
based on Herschel's and Thomson's results, we obtain H. 330+10-^" as 
flow of heat across a square centimeter. If now this be multiplied by 
the number of seconds in the year, we obtain 41.4 as our estimate of the 
average number of gram-degrees of heat tnat escape annually through 
each square centimeter of the earth's sub^ance. {Nature, xxvi, p. 591.) 
Pouchet communicates to the Paris Academy of Sciences some obser- 



METEOROLOGY. 415 

vatioDS ou the temperature of the sea water observed on the coast of 
Lapland. {Comptcs Rendus, Paris, January 2, 1882.) 

Hennessy reviews the work of Ferrel and Hann on the temperature 
of the northern and southern hemispheres, and finds that they have re- 
moved a difficulty in his own theory of climates. {Nature, xxvi, p.520.) 

Professor Franklaud seems to have for many years past been making 
climatic observations on a uniform system in various parts of Europe. 
His standard of sun's temperature is that given by a black-bulb ther- 
mometer in vacuo, laid directly upon a sheet of white paper in full sun- 
shine. His standard of shade temperature is that given by an ordinary 
thermometer with a clear glass bulb, laid directly upon the same sheet 
of white i)aper, and apparently also in the full sunshine, but shaded 
therefrom by an arch of the same white paper, which latter, however, 
does not prevent a free circulation of air. He finds that of all materials 
with which he has experimented white paper reflects solar heat most 
])erfectly, and is therefore the most effective shading material. It will 
be seen, therefore, that his temperatures are relative only, but that they 
are comparable with each other, in so far as he has used the same appa- 
ratus. He gives a number of observations illustrating the effect on his 
apparatus of the nature of the surface of the ground and the diurnal 
changes in sun altitude in various parts of Europe. {Nature, xxyi, 
p. 380.) 

C. W. Brooks gives an abstract of a i)aper which he read on March 
21, 1882, giving the temperatures of the ground in the Comstock lode at 
Virginia City, Kev., taken by Charles Foreman, superintendent. Holes 
for the thermometers were drilled not less that 3 feet into the rock ; the 
thermometers are inserted and the holes filled with clay. {Nature, xxi, 
p. 592.) 

Dines summarizes his observations during the last six years on the 
temperatures observed near the ground and on the tower of his house. 
The maxima are always greater and the minima lower on the ground 
than on the tower. {Nature, xxv, p. G19.) 

In studying the conditions of temperature of the Eussian EmjDire 
some time ago, M. Wild found that the irregular distribution of tem- 
perature revealed by the isotherms might be elucidated by "isanomals" 
(or lines of equal temperature anomalies). Among the causes of the 
isanomals special regard must be had to the wind, which again imme- 
diately depends on the distribution of air-iDressure, as shown by the 
isobars. A comparison of the lines of equal pressure with the lines of 
temperature anomalies thus suggested led M. Wild to recognize an in- 
timate relation between the- two systems. Eeasoning from the results 
arrived at, he has attempted, with some success, to rectify the isobars 
over certain regions where from want of observations their course was 
somewhat uncertain, and, further, has even suggested the probable 
existence of a pressure maximum in Northern Siberia, of which region, 
however, little if anything is positiv^ely known, owing to the want of 
barometric observations. {Nature, July, 1881, xxiv, ]). 266.) 



416 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOK I8S2. 

VI.— fl Evaporation ; h Condensation ; c Rainfall. 

Professor Stokes has so modified the Campbell sunsbine-recoider as to 
render its use convenieDt for any ordinary meteorological observer, and 
thirty stations in Great Britain Lave been equipped with it by the 
council of the London Meteorological Office. (Nature, xxiii, p. 113.) 

G. M. Whipple has modified Campbell's sunshine-recorder bj' devis- 
ing a new form of card-sui^porter. It consists of a light frame, cajjable 
of holding a slip of cardboard, to be burned by the sun, in any position. 
It is arranged so as to receive ordinary parallel strips of card at all 
times of the year, and to allow of the instrument being employed ou 
any part of the earth's surface without detriment to its efficiency. The 
card-holders themselves are movable, so as to permit of the cards being- 
changed indoors, or dried, if wet, before removal, in order to avoid mu- 
tilating the record of observation. The instrument also has an appli- 
ance for placing the card correctly in position to receive the sun's image. 
[Nature, September, 1881, xxiv, p. 467.) 

An evaporimeter with constant level has been recently described by 
Professor Fornioni. It consists of an oblong wooden case, with a brass 
spiral descending into it from a micrometric screw. The spiral carries 
at its lower end a small glass vessel, which acts as a feeder. A glass 
siphon extends outwards, horizontal from the feeder, and has at its 
outer end a small cup, in which evaporation takes place. As the w^ater 
evaporates in the cup the feeder is lightened, and rises by action of the 
spiral, thus keeping the level constant. The graduation of the instru- 
ment is expressed in millimeters of the height of water in the evaporat- 
ing vessel. {Nature, August 18, 1881, xxiv, p. 280.) 

Mr. John Aitken has read a paper on Dust, Fog, and Mist, that opens 
up new lines of inquiry, and, indeed, a new future to what has hitherto 
been one of the most difficult branches of meteorology. Mr. Aitken 
maintains that dust particles are essential to the formation of rain. He 
has continued the prosecution of the inquiry, and finds that at the 
low temperature of 14 ^F., equally as at higher temperatures, there 
is no cloudy condensation when there is no dust. Cloudy condensation 
takes place on the dust nuclei, the amount of cloudiness being of course 
relatively small at such low temperatures on account of the small amount 
of vapor i^resent. Taken along with Professor Leister's experiments, in 
which it was shown that a single drop of rain showed organisms in sen- 
sitive solutions which would otherwise have remained for months unal- 
tered, it shows that germ-producing matter, or germs themselves, formi 
at least a part of the cloud and fog producing dust. Hence a cotton- 
wool respirator may form a protection against disease. {Nature, xxiii,. 
p. 204.) 

In a subsequent communication Aitken finds that Coulier and Mas- 
cart had in 1875 arrived at similar results. [And it may be added that 
since 1871 the present writer has taught his own conclusions, based on 
general meteorological evidence as well as on chemical and physical 



METEOROLOGY. 417 

reasoning, tbat tlie carbon dust from prairie and forest fires and the smoke 
of coal fires in cities have a strong affinity for aqueous vapor, which is at- 
tracted and held in a little atmosphere aronnd each carbon particle, just 
as hydrogen is attracted to spongy platinum. These little balloons of 
vapor with dust centers, as they rise in the air, cool, both by radiation 
and expansion, more rapidly than the surrounding air, and soon pass 
from dry yellow haze (as in Indian-summer weather) into fog and rain. 
Other kinds of dust particles probably produce the same effect, but in a 
different manner, i. e., they simply cool more rapidly by radiation and 
condense upon themselves as dew some of the neighboring aqueous vapor; 
then becoming heavier, they grow by accretion of other dew-laden parti- 
cles as they descend to the earth. — C. A.] 

Mr. I^ewth showed to the London Physical Society some experiments 
illustrative of the fact announced by Mr. Mascart in 1875 that solid 
particles in the air are necessary to the formation of fogs ; and, sec- 
ondly, that certain gases, such as sulphurous-acid gas, also cause fogs 
in the same way by permitting the moisture to condense upon these par- 
ticles. The experiments consisted in passing an electric-light beam 
through large bulbs of glass containing air and a small quantity of 
water. When the air in the bulbs was washed with the water, and 
thus freed from motes, the fog produced in the bulb by slightlj' exhaust- 
ing it with an air-pump was much less than when the air of the room, 
or smoke, or sulphurous- acid gas, was admitted into the bulb. The 
dust on a platinum wire, rendered incandescent within the globe by an 
electric current, also caused a sensible fog. It follows that with gas 
fires instead of coal there would still be fogs, though not so black ones. 
(^Nature, xxv, p. 475.) 

Prof. O. Keynolds has been deeply engaged in the study of the phe- 
nomena of the surface tension of water; these bear upon the subject of 
rain-drops, the union of floating particles of fog into larger drops, and 
the floating of rain-drops on the clean water of i)onds. {Nature, xxv, 
p. 23.) 

Prof. J. Elliot, of India, has investigated the rain-fall of Cherrapunji, 
in the southwest of Assam, and on a small i^lateau forming the summit 
of one of the spurs of the Khasia Hills. The rain-fall recorded at this 
station averages 493 inches per annum, or while the normal wind-fall in 
the neighboring plains is about 100 inches, he finds that this remark- 
able rainfall, by far the largest known anywhere on the earth, is sim- 
ply and solely owing to the presence of a vast mechanical obstruction, 
namely, the precipitous hill on which the station stands, rising sud- 
denly 4,000 feet, and whose resistance converts the horizontal motion 
of the air into a vertical motion ; the ascending air cools rapidly by rea- 
son of its expansion and condenses its moisture into deluges of rain. 
{Natttre, xxv, p. 259.) 

Mr. Maxwell Hall has published in the Government Hand-Eook to 
Jamaica the best resume as yet given of the climate and meteorology 
H. Mis. 20 27 



418 SCIENTIFIC EECOKD FOR 1882. 

t)f tbat island. Witli regard to rainfalls lie remarks that there has 
been an evident change during the past two hundred years, or since the 
time of Sir Hans Sloane, the author of the Natural History of Jamaica, 
l)ut we think it may well be questioned whether the rainfall records of 
those times are sufficiently full and accurate to tbrm the basis of any 
comparison. [Natitre, xxv, p. 153.) 

Dr. F. J. Studnicka publishes in the Ahiiandlungeii of the Bohemian 
Association, com])lete tables on the observations of rainfalls made at 
about 300 stations in that country. In addition to these, there are 
about 500 more established by the Bohemian Foresters' Association, 
so that this country is one of the best provided for in Europe. (The 
total number of rain-stations in France is about 1,200, and in Great 
Britain, 2,000.) {Nature, xxvi, p. 1G4.) 

The Lon<lon Meteorological Office has published a rainfall table for 
the British Isles, prepared by Mr. Symons, and giving the monthly re- 
sults at 3G7 stations, for which continuous observations are available 
during the last fifteen years. (Nature, xxv, 140.) 

Professor Hufour gives some estimate of the enormous amount of 
damage done by several hail-storms, notably the terrible one of July 13, 
1788. He states that, on the strength of encouraging and credible testi- 
mony from Italy and France, lightning-rods were erected in the Can- 
ton Vaud about 1825 "for the purpose of hindering the formation of 
liail by withdrawing the electricity from the clouds," but he considers 
it very difficult to admit that there can be any such beneficial result, 
•jcspecially when we consider that the hail is formed in tops of clouds 
a long distance from the scenes of its devastation. A forest may be 
Tegarded as a collection of lightning-rods ; such also is the mass of 
sharp-pointed rocks forming the bare summit of a mountain or the 
-chimneys or turrets and steeples that abound in the city, but none of 
these have beeu shown to have any influence in diminishing the hail 
although they do slightly diminish the lightning in thunder-storms. 
(Nature, xxvii, p. 530.) 

Professor Loomis has contributed a first and second edition of a 
iMemoir on the distribution of rain-fall over the globe. These maps 
show unquestionably the broad features of the geographical distribu- 
tion of rain-fall. {Nature, xxvi, p. 206; American Jour, of Science, Jan., 
1883.) 

W. J. Black, commenting on Professor Loomis's map, states that to 
observe rain-fall on a small island is not the same as observing on mid- 
ocean. The ocean rain-fall can only be made out by observations on board 
«3hips, and these require a long time to effect. {Nature, xxvi, p. 222.) 

VII.— Winds. 

Brault has published charts of the jSTorth Atlantic, showing curves of 
<8qual average wind velocity for the summer, which curves he calls 
isauemones. These curves almost exactly reproduce the map of mean. 



METEOROLOGY, 



419 



isobars, and Brault believes that a similar coiucidence occurs for other 
portions of the earth and other seasons. {Nature, xxvii, p. 20.) 

A. Domojirof describes in the Isvestia of the St. Petersburg Geograph- 
ical Societj- what little is known of anemometric observations at sea. 
Several series of such observations have been made, notably by Bessels 
on the Polaris (1872), Bykatchefi" on board the Nayezdnik (1879), and 
by Domojirof on the Nordenskjold (1879) and theBjighit (1880). {Na- 
ture, XXVI, p. 83.) 

W. Clement Ley, in studying the relation between wind force and 
the barometric gradient, gives the following mean wind velocities at 
Stonyhurst Observatory, obtained by himself from the hourly readings 
published by the Meteorological Committee for the years 1874 to 187G, 
inclusive, for. difl'erent amounts of atmospheric gradient: 



Gradient per 15 nauti- 
cal miles. 


Mean velocity of wind 
per hour in miles 
from points between 
S. S. E. and JS. W. 
(inclusive). 


• 1 
Mean velocity in miles 
per hour of winds 
fioin points between 
N. N. W. and S. E. 


.006 
.009 
.012 
.015 
.018 


4.31 

5.90 

7.79 

11.09 

13.03 


5.53 
6.82 
9.63 
13.97 
15.29 



The mean velocities at Kew Observatory for the same period for simi- 
lar gradients are as follows: 



Gradient per 15 nauti- 
cal miles. 


Mean velocity in m iles 
per hour of wind 
f rom points between 
S. S. E. and N. W. 
(inclu.sive). 


Mean velocity in miles 
per hour of winds 
from points between 
N. 2s^. W. and S. E. 
(inclusive). . 


.006 
.009 
.012 
. . 015 
.018 


4.14 
6.41 
8.37 
11.21 
13.56 


6.88 
8.63 
10.93 
14 27 
16.98 



This shows that for any given (moderate) gradient winds from north 
and east points are stronger than from south and west points at these 
stations. {Nature, May 5, 1881, xxiv, p. 8-) 

Ealph Abercromby has read before the Meteorological Society of 
London a paper on the diurnal variations of winds and weather in 
relation to isobars by constructing charts for various hours of the same 
day. He finds, as has been explained by Koppen and Terrel, that by the 
same gradient there is more wind by day than by night ; and that, again, 
in cyclones the wind curves inward more by night than by day. The 
mean diurnal frequency of rain increases during the daytime, and this is 
explained by the fact that in any given cyclone the area of rainfall is 
larger by day than by night. {Nature, xxvi, p. 95.) 

C. A. Stevenson records the velocity of the wind in the southwest 
gale of November 21, 22, 1881, at Edinburgh: Mean velocity, 62.3 miles 



420 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

per liour; tlie IiigL^st squall, 71. G miles. He observed these velocities 
by means of clouds of smoke rising from cbimueys, {Nature, xxrv,'p. 102.) 

Whipple and Baker communicate to the London Meteorological Soci- 
ety the results of the discussions of the Jvew observations of the wind. 
They find that the wind force increases arithmetically with the increase 
of the gradient; and again, that the angle at which the wind crosses the 
line of gradient averages 52°, and does not var}' with the steepness of 
the gradient or the velocity of the wind. {Nature, xxv, p. 319.) 

The committee on wind-pressure report to the Brit. Assoc. A. S. that 
the maxiaium pressure of wind on small plane surfaces had been ascer- 
tained to exceed 90 pounds to the square foot, and it is possible that an 
average of 56 i^ouuds might hold good for the whole surface of very ex- 
i:)Osed structures. {Nature, xxv, p. ilS.) 

VIII. — Barometric pressure. 

Mr. H. S. Eaton has published a paper on the average height of the 
barometer in London. The great value of the i^aper consists both in 
the long period of one hundred years for which the monthly averages of 
each year are given, and in the careful and laborious elimination of in- 
strumental errors and errors arising from breaks of one or more days 
in the observations of the months. The series is one of the most valu- 
able we possess in dealing- with questions of meteorological variations. 
The mean atmospheric pressure at 32° and sea-level for London is 29.952 
inches, the mean monthly maximum, 29.990 inches, occurring in June, 
and the minimum, 29.900 inches, in Novendjer, the mean for October 
being nearly as low, viz, 29.909 inches. In a discussion which followed 
a reading of the paper, Mr. Strachan remarked that even another one 
hundred years' observations would not alter the positions of these points 
of the London curve, a remark no doubt quite true for London. On 
advancing, however, to the southwest, the means for June and July 
approach towards equality, and ultimately the Julj' mean becomes 
larger as we advance into the region of high pressure, which occupies 
the Atlantic to the southwest during this month. On the ether hand, 
as we approach northward, the means for May and June approach 
towards equality, till about the south of Scotland the mean for May 
becomes the maximum for the year, and the further north the more 
decidedly is May the maximum, till in Iceland it exceeds the mean of 
any other month by the tenth of an inch. Attention was drawn to the 
dips in the curves of pressure for April and July. These, in all proba- 
bility, are permanent features in the London curve of pressure for 
March, April, and July, when drawn from a long average, since the 
former is connected with the east winds of spring, and the latter with 
the great summer barometric depression, which falls to the lowest point 
in July in the interior of the Europo-Asiatic continent. {Nature, De- 
cember 23, 1880, XXIII, p. 184.) 

An important work by the late J. Allan Broun has been published 



METEOROLOGY. 421 

by E. D. ArcLibald, in wbicb tlie autbor seems to conclude tbat beat, 
moisture, and tbo "shuffling' of atmospberic strata" will not explain tbe 
semi-diurnal and otber oscillations of tbe barometer. [Already in 1865 
tbe present writer bad occasion verballj'^ to express to several meteor- 
ologists and pbysicists in Europe bis conviction that the intricate ana- 
lytical formulfe deduced by Ferrel in 1858-1860 would eventually be 
found to demonstrate these oscillations as a dynamic result of the mo- 
tion of the atmospbere due to the diurnal and annual variations in the 
action of tbe sun upon it as a wbole. — C. A.] {Nature, xxiii, ji. 557.) 

IX. — Storms. 

Tbe idea propounded by Mr. Oliver tbat tbe axis of a cyclone is in- 
clined is no new one, and is controverted by E. D. Archibald, wbo also 
quotes Ley and Ferrel as showing that it is far more probable tbat tbe 
axes are inclined a little forward. {Nature, XXYI, p. 222.) 

Mr. Adams is preparing to communicate by telescopic si|vnals between 
Mauritius and Eeunion, a distance of 134 miles. He uses a beliostat by 
day, and a petroleum lamp witb a flat wick by nigbt. With this method 
of signaling, if successful, it will often be possible to telegrapb tbe 
approacb of tbe cyclone twenty-four to thirty-six bours before it bas 
reacbed Mauritius. {Nature, xxvi, p. 612.) 

An interesting popular article on tornadoes in Nature, after alluding 
to some cbaracteristics of these storms in America, makes tbe following 
remarks relative to similar storms in England. 

In examining cyclones phenomena occasionally present themselves 
wbicb strongly suggest tbe idea tbat they include witbin tlieir circuit, 
as an independent meteor, tbe whirlwind or tbe tornado, the phenomena 
in question being most frequently met with in those cyclones which pre- 
sent, in close continuity, masses of air diifering very widely from each 
other in temperature and humidity. Of such cyclones the great storm 
of October 11 last appears to be one. On that occasion the changes of 
temperature and humidity were sharp and sudden, particularly from the 
Grampians to the Cheviots, the great fall occurring when the wind changed 
to northward. As we have already stated {Nature, xxiv, p. 585), 
off the Berwickshire coast tbe darkness accompanying the changes 
of wind, temperature, and humidity was denser and more threatening 
than elsewhere, and almost simultaneously with the approach of these 
changes a hurricane, or rather tornado, broke out with a devouring 
energy which bore everything before it. Tbe tornado character of tbe 
storm off Eyemouth is shown by the accounts of some of tbe survivors, 
who describe the wind as blowing straight down from the sky with an 
impetuosity so vehement and overmastering tbat tbe sea for some ex- 
tent was beaten down flat into a stretch of seething foam by tbe wind, 
while outside this tract the waves seemed to be driven up to a height 
absolutely appalling, which in their turn engulfed many of tbe boats 
yet remaining. Similar seas, witb level wastes of seething foam, bounded 
immediately bv waves of a height and threatening aspect never before 



422 



SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1882. 



witnessed, were enconutered by several well-appointed steamers out in 
the middle of the North Sea during this storm, thus confirming the ob- 
servations of the Eymouth fishermen. These facts seem to point to 
one or j)erhaj>s two tornadoes with slanting* columns, the terrific force of 
the gyrations of whose lower extremities played no inconspicuous part 
in the devastation wrought during the continuance of this memorable 
storm. (Nature, XXY, 1^.157.) 

J. A. B. Oliver, of Glasgow, in a note on the frequency of hail-storms 
in Great Britain, gives the following data: 



Months. 



Farmer's 
Insurance 
Institute, 
annual av- 
erage. 



Daltou's 
total in five 
years of ob- 
servation. 



Giddy 's total 
in twenty- 
one years at 
Penzance. 



Thomson's 

relative pi o- 

portions. 



Winter 

January ... 

February .. 
Spriuu 

March 

Apiil 

May 

Summer 

June 

July 

August 

Autumn 

Se])tember. 

October 

November. 

December.. 



45. 5 to 54. 5 
20. 5 to 70. 

22. to 78. 

3. to 97. 



From a comparison of these tables we see that Daltou, Giddy, and 
Thomson agree in making winter the season of maximum hail-fall, while 
the insurance statistics i^oint to the opposite con(;lusion, the hail-storms 
in June and July being much in excess of those in the other months of 
the year. Oliver strongly suspects that Dalton, and other observers 
who have arrived at similar results, included in their enumeration of 
hail-falls, what we may call, in absence of a better name, winter hail. It 
is very unfortunate that the word "hail" has, in our language, been 
used to denote two entirely different phenomena, the French grele, 
or hail proper, and gresil, or that small, round, powdery snow which 
often falls towards the end of a snow-storm and in the early part of a 
very frosty night. Gresil has nothing in common with grele. The one 
falls exclusively in winter, and the other, perhaps, as exclusively in 
summer. {Nature^ June 30, 1881, xxiv, p. 190.) 

X. — a Atmospheric electeicty ; b Terrestrial magnetism -, c 
Ground currents ; d Auroras. 

In the first lecture at the South Kensington Museum on solar physics 
by Professor Stokes, October, 1881, he suggests some new views in re- 
gard to atmospheric electricity. He says : 

"Where shall we get the electromotive force sufficient to send a dis- 
charge through 50, GO, or SO miles of atmosphere, such as occurs in the case 
of the auroral streamers ? Measurements made upon the Atlantic cable 



METEOROLOGY. 423 

indicated au electro-motive force equivaleut in extreme cases to sis 
Daniell's cells. But a few hundreds of Daniell's cells would be quite in- 
sufiicient to explain the aui'oral discharge. There is, however, one in- 
stance of electric phenomena where we have tremendous tensions to» 
deal with; and atmospheric electricity of tension sufficient, as in ordi- 
nary lightning", to strike across a mile of air at ordinary density would 
l^robably be competent to strike across many miles of raretied air. It 
has long since been remarked that displays of aurorse seem in some way 
or other in high latitudes to take the place of thunder-storms in low 
latitudes. Well, then, I will explain what I imagine takes place. I do 
not enter into any speculation as to the cause of atmospheric electricity. 
We know as a fact, from its manifestation, that it exists, and tliat is 
sufficient for my purpose. Suppose, now, that the air, especiallj^ the 
higher jiortions of the air, over a large tract of country, say to the 
north of us, were more or less highly electrified — positively or negatively 
as the case may be — we will suppose positively ; if the electric tension 
were sufficient, we might, since dense air is a non-conductor, have a 
discharge taking ]3lace in the higher regions of the atmosphere where 
the air is rarefied, and accordingly opposes less resistance to the change. 
"In the figure the great circle P E ^ e is supposed to represent a sec- 
tion of the earth by a plane i)assing through its center. This faint shad- 
ing outside represents the atmosphere, the height of course being enor- 
mously exaggerated. 




Meridian section of the Earth.. 



" Suppose in some way or other a portion of the upper atmosphere, as 
C, got considerably charged positively or negatively, say positively, it 
would act by induction on the earth below. The ojiposite electricity. 



424 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

negative iu tLat case, would be accumulated uuderneatL, as at c, and 
this portion of the earth would form, as it were, a portion of a Leyden 
jar, the lower atmosphere being* the dielectric or glass of the jar, the 
upper atmosphere being partly the dielectric and i):n tly also the charged 
coating. It would be represented more precisely by an imaginary coat- 
tug outside, composed not of tin-foil but of some badly conducting sub- 
stance. The i)ositive electricity about would be bound down in part 
by the negative electricity about c, which it induces. In another por- 
tion of the atmosphere — it may be at some considerable distance from 
the former — you may have the atmosphere charged in an opposite way; 
and of course if this were negative there would be induced positive 
electricity below, or it might be that the whole of the atmosphere from 
C to D is charged positively, but at D the negative charge is much 
feebler than at C. The end result would be the same, but for facility 
of explanation I will suppose that the upper portion in one place is 
actually charged with electricity of the opposite kind to what the charge 
is at the other. If the tension were sufficient then there might be a 
striking across of the electricity of this name in the atmosphere from 
C to D, and in the earth in the reverse direction. Compared with the 
atmosphere the earth would be an exceedingly good conductor, so that 
the electromotive force concerned in sending currents from one part of 
the earth to another would be, comparatively speaking, trifling, and 
therefore the electro-motive force represented perhaps by a few scores 
of the elements of Dauiell's battery. Thus, then, in atmospheric elec- 
tricity we a])pear to have the tension requisite to send the discharge 
through a considerable space of rarefied air. Now, if a discharge took 
place, and if it were night and the sky were clear it would, at least 
•where sufficiently concentrated, be visible to us just the same way as 
the discharge passing through the exhausted tube is visible by the 
light it produces. It would j^rodnce in fact an aurora. The air is not 
a comparatively good conductor, like a thunder-cloud, from which a 
great quantity of electricity strikes in one moment, but is a bad con- 
ductor, so that the electricity can pass only in a spitting sort of way. 
We may conceive here that we have a sort of double current, yet not 
forming a complete circuit; nevertheless a discharge would go on neai ly 
of the same nature as if the circuit were complete, and the electro-mag- 
netic effect of such a discharge on the magnetic needle would be nearly 
the same as that of a circuit complete. 

" Now, if there only be a sufficient quantity of electricity, we have here 
the elements necessary for producing a disturbance of the magnetic 
needle. Moreover, those disturbances, as the instruments show, are of 
the most fitful and apparentl}^ capricious character. They resemble in 
that the fitful character of electric discharges through air. I need 
liardly say, according to this theory the earth current consists in the 
return currents produced by the statically -induced charge on the sur- 
face of the earth, induced by the charged atmosphere above. When 



METEOROLOGY. 425 

there is a neutralization of the electricity from one part to another of 
the atmosphere above, tlie induced electricity in the earth is set free, 
and Ave have earth currents to bring- about a redistribution of the elec- 
tricity on the surface of the earth. 

"It seems to me that this theory uot only accounts for the connection 
between the phenomena (which, however, could otherwise be accounted 
for), but enables us to conceive how it is that electricity strikes across 
such enormous distances in the upper regions of the air, and I think 
farther it will account for some interesting features of that electric dis- 
charge which, no doubt, constitutes the aurora. 

'•If there is reason to believe that when the sun is in a state of special 
activity as to vertical currents and sunspots there is then an increased 
radiation from it, it may be well that the meteorology of the earth is af- 
fected by the changes which take place at the surface of the sun, but 
the meteorology of the earth forms an extremely complicated ])roblem." 
{Xafure, October, 1S81, xxiv, pp. GlG-lS.) 

S. H. Freeman communicates to the American Journal of Science the 
result of some experiments on the production of electricity by evapora- 
tion; his results are adverse to the theory that any sensible amount of 
atmospheric electricity can have been produced by evaporation on the 
earth's surface. [American Journal of Science, June, 1882.) 

Captain Kerr states that in the severe storm on the Firth of Forth in 
November, 1881, his vessel was enveloped in a dense shower of hail and 
electrical discharges. At one time a series of clear balls of lightning, 
resembling a chain, was observed immediately over the ship, and was 
succeeded by an explosion in the fnnnel of the steamer, followed by balls 
of fire running along the bridge and bounding off into the water; the 
engine room was filled with smoke, and it would seem as though the 
lightning had passed down the funnel. [Nature, xxv, p. 125.) 

Mr. Oruls has communicated to the Paris Academy a memoir on the 
variation in the annual number of thunder-storms at Eio Janeiro during 
]8ol to 187G; he finds a close corresi)ondence with the frequency of solar 
spots. [Nature, xxv, p. 24.) 

J. Moir states that on February 18, 1882, in Aberdeenshire, Scotland, 
a severe storm was followed by a specially dark cloud and " a vivid flash 
of lightning close at hand, but without thunder. At the same time I 
found myself enveloped in a sheet of pale, flickering, white light. It 
seemed to proceed from every part of my clothes. I found it impossible 
to sliake oft' the flickering flames ; when I walked on they continued with 
me for two or three minutes, disappearing only when the violence of the 
blast was somewhat diminished." Tlie great variety of methods of 
manifestation of atmospheric electricity makes it desirable that some 
one should collect such descriptions as the above and contribute to the 
elucidation of the subject. [Nature, xxv, p. 410.) 

Additional cases of similar phenomena are given by two other cor- 
respondents in Nature, xxv, pp. 427 and 484. 



426 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 188-2. 

G. M. Wliipple coiamunicated to the British Association the results 
of observations of atmosphericelectricity at Kew Observatory during 1880 
The author, having spoken about the work already done, stated that lie 
had devised a modification of Professor Everett's method, and had con- 
structed a glass scale by means of which curves could be tabulated with 
great facility. They had commenced tabulating and discussing the 
accumulated records, and he was able to state some of the facts derived 
from the curves of 1880. Having determined the atmospheric tension 
for every hour duriug the year when measurement of the trace was 
l)ossible, the diurnal, monthly, and annual variations were completed. 
The maximum tension occurred in January and March; the minimum in 
August and September. During summer the tension is greatest with 
an east wind and lowest with a north wind. In winter the tension is 
greatest with north and northwest winds and least with southeast 
winds. {Nature, September, 1881, xxiv, p. 191.) 

A report has been published by Messrs. Spon & Co. of the lightning- 
rod conference which has been in session foe three years, and which has 
collected an enormous mass of information. The conference was formed 
by delegates from the Meteorological Society of London, the lioyal In- 
stitute of British Architects, the Society of Telegrai)h Engineers, and 
the London Physical Society. The report will contain a simi>le code of 
rules for the erection of lightning-rods, which any ordinary individual 
will be able to understand. {N'nfiire, xxv, p. 184.) 

ProfC'^sor Tait, in the course of a lecture on thunder-storms, referring 
to the beneficial effect of a large number of well-grounded, shar[)-i)ointed 
lightning-rods, stated that they aftbrd absolute protection against ordi- 
nary lightning; thus until lightning-rods became common in Pietei- 
maritzburg, that town was constantly visited by thunder-storms; they 
still come as frequently as ever, but they cease to give lightning flashes 
whenever they visit the town, and begin to do so as soon as they have 
passed over it. {Mature, xxii, p. 365.) 

Mr. W. H. Preece read a paper before the British Association for the 
Advancement of Science, On the heat form to give to lightning-conductors. 
The question was whether the lightning-conductor should be a solid 
rod or tubular or flat. Experiments made by heating and deflagrating 
wires through the different conductors left no doubt that intense dis- 
charges do obey the law of Ohm, and therefore that the additional sur- 
face of flat and tubular conductors is of no advantage in their conduc- 
tivity. [Nature, xxii, p. 44G.) 

R. Anderson called the attention of the British Association to the 
necessity for a regular inspection for lightning-conductors. The au- 
thor referred to a paper of M. W. de Fonvielle, " On the advantages of 
keeping records of physical phenomena connected with thunder-storms," 
read in 1872. Nothing, however, has been done by the association 
since then. He not only confirmed the conclusions at which M. de Fon- 
vielle arrived as to the desirability of collecting such data, but was 



METEOROLOGY. 427 

of tbe opiuion that the organization should go further, and arrange 
for a regular inspection of all public buildings which had lightning- 
conductors applied. The necessity for this he demonstrated by ad- 
ducing a number of striking cases where damage, more or less severe, 
had occurred to buildings, even though having lightning-conductors 
attached to them. The cases now cited, he explained, were supple- 
mentary to those communicated in his paper on a similar subject to 
the association in 1878. {Nature, xxii, p. 44G.) 

Balfour Stewart, in reference to the subject of terrestrial magnetism, 
propounds the following working hypothesis: "May there not be a fee- 
ble magnetic nucleus in the earth around which the great convection 
currents, the trades and anti-trades, move, as conductors moving across 
lines of magnetic force, and the tendency of which will be to swell up 
and sustain the magnetism of the whole earth to the point of saturation ? 
If this be granted, then the changes in winds and currents must produce 
corresi)onding changes (diurnal, annual, secular, and nou-i)eriodic) in 
terrestrial magnetism, so far as we can observe the latter." He adds 
that, with Mr. Dodgson and Mr. Hiraoka, he has convinced himself of 
the existence of intimate connection between these phenomena. [The 
same conclusion has been independentlj- reached by Vines at Havana.] 
We may look upon the earth as composed of concentric la^'ers: (1) a mag- 
netic nucleus ; (3) non-conducting primary rock ; (3) the conducting moist 
earth and ocean 5 (4) the lower dense non-conducting air; (5) the upper 
thin conducting atmosphere. We observe earth currents in layer 3, and 
annual discharges or currents in layer 5. The former are apparently 
secondary currents induced by magnetic changes ; the latter may also 
have a similar origin. {Nature, xxii, p. 14G,) 

In a lecture on solar physics Professor Stewart stated that he be- 
lieved one great cause of weather changes to be solar variability, in 
which we have periods of short length, as well as others extending 
over many years. 

These terrestrial weather changes, it is sufficiently well known, are 
l)ropagated from west to east after they have once appeared. 

Again, there are variations in the diurnal declination range which 
may be said to constitute magnetic weather. 

These are also caused by solar variability, and it is suspected that 
they are likewise propag.sted from west to east, although more quickly 
than the well-understood changes of meteorological weather. 

It would thus appear to be at least possible that British magnetical 
weather of to-day may be followed by corresponding meteorological 
weather five or six days hence. 

Professor Stewart has made a preliminary trial which induces him 
to think that this is the case, and that it may ultimately be possible to 
forecast British meteorological weather by means of magnetic weather 
some hve or six days previous to it. {Nature, May 5, 1881, xxiv, p. 7.) 

Prof. Stewart, in a lecture on the connection between solar and ter- 



428 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. ■ 

restrial plienomena, says : " There is more than a general correspond- 
ence between these, for it is believed that all inequalities of sunspots, 
whether of long or short period, are accompanied by corresponding 
changes of declination range, a large range invariably accompanying 
a large number of spots. Perhaps I ought to say a large range fol- 
lowing a large outbreak of spots, for the solar ])henomena lead the 
way and the magnetic change follows after them at a greater or less in- 
terval of time. I may add, likewise, that wo have some evidence 
which leads us to suspect that particular states of declination range, 
like particular states of weather, have a motion from west to east, the 
magnetical weather moving farther than the meteorological. From a 
preliminary investigation which I have made, I even think there may 
ultimately be a i)ossibility of forecasting meteorological weather by 
means of magnetic weather five or six days before." {Nature, June 16, 
1881, XXIV, p. 151.) 

Eev. r. Howlett communicated to the British Association for the 
Advancement of Science a memoir On the general coincidence between 
sunspots activity and terrestrial magnetic disturbance. His object was to 
inquire how far solar activity more especially as regards sunspots, is 
wont to be accompanied by magnetic disturbance, as recorded by the 
automatic declination curves at Kew and Greenwich. The data for 
such an investigation were furnished hj comparisons instituted be- 
tween the most striking instances of sunspots, gathered out of a long 
series of solar observations carried on by Mr. Howlett from the year 
1859 to the present epoch, and the synchronous conditions of the mag- 
netic curves at the observatories above mentioned. 

Out of twenty-four comparisons instituted, the following is the sum- 
mary of results as showing the coincidence of extensive solar activity, 
and synchronous magnetic disturbances : 

Intensely ' 5 

Very decidedly 3 

Decidedly 9 

Moderately 3 

Negatively (no spots, no storms) 1 

— 21 affirmatively. 

Questionable 1 

Contradictory 2 

— 3 contradictory. 

24 
Thus, then, from the data collected it would certainly appear that 
marked i)eriods of solar activity are wont to coincide with marked pe- 
riods of terrestrial magnetic disturbance; but yet from a careful com- 
parison of the days and hours of the magnetic records appealed to it 
also appeared that the disturbances were manifested in various ways, 
not onlv as regarded the extent of the magnetic excursions of the 



METEOROLOGY. • 429 

needle, the rapidity of the oscillations, or tLe persistency of the more 
moderate disturbances, but also tliey were found to follow at consid- 
erably different intervals^ after the commencement of the observed 
solar outbursts. [Nature, 1881, xxiv, p. 4GG.) 

Prof. W. G. Adams, in a study as to the origin and nature of magnetic 
disturbances, chose the month of March, 1879, for a comparison of the 
photographic records of magnetic disturbances, and records for the 
whole month were sent from Lisbon, Coimbra, Stonyhurst, Vienna, St. 
Petersburg, and Bombay in the northern hemisphere, and from Mel- 
bourne and Mauritius in the southern hemisphere. He finds that an 
inductive action equivalent to a change of position of the north magnetic 
pole towards the geographical pole would account for the changes re- 
corded at these places. 

In attempting to explain the disturbance of March 15 by currents 
of electricity or discharges of statical electricity in the air above the 
needles, we must imagine that at first there is a strong current from 
the southwest over St. Petersburg, from the west over Vienna, and 
from the northwest over Kew and Lisbon ; that at Mauritius this cur- 
rent is from the north, and at Bombay from the south. Thus we must 
imagine that a current of electricity passes down from the northwest 
to the southeast, going on towards the east over Vienna, and towards 
the northeast over St. Petersburg. This must be kept up very much 
along the same line throughout the first part of the disturbance, and 
then the current must be altered in strength in the same manner at all 
stations. 

The study of the great storm of August 11 i)oints rather to solar ac- 
tion as the cause of this disturbance. In the storm of March 12 these 
magnetic changes are so large as to be quite comparable with the earth's 
total force, so that any cause which is shown to be incompetent from 
the nature of things to produce the one can hardly be held to account 
for the other. {Nature, 1881, xxiv, p. 492.) 

W. Ellis has compared with the Greenwich records lithographed 
copies of the photographic traces made at Zi-ka-wei (lat. 31° K, long. 
122° east) of the declination and horizontal force magnets, extending 
from August 11 to 14, and from August 17 to 20, 1880. Some particu- 
lars of the comparison are as follows (Greenwich time is used through- 
out): 

A general exami nation of the two sets of curves shows that the 
disturbances were usually greater in magnitude at Greenwich than at 
Zi-ka-wei. Comparing the curves in detail, it is found on August 11, 
at 10.20 A. M., after a quiet period, the declination and horizontal force 
magnets at Greenwich both made a sudden start, which ^ras the com- 
mencement of a magnetic disturbance lasting until midnight. An ap- 
parently equal horizontal force is shown on the Zi-ka-wei curves, oc- 
curring in declination at 10.12 A. m., and in a horizontal force at 
10.20 a. m. (as nearly as the small scale on which the curves are drawn 



430 . SCIENTIFIC RECOKD FOR 1882. 

will allow measures to he made). This first motion was to decrease 
the west declination and increase the horizontal force at both places. A 
bold motion in the two Zi-ka-wei curves at 11.30 A. m. (increase of dec- 
lination, decrease of horizontal force) has* corresponding decrease of 
horizontal force at Greenwich, not accompanied, however, by much mo- 
tion in declination. And of nun)erous fluctuations occurring at Green- 
wich, between noon and midnight of the same day, some appear to 
correspond with motions at Zi-ka-wei whilst others do not, 

A calm state follows at both i)laces until near noon of August 12. 
Upon this day at about 11.40 A. m. the magnets at Greenwich made 
a further start, and until 4 p. M. Ihe movements were large. A corre 
sponding start is also shown in both the Zi-ka-wei curves, commencing, 
according to the register, some minutes sooner than at Greenwich, the 
movements following being similarly large. Afterwards, until C A. m. 
of August 13, considerable oscillation was nearly contiuually shown at 
Greenwich, there being especially a.large change of declination between 
7 and 9 P. M. (August 12) ; but there is no strongly marked motion at 
the latter time at Zi-ka-wei, and the changes tliroughout are much 
smaller than at Greenwich. Later, on August 13, further oscillations 
occur at both places, but the separate motions are in no particular 
accordance. This j)eriod of disturbance seems to definitely come to an 
end at both places at G A. m., August 14. 

A period of quiet is broken at Greenwich August 18, at 1.45 p. m., 
by a sharp though small movement both in declination and horizontal 
force (increase of both). There is a corresponding sharp increase 
(after quietude) of horizontal force at Zika-wei, but no change of decli- 
nation. A bold increase of declination and decrease of hoiizontal force 
at Greenwich, 7 A. M. of August 10, is accompanied by a similar de- 
crease of horizontal force at Zi-ka-wei, but with little change of decli- 
nation. Bolder changes occur at the latter place at noon, but with 
comparatively small change at Greenwich. The magnets become quiet 
at both places at or near midnight, August 10. 

The general result of this comparison- of Greenwich and Zi-ka-wei 
curves appears to be that, after a quiet period, the first indication of a 
disturbance, if sudden (it need not be large), occurs simultaneously or 
nearly so at both places, bnt that during the continuance of disturbance 
the oscillations of the magnets seem to be so locally modified that it 
becomes difficult to trace correspondence: some movements appear to 
correspond and some not. A strongly marked bend in the trace at one 
place may appear, as it were, stunted in that at the other place, or may 
not be perceptible at all. The disturbances appear to die out at pretty 
much the same time at both places. All this confirms very much what 
Mr. Whipple has pointed out as regards Melbourne. {JS^iture, xxii, 
p. 558.) 

M. Dechevrens of Zi-ka-wei, in some remarks which accompany the 
sheet of curves, notes that the disturbance of August 11-14 is the great- 



METEOROLOGY. 431 

est experience since the establish ment of photograpbic registration at 
Zi-ka-wei in tbe year 1877, and be considers tbat tbe cLauges tben ob- 
served (Ibose of seitical force iucbided, of wbicb be gives no curves) arc 
similar to sucb as would be produced by a powerful magnet placed in 
a certain defined position. It may jierbaps be here pointed out tbat 
tbe results given by the astronomer royal in bis paper, "First Analysis 
of One Hundred and Seventy-seven Magnetic Storms" {Phil. Trans, for 
1SG3), appear to give no support to a theory of this kind, and indeed 
seem conclusively to show tbat at Greenwich tbe observed disturbances 
cannot be accounted for in any such a way. 

It should be added that 31. Decbevrens reports also tbat strong earth 
currents vrere experienced on August 11 and 12, on tbe submarine tele- 
graph lines connecting Sbangbju and Nagasaki and Hong-Kong, as well 
as on tbe laud lines in Ja]»au, so much so tbat correspondence was fre- 
quently interrupted, but tbat no interruption appears to have been 
experienced on tbe occasion of tbe generally smaller magnetic disturb- 
ance of August 18. {NaU(7-e, 1880, xxiii, p. 33.) 

Admiral Moucbez has resumed magnetic observations in subterra- 
nean cbambers at tbe Paii.^? Observatory. The apparatus will be self- 
registeriug by photography, but direct observations will also be made 
with tbe old instruments used by Arago. {Nature., xxvr, p. 207.) 

Professor Nipber of Saint Louis has investigated the peculiar distri- 
bution of magnetic x)benomena in Missouri. In explanation of certain 
abnormal pbenomena originally observed by him in 1878 he finds 
tbat tbe irregularities are not due to minute local causes, but tbat tbe 
perturbing force disturbs the declination of tbe magnetic needle over 
an area of 50 or 100 miles square. Thus the line of 8° E. crosses the 
Missouri Valley in a SW. direction and tben bends abruptly to tbe 
]^E., recrossing the Missouri, and after a wide detour crosses the river 
again for the tbird time and returns to its S^Y. direction. {Nature, 
XXV, p. 40.) 

^Y. H. Preece, in a valuable historical paper on telephony, says : "The 
discovery of tbe telephone bas made us acquainted with anotber ]>be- 
nomenon. It bas enabled us to establish beyond doubt tbe fact that 
currents of electricity actually traverse the earth's crust ; tbe tbeory 
tbat tbe earth acts as a great reservoir for electricity may be placed 
in tbe pbysicist's waste-paper basket. A telephone circuit wben in con- 
nection with tbe earth gives distinct evidence of every visible Hash of 
lightning, however far off" tbe thunder-storm may be. No difference in 
time bas been observed between seeing the flash and hearing tbe crash. 
There are certain natural currents flowing through tbe earth ; tbey are 
called earth currents, and at times acquire sucb considerable energy 
tbat with a telephone pressed to tbe ear, I have been told, altbougb 
I have not experienced it, tbe noise made is very near." {Nature, xxvi, 
p. 518.) 

Professor Stokes, in some remarks on bis admirable lectures on atmos- 



432 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

pheric electricity and solar physics, recalls attention to the important 
papers by Barlow on earth currents in the London Philosophical Trans- 
actions for 1849. {Natttre, xxv, 30.) 

A. J. S. Adams, from observations of earth currents from 18CG to 1883, 
concludes that these are subject to a diurnal period, dependent upon the 
l^osition of the moon and the sun, similar to the ocean tides. {Nature, 
xxiii, p. 42-4.) 

One of the best-marked magnetic storms occurred through out the globe 
on April 16 and April 1 9, 1882. Mr. W. Ellis of the Eoyal Observatory, 
Greenwich, has compared together the full photographic traces made 
by the self-recording apparatus at -that place and at Toronto. He finds 
that the times or moments of the commencement of the disturbance 
are in one case two minutes earlier at Greenwich, but in the other case 
one minute later, indicating that such disturbances are simultaneous at 
widely distant localities. (There is no evidence that the time-scales 
of the photographic sheets are reliable to within a minute, or can be 
read ofl' to within less than a minute. The question of simultaneity will 
be more thoroughly settled if the International Polar Commission suc- 
ceed in their proposed eflbrt to look sharply after 'the seconds.) {Nature, 
XXVI, p. 175.) 

Mr. Scuderer has established at Tortosa a simple arrangement of wires 
stretched between two houses and connected with telephones and gal- 
vanometers, so that he observes both ground currents and atmospheric 
electricity, whether due to condensation of aqueous vapor or to light- 
ning discharge, or the action of the wind or other occult causes. {Nature, 
xxv, 23.) 

Warren de la Eue and H. W. Miiller have continued their elaborate 
researches into electric discharges in vacuo, and present some of their 
conclusions as to the nature of the auroral light as follows: "Our ex- 
periments on the electric discharge, which have already been i:)ublished 
in the Philosophical Transactions and the Proceedings of the Eoyal 
Society, enable us to state with some degree of probability the height 
of the aurora borealis when its display is of maximum brilliancy, and 
also the height at which this phenomenon could not occur on account 
of great tenuity of the atnuosphere. 

"In Part III of our Electric Eesearches {Phil. Trans., Part I, vol. 
171) we have shown that the least resistance to the discharge in hydro- 
gen is at a pressure of 0.G42 millimeter, 845 M ; * after this degree of 
exhaustion has been reached, a further reduction of pressure rapidly 
increases the resistance. 

"Although we have not experimentally determined the pressure of 
least resistance for air, we have ascertained that while the discharge oc- 
curs in hydrogen at atmospheric i;»ressure between disks 0.22 inch dis- 
tance, they require to be approached 0.13 inch to allow the discharge to 

* [M is about rsVff of a millimeter.] 



METEOROLOGY. 



433 



take place in air. We may therefore assume that the pressure of least 
resistance for air is (O.C42xl3)-^22 = 0.379 millim., 498.C M. 

"At a height of 37.67 miles above the sea-level, the atmosphere would 
have this pressure (neglecting change of temperature), and therefore the 
display at this elevation would be of maximum brilliancy and would be 
visible at a distance of 585 miles. 

"The greatest exhaust that we have produced, 0.000055 millimeters; 
0.066 M, corresponds to a height of 81.47 miles, and as 11,000 cells failed to 
l)roduce a discharge in hydrogen at this low pressure, it may be assumed 
that at this height the discharge would be considerably less brilliant, 
especially in air, than that at 37.67 miles, the height of maximum bril- 
liancy. 

"At a height of 124.15 miles the pressure would be only 0.00000001 
millimeter ; and it is scarcely probable that an electric discharge would 
occur with any potential conceivable at such a height. 

"The color of the discharge varies greatly with the tenuity of air 
or other gas with the same potential. Thus in air at a pressure of 62 
millimeters, 81579 M, the discharge has the carmine tint which is so fre- 
quently observed in the display of the aurora ; this corresponds to an 
altitude of 12.4 miles, and would be visible at a distance of 330 miles. 
At a pressure of 1.5 millimeters, 1974 M, corresponding to a height of 
30.86 miles, the discharge becomes salmon-colored, having completely 
lost the carmine tint. At a pressure of 0.8 millimeter, corresponding 
to 33.96 miles, the tint of the discharge is of a paler salmon-color, and 
as the exhaust is carried farther it becomes a pale milky- white. The 
roseate and salmon-colored tints are always in the vicinity of the positive 
source of the electric current; the positive luminosity fades away grad- 
ually, and frequently becomes almost invisible at some distance from 
its source. The discharge at the negative terminal in air is always of a 
violet hue, and this tint in the aurora indicates a proximity to the neg- 
ative source. 

"The following table, with the exception of pressure 0.00000001 milli- 
meter, exhibits deductions from actual observations: 



Pressure. 


Pressure. 


Height. 


Distance 
visible. 


Remarks. 


Millimeters. 


M. 


Miles. 


Miles. 




0. 0000001 


0. 00001 


124.15 


1,061 


No discharge could occur. 


0. 000055 


0.066 


81.47 


8€0 


Pale and faint. 


0.379 


499. 00 


37.67 


585 


Maximum brilliancy. 


0.800 


1053. 


33.96 


555 


Pale salmon. 


1.000 


1316 


32.87 


546 


Salmon-colored. 


1.500 


1974. 


30.86 


529 


Do 


3.000 


3947. 


27.42 


499 


Carmine. 


20.660 


27184.0 


17.86 


403 


Do 


62. 000 


181.079. 


12.42 


336 


Do 


118. 700 


56184. 4 


11.58 


324 


Full red. 



" It is conceivable that the aurora may occur at times at an altitude of 
a few thousand feet." {Nature, 1880, xxii, pp. 33, 34.) 
H. Mis. 26 28 



434 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

W. S. Jevons, after describing the five auroras of August as seen bj 
hira in Norway, adds: After thinking the matter over for three months, 
and comparing the auroral coruscations above described with the ex- 
quisite discoveries of Mr. Crookes, taking into account also some remarks 
in the article on auroras in the new edition of the " Encyclopaedia Bri- 
tannica," I venture to make the suggestion that these coruscations arise 
from highly tenuous matter (in what Mr. Crookes calls the radiant state] 
projected through the higher part of the atmosphere. It is not possible 
in words to give an imj^ression of such a phenomenon in the least degree 
approaching to that naturally acquired by watching it under favorable 
circumstances for several hours. My belief is that, during the auroras 
described, pnffs, as it were, of radiant matter were discharged at a great 
elevation above the earth's surface, and the luminosity of these putits 
perhaps arises from conflicts between thei)rojected molecules and those 
alieady spread about the almost vacuous space. The arch and most of 
the streamers probably belong to a lower, though still a very high part 
of the earth's atmosphere ; but certain of the streamers, as well as 
patches of luminous matter seen on the night of the 13th, certainly ex- 
ist in the lofty regions through which the radiant matter is projected. 
The explanation of the streamers must probably be approached through 
that of the coruscations, but they are effects of a very different kind. 
{Nature, December 16, 1880, xxiii, p. 149.) 

Prof. W. G. Adams, in a suggestive lecture on magnetic disturbances, 
auroras, and earth currents, is almost entirely confined to the results of 
British work. With regard to the aurora he seems to teach that its ul- 
timate cause must lie in the changes of the sun's magnetism, and in 
tides of the oceans of air above us. The existence of such aerial tides, 
due to the attraction of the sun and moon, has never been recognized 
by meteorologists, and it would seem necessary for Professor Adams to 
establish this hypothesis on a firmer foundation. {Nature, xxv, pp. 
65-71.) 

Dr. Spottiswoode, at the conclusion of one of his brilliant lectures on 
matter and magneto-electric actions, concludes as follows: "We may even 
carry the suggestion of a resistance of the second kind a little further, and 
suppose that there is a resistance due to the passage of electricity from 
a medium of one density to another, or from layer to layer, of different 
degrees of pressure. And from this point of view we may regard the 
striae as exi)ressions of resistance due to the varying pressure in differ- 
ent parts of the tube. Into the question, whence this variation of i)ress- 
ure, I am not, at present, prepared to enter; it must suffice for this even- 
ing to have shown that the conclusions which we have drawn from our 
experiments are not in disaceordance with other known phenomena of 
the electrical discharge. 

" Before closing I would point out that these laboratory experiments 
are not unsuggestive in reference to larger questions. It has long been. 
and still is, a disputed question whether a display of the aurora borealis 



METEOROLOGY. 435 

ever takes place at any considerable elevation above the earth's surface. 
On the one hand observations are cited giving a not unfrequent eleva- 
tion of nearly 200 miles, while, on the other, experiments with vacuum 
tubes appear to limit the range to less than forty miles. The observa- 
tion is, perhaps, a doubtful one at bestj it is not easy to fix the position 
of so faint and flickering a jihenomenon, and it is perhaps even more 
difficult to identify a particular phase of it, when seen from two distant 
positions." {Nature^ XXV, p. 543.) 

J. E. Capron, in some remarks on the aurora and the spectrum, says: 
"I again plead the necessity for spectrum observation; it is certainly 
possible that some gas may exist in the upper regions of the aurora 
giving rise to the citron — perhaps to the red — lines, but it still remains 
an unexplained fact that such a gas has hitherto failed to be recognized 
in any other body, celestial or terrestrial. The electrical discharges in 
vacuum tubes, as tested by Professor Stokes' prism and slit, no more 
represent the aurora than did the cirrus cloud illuminated by the light 
of the moon. I would invite all spectroscopists armed with suitable 
instruments, persistently to retain accurate micrometer readings of the 
aurora spectrum. The approximate places of the lines are pretty well 
established; but their actual length of wave positions is much wanted." 
(JS^aUire, xxv, p. 53.) 

Nordenskjold, at the Yega winter quarters, observed but rarely any 
brilliant aurorce, but the more remarkable phenomenon consisted in a 
luminous halo-like arc, not distributed into rays, and characterized by 
its feeble brilliancy as well as by the remarkable quietness of the whole 
phenomenon; this was nearly always visible on the northeastern part 
of the horizon, its summit being at an altitude of from 5 to 12 degrees. 
Hour after hour and day after day this arc remained unchanged ; figura- 
tively it was accompanied by one or several exterior arcs. His obser- 
vations and measurements have led him to the following conclusions as 
to the nature of aurorse: "Our globe," he says, "even during a mini- 
mum aurora year, is adorned with an almost constant crown of light, 
single, double, or multiple, whose innei" edge was usually, during the 
winter of 1878-'79, at a height of about 0.03 radius of the earth above its 
surface; whose surface was somewhat under the earth's surface, a little 
north of the magnetic pole, and which, with a diameter of about 0.32 
radius of the earth, extends in the plane perpendicular to the earth's 
radius and passing through the center of this luminous ring." {Nature, 
xxv, p. 321.) 

Nordenskjold concludes that there are five different regions situated 
around the aurora i^ole where the glory would appear under quite difler- 
ent aspects. In the first circular region within 8° of the aurora pole, 
the glory is visible only as a luminous mist or a very low bow in a 
direction opposite to the aurora pole. In the second region between 8^ 
and IGo region, the common ring of aurora must be seen as a luminous 
bow, the upper part of which is opposite the aurora pole. In the third 



436 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

region between 16° and 20° region, the common arc must be in tlie zen- 
ith, but this light is so small in comparison with the ray aurora, that it 
must draw but little attention. The fourth region is a belt between 20° 
and 28° distant. Here the aurorae usually begin with a luminous bow 
in the magnetic north, out of which spread radiant beams either into 
free space or to another ring. The fifth region lies between 28<^ and 36° 
distant ; the interior circles of the glory are not seen in this region. 
{Nature, xxv, p. 372.) 

Weyprecht, shortly before his death, published a " Pactical Introduc- 
tion to the Observations of Aurorse," &c. (Vienna, 1881), in which he re- 
peats the important classification of auroral forms given in his Nordlicht- 
Beobachtungen. For observations on the altitude of aurorae, with a view 
to calculation of height, he recommends a simple instrument, consisting 
of a tube with an eye-piece, movable in a magnetic meridian, and with 
an altitude circle reading to Jo. The tube must be attached to the 
end of the axis, so as to be capable of sweeping the entire meridian. 
The observations should be repeated at short and regular intervals, and 
both the upper and lower edges of the arches should be observed, thus 
giving at once the mean altitude and breadth of the bands. If the 
"dark segment" is visible, its mean height and the azimuth of its sum- 
mit must be observed, as it probably indicates the direction of the origin 
of the aurora. If a corona is formed the approximate position of its 
center must be observed. Another method of determining the position 
of the corona is by measuring the direction of the rays of which the 
arches are formed. This is best done by measuring their inclination 
from the i)erpendicular in two azimuths 90° apart. If the tube we have 
mentioned be provided with an azimuth circle and cross- wires in the 
eye-piece, with a jiosition circle reading to ^o, this is readily accom- 
plished, the perpeudicular being verified by observation of a plumb 
line. {Nature, July, 1881, xxiv, p. 241.) 

The aurora was remarkably frequent at Stykkisholm, Iceland, during 
the winter of 1880-'81. From September 5, when the first aurora of the 
season was observed, to February 28, to which date the observations 
have been received, aurorse were seen on forty-five nights, viz, five in 
September, eleven in October, four in November, eight in December, 
twelve in January, and five in February, the phenomena being very 
brilliant on September 29, December 23, January 31, and February 5. 
{Nature, July, 1881, xxiv,p. 261.) 

Prof. Sophus Tromholt has published the results of a discussion of 
839 observations of the aurora borealis, at 132 Scandinavian stations 
on 154 nights, between September, 1878, and April, 1879. These obser- 
vations are classified under four heads in accordance with (1) longitude 
and latitude of stations; (2) time of year and age of moon; (3) color, 
altitude, and form of streamers; (4) sound. Herr Tromholt considers 
that it may be accepted as certain that the aurora is a losal phenome- 
non, circumscribed by narrow limits, and manifested at inconsiderable 



METEOROLOGY. 437 

distances from the earth's surface; that the light is generally white and 
less often red or green, but in latitudes higher than Bergen it not un- 
frequently presents spectral colors; and that the accompaniment of 
sound is an indisputable fact. Professor Tromholt still continues his 
observations of the aurora borealis, to which he has devoted his atten- 
tion for many years. It is his intention to make a catalogue of every 
recorded manifestation of the northern light in Norway ; and for this 
puri)ose he requests the co-oi:>eration of other observers, and will be 
grateful for reference to any foreign sources of information, such as 
ships' logs, journals, weather tables, almanacs, &c., which might yield 
materials towards the better elucidation of this phenomenon. {Nature, 
XXIII, p. 84.) 

Prof. Sophus Tromholt has published a complete catalogue of auro- 
ras observed in Northern Greenland from 1865 to 1880. He says that 
at Godthaab the aurorse are seen almost exclusively in the southern 
sky and very rarely in the north, while at the southern part of Green- 
land he has seen more intense aurorpe throughout the whole sky. The 
number of observed aurorsfi is directly proportionate to the brightness 
of the sky, as shown by the following figures : 

Cloudiness ... 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.8 .. 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 
Auroras 7.0 7.0 5.0 6.0....2.9 2.7 2.5 1.5 

After reducing the observed aurorse to what they would have been 
at a uniformly clear sky he obtains the following series : 

No. solar spots 23.5 6.1 18.3 60.1 107.0 133.5 98.6 89.4 

No. aurorai 86.2 91.3 67.4 80.9 51.7 66.5 32.0 46.0 

No. solar spots 51.7 32.1 11.6 13.5 6.8 2.2 16.3 

No. aurorae 71.8 97.0 95.0 102.0 73.0 85.2 83.3 

The author finds that the location of the auroral belt is subject to 
oscillations moving northward during the minimum solar spots and 
southward during the maximum. {Nature, xxvi, p. 130.) 

Prof. Sophus Tromholt has for several years confined himself to the 
investigation of auroras, and has published a monograph on that of 
March, 1880, as well as a catalogue of those observed in Norway in 1878 
and '79. He states that he will occupy Kautokeino (in Finmark, Nor- 
way), during the winter of 1882 and '83, in order to make corresponding 
observations, and he earnestly advocates the establishment of special 
aurora observatories. To this central institute, Drontheim, he would 
have all Scandinavian observers report regularly. {Nature, xxvi, 
pp. 220, 221.) 

XI. — a Kefraction and Mirage, b Halos. 

Glasenapp of Pulkova communicates preliminary results of study 
into atmospheric refraction. The want of concentricity of sheets of air 
of equal density produces a certain A^ariation in the normal refraction 



438 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 188-2. 

given ill tbe tables; the surfaces of equal deusity produce a certain 
variation from the normal refraction given in the tables; the surfaces 
of equal density being, as a rule, inclined to some degree instead of being 
horizontal, and the degree of inclination being submitted to a certain 
periodicity during a whole year, there necessarily arises from this cause 
a certain correction to be ai)plied to the position of a star, much like that 
of the annual jjarallax and aberration, and which might be described as 
"parallax of refraction." As this correction must obviously affect the 
values of the annual parallax and of aberration, it is easy to understand 
the necessity of determining its true value with much accuracy. The 
values deduced by Glasenapp for the stars of i Ursse Majoris, z and 8 
Draconis, are — 0."04, — 0."11, and — 0."11, which figures would explain 
to a certain extent the negative parallaxes received by M. Nysen ("Nu- 
tation der Erdaxe"), and which, resi^ectively, are — 0."03 — 0."05, and 
— 0."06. The whole work of M. Glasenapp on this subject will soon be 
published. {Nature, xxiii, p. 373.) 

Professor Tait communicates to the Koyal Society of Edinburgh a 
valuable communication on the subject of mirage. He has discovered the 
simple assumption as to the law of the variation of density in a stratum 
of air near the earth's surface which is necessary and sufficient to ex- 
Ijlain the simultaneous apijearance of erect, inverted, and again erect im- 
ages which have been frequently observed, but never before explained. 
{Nature, xxv, p. 92.) 

Tait, at the subsequent meeting of the Eoyal Society of Edinburgh, 
June 5, communicated the second part of his paper on mirage, in which 
he proceeded to investigate more carefully that distribution of atmos- 
pheric pressure which would explain the mirage phenomena. 

Two horizontal strata of uniform but different densities, separated by 
a stratum whose density varies continuously from the one to the other, 
were found to give results in close agreement with observation. That 
ai stratum of air should remain of i)ra,ctically uniform density, through 
even a comparatively small height, requires a lowering of temperature 
to compensate for the diminution of pressure as the height increases; 
but this rate of change of temperature. Professor Tait showed, was not 
greater than had been observed in balloon ascents. 

With given thicknesses of strata there was a critical minimum dis- 
tance at which mirage could be obtained. For greater distances there 
were three images, two direct and one inverted. 

The inverted one was always larger than the lower direct one, but 
only appreciably so when the distance of the object approached this 
critical minimum value, for which the phenomenon known as "looming" 
became evident. The second direct image is usually much the small- 
est, being, except at distances near this same critical distance, so small 
as to be practically invisible. This seems fully to account for the com- 
paratively few instances in which the three images have been observed. 
Multiple inverted images, as observed by Scoresby, were explained as 



METEOROLOGY. 439 

due to thin successive layers of varyiag density at dififerent heights, 
[Nature, xx^^i, 1G7.) 

In ii third communication on mirage, Professor Tait called attention to- 
an elaborate memoir by Biot, who had anticipated him in the theory of 
the curve of vertices, but had not made any further use of it. Other 
points at issue between Biot and Tait can iierhaps be settled by care- 
ful measurements of the dip of the horizon taken at different heiglits 
above sea-level. {N(tU(re, xxvi, 264.) 

Fonvielle states that during the month of January, 1882, a large tract 
of countr}', including Paris, was persistently covered by an obscure 
cloud, or nebulosity, such that neither sun, moon, nor stars were visi- 
ble from the 4th to the 26th, French meteorologists were of the opin- 
ion that this was due to a mass of snow suspended in the atmosphere, 
but as he entertained a different opinion he determined to test the ques- 
tion by ascending in a balloon, which he did on January 25, when he 
found that not a single flake of snow was present, and that moreover 
the thickness of the cloud did not exceed 1,000 feet, although it ren- 
dered the sun perfectly invisible from the earth. When at a height of 
900 feet Fonvielle found the earth in its turn invisible, and at the height 
of 2,000 feet, the cloud having been passed, and the sun shining in a clear 
blue sky, this nebulous matter aj)peared to him perfectly homogene- 
ous and without traces of crystals of snow. The temperature within the 
cloud was about 41° F., but above the cloud, about 28° F, Hoar-frost 
formed on the balloon when above the cloud, but not when within it, and 
he ascertained that the cloud was really formed of microscopic atoms of 
water in a quiescent state, and he thinks that when such atoms are set 
in motion they crystallize into minute spiculce or hairs, and that these 
observations go far to explain the formation of "cirrus" clouds. {Nature, 
XXV, p. 338.) 

Kopp, in reference to Fonvielle's observations of the nature of the 
nebulous matter floating over Paris, states that he thinks it more prob- 
able that the cloud was formed by small drops of liquid water cooled 
below the freezing point, but not cry tallized or even solidified until they 
come in contact with a solid body, when the surface tension of the drops 
is immediately diminished, and crystallization ensues. "We know," he 
says, "from Dufour's observations, that water-drops, if they are not in 
contact with solid matter and are floating in a mixture of oil and chlo- 
roform, and having the same density, may be cooled down to — 10 C, 
and if they are small enough, even to — 20 C. Hoar-frost formed dur- 
ing hazy weather and with a temperature below freezing may be due to 
the solidification of such drops of mist. {Nature, xxv, p. 385.) 

In reply to the above, Fonvielle states that as he saw no signs of a 
rainbow he cannot admit that there were any liquid water-drops in the 
cloud. {Nature, xxv, p. 430.) 

Kopp replies to the preceding, that no rainbow should have been 
visil)le, for the minute particles were not rain-drops, but the minutest 



440 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1852. 

fog-drops, sucli as optical theories show cannot possibly produce rain- 
bows. {Nature, xxv, p. 527.) 

To this Fonvielle replies that when Kratzenstein, in 1744, advocated 
Halle's opinion with regard to the vesicular state of the particles of fogs 
and clouds as demonstrated by the absence of rainbows, he was misled 
as subsequent observers have been by the fact that the intensity of re- 
flected light is not sufficient to show the rainbow, and he quotes an 
observation by Faye, in 1849, to the effect that an electric or other bright 
light thrown upon a natural or artificial cloud will prove a convenient 
method of investigating this subject. {Nature, xxv, p. 529.) 

In 1872 the present writer sketched out the simple details of a plan 
for observing the heightsof clouds at night time; it consisted essentially 
in throwing a well-defined beam of electric or calcium light vertically 
upward and observing from a neighboring station the apparent altitude 
of the bright spot visible on the under side of the cloud. 

To the preceding, Dr. Kopp says, " There may be difficulties in the 
way of deciding, by direct observation, as to the form of the cloud- 
particles when their globules are crystals, but since de Saussure and 
Waller both record the results of microscopic observations it seems 
possible to carry such investigations still further. {Nature, xxv, p. 31.) 

The questions at issue between Fonvielle and Kopp have been inves- 
tigated by Eloy, ayoung aeronaut, who, after having made an interesting 
balloon ascent on the 7th of May, 1882, at Paris, has proposed a series of 
ascents from La Villette gas works, Paris, in order to make special ob- 
servations on the nature, formation, dimensions, movements, and loca- 
tion of clouds. In the ascent of May 7, starting at mid-day, he reached 
an altitude of 1,900 meters, where the temperature was higher than at 
1,400 meters. He found a southeast current up to 300 meters, and also 
again above 1,400 meters, but a northeast current in the interior. 
{Nature, xxvi, pp. 67 and 72.) 

His subsequent ascent, of May 18th, was made on the eleventh day 
of a well-defined period, during which the prevailing wind was almost 
without intermission a strong northeasterly breeze which had been 
detrimental to agriculture. The sky was clear, deep blue, and the air 
cold and dry. A large number of dense, small cumuli, dark, well defined, 
with round edges, were seen carried by with the wind almost without 
intermission, except during the eclii)se, when the weather was magnifi- 
cent. This period having terminated only on the 20th, by a total 
change of wind, the observations taken may be considered as giving 
a fair idea of the atmospheric conditions which prevailed during so 
many days. These clouds were floating at an altitude of more than 2,000 
meters, and very cold, the thermometer having descended abruptly to 
4*3 and 6^^ centigrade. When crossing this cloud, the aerial travelers 
perceived no isolated flakes of snow, but the air seemed illuminated by 
sudden lights, as if rays traveling from the sun had been reflected by 
minute icy particles. The balloon having ascended to the upper surface 



METEOROLOGY. 441 

of Die clouds, and travelled during more than an hour out of tlie view 
of the land, the aeronauts were unable to perceive the aureole round 
the shade of the balloon, which remained visible during the whole of the 
excursion on the upper face of the clouds. I explain this circumstance 
by the fact that the cloud was formed by solid water and that the aure- 
ole was less brilliant, the same relation between these two phenomena 
existing for luminosity as between halos and rainbows. The aeronauts, 
having remained at an altitude of two to three hundred meters from the 
clouds, were unable to perceive the colored rings which were visible 
to me and M. Brissonet, navigating only at a few meters above similar 
legions of icy particles. It may have also occurred that our friends 
were blinded by the light from the sun, which at four o'clock was very 
powerful, and so detrimental to their eyes that before entering the 
clouds they were unable to look fixedly at the earth to ascertain their 
path. It is the first time I have heard of aeronauts having experienced 
the want of colored spectacles to inspect our jilanet. {Nature, xxvi, 
p. 89.) 

The effect of haze upon the telescopic definition of stars has been ob- 
served by G.W. Royston-Pigott. He gives several illustrations of the 
extreme steadiness and perfect definition of astronomical objects ex- 
amined through slight haze, very especially the haze due to the London 
fog. He suggests that the effect of haze is apparently to diminish 
the intensity of refraction, but the explanation commonly received is, 
we believe, that the haze acts by way of equalizing the distribution of 
heat, thus diminishing the currents of hot and cold air, to which the 
phenomena of scintillation are largely due. {Nature, xxv, p. 77.) 

J. J. M. Perry communicates some data on the fitness of the climate 
of Alnwick, in Northumberland, for astronomical observations. The 
summary for one year (1881) is as follows (the review is rather an 
instructive one, as showing the great amount of work accomplished by 
English astronomers in spite of the climatic obstacles) : 

Two hundred and twenty-nine nights were completely overcast ; 51 
were partially so (but of these 4 were too cloudy for observations) ; and 
85 were clear. Thus, 132 nights ought to have been available for ob- 
servations. Of these the definition on 51 was very bad, on 9 bad, on 
14 fair, and on 2 very fine. Wind prevented observations on 16 nights, 
frost and snow combined on 15, on 2 frost alone, and on 1 snow alone. 
On 161 was absent from home, and on 3 engaged. Total, 132. {Nature, 
xxv, p. 317.) 

XII. — a Periodicity and suNsroxs. 

An anonymous writer in Nature gives a table of mean departures of 
the monthly temperatures from their normal values for a hundred years 
in England. He concludes that those winters which give a mean tem- 
perature 3^ in excess were immediately followed by summers warmei 
than usual. {Nature, xxvi, p. 35.) 



442 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

H. C. Fox has investigated the laws which regulate the succession of 
temperature and rainfall in the climate of London, with the following 
results among others: 

1. A cold spring is very prone to be followed by a cold summer, a cold 
summer tends to be followed by a cold autumn, and a cold autumn Las 
a slight tendency to be succeeded by a winter of low temperature. 

2. Warm summers are generally followed by warm autumns. 

3. In no fewer than eight out of the twelve months (that is, in every 
one except February, March, May, and October), very loic temperature 
tends to be prolonged into the succeeding month. 

4. If June, July, August, or December be icarm, the next month will 
probably be a warm one also. 

5. Two months, June and July, tend, when very dry, to be followed 
by dry ones. On the other hand, a dry August indicates the probability 
of a icet Sejitember. 

6. A ivet December is apt to be succeeded by a wet January. 

In addition to the foregoing there are also a few instances in which 
the rainfall of certain months appears to be definitely related to antece- 
dent extremes of temperature, and vice versa. Thus: 

7. If August or September be warm, the ensuing September or Octo- 
ber inclines to be wet. If, on the other hand, September or November 
be cold, the succeeding October or December is likely to be a dry month. 

8. If February, June, or July be very dry, the next month has a 
strong tendency to be warm. 

9. If January, March, or April be wet, we may also expect the next 
month to be a warm one. But a wet May or July gives a strong proba- 
bility of cold weather in June or August respectively. {Nature, xxii, 
pp. M5, 44G.) 

Buchan has published a paper on the diurnal period of thunder-storms 
in Scotland. There are two well-marked types of thunder-storms, the 
one occurring in the summer months, and having its daily maximum 
frequently from 1 p. M. to G p. M., and the other occurring in the winter 
months, with its maximum from 9 P. M. to 3 A. M. Stations in the east- 
ern division of the countrj', where the annual rainfall is small or only 
of moderate amount, have all, or n'early all, their thunder-storms during 
the summer months; whereas in the west, or where the climate is wet 
and the rainfall heavy, a very considerable portion of the thunder- 
storms occur during the winter mouths, and these are nearly always of 
short duration, and are the accompaniments of the winter cyclones of 
Northwestern Europe. {Nature, xxii, p. 594.) 

In a paper on the secular inequalities in terrestrial climates depend- 
ing on the perihelion, longitude, and eccentricity of the earth's orbit, 
read by Eev. Dr. Samuel Ilaughton, of Trinity College, Dublin, he 
shows that the two inequalities in question depend upon terrestrial 
radiation only, and in no way upon sun heat. 

Having noticed that the hottest and coldest times of the day follow 



METEOROLOGY. 



44a 



noon and midnight by an interval, often considerable, and in like manner 
that the hottest and coldest days in the year follow midsummer and 
midwinter by an interval often of many days, Dr. Haughton saw in 
these facts a close analogy with the diurnal tides, which follow the sun 
or moon's meridian passage by an interval of some hours. 

Using Ferrel's temperature tables. Dr. Haughton finds the following- 
maximum secular ranges of mean annual temperature for the respect- 
ive zones around the whole earth : 

Maximum secular ranges. 



Latitude. 


Northern 


Southern 


hemisphere. 


hemisphere. 





F. 


F. 





0.185 


0.185 


10 


0.375 


0.585 


20 


1.100 


0.875 


30 


2. 0C5 


1.110 


40 


2.750 


0.985 


50 


3.685 


0.710 


60 


4.610 


0.540 


70 
80 


4.985 
4.952 









This table shows that the average maximum effect of the astronomical 
causes involved in perihelion longitude can never exceed 5° F. in the 
northern hemisphere, and barelj' exceeds 1° F. in the southern. The 
observed great ranges of climate between the Carboniferous and the 
Glacial epochs therefore required some other elucidation. {Nature^. 
XXIV, p. 93.) 

At the Cincinnati meeting of the American Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science, held in August, 1881, Mr. W. J. McKee read a 
paper on a contribution to Croll's theory of secular climatic changes. 

Mr. Frederick Chambers summarizes the sun-spot studies of Charles 
Chambers, Brown, Hill, Archibald, Blanford, and Mildrum, and con- 
cludes that the relations with terrestrial meteorology must be studied in 
greater detail — which work he has himself undertaken. Commencing 
with the daily abnormal barometric variations observed at several 
stations in Western India, it was soon found that, as the time over 
which an abnormal barometric fluctuation extended became longer and 
longer, the range of the fluctuation became more and more uniform at 
the various stations, thus leading to the conclusion that the abnormal 
variations of long duration afi'ect a very wide area. To test this infer- 
ence it became necessary to compare the observations recorded at Bom- 
bay with those of some distant tropical station. Batavia was chosen, 
and, on plotting the daily observations side by side with those of Bom- 
bay, the degree of accordance between them was found to be truly 
surprising considering how far the two stations are apart. The monthly 
abnormal variations were then jilotted and smoothed down bj' taking 
nine months' means. The curves obtained in this way for Bombay and 
Batavia were then found to be almost identical in form, but with this 



444 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

very remarkable difference: the curve for Batavia was seen to lag very 
persistently for ahotit one month behind the Bombay curve. Similar curves 
were obtained for all of Archibald's tropical stations, and for the sun-spot 
ones published in Philosophical Transactions, 1870. 

The general resemblance of all these curves to each other is very 
remarkable; indeed, if the Mauritius curves for the years 1867 and 1868 
be excluded, there is scarcely a single prominent feature in any one of 
the curves which is not reproduced in the others. It appears, then, that 
these long atmospheric waves (if such they may be called) travel at a 
very slow and variable rate round the earth from west to east, like the 
cyclones of the extra-tropical latitudes. 

A glance at the barometric and sun-spot curves is sufficient to show 
that the irregular and frequent fluctuations of pressure are relatively 
much larger than those of sun-spots. The prime curves were therefore 
still further smoothed, and from this comparison it appears that the 
epochs of maximum and minimum barometric pressure lagged behind 
the corresponding epochs of minimum and maximum solar-spotted area 
at an interval varying from about six months to nearly two and a half 
years, or at an average interval of about one year and eight months. 
From a comparison with the records of famines in Asia, it appears that 
widespread and severe famines are generally accompanied or immedi- 
ately preceded by waves of high barometric pressure. 

Tf the conclusions arrived at from the above comparisons of abnormal 
barometric variations, sun-spots, and past famines be admitted, it is 
clear that they at once present the means whereby future famines may 
possibly be foreseen. The conclusions are, briefly : 

1. That variations of the solar-spotted area are succeeded many 
months afterwards by corresponding abnormal barometric variations. 

2. That abnormal barometric variations in the tropics travel at a very 
slow rate round the earth from west to east, arriving at westerly stations 
several months before they reach more easterly ones. 

3. That famines follow in the wake of waves of high barometric press- 
ure. 

Hence, it follows that there are two methods by which early intima- 
tion of the approach of these meteorological disturbances, which are 
attended by famines, may i)Ossibly be obtained : 

1. By regular observation of the solar-spotted area, and early reduc- 
tion of the observations, so as to obtain early information of current 
changes going on in the sun. 

2. By barometric observations at stations differing widely in longitude, 
and the early communication of the results to statons situated to the 
westward. {Nature, December, 1880, xxiii, pp. 84-110.) 

E. D. Archibald, remarking on the fact that the British Government 
has sent an observer to Leh, India, 11,000 feet altitude, for the mainten- 
ance of direct daily observations of the sun's heat, quotes the following 



METEOROLOGY. 



445 



table of the departures of the annual averages of certain meteorological 
elements from their normal values : 



Years. 


"Wolfs 
No. 


Excess of 
temperature 
of black-bulb. 


Annual mean 
air temper- 
ature. 


Mean pres- 
sure of water 
vapor. 


Mean pro- 
portion of 
cloudy sky. 


Mean annual 
rainfall. 


1875 


17 

11 

12 

3 

6 




-.76 
-.33 
+.19 
+.44 
-.36 


o 
-.29 
-.08 
+.17 
+.62 
-.13 


Inch. 
-.104 
-.017 
+.011 
+. 020 
-.014 


Tenths. 
—.03 
-.20 
+.31 
+.09 
-.06 


Inches. 
+.306 


1876u 


—.437 


1877 


-.207 


1878 


+ .566 


1879 


+ .197 







The above figures are based on the meteorological observations for 
the whole of India, and are therefore free from all minor local peculiari- 
ties. The meteorological conditions are evidently subject to much more 
violent variations than are the solar spots ; but Archibald and Profes- 
sor Hill seem to regard these figures as favoring the hypothesis that 
the sun radiates most heat to the earth in the years of fewest spots. 
{Nature, xxv, p. 316.) 

W. S. Jevons advocates the theory that there is some relation be- 
tween the solar spots and the commercial crises. He gives in parallel 
columns the number of bankruptcies and the corresponding year, as 
follows : 



Year. 


Bankruptcies. 


Year. 


Bankruptcies. 


Year. 


Bankruptcies. 


1870 


8,151 

8,164 
8, 112 
9,064 


1874 


9,250 
9,194 
10, 848 
11, 247 


1878 


13, 630 


1871. 


1875 


1879 


15,732 
12, 471 


1872 


1876 


1880 


1873 


1877 


1881 


11, 632 











{Nature, xxvi, p. 226.) 
Dr. Doberck has made a comparison between annual rainfall (C) 
recorded at Markree observatory during forty years and the relative 
sun-spot numbers (R) of Prof. R. Wolf. He finds that the following 
formula approximately represents the connection between these two 
data: 

Inches. Indies. 
C = 46.492 + 0.05946 (R — 58-91) 

But this result must be considered to be a purely local matter and to 
be based upon somewhat insuflBcient data. The general agreement of 
the computed and observed rainfalls is not specially satisfactory. {Na- 
ture, XXVI, p. 367.) 

Balfour Stewart reviews the results hitherto arrived at as to the 
connection between solar spots and terrestrial temperature, pressure, 
magnetism, &c., and concludes: We thus perceive how strong the evi- 
dence is in favor of some connection between the state of the sun's 
surface and terrestrial meteorology, while at the same time it is unmis- 
takably indicated by all elements that this connection is of such nature 



446 



SCIENTIFIC PECORD FOR 1882. 



as to imply that the sun is most powerful where there are most spots 
on his surface. Add to this that the spectroscopic observations of 
Lockyer and others tend in the same direction, as well as such acti- 
nometric results as we have been able to procure, chiefly through the 
labors of Mr. Hennessy, at Dehra-Dhoon and Mussoorie. {Nature, 
XXIII, p. 237.) 

B. Stewart publishes the observations of the height of the river Nile, 
deduced from a graphic representation of the readings above the zero 
of the Cairo nilometer, made every five days during the years 1849 to 
1878, whence he deduced the following approximate relative quantities 
of water discharged by the river each year: 



Year. 

• 


Annual 
discharge. 


Year. 


Annual 
discharge. 


Year. 


Annual 
dischargt). 


a849 


2,130 
2,080 
2,077 
2,078 
2,434 
2, 425 
2,173 
2,141 
2,016 
1,736 


1859 


1,769 
2,098 
2,368 
2,574 
2,765 
2,475 
2,229 
2,932 
2, 208 
2,003 


1869 

1870 


2,284 


1850 


1860 


2,701 


1851 


1 1861 

1862 


1871 


2,718 


1852 


1872 


2,404 


18i'3 


1 1863 


1873 


2,142 


1854 . . 


1864 


1874 


2,317 


1855 . ... 


1865 


1875 


2, 463 


1856 


1866 


1876 


2,541 


1857 


1867 


1877 


1,981 


1858 


1868 


1878 


2,240 




i 







Stewart formulates the following conclusions : 

1. The curve representing the heights of the river Nile and that 
representing the dates of maximum height are very like each other, a 
maximum height corresponding generally to a late date of maximum 
rise. 

2. There is also considerable likeness between the Nile curve and 
that for the river Thames. 

3. There apjjears to be a maximum in these curves at or somewhat 
after the date of maximum sun-spots, but they have more than one 
maximum for one sun-spot cycle. 

It would be extremely interesting if this comparison could be still 
further extended. {Nature, xxv, p. 2G9.) 

Prof. Balfour Stewart communicated to the mathematical and phys- 
ical section of the British Association for the Advancement of Science 
a paper on the similarity between meteorological and magnetic weather, 
by which terms he designates the very variable alternations and beha- 
vior of the magnetic needles. This is a repetition of a paper read before 
the Eoyal Society, and shows that in July, August, and December the 
declination range fluctuation precedes the corresponding temperature 
range fluctuation by twelve days, whereas in February, March, and Aj)ril 
it precedes by only five days. 

In a second paper Professor Stewart deals with a supposed connection 
between the heights of rivers and the number of sun-spots. He finds 
that the Nile agrees with European rivers, and exhibits a maximum 
about the time of maximum sun-spots, and predicts that for the cur- 



METEOROLOGY. 447 

reut year (1882) the maximum height of the Nile will be attained some- 
what late in the season. {Fatnre, xxvi, pp. 448, 449.) 

J. P. O'lieilly says : " So far as I can see there will be a famine in the 
Niger River valley this year, as there has been a complete failure of the 
first crop from drought, and there has been no chance of jjutting in the 
second crop from the same reason. 

" The regimen of the waters of such great rivers as the Nile, the Niger, 
and the Congo, both as to quantity and periods of rise and fall, must be 
closely related to the meteorological condition of the highlands of Africa, 
so little known to us, so extensive, and yet so inaccessible to us for ob- 
servation. May it not be, therefore, assumed that the comparative and 
continuous study and observation of those rivers, as regards their vol- 
umes and periods of rise and fall, would be likely to furnish the most 
valuable data for the prediction and forecast of weather in Europe! 
Thinking so, I have suggested to my correspondent the advisability of 
keeping a systematic record of the rise of the river Niger, and, if possible, 
of the water, with a view to their utilization for meteorological purposes." 
{Ifature, xxvi, p. 597.) 

M. Brierley, of Port Said, writes that in looking over data of the 
rainfall at Bombay and comparing them with the ebb and flow of the 
Nile for the corresponding years from 1849 to 1880, inclusive, he was so 
struck by the similarity, almost identity, of magnitudes that he was led to 
copy them out, side by side. Within a trifling fraction the whole of the an- 
nual rainfall at Bombay happens in the months of June, July, August, 
and September, during which months also the rainfalls occur in the 
head- waters of the Nile. 

The great southwest monsoon which sweeps over the Indian Ocean 
in summer months produces a like effect in both cases, inducing fertil- 
ity and plenty alike on the plains of the Concan of India and the Delta 
of Egypt. It may be mentioned that the lowest ebb of the Nile always 
happens in June, and the highest flood about the end of September and 
the beginning of October. Brierley's table includes also Wolf sun-spot 
numbers and the barometric departures for India. (Nature, October, 
1881, XXIV, p. 532.) 

b Htpsometry. c Geology, Physical Geography, Glaciers, 

Hydrology. 

M. Faye has lately published in Comptes Rendus a remarkable paper 
on the physical forces which have produced the present figure of the 
earth. After remarking on the use of the pendulum in determining the 
figure of the earth from series of measurements of the intensity and 
direction of the gravitation force at different parts of the earth's sur- 
face, he draws attention to the curious fact that while the direction and 
intensity of gravity are affected perceptibly by the presence of hills, 
such as Schiehallion and Arthur's Seat, or even by masses as small as 



448 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

tlie Great Pyramid of Gizeh, gigantic mouutaius, such as the Hima- 
layas, and great elevated plateaus and table-lands do not affect the 
pendulum-indications in any sensible manner, except in certain cases 
where upon elevated continents there appears to be a veritable defect 
of attraction instead of the excess which might be expected. Indeed, 
the observations are sufficiently striking to seem to point to the sup- 
position that not only under every great mountain, but even under 
the whole of every large continent, there are enormous cavities. More 
than this, the attractions at the surface of all the great oceans appear too 
great to agree with the distribution presumed by Clairant's formula, 
which is exact enough for most j)urposes. Sir G. Airy's suggestion 
that the base of the Himalaya range reaches down into the denser liquid 
interior, and there displaces a certain amount of liquid, so that the ex- 
terior attraction is thereby lessened, is one which, inherently improba- 
ble, fails to have any application in explaining why the attraction above 
the seas should be greater than over the continents. M. Faye pro- 
pounds the following solution of the difficulty : Under the oceans the 
globe cools more rapidly and to a greater depth than beneath the surface of 
the continents. At a depth of 4,000 meters the ocean will still have a 
temperature not remote from 0° C, while at a similar depth beneath 
the earth's crust the temperature would be not far from 150° C. (allow- 
ing 33 meters in depth down for an increase of one degree in the inter- 
nal temperature). If the earth had but one uniform rate of cooling all 
over it, it would be reasonable to assume that the solidified crust would 
have the same thickness and the same average density all over it. It is 
therefore argued that below the primitive oceans the earth's crust as- 
sumed a definite solid thickness before the continents, and that in con- 
tracting, these thicker portions exercised a pressure upon the fluid 
nucleus tending to elevate still further the continents. This hypothesis, 
M. Faye thinks, will moreover explain the unequal distribution of land 
and sea around the two poles ; the general rise and fall of continents 
being determined hy the excess of density of the crust below the oceans, 
and by the lines or points of least resistance to internal pressure being 
at the middle of continents or at the margin of the oceans. {Nature^ 
XXII, p. 20G.) 

Professor Geikie has made an interesting contribution to the precise 
measurement of the rate at which the exposed surfaces of different kinds 
of rock are removed in the processes of weathering. The important in- 
fluence of the atmosphere in geological problems needs elucidation from 
all sides, and it occurred to him that data of at least a provisional value 
might be obtained from an examination of tombstones freely exposed to 
the air in graveyards in cases where their dates remained still legible 
or might be otherwise ascertained. He accordingly paid attention to 
the older burial grounds in Edinburgh, and has gathered together some 
facts which have sufficient interest and novelty to render it desirable 



METEOROLOGY. 449 

that others should make similar studies as to tho preservation and 
destruction of such stones. {Nature^ xxii, p. 104). 

Prof. F. Forel has published in the "Archives" of Geneva several 
memoirs on the variations in the dimensions of the glacier of the Ehone- 
and shows that very lai ge changes may be due not to any great varia, 
tions of temperature but to small changes in the local distribution of 
snow and rain. Again, any change in the latter affects first the thick- 
ness of the glacier and eventually its length, but the latter effect is 
specially felt only when the immense snow-slides that feed the upper 
end of the glacier have after a long time worked their way down to the 
lower end, so that the location of the end of a glacier and its thickness 
depend largely upon the snowfall of fifty or one hundred years ago. 
{Nature, xxy, p. 184.) 

Forel has published investigations on the phenomena of glaciers. He 
concludes that molecular affinity is constantly operating to increase the 
growth of the so-called crystalline grains of the glacier, at the expense 
of the water which permeates the capillary fissures ; such grains increase 
from the size of a small nut at the upper end of the glacier to the size 
of a hen's eg^ at the lower end, the increase of volume being 4^ per 
cent, annually. {Nature, xxvi, p. 89.) 

Naturen, for February, 1882, contains an account of the movements of 
the Norwegian glaciers during the past two centuries. It would appear 
that the vast system of Justedal glaciers have generally been retreating 
since 1750, whereas up to that time they had been advancing rapidly. 
In fact, in general the winters were milder during the latter half of the 
last century. At the present time the glaciers are generally advancing 
again. {Nature, xxv, p. 449.) 

Woeikoff" has published an interesting paper on the glacial period 
in the last issue of the Zeitschrift of the Berlin Geographical Society 
(Vol. XVI, fasc. 3). It is well established now that for the formation of 
glaciers not only a sufficiently low temperature is necessary, but also a 
sufficient supply of moisture in the atmosphere. Thus, at the Woznesen- 
sky gold mine, which lies at a height of 920 meters and has a mean tem- 
perature of —9'^ C., but a rather dry climate, we have no glaciers, 
nor in the Verkhoyansk Mountains, where the mean temperature is as 
low as — lo<^.G, and the temperature of January is — 48^.0. To show 
these differences Dr. Woeikofif prepares a table of the temperatures at 
the lowest ends of glaciers, and we see from his figures that in Western 
Norway, at the end of the Justedal glacier (400 meters high), the mean 
temperature is 4^.8 C; it is 5°.8 at the end of the Mont Blanc gla- 
ciers (1,099 meters); 6^.8 at the end of the Karakorum glacier, in Tibet 
(3,012 meters high), and even 10° on the western slope (212 meters) of 
the New Zealand highlands, and 7° on the eastern slope (235 meters). 
In other countries — as, for instance, on the Mounkau Sardyk Mountains, 
in Eastern Siberia (3,270 meters) — the mean temperature at the end of 
the glaciers is as low as — 10o.2, and — 2o.4 in the Daghestan Mountains 
H. Mis. 2G 29 



450 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1882. 

of the Caucasus. Thus the difference of mean temperatures at the lower 
eud of glaciers reaches as mucli as fully 20°. Besides, we see that, pro- 
vided the quantity of rain and snow is great, glaciers descend as low as 
212 meters above sea-level in a country (Kew Zealand) which has the 
latitude of Nice and the mean temperature of Vienna and Brussels — that 
is, higher than Geneva, Odessa, and Astrachan — whilst the average tem- 
perature of its winter is higher than that at Florence. Further, Dr. 
Woeikoff discusses the rather neglected influence of large masses of snow 
upon the temperature of a country during summer, and by means of a 
very interesting calculation he shows how much the temperature of 
summer in higher latitudes is below what it ought to be in consequence 
of heat received from the sun, and vice versa in winter, these differences 
being due on the one side to the refrigerating power of snow, and on the 
other side to the heating power of ocean currents. In a following paper 
he proposes to discuss the other causes which might have influenced the 
climate of different parts of the earth during the glacial period. {Na- 
ture, August, 1881, XXIV, p. 364.) 

Woeikoif contributes to the ZeitscJirift fur Erdkunde a second memoir 
on the climates favorable to glacier formation, in which he clearly indi- 
cates the principal orographical and meteorological principles involved, 
in accordance with the recent progress of meteorology. A cursory glance 
over the present condition of our globe shows us that cold alone will not 
produce permanent snow and glaciers when vapor of water is deficient. 
There are no permanent snows nor glaciers in theYerkhojansk Mountains 
in Northeast Siberia, yet at the foot of them the mean annual tempera- 
ture is below 4P F., and that of January below— 56° F. The reason is 
that the snowfall is but small, and thus the snow is easily melted in 
summer. In New Zealand, on the contrary, owing to the enormous snow- 
fall in the mountains, glaciers descend to about 700 feet above sea-level 
on the west side (lat. 43° S.), 

At this height the mean annual temperature must be about 50° F., 
and snowfall and frost are of rare occurrence even in winter. The great 
importance of an abundant supply of vapor being admitted, and thus 
the necessity of surfaces covered by sea, what temperature of the surface 
of the seas is the most favorable to the production of glaciers ? This 
depends certainly on the height above sea-level where the n6v(S is formed j 
but so far as we consider lowlands and moderate heights — say, below 
6,000 feet — the surface temperature of the water should not very much 
exceed the freezing point, otherwise the vapor evaporated from the 
sea and condensed on the surrounding lands will be rain and not snow ; 
thus contributing rather to melt the existing snow and not to form new 
snow-layers. For lowlands and very small elevations a temperature 
of the surrounding seas of about 32° F. is that which is most favorable 
to the formation of snow, and if the last is falling in sufficient quanti- 
ties to form permanent snow and glaciers. 

The deeper and opener the seas are, the better, for such seas do not 



METEOROLOGY. 



451 



freeze entirely, as the winds and tides always break the ice which is 
already formed ; thus seas of that kind have, even in the midst of win- 
ter, a considerable open surface, which evaporates freely. The tempera- 
ture of the sea surface may be so high that much more rain than snow 
falls even in winter. Let us take an example : The sea surface between 
the southwest of England and the south of Ireland has a temperature 
of above 50° F. even in January. Supposing a saturated stratum of air 
to rise from these seas, it would have cooled down to about 38o.4 F. at an 
elevation of 4,000 feet, that is, at the level of the highest peaks of the 
British islands. The resulting precipitation will be rain and not snow. 
{Nature, xxv, p. 424.) 

Woeikof discusses the influence of local topographical conditions on 
the average winter temperatures observed at meteorological stations, in 
Yol.xiv of the Journal of the Eussian Chemical and Physical Societies. 
He shows from the Swiss and Siberian observations that the tempera- 
ture of the air is often much colder in the valley than on the mountains, 
and that in general the annual range of temperatures is less on isolated 
mountains than the surrounding countries. These peculiarities must be 
allowed for, in order to obtain a true estimate of the distribution of tem- 
peratures. {Nature, xxvi, pp. 190 and 209.) 

Nordenskjold has published the scientific observations made on the 
voyage of the Yega, which are made accessible to English readers by 
means of Leslie's translation, published by MacMillan & Co., 1881. The 
Yega wintered at 67o 4' 49" north and 173° 23' 2" west. In this locality 
the thickness of the ice was measured as follows : 



Dec. 1 

Jan. 1 

Feb. 1 

Feb. 15 

Mar. 1 

April 1 

April 15 139 

May 1..... 154 



Centimeters. 

56 

92 

108 

120 

123 

128 



Centimeters. 

May 15 162 

June 1 154 

June 15 151 

July 1 104 

July 15 (full of holes) . . 67 

July 18 (ice broken up). 

{¥ature,xxY, p. 204.) 



E. D. Archibald, in some remarks on the cold weather of Europe in 
the spring of 1882, attributes this largely to the influence of floating 
ice reaching the lower latitudes of the North Atlantic Ocean. (He 
does not, however, make it apparent but that northerly winds may 
have been the common cause of the low temperatures and the abundant 
ice.) He adds, "Though I agree with Hann in attributing more impor- 
tance to the tropical than to the polar area in influencing the general 
weather of these latitudes, I think it very probable, on theoretical 
grounds, that we are more relatively influenced by the latter area in 
summer and the former in icinter, and that just as it has been inferred 
that the regular* recurrence of periods of diminished temperature ia 



452 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1382. 

Europe is due to tlie regular movements of the ice in the polar area, so 
■we may reasonably conclude that abnormal movements of ice, especially 
in the Spitzbergen area, are likely to i3roduce periods of abnormal cool- 
ness, such as that which at present prevails. In any case the moral to 
be drawn, if we really do intend to solve the weather problem, is by 
all means, to have a meteorological station in Iceland, and endeavor 
to study the map, as we are fortunately able to do in India, on a large 
scale, instead of merely confining our attention to the minute range 
of conditions we are able to observe within the limited area of these 
islands." {Nature, xxvi, p. 198.) 

In a second paper Mr. Archibald states that the cold spring winds 
usually come from the east and north, whereby the movable ice causes 
a high i)ressure and a low temperature. [Nature, xxvi, p. 222.) 

Mr. James B. Francis, i)resident of the American Society of Civil 
Engineers, gave the results of his observations, during forty years, of 
anchor ice. " A frequent inconvenience in the use of water-power in cold 
climates is that peculiar form of ice called anchor or ground ice. I^; ad- 
heres to stones, gravel, wood, and other substances forming the beds of 
streams, the channels of conduits, and orifices through which water is 
drawn, sometimes raising the level of water-courses many feet by its ac- 
cumulation on the bed, and entirely closing small orifices through which 
water is drawn for industrial purposes. I have been for many years in 
a position to observe its effects, and the conditions under which it is 
formed. The essential conditions are that the temperature of the water 
is at its freezing point, and that of the air below that point; the surface 
of the water must be exposed to the air, and there must be a current of 
water. 

" The ice is formed in small needles on the surface, which would remain 
there and form a sheet, if the surface were not so much agitated that 
the water at the top and bottom are continually interchanging their 
places, and intermixing. When resting at the bottom the crystals 
unite by regelation, and anchor ice is formed a considerable distance 
down stream below where the ice needles first form." {Nature, July, 
1881, XXIV, p. 302.) 

E. Gordon, the executive engineer of the embankment works of the 
Irrawaddy, has published a valuable monograph on the hydrography of 
that river, and the hydraulic works. The book is, of course, mainly 
occupied with the subject of connection between height of water or 
total discharge and the peculiarities of the river, and the rainfall. Es- 
pecially interesting is the series of seventy or eighty consecutive days 
of complete measurements of the discharge at three sites in the delta. 
Records of the floods of the Irrawaddy for past years are insufficient 
to deduce anything like periodic regularity that has been proven in 
some other rivers. {Nature, xxvi, p. 172.) 

Professor Harlacher has constructed a current meter, which gives 
the velocities at any depth in the shortest possible time, making a con- 



METEOROLOGY. 453 

tfliuous record on a sheet of paper, if required. Full details of the 
apparatus are given in Nature^ Vol. xxvi, p. 494. and in the Proceed- 
ings of the Institute of Civil Engineers. 

Tillo has published in the Nautical Eeview (Ilorsloi SborniJc) an in- 
teresting paper on the slopes and ranges between high and low water 
in the rivers of European Russia. For the Volga the range is 12 feet 
at Astrachan, and the average range throughout the whole length of 
the river is 33.6 feet. For the Duna the range is 9 feet at Eiga, and 
25.2 feet on the average for the whole river. {Nature, xxvi, p. 543.) 

Mr. G. H. Darwin states that a misprint in a tidal report of 1872 has 
affected all the reductions of tides since that time, and in place of re- 
peating the laborious computations he endeavors to compute the maxi- 
mum effect which this error can have produced. His memoir is said 
to have contaioed suggestions of a new method of procedure of the 
harmonic analysis of the tides of long periods. {Nature, xxvi, p. 465.) 

Yornol has published the chemistry of the Norwegian North Atlan- 
tic expedition, in which he discusses the quantity of air and carbonic- 
acid gas, and of the salt in the sea water; his apparatus for obtaining 
samples at any depth was invented by Captain Wills. The apparatus 
for boiling out the gases was that recommended by Jacobsen, with 
the addition of a beautiful slide valve invented by Dr. Behrens. Ninety- 
four samples of air extracted from water taken at various depths give the 
volume of oxygen varying between 33.7 and 36.7 for the service water. 
He finds the lowest oxygen 33.64, and the highest 34.14. The results of 
the "Challenger" observations were 35,01 and 32.35. {Nature, xxv, 
p. 338.) 

Dr. Tomoe states, in reference to the effect of depth on the oxygen, 
*'The proportion, which at the surface is 35.3 per cent., diminishes at 
first rapidly, then slowly, to 32.5 per cent, at a depth of 300 fathoms, 
after which it keeps constant." Buchanan remarks that the percentage 
of oxygen must depend largely upon the time elapsed since the water 
of the respective depths was in contact with the atmosphere. As to 
the carbonic acid Tomoe finds 52.78 milligrams per liter of water pres- 
ent in the carbonates, and 43.64 milligrams present in the bicarbonates 
contained in the sea water. He gives an elaborate table of the expan- 
sion of sea water with temperature. The quantity of solid residue in 
sea water is shown upon charts that clearly demonstrate the distri- 
bution of the water from the Atlantic and the Polar regions. In gen- 
eral, Tomoe's work must be recognized as giving a great impetus to 
the chemical study of sea water. {Nature, xxv, p. 411.) 

d Climate and Biology. 

Dr. T. L. Whitehead has published his researches based on fifty years' 
consecutive observation on the climate of Ventnor, in the Isle of Wight, 
and the diseases peculiar to the climate of that locality, thereby raak- 



454 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1S82. 

• 
ing important contributions to tlie work of the late Dr. Mont. {Nature, 

XXV, p. 34.) 

Tyndall's essays on tlie floating matter of the air have been repub- 
lished in convenient form, and should serve to stimulate research. In 
this important field meteorological observers can probably best promote 
the study of the relations of climate to disease by regarding or preserv- 
ing daily results of observations upon atmospheric dust. {Nature, xxv, 
p. 6.) 

Professor Frankland, in an interesting lecture on climate of town and 
country, explains the chief things affecting climate, such as the direct 
sunshine, and especially the fact that the warmth of the air, as distin- 
guished from the sunshine, depends, first, upon the nature of the sur- 
face of the land and the presence of the ocean, and, secondly, upon 
the absorption by the atmosphere, by invisible aqueous vapor, by clouds, 
fog, dust, and smoke. He especially dwelt upon the nature of London 
smoke fogs due to the imperfect burning of bituminous coal, and in 
ordinary grates rather than in the factory furnaces. He says that were 
aqueous vapor alone in the air it would never produce fog, but condense 
at once to large i)articles and at once fall as rain; when, however, dust 
or smoke particles are present in the air the minute spherules of fog are 
immediately formed around them as nuclei. He thinks that a law for- 
bidding the imj)ortation of bituminous coal, and requiring the use of 
either coke or smokeless coal or gas, is the only method of preventing 
the London fogs that seriously injure the health of the inhabitants. 
{Nature, xxvi, p. 382.) 

Cyon communicates to the Paris Academy the results of experiments 
on the action of high atmospheric pressure on the animal organism. He 
finds that oxygen is not a special poison for the organism. Animals 
die at high atmospheric pressure simply because the carbonic acid (the 
chief excitant of the vasomotor and respiratory centers), diminishes con- 
siderably the circulation and respiration, stopping the former because of 
too great lowering of blood pressure, and the latter because of apnea. 
The heart-beats are accelerated for the same reasons ; the oxygen in- 
creases the action of the accelerating nerves, whife the moderating 
action of the pneumogastric nerves is lessened through failure of car- 
bonic acid. {Nature, xxv, p. 428.) 

J. E. Clark states that since 1878 observations have been regularly 
made at thirty stations in Great Britain on the first appearance of buds, 
flowers, &c., of a selected series of thirty flowers. The detailed results 
have been published in the Natural History Journal. The averages for 
aU these 900 observations of thirty plants at thirty stations give an accu- 
rate method of comparing the climates of the respective years. These 
averages are as follows, reckoning by days from January 1 onward : For 
1878, 93 ; 1879, 115; 1880, 103 ; 1881, 111 ; mean of all, 105.3. He con- 
cludes that the weather during a given period is of less effect than that of 
the preceding months. It is to be earnestly recommended to amateur 



METEOROLOGY. 455 

meteorologists and lovers of botany tliat they keep a close and extensive 
record of the budding and blossoming of plants and buds in their neigh- 
borhood. {Xature, xxv, p. 553.) 

Dr. Church communicates to the Eoyal Horticultural Society the 
results of exj)eriments he has had made at Cirencester during the last 
fifteen years to ascertain the amount of salt in the rain brought by 
autumnal gales, especially from the southwest. He found from 5 to 7 
grains per gallon, while the ordinary amount was only 5 grains. The 
average winter amount was but slightly in excess of the average sum- 
mer quantity. He noticed that in Oakley Park one side of the trees 
was severely injured, and that, if no rain followed for a few days after 
the gale, the salt sparkled on the trees, even at a distance of thirty-five 
miles from the sea. The salt abstracted the moisture from the leaf-cells 
and formed a condensed solution, so that the leaf became comi^letely 
dried up, and perished. Mr. McLachlan added that salt had been ob- 
served on windows at Lewisham, as at Croydon, and elsewhere. Sir J. 
D. Hooker remarked that Dalton was the first to record a similar fact at 
the beginning of this century. With regard to beeches withstanding the 
gale better than oaks, as mentioned ' at the last meeting, it was elicited 
that they were unhurt at Kew and Valewood, Haselmere, but at Ciren- 
cester, in Dorsetshire, and Cornwall, they suffered severely. Mr. Black- 
moor exhibited foliage of pears, «S:c., from Teddington, some of which 
was quite unhurt; of other trees growing adjacent to them the leaves 
were much injured. Vines and peaches showed similar differences. He 
suggested that it could not be salt in this case. The opinion generally 
entertained was that such discrimination was due to the trees being rel- 
atively hardy and less hardy. {Nature, XXYI, 191.) 

Eev. G. Hen slow at the recent meeting of the Horticultural Society ' 
gave an account of the progress he had made in compiling statistics for 
a report on the meteorological phenomena of severe winters, and the 
consequent injury to plants. He had obtained particulars of severe 
winters from A. D. 220 to 1880 ; but those during which destruction 
of and injuries to jilants had been specially recorded were the follow- 
ing eight: 1851-'52, 1852-'53, 1859-'60-'61, 1864-'65, 1878-'79, 1879-'80, 
1880-'S1. He had collected all the information he had at present been 
able to find with reference to these winters, and had drawn up first a 
short account of the principal meteorological phenomena of the year 
preceding each winter, as well as of the winter itself, as the behavior of 
a plant under frost so much depends upon its previous condition; in 
each case his tables give details of injuries to and losses of i)lant oyer 
as many places in the British Isles as possible. The importance of 
registering meteorological phenomena and the losses in several winters 
lay in the fact that the conditions of the winters respectively differed 
in many ways from one another. The consequence was that the im- 
mediate cause of plants succumbing to frost was not always the same. 
There would be an introduction, dealing with several interesting mat- 



456 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1889. 

ters bearing on meteorology and plant injuries, and he proposed com- 
pleting it with copious indices, so that no difi&culty would be met in 
finding the exact behavior of every plant in any country and in any 
winter. A discussion followed, in which the great importance of elabo- 
rating the report as fully as possible, and of speedily publishing it, were 
insisted on. (Kature, xxv, 452.) 

Professor Hunfalvi, as president of the physical section of the Hun- 
garian Association for the Advancement of Science, made an important 
address upon the meteorology and forestry of Hungary. Owing to the 
immense consumj>tion of wood for fuel in that country the destruction 
of the forest is proceeding in quantity. (Nature, xxvi, p. 457.) J 

Cornu has studied the direct absorption of atmospheric vapors and 
gases by the epidermis of the leaves and stems of plants, and finds that 
such absorption takes i)lace directly without the necessity of a previous 
solution in water. Thus, growing grapes were exposed to the vapors of 
heavy oils distilled from coal tar, and the sense of taste easily detected 
the empyreumatic substances in the interior of the pulp and the pedun- 
cle. {Nature, xxv, 544.) 

A. H. Swinton makes out a relation between sun-spot cycles and 
the appearance of rare species of lepidoptera. His observations are con- 
tinuous from the year 1832 to 1875. For some species their maxima 
coincide with the maxima of sun-spots, but for other species the coinci- 
dence is with the minima of sun-spots. (Nature, xxv, 584.) 

The eflect of the temperature of the air on the pitch of the cricket's 
chirp is such that both rise together, and observations of temijcrature 
and pitch by Miss M. W. Brook closely verify a rule given by a writer 
in the Salem Gazette, namely : " Take 72 as the number of strokes 
■per minute at a temperature of 60°, and for every 4 strokes more add 
one degree more of temperature ; for every 4 strokes less deduct the 
same." We believe this is the newest item of connection between 
meteorology and entomology. It converts the chirping cricket into a 
natural thermometer. (Nature, xxv, p. 229.) 

€ YULCANOLOGY AND SEISMOLOaY. 

Eev. O. Fisher has published in his work " On the Physics of the Earth's 
Crust" a valuable collection of facts and theories relative to the structure 
and history of the earth. Among other things, says Mr. E. Hill, it seems 
to be fairly well established that the contraction of the earth by cool- 
ing is inadequate to the production of its greater inequalities. The earth 
isnot so homogeneous as required by the hypothesis of cooling from a 
molten globe. A plastic or fluid substratum best explains many facts 
of the present epoch. (Nature, xxii, 434.) 

Many of Mr. Fisher's conclusions are, however, controverted by A. H. 
Green. (Nature, xxv, 481.) 

The Seismological Commission of S witzerand have published, in French 



METEOROLOGY. 457 

and German, an excellent text-book on earthquakes, by Professor Heira, 
and have received a great mass of information in reference to the earth- 
quake of December 29 to 31, 1879. Forel states that it consisted of three 
chief shocks and a dozen small ones. The first strong shock was experi- 
enced over an ellipse 200 miles long and 100 miles wide, whose axis was 
parallel to the main chain of the Alps. Its intensity at Geneva reached 
7 on the scale of 10 proposed by Forel. The accurate observation of 
time, intensity, and direction of shock is the one thing necessary in order 
to advance our knowledge of the sources and causes of earthquakes. 
{Xature, xxv, p. 251.) 

Prof. John Milne, of the Imperial College of Engineering, Tokio, has 
read before the Seismological Society of Japan a paper on the distri- 
bution of earthquakes in Japan. His work is based on observations of 
very many correspondents throughout Japan. He shows in a remark- 
able manner how a large mountain range absorbs earthquake energy, 
and again if instruments of ordinary sensitiveness could be used through- 
out Japan there would be on the average at least 1,200 earthquake 
shocks per year. {Nature, xxv, pp. 613, 614.) 

Professor Milne publishes in the Japan Gazette a Japanese earth- 
quake chronology extending from 295 B. C. to 1854 A. D. Notwith- 
standing the frequency of earthquakes in Japan the native chroniclers 
have always carefully recorded them. {Nature, xxvi, p. 17.) 

Professor Milne says that, in 1879, he commenced a series of experi- 
ments with pendulums, microphones, and other apparatus, and special 
pains were taken to insure that the noises recorded'were due to actual 
earthquakes, since the apparatus was so sensitive that a small pebble 
dropped upon the grass at a distance of several feet was easily heard 
in the telephone and recorded by a swing of the needle of the galva- 
nometer. In fact, one of these pieces of apparatus was converted into 
a "thief detector" by arranging it so it rang a bell whenever tremors 
were produced by the footsteps of persons passing through the yard. 
The Japanese observers seemed to be animated by the hope that the 
study of these small tremors will ultimately enable them to predict the 
larger and more important ones. {Nature, xxvi, p. 125.) 

In a report on the earthquake phenomena of Japan, Professor Milne 
states besides the several seismic centers within that island there are 
also several in the open sea outside that island. He describes the re- 
sults of experiments as to artificial earthquakes, namely, the explosion 
of dynamite, the falling of a heavy iron ball, &c. {Nature, xxvi, p. 464.) 



i 



PHYSICS. 



By George F. Baekee, 

Professor of Physics in the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. 



GrENEKAL. 

The year 1882 has witnessed a marked physical progress, which is 
nowhere so surprising as in the department of electricity. Of the four 
hundred and thirty titles noted for the preparation of these abstracts, 
two hundred and four, or nearly one-half, are upon subjects connected 
with electricity and magnetism. 

In his inaugural address as professor of applied mathematics in 
Owens College, Manchester, Dr. Schuster considers the influence of 
mathetnatics on the progress of physics, tracing it from the time of 
Galileo, the founder of mathematical physics, on the one side, and of 
Baptista Porta and natural magic on the other, to the union of the two 
in the science of today. He says: "The most important of all the 
functions of mathematical physics, and perhaps the only one through 
which mathematics has had an unmitigated beneficial influence on the 
progress of physics, is derived from its power to work out to their last 
consequences the assumptions and hypotheses of the experimentalist. 
All our theories are necessarily incomplete, for they must be genisral 
in order to avoid insurmountable difficulties. It is for the mathemati- 
cian to find out how far experimental confirmation can be pushed, and 
where a new hypothesis is necessary." {N'ature, February, 1882, xxv, 
p. 397.) 

Eoche, in a memoir upon the internal state of the terrestrial globe, 
proposes the hypothesis that the earth is composed of a solid nucleus 
covered with a less dense layer, partially liquid, perhaps, to a certain 
depth. {Mem. Acad. ScL, Montpellier, 1881 ; J. Phys., October, 1882, II, 
I, p. 462.) 

Sir William Thomson has called attention to a thermodynamic accele- 
ration of the earth's rotation, due to the action of the sun upon the ter- 
restrial atmosphere. He concludes that, in the course of a century, a 
chronometer B (regulated to sidereal time day by day and year by year) 
would be in advance of a chronometer A (regulated to sidereal time at 
the commencement of the century, and keeping absolute time since) by 
2.7 seconds in virtue of this thermodynamic acceleration, and behind it 
by 25 seconds in consequence of the retardation due to the tides, the 

459 



400 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

final result being a loss of 22.3 seconds, agreeing •with that given by 
Adams. {J. Fhys., February, 1882, II, i, p. 61.) 

Sherman has studied the effect of the support on the oscillations of a 
pendulum. The decrement of the arc could not be represented by a 
smooth curve, and, on examination, it was found to be due to small 
movements of the stand not synchronous with those of the pendulum. 
This resulted in one case from the nature of the ground on which the 
stand rested, in another from the varying tightness of the joints of the 
stand due to the dryness of the w^ood, and in a third from the vibration 
of a clock on the same wall. {Am. J. Sci., September, 1882, III, xxiv, 
p. 175.) 

Jolly has applied the balance to the determination of the mean density 
of the earth. To each arm of the balance a rod 21.5 meters long was 
attached, carrying pans at the upper and lower ends. The weights were 
balls of glass filled with mercury and weighing 5 kilograms. Two of 
these weights were j)laced in the upi)er pans, and equilibrium obtained 
by adding weights, the displacement being observed by means of a 
mirror, scale, and telescope. One of the weights being transferred 
to the lower i^an, its weight was found to be increased by 31.713 
milligrams. Introducing, now, a sphere of lead 0.995 meter in diameter 
and weighing 5,775.2 kilograms, beneath the lower pan, the increase of 
weight was found to be 32.059 milligrams, a mfean difference in a series 
of experiments of 0.589 milligram. From this the mean density of the 
earth is calculated as 5.692, a number higher than that usually given, 
but correct probably for the locality (Munich). {J. Phys., May, 1882, 
II, I, p. 231.) 

Wolf has carefully examined and identified the various standards of 
weight and measure which are deposited in the Observatory of Paris. 
These are: 1st, the standards known as"latoisedu Perou," and "la 
toise du Nord," both in excellent condition; 2d, the four compound 
rules of copper and platinum used for measuring bases, the pendulum 
rule of Borda and Cassini, a meter and double meter in iron, and one 
of the four original standard meters of platinum, the others being the 
meters of the Archives, of the Conservatoire, and of the Commission des 
Pouts et Chaussdes, respecti.vely ; 3d, two of the four original platinum 
kilograms, the others being the kilogram of the Archives, and the kilo- 
gram of the Conservatoire ; and 4th, the fourrmeter copper rule of Lenoir 
used by Lavoisier, Borda, and the Commission of 1798 in comparing the 
toises and standardizing the'meter. [J. Phys., June, 1882, II, i, p. 252 ; 
Ann. Chim. Phys., January, 1882, V, xxv, p. 5. 

Wead has suggested a simple mode of changing the gear of an ordi- 
nary screw-cutting lathe so as to allow threads of one millimeter pitch 
to be cut by it. It is based on the assumption that one inch equals 25.4 
millimeters; which differs from the fact by only yi o\ o o part. The lathe 
is first geared so as to cut a screw of 20 threads to the inch, a gear of 
100 teeth being on the feed-screw. Then this gear of 100 teeth is re- 



PHYSICS. 461 

placed by one of 127, and the pitch will be one millimeter. {Am. J. Sci.y. 
March, 1882, 111, xxm, p. 176.) 

Mascart has experimented with a new form of apparatus devised to 
determine variations in the intensity of gravity at different places by 
noting the height of the mercury column which balances the elasticity 
of the same mass of gas at a constant temperature. It resembles a 
siphon barometer, but the shorter leg is closed, confining above the mer- 
cury within it, carbon dioxide gas. The longer leg is open and contains- 
a meter column of mercury. The author believes it will compare favor- 
ably in sensibility with the i^endulum. ( Comptes Eendus, July, xc v, p. 
126.) In a subsequent communication, Mascart gives the results of some 
measurements taken with this gravity barometer at various places in 
the north of Europe, confirming his i^revious opinion. [Comptes Eendus,. 
October, xcv, p. 631.) 

An ingenious deep-sea sounding apparatus has been devised by a 
Eussian naval officer. It consists of a piece of lead, a small wheel with 
a contrivance for registering the number of revolutions, and a float. A& 
the apparatus sinks, the wheel revolves and registers the depth. On 
reaching the bottom the lead is detached and the float brings the rest 
of the instrument to the surface. {Nature, March, 1882, xxv, p. 471.) 

MECHANICS. 

1. Of Solids. 

Greenhill has determined mathematically the greatest height con- 
sistent with stability that a vertical pole or mast can be made, and the 
greatest height to which a tree of given proportions can grow. He finds, 
for example, that 90 meters is the maximum height for a pine tree half 
a meter in diameter at the base. {J. Fhys., July, II, i, p. 337.) 

Colsou has observed that the increase of carbon absorbed by a new 
iron disk when heated in charcoal over one already partially carburized,. 
is only apparent, being due to the reaction of the iron upon the carbon- 
ous oxide. Hence, on heating, oxygen is evolved. For a given temper- 
ature, therefore, he maintains that the coefficient of diffusion of carbon 
into iron is constant; at least until the limit for steel has passed. Silicium. 
diffuses with great ease also. A platinum wire, immersed in lampblack 
which was proved to be free from silica, placed in an earthen crucible, 
was found to be silicified after the whole had been heated in a forge 
fire; and the lampblack, on burning, left a residue of white silica. On 
longer heating, the platinum becomes brittle and acquires the composi- 
tion Si Pt2. If silica be mixed with the lampblack a still higher com- 
pound, Si2 Pt3, results, having a density of 14.1, and fusing at the same 
temperature as ordinary glass. The author believes that the silica dif- 
fuses as such and not as silicium. Iron heated with a mixture of silica 
and carbon gives a crystalline silicide of density 6.6, containing 15 per 
cent, of silicium. Colsou considers that silicium may be gaseous ; as 



462 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 188'i. 

Berthelot supposes carbon to be. {Comptes Rendus, January, xciv, p. 
20.) In a note following this paper Violle mentions a fact observed by 
liiin in 1878, while melting some palladium, which shows the ready dif- 
fusibility of carbon. The crucible used was of porcelain, supported in 
an outer one of plombagine. After heating to 1500°, this porcelain 
crucible was so permeated with carbon as to have exteriorly the ap- 
liearance of a cacbon crucible. The depth to wliich the plombagine pen- 
etrates is proportional to the time of heating. ( Comptes Rendus, Janu- 
ary, XCIV, p. 28.) 

Marsden has made use of this ready diffusion of carbon in his theory 
of the cementation process. He believes that the carbon in the state of 
impalpable powder diffuses into the bars of iron during the heating, 
when they are expanded and softened, thus converting them into steeL 
{Arm. CJiim. Phys., August, Y, xxvi, p. 568.) 

Spring has submitted to compression the variety of sulphur obtained 
in vesicles by Saint-Olaire Deville, which is insoluble in carbon disul- 
phide. Under a pressure of 8,000 atmospheres at 13° hard pale yel- 
low blocks were produced, 4.21 per cent, of which was soluble in car- 
bon disulphide and had been therefore transformed into the octohedral 
variety. Hence the density of the vesicular sulphur is less than that 
of octohedral sulphur. By obtaining the specific gravity of these blocks 
at different temperatures. Spring measured the expansion and calcu- 
lated for vesicular sulphur the density 1.960, the same as prismatic sul- 
phur. It expands regularly up to 43°, then contracts again, so that at 
80° it has the same specific gravity as at zero. {Nature, January, 1882, 
XXV, p. 231.) 

Kayser has studied the condensation of gases on the surfaces of solids, 
a phenomenon to which he gives the name " adsorption." The gases 
used were carbon dioxide, sulphurous oxide, and ammonia, and the ad- 
sorptive effect was noted (1) in the empty glass vessel, (2) in the same 
filled with coarsely pounded glass, (3) in the vessel filled with brass 
and wrought-iron turnings. By noting the jjressure produced in the 
vessel by a given volume of gas, the adsorption was determined. With 
the solids given it was in the order: empty vessel, iron, brass, glass 
powder. Sulphurous oxide was least condensed by the empty vessel, 
most by the glass powder. On the empty vessel, CO2 was condensed 
equally with NH3 ; on the metallic surfaces equally with SO2; and on 
the glass surfaces less than either. ( Wied. Ann., xv, p. 634 ; Nature, 
June, XXVI, p.l39.) 

Berthelot has investigated the absorptive action of platinum for 
oxygen and hydrogen gases, and shows that a suboxide and two hy- 
drides are produced by it. The so-called catalytic action of platinum 
is therefore due to a definite reduction which takes place in presence 
of oxygen and of hydrogen, water being formed. The inflammation of a 
mixture of oxygen and hydrogen by platinum is due to the formation 



PHYSICS. 463 

of the least stable hydride, and its reduction by oxygen, both processes 
evolving heat. {Comptes Bendus, May, xciv, p. 1377.) 

D.ebray has examined certain alloys of zinc with the platinum met- 
als which are peculiar. That with osmium takes fire almost explo- 
sively on heating to 300° C. The alloys of rhodium and ruthenium, but 
especially iridium, suddenly evolve a large amount of heat when 
raised to the same temperature. The author regards these changes as 
physical, isomeric modifications being produced with the evolution of 
heat. {Comptes Bendus, June, xciv, p. 1557.) 

2. 0/ Liquids. 

Koch has determined the influence of temperature upon the constant 
of internal friction of mercury, measuring the time required by a given 
quantity of mercury to pass through a capillary tube from one reservoir 
to another under a known pressure and at a determined temperature 
The result shows that this constant, like that of other liquids, dimin- 
ishes as the temperature rises, at first rapidly, then more slowly, accord- 
ing to an equation given in the memoir. The numerical values agree 
with those previously obtained by Warburg. {Wied. Ann., xiv, p. 1; 
J. Phys., April, II, i, p. 186.) 

In the report for 1881, Bjerknes's hydrodynamic apparatus was men- 
tioned. Bertin has given a much fuller account of it, illustrated with 
woodcuts. {Ann. Chim. Phys., February, Y, xxv, p. 257.) 

Decharme has repeated these experiments and has extended them, 
using in place of pulsating or vibrating bodies currents in air or water, 
either continuous or interrupted. Modifying the old experiment of 
Clement Desormes, in which a disk is attracted when placed close to a 
jet of gas thrown normally against it, by employing a jet of water, the 
author finds a tin plate a square decimeter in area strongly attracted 
when placed 2 or 3"°™ from the aperture. "With liquids only one disk 
is required, and this is fixed, the jet being movable. When held 4 or 
5imn from the plate the attraction is very decided. This the author 
calls a hydro-electro magnet. Using two tubes, one with a thick edge 
and the other with a thin one, the phenomenon of an electro-magnet 
with two unlike poles is obtained. Hydro-induction the author has 
also produced. {Ann. 'Chim. Phys., April, V, xxv, pp. 554, 570.) 

The extremely discordant results of experiments to measure the co- 
efficient of difiiisibility of liquids has led to new determinations by 
Wroblewsky, using a photometric method. Using solutions of chemi- 
cally pure salt, of three different densities, he finds that for a given 
time and within the limits of concentration indicated, the coefficient of 
diflfusibility diminishes proportionally to the quantity of salt in solu- 
tion. {Wied. Ann., xvi, p. 606; J. Phys., January, II, i, p. 39.) 

Martini j)roduces diffusion figures by the following means: In a glass 
vessel two liquids are placed, of nearly the same density; as, for ex- 
ample, water and a solution of salt or sugar. They are left at rest for 



4G4 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

an hour. Then a capillary tube entering the bottom of the vessel is 
connected by a rubber tube with a moveable vessel of colored alcohol. 
As this alcohol enters the vessel through the capillary tube it rises as 
a thin spiral thread, spreading into flue tree-shaped figures oq reaching 
the lighter liquid. If the heavier liquid be used in place of the alcohol, 
umbrella- shaped figures are produced. {Wature, July, xxvi, p. 309; J. 
Fhtjs., Kovember, II, i, p. 520.) 

Wrightson and Eoberts have communicated further results on the 
density of liquid metals obtaii; ed with their oncosimeter. They obtained 
for copper 8.217, lead 10.37, tin 7.025, zinc 6.487, silver 9.51, iron (No. 4 
foundry, Cleveland) 6.88. {Nature, February, 1882, xxv, p. 355.) 

The specific gravity of melted steel has been determined by Alexijew 
by Petruschewsky's method. An open porcelain tube was immersed in 
liquid steel to a given depth, and air was forced into it until it bubbled 
up through the melted mass. By means of an attached manometer, 
the pressure was read off; and knowing this and the depth the density 
is easily computed. It was found to be 8.05, and therefore greater than 
solid steel. {Nature, June, 1882, xxvi, p. 138.) 

Angstrom has studied the increase in volume produced when water 
absorbs a gas, using for this purpose air, nitrogen', carbonous oxide, 
oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon dioxide. For each of these gases the 
increase in volume was proportional to the quantity of gas absorbed. 
Calling the increase in volume which a liquid undergoes in absorbing 
unit volume of a gas — the coefficient of expansion by absorption, he finds 
this value to be for N 0.00145, air 0.00140, CO 0.00127, O 0.00115, H 
0.00106, CO2 0.00125, HCl 0.00097, NH3 0.00077, and SO2 0.00091.. ( Wied. 
Ann., V, XV. p. 297; J. Phys., June, U, i, p. 288.) 

Leconte has called attention to the very general error in physical 
text books concerning the attraction and repulsion of small floating 
bodies, and has given the true theory of the phenomenon founded ui)on 
the surface tension of the liquid, and involving the two fundamental 
principles of capillarity, viz, 1st, that the elastic reaction is inversely 
proportional to the radius of curvature of the meniscus; and 2d, that 
the same contractile reaction tends to reduce the perimeter to the 
smallest which can bo inclosed by its actual boundary. {Am. J. Sci., 
December, III, xxix, p. 416.) 

Plateau has described to the Belgian Academy a capillary arrange- 
ment which seems at flrst capable of realizing a perpetual motion. A 
capillary tube is inserted obliquely in distilled water so that the latter 
nearly fllls it. Into this liquid column at the top dips the small orifice 
of another tube, which reaches a little way in the same oblique direc 
tion, then turns downwards, the vertical jjortion being wider, and not 
reaching the water. Supiwse this bent tube filled with water. It then 
forms a siphon, the shorter branch of which is immersed in a liquid in 
equilibrium, while the longer descends several centimeters below the 
surface of that liquid. It appears, therefore, as though the water should 



PHYSICS 465 

flow incessantly through the siphon, and regaining the vessel be engaged 
in perpetual circulation. As a matter of fact, however, the water is drawn 
upwards in the vertical portion of the tube, until its free surface reaches 
a certain portion of the oblique part of the same tube, when it stops. 
The author accounts for these results by suction, exerted by the small 
concave liquid surface between the two tubes. {Nature, April, xxv, p. 
614; PMl. Mag., May, Y, xiii, p. 379.) 

Wroblewsky has studied the influence which the quantity of gas dis- 
solved in a liquid has on its superficial tension, and concludes that, in 
the case of carbon dioxide, there is a remarkable relation between the 
laws of its solubility in water and the superficial tension of the liquid. 
This relation he expresses thus : 1st. The product of the surface ten- 
sion a by the pressure P under which the gas is confined, is propor- 
tional to the coefficient of saturation S, which corresponds to this press- 
ure. 2d. The pressure remaining constant and equal to n atmospheres 
{n being greater than unity), it results from the laws of solubility that 
the quotient 

Cpy P = n ^Qpjp = l 

diminishes with the lowering of the temperature. Experiment shows 
that in this case the ratio of the tensions corresponding to these press- 
ures diminishes also. {Comptes Bendus, August, xcv, 284.) 

Sresnevsky has measured the cohesion of aqueous solutions of zinc 
chloride by the two methods of Quincke: 1st, measuring the height of 
the liquid in a capillary tubej and 2d, observing the flat bubbles of air 
on the surface of the liquid, covered with a glass. As a mean he finds 
that the cohesions respectively of 8.00 mgrms., of 8.77 mgrms., and of 
8.71 mgrms. correspond to solutions of 83 per cent., 46 per cent., and 20 
per cent, of chloride of zinc. {J. Soc. Fliys. Gliim. Busse, xiii, p. 242 ; J. 
Phys., December, II, i, p. 576.) 

Elie has contrived an apparatus for studying the laws of the flow of 
liquids in tubes, which is at once simple and sensitive. It is a sort of 
Wheatstone's bridge; the liquid coming from a reservoir divides and 
passes through the two tubes to be compared. At the point where they 
join the main tube two other tubes pass toward each other and termi- 
nate in a flask, a thin film of metal being suspended between their ends. 
If the two branches are identical in resistance, there is no flow through 
the lateral tubes, and the film remains motionless. Hence when the 
film is motionless the same quantity of liquid passes through each tube. 
The same arrangement acts admirably with gases. {J. Phys. , October, II, 
I, p. 459.) 

A rheometer for measuring currents of water, at different depths, 
has been devised by Scardona. The water current acts on two screw 
vanes on a horizontal shaft in a case attached to a vertical rod. A flat 
vane keeps this shaft parallel with the current, and at intervals it actu- 
ates, by means of an endless screw and wheel- work, a lever attached to 
H. Mis. 26 30 



466 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

a rubber capsule at the end of a metallic tube, through which, and the 
attached flexible tube, the resulting pulses pass to the portable signal 
bell. The apparatus is compact and easily adjusted. [N'aUire, January, 
1882, XXV, p. 290.) 

3. Of Gases. 

Haunay has made an extended series of experiments to obtain an 
absolutely vacuous space and to test the hypothesis that ordinary mat- 
ter, and not the ether, is the medium by which radiation is propagated. 
He finds that not only is there a closely adherent layer of gas on every 
surface, but that the gas seems, even at ordinary pressures, to penetrate 
into or combine with the surface of the glass, and that it is with extreme 
difficulty that even a j^ortion of this gas is driv^en off", the greater por- 
tion remaining fixed even to the softening point of the glass. In order 
to avoid the very appreciable tension of mercury vapor, fusible metal 
was substituted, the barometric height of which was 41 inches. Various 
forms of Springel pump were constructed for use with this alloy, the 
fusing point of which was 94° C. After the highest possible vacuum had 
been attained, one of the bulbs was surrounded with calcium chloride 
and snow, and the other interposed between a standard candle and a 
radiometer; but no effect was perceptible. In a mercury' vacuum of 
2T00V000 measured by the McLeod gauge, the Holtz spark passed; but 
when fusible metal was used it failed, even when 1 2 Leyden jars were used. 
The 12-inch spark of an induction coil also failed to i)ass. Nevertheless, 
such a vacuum still contained air obstinately retained by the glass. To 
obtain a real vacuum' the author proposes glass bulbs formed of hard 
glass without and soft glass within, so that they can be heated up to the 
softening point of the latter and preserve their shape. {Phil. Mag., April, 
1882, V, XIII, p. 229.) 

Kraievitsch has sought to establish the hypsometric formula by direct 
observation, and at the same time to ascertain whether gases have a 
limit of elasticit5^ Two baro-manometers were used, one on the ground 
and the other on the top of a high building, or even on the summit of 
a neighboring hill, their manometric branches being connected by a 
long metallic tube. On rarefying the air in this tube the lower instru- 
ment will always indicate a higher pressure than the other. {J. Phys., 
Decembei, II, i, p. 577.) 

The same author has communicated to the Russian Physical Society 
the results of his researches on the elasticity of air, showing that rare- 
fled air does not obey the Boyle-Mariotte law, its elasticity diminishing 
more rapidly than its density in proportion as it becomes more rarefled, 
becoming equal to zero while yet the density has a measurable value. 
It results from these experiments: flrst, that the earth's atu)osphere is 
limited; and second, that our weights of gases contain an error, since, 
however perfect the pneumatic machine, it cannot pump all the air 



PHYSICS. 467 

from a vessel if the vessel is lower than the machine; i. e., if the air is 
pumped from above. The author, by the advice of Mendeleeft", is con- 
tinuing his researches upon heavy gases. {N'aUire, December, xxvii, 
p. 183.) 

Amagat also has experimented upon the elasticity of rarefied gases 
and comes to a different conclusion. He says: "All that can be said is 
that under the feeblest pressures that can be produced (one millimeter 
or less, though I have obtained 0.2 millimeter) there does not appear 
to be produced any sudden change in the law of the compressibility of 
gases; they follow still the law of Mariotte, within the limits of ex- 
perimental errof." {Comptes Eendus, August, xcv, p. 281.) 

Delacy h^s invented a barometer which records automatically the 
variations on an enlarged scale. The tube, which has a capacious res- 
ervoir at the top, is fixed, and opens into a cistern nearly as long, made 
of a somewhat wider tube. This cistern carries on one side an index, 
and on the other a pencil working on a moving cylindrical surface. It 
forms the upper part of a kind of areometer, the lower part being 
closed and floating in mercury in a still wider tube connected with a 
reservoir kept at constant level. The variation of pi'essure is marked 
by the variation of the height of the mercury in the reservoir, and this 
latter is to that of the total height in the barometric cistern (or to the 
path of the float or of the pencil) in the ratio of the section of the cis- 
tern to that of the reservoir (about a sixth in the author's instrument), 
thus realizing an amplification. {Nature, January, xxv, 1882, p. 290.) 

Dafour and Amstein have devised a registering barometer, now in 
use in the Lausanne Meteorological Observatory, depending on the dis- 
placement of the center of gravity of a glass tube containing mercury. 
The form of the tube may be described as that of an L leading down 
to a U by a vertical portion, the lower end being open. The tube 
swings in the ]dane of its angles on a horizontal axis placed above the 
center of gravity ; with increased barometric pressure it inclines to the 
right, with decreased pressure to the left, and these movements are re- 
corded by means of a style attached to the U part and applied to a 
moving strip of paper. By a simple contrivance the jjendulum of a 
clock is made to impart a slight shock every second to the tube so as 
to destroy any adherence of the mercury. [Nature, February, xxv, p. 
374 ) 

Joly has described a barometer, the readings of which may be made 
electrically at a distance from the instrument. It requires but two 
wires and reads to one-fiftieth of an inch. {Nature, Aj^ril, xxv, p. 559.) 

Brown has given a restime of the progress of the barometer and the 
various forms it has undergone, in which, however, the excellent form of 
instrument designed some years ago by Daniel Draper, and used in the 
Central Park- Meteorological Observatory, is not mentioned. {Nature, 
July, XXVI, p. 282.) 

Cailletet has suggested a new pump for condensing gases, in which 



468 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

the cylinder is inverted and the sohd piston is covered at top with 
mercury, thus avoiding all waste space. At each stroke it comi)resse8 
one-third of a liter of gas, and its capacity is such that a condensation 
to two hundred atmospheres may be attained. Lubrication is effected 
by vaseline. {Comptes Rendus, March, xciv, p. 626; J. P%s., October, 
II, I, p. 449.) 

Amagat has j)lotted the curves of the compressibility of nitrogen, 
obtained in his experiments and in those of Cailletet, with pressures 
as abscissas and the products pv as ordinates. That of Amagat is a 
smooth curve, while that of Cailletet has a deep point of inflection at 
a pressure of sixty meters of mercury. Amagat criticises the appara- 
tus of Cailletet as inaccurate. {Comptes Rendus, October, xcv, p. 638.) 

Hautefeuille and Chappuis have liquefied ozone by subjectiug it, 
mixed with oxygen, in a Cailletet pump, to a pressure of 125 atmos- 
pheres, the tube being recurved and immersed in a jet of liquid ethy- 
lene, which cooled it probably below — 100° C. The ozone was ob- 
tained in liquid drops of a dark indigo blue color, which may be 
preserved for some time even under atmospheric pressure. {J. Phys., 
November, II, i, p. 493.) 

Neyreneuf has extended the formula of Bernouilli for the flow of 
gases through orifices in thin plates to the case where the flow is 
simultaneous through two orifices at different levels. He has obtained 
a very sensitive gas level in this way, a new sort of chemical barmou- 
icon, as well as new sensitive flames. [Ann. Chim. Phys., February, Y, 
XXV, p. 167.) 

Ville has devised a gas regulator which is independent of the press- 
ure. It consists of a U tube containing mercury, communicating on 
one side with the space where the pressure is to be kept constant, and 
on the other with the reservoir where the gas is compressed. If the 
pressure falls in the former, the mercury rises in the tube and makes 
electrical contact by means of a nickeled-steel wire, thus sending a cur- 
rent through an electro- magnet which controls a valve, thus lifting the 
valve and allowing gas to pass from the reservoir into the other vessel. 
Then the column of mercury falls, the contact is broken, and the valve 
closes. The apparatus used by the author will withstand a pressure of 
15 atmospheres and controls the pressure within one-quarter of a mil- 
limeter of mercury. {Comptes Rendus, March, xciv, p. 724; J. Phys., 
July, II, I, p. 327.) 

Berthelot and Yieille have determined the velocity of gaseous explo- 
sion through tubes. They find as a mean that in a mixture of elec- 
trolytic oxygen and hydrogen this velocity is 2,810 meters, and in a 
mixture of carbonous oxide and oxygen 1,089 meters per second. Curva- 
ture of the tube did not change the value, nor did alteration ot the 
material of which it was made. The velocity was the same whether the 
tube was open or closed, is uniform throughout its length, and is inde- 



PHYSICS. 469 

pendent of the pressure, {Comptes Bendus, January, March, xciv, pp. 
101, 822; Nature, May, xxvi, p. 44.) 

CoUadon shows to his classes the resistance of the air in guns in the 
following way : The reservoir of an air-gun is fully charged with com- 
pressed air, and the gun is loaded as usual, the ball nearly fitting the 
bore. Placing the barrel vertical, and closing the mouth firmly with 
his thumb, the gun is fired by an assistant ; the thumb remains in posi- 
tion and the ball is heard to fall back in the barrel. Then, using the 
same ball, he fires with the same gun and pierces a pine board 0.4 inch 
thick. If the barrel of the gun is more than 32 inches long, and the 
ball is spherical and nearly fills the tube, and if the operator is sure of 
the strength of his thumb, the experiment is without danger. {Nature, 
August, XXVI, p. 353.) 

Melsens has made a study of experimental ballistics, with a view to 
determine the influence of the air. He finds that the air which accumu- 
lates in front of the projectile forms a layer there capable, in the case 
of high velocities, of preventing the immediate and absolute contact of 
the two solid bodies, especially at the point of impact, the incidence 
there being normal. {Ann. Chim. Phys., March, V, xxv, p. 389.) 

Stroh has repeated the experiments of Bjerknes on vibratory attrac- 
tion and repulsion, but has made use of air instead of water as the 
medium. Moreover, he has investigated the condition of the air between 
the vibrating drums by inclosing these in a closed space furnished with 
an alcohol manometer. When the phase of vibration was the same for 
the two drums, the manometer showed an increase of pressure, the air 
being expelled from between them ; while when the phase was opposite, 
the alcohol rose in the manometer tube. Further, the space between 
the drums is crossed by lines of pressure practically identical in direc- 
tion with those which Faraday showed in a magnetic field by means of 
iron filings. {Nature, June, xxvi, p. 134.) 

Kraievitsch has shown that the rarefaction obtained by means of a 
mercury pump is limited, the air being rej^laced by mercury vapor, the 
tension of which is a function of the temperature but at ordinary tem- 
peratures is 0.02 millimeter. To show the influence of cold on the 
vacuum he made a Geissler tube with a cylindrical appendage of glass, 
the whole being exhausted by means of steam, as in the case of the 
water hammer. At ordinary temperatures the spark passed as a 
luminous line; but on cooling the appended cylinder to — 20° the light 
became stratified and filled the tube. He doubts the possibility of get- 
ting a vacuum as high as 0.0U004 meter, as Crookes claims, since the 
McLeod gauge measures only the elasticity of a permanent gas. The 
author describes some improvements which he has made in MendeleefPs 
pump. (J. Soc. Phys. Chim. Eusse, xiii, p. 335 ; J. Phys., December, 
II, I, p. 578; Nature, February, xxv, p. 377.) 

Chancel has contrived a simple ajjparatus for determining the density 
of gases in order to fix their molecular weight as a control in chemical 



470 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

operations. It consists of a flask of 200 to 250 c. c. capacity, whose neck 
carries a lateral tubulure of small diameter, and is closed by a hollow 
stopper carefully ground, which terminates in a straight tube carrying 
a stopcock. From the side of ihis hollow stopper a tube passes, at- 
tached to its interior, and long enough to reach to the bottom of the 
flask. By rotating the stopper the ojiening into this tube may be 
brought opposite the lateral tubulure. The volume of the flask having 
been determined, the gas is introduced by the lateral tubulure until all 
the air is displaced. The stopper is then turned, the barometer antl 
thermometer noted, and the balloon weighed, a similar flask being used 
as a counterpoise. The results given show very considerable accuracy. 
{Comptes RenduSj March, xciv, p. 026.) 

ACOUSTICS. 

Martini has studied the production of sound b^ the flow of liquids. 
He used in his experiments long tubes of glass, two to six centimeters 
in diameter, closed at the lower end by metallic disks two to three 
millimeters thick, each pierced with a hole in the center, the diameter of 
which was equal to the thickness of the i)late. On filling such a tube 
with water and allowing it to flow out through the plate, sounds are 
produced like those of an organ pipe. As the water falls the sounds 
do not fall uniformly in pitch as with the syren ; only a certain number 
of definite sounds are produced, as is the case with an organ pipe. 
Martini's results, which confirm essentially those of Savart, furnish a 
method for determining the relative velocity of sound in two liquids. 
By noting the lengths of two columns which yield the same note, the 
velocities are obtained, since they are proportional to these lengths. 
For alcohol of 36° the velocity was 1,288.5 meters; for absolute alcohol, 
1,232,05 meters ; for ethyl ether, 1,144 meters ; and for i)etroleum of den- 
sity 0.800, 1,354 meters. {J. Phys., November, II, i, p. 574; Nature, De- 
cember, XXVII, p. 183.) 

Leconte has discussed the question of the i)roduction of sound shadows 
in water, which, as proved by the classic exi)eriments of Colladon in 1826 
in the lake of Geneva, are more sharply defined than when i)roduced in 
air. In 1874 a series of experiments was made by his son, L. I Leconte. 
during the blasting upon Rincon rock, in the harbor of San Francisco. 
He found that soda-water bottles plunged in the water about 40 feet 
from the explosion were invariably protected when in the geometric 
shadow of a vertical pile about a fuot in diameter, while they were as 
uniformly broken when placed on the opi)osite side. Stout glass tubes 
placed horizontally showed by their fracture the lines of this shadow. 
The author suj)poses, in accordance with theory, that the waves pro- 
duced by such an explosion must be very short in order to produce these 
sharp shadows. {Am. J. ScL, January, III, xxiii, p. 27 ; Phil. Mag., Feb- 
ruary, V, xiii, p. 98; J. Phys., September, II, i, p. 420.) 

Becharme has applied the principles of attraction and ie[>uIsi(Mi pro- 



PHYSICS. 471 

(luced by the flow of liquids from orifices according as the walls are thick 
or thill, to the construction of a tuning fork which he calls a hydrodia- 
pason. It is formed of a tube of brass 0.5 meter long, C millimeters 
in interior diameter, and 1 millimeter thick, curved into an elongated 
U, the branches being 6 centimeters apart. On the convexity of the 
curve is an opening through which connection is made with the water 
supply. Tlie extremitj^ of each branch is bent so that the ends open 
exactly opposite each other. To these, disks or ajutages of any form 
may be attached. When the current of water flows, the fork takes a 
rejiular rate of vibration and gives a clear note. In water the tone 
given was Ici (217.5 vibrations), and the first harmonic was plainly heard. 
[Comptes Eendus, October, xcv, p. 597.) 

Pinto has studied the function of two ears in determining the direc- 
tion of sounds, and concludes, 1st, that we are able to judge of the di- 
rection from which a sound comes because it reaches one of the ears 
first and then the other, the interval of time being longer or shorter 
according to the position of the sounding bod^^; and 2d, that the second 
ear enables us to determine the direction in which the intensity of the 
sound j)erceived is a maximum without turning the head. {J. PJiys., 
December, II, i, j). 561.) 

Stanley has presented to the London Physical Society a paper on 
tuning-fork vibrations. He showed that disks on the prongs of a heavy 
fork do not produce as loud a sound when the fork vibrates as does its 
resonator; that vibration down the stem of the fork does not, as Chlad- 
ui supposed, depend on a vibrating ventroid, since a fork cut in the 
end of a solid steel bar communicated sonorous vibrations equally well 
to the resonator. Since to set a iork vibrating only one prong need be 
bowed, it is evident that the vibration must proceed along the prongs. 
A light fork, a meter long, shows the passage of the vibrations down 
one prong and up the other. When the i)rongs of a powerful fork 
are tipped with pieces of metal dipping in mercury, the mercury is 
thrown into rii)ples which can be thrown on a screen, {Nature, June, 
XXVI, p. 100.) 

Koenig has published in book form the valuable researches in exper- 
imental acoustics which he has made during several years past. The 
most recent and one of the most important of his investigations is that 
undertaken to determine the influence of phase on the quality of tone. 
He finds that, contrary' to the theory of Helmholtz, there is a distinct 
difference in tones containing identically the same upi)er partials when 
the phase differs. The sound is louder and more forcible whcMi this dif- 
ference is one-fourth, gentler and softer when three-fourths. By means 
of a specially-constructed wave-syren he has elaborately studied these 
phenomena. {Qiielques Experiences (VAcoustique, Paris, 1882; Nature, 
June, July, xxvi, pp. 203, 275; J. Phys., December, II, i, p. 525.) 

Neyreneuf has contrived a sensitive flame without an inclosing tube. 
This is attained by causing two flames to impinge the one upon the 



472 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

other, or a single flame to strike upon a current of air. To avoid tedi- 
ous adjustment, however, he prefers the following: A brass tube 25 cen- 
timeters long and 33 millimeters in diameter is supported vertically. 
By an opening at bottom a flame from a jet, having an opening which 
is 2 millimeters in diameter, is projected horizontally across the tube. 
By impact against the opposite wall of the tube, aided by the air cur- 
rent, very pure sounds are produced. {J. Fhys., October, II, i, p. 461.) 

Decharme has studied the vibratory forms of circular liquid surfaces, 
and finds very close analogies between these and those of soap films. 
They are excited and observed similarly, and have the same system of 
nodal points. The determination of intetnodal distances is more diffi- 
cult with liquids, since they are only one-sixth as great. But the laws 
are the same; the distances of the iuternodes are inversely proportional 
to the number of vib: ations. {Ann. Chim. Phys., January, Y, YXV, p. 112.) 

Kolacek has investigated mathematically the theory of resonance, and 
has demonstrated that tbe conductibility of gases for heat has only an 
exceedingly minute influence on the number of vibrations made by the 
gas confined in a resonator. With a Ilelmholtz resonator, making 198 
vibrations a second, the sound is lowered only 0.152 vibration, an unim- 
portant amount. ( Wied. Ann., xii, j). 353 ; J. Phys., January, It, i, p. 58.) 

Hurion has proposed to determine the position of the nodes and 
loops in an organ pipe by means of a tube introduced into the pipe, 
this being in communication with a manometric capsule. [J. Phys., 
March, II, i, p. 136.) 

Serra-Carpi has made use of the microphone for fixing the position of 
the nodes and loops in vibrating columns of air. (Jpon a membrane 
stretched on a metal ring a small carbon microphone is placed. When 
at a node a loud rattle is beard in the connected telephone; when at a 
loop the sound is feeble. {Comptes Rendus, January, xciv, p. 171.) 

Leconte Stevens has combined the organ pipe with the sonometer, 
forming an instrument which he finds very convenient for the exhibi- 
tion of Bernouilli's laws, and for the study of upper partial tones and 
musical scales. {Am. J. 8ci., June, III, xxiii, 479.) 

Bourbouze has proposed the use of a sounding board furnished with 
strings, upon the back of which is a carbon microi^hone, as a telephone 
trausttiitter. {Comptes Rendus, January, xciv, 76.) 

Hartmann has devised several new pieces of acoustic apparatus. The 
motorophone consists of a shaft carrying an eccentric communicating by 
means of a rod with a membrane. It converts rotary motion into sound, 
the pitch being determined by the speed, and the intensity by the throw 
of the eccentric. A bell mouth strengthens the tones. The pJionomotor 
acts on the opposite principle, producing rotary motion from vibration. 
In the electromagneiophone a piece of sheet-iron under an electro-magnet 
has a point dipping in mercury ; a current passing through the coils 
and the point is rendered intermittent, and the membrane sounds. The 
electro-magnetic membrane syren is similar, but lias a solid sliding contact 



PHYSICS. 473 

in place of the mercury, a driving wheel producing rapid interruption. 
When a tuning fork is supported so as to be capable of rotation before 
a resonance case, it gives a strong resonance or a weak interference 
tone according to its position, the latter being higher. On rotating, 
the for^ier becomes the higher and the dissonance increases. A reso- 
nance interference pipe is made by connecting the nodes of an open pipe 
with a rubber tube. By pressing this tube the pitch of the pipe is altered. 
{Wied. Beihl.^ No. 3; Nature, June, xxvi, p. 138.) 

HEAT. 
1. Production of Heat ; Thermometry. 

naga has investigated the variations of temperature which are pro- 
duced when metallic wires are submitted to traction. The wire was 
stretched horizontally, one end being attached to the vertical arm of a 
bent lever, the tension being produced by weights on the horizontal arm. 
The temperature was measured by a thermo-electric couple, one of whose 
elements was the wire itself, and the other a wire of another metal 
wound round the first. A steel wire l.C^™ and a wire of German silver 
1.5™™ in diameter were used, the auxiliary wire being of platinum 
O.OS'"™ thick. With a tension on the steel wire of 21.715 kilograms the 
increase of temperature was 0.1054° ; the tension of 17.134 kilograms 
on the German silver wire gave 0.1429°. The heating with the latter 
wire was proportional to the stretching weigh c. From the data thus 
obtained, Haga determined the mechanical equivalent of heat and ob- 
tained for the steel wire 437.8, and for the German silver 428.1. ( Wied. 
Ann., V, XV, p. 1; J. Phys., September, II, i, p. 425.) 

Holman has suggested a simple, accurate, and ready method of cali- 
brating thermometers, which requires one-third to one-half the time 
of the method of Neumann, with equal accuracy, and is fully one-third 
shorter and somewhat more accurate than that of Pickering. Two cali- 
brations of a Baudin thermometer, using threads of mercury of 3 and 
5cm respectively, each with only one series of observations, requiring 
an hour and a half for completion, gave results whose average differ- 
ence at 9 points was 0.04™™, the arithmetical sum of the extreme differ- 
ences being 0.12™™. {Am. J. Sci., April, III, xxiii, p. 278.) 

Michelson has described an air thermometer whose indications are 
independent of the pressure of the air. It consists of a glass bulb 4<'™ 
and a stem 2™™ in interior diameter, the bulb containing dry air at a 
pressure of about 100™™ of mercury, this air being separated from the 
upper portion of the tube by a column of mercury about 100™™ in length. 
This mercury remains above the air, notwithstanding the large diameter 
of the bore, owing to the resistance of the meniscus to deformation. 
The space above the mercury is a vacuum. The pressure of the air in 
the bulb is constant and equal to that of the column of mercury above 
it. (Am. J. Sci., August, III, xxiv, p. 92.) 



474 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Michelson has also devised another form of thermometer of jjreat 
sensitiveness, based on the high expansion coefBcient of hard rubber. 
A very thin strip of this substance is fastened to a siniihir strip of 
brass 5«»^ long, l"""^ wide, and about 0.1™" thick. Tlie lower end of the 
compound strip is fixed, and on the upper end is fixed a fine thread of 
glass, the end of which is bent at right angles, and impinges upon a 
light mirror of silvered glass suspendedby a vertical silk filament. When 
the temperature changes, the compound bar curves and the glass thread 
rotates the mirror. The displacement is observed with a telescope and 
scale. The whole is inclosed in a double box, to avoid air currents. In 
another form of the instrument the curvature of the compound bar is 
made to bring the end near a metallic rod immersed in liquid, thus 
shortening the column and diminishing the resistance. ('/ Phys., April, 
II, I, p. 183.) 

Govi has made use of the fact that the expansion coefflcients of mer- 
cury and hard rubber are very nearly equal, for the purpose ofillustr.it- 
ing the effect of expansion on the bulbs of liquid thermometers. A 
capillary tube of glass has a bulb of ebonite, the bulb and a part of the 
stem being filled with mercury. No change is observed in the height 
of the column when the temperature gradually changes. When the va- 
riations are rapid the mercury descends with heat and rises with cold, 
the original level being soon restored. The ebonite responds first, and 
being a bad conductor, transmits its heat slowly to the mercury. {Na- 
ture, December, xxvii, p. 209.) 

Crafts has studied the conditions in mercurial thermometers which 
produce a lowering of the zero point. He considers that the glass 
after it has been softened in the blowing preserves for an indefinite 
time at ordinary temperatures a condition of strain, as in the Prince 
Eupert's drop. When the glass is reheated, the mobility of its j)articles 
increases and a contraction takes place, the result of it being the more 
efiective in proportion as the original temperature is the more nearly 
approached. In constructing the thermometer this contraction pro- 
duces a permanent elevation of the zero ])oint, which may amount (-ven 
to 26°. When heated to the boiling point of mercury, as in filling, there 
is a similar effect, but the depression rarely amounts to more than 2° 
for lead glass. To remove this error, therefore, the author heats the 
thermometers to the required high temperatures and then cools slowly. 
{Comptes Rendus, May, xciv, p. 1298.) Subsequently Crafts has given 
the results of his comparison of fifteen mercury thermometers witli the 
hydrogen thermometer, all immersed in the vapor of naphthalene. 
Seven of these thermometers were made by Baudiu and seven by Alver- 
gniat. They were all of flint glass containing 18 percent, of lead. One 
was made of soda glass, by Miiller, of Bonn. These results are given 
in tabular form, showing the correction required for every ten degrees 
from 100° to 330°. For comparison, the corrections for thermometers 
made of Choisy le Koy glass and ordinary I'aris glass, from Eegnault's 



PHYSICS. 475 

data, for the same intervals, are given iu the same table. When cor- 
rected, the maximum error for the fifteen thermometers is Qo.Sat 200°, 
0O.5 at 300° and Qo.S at 330°. ( Comptes Bendus, November, xcv, p. 836.) 
In a third note, Crafts discusses the exactitude of the measurements 
made with the mercurial thermometer. {Comptes Benclus, November, 
xcv, p. 910.) 

Siemens has communicated to the Royal Society the results of the ex- 
periments made with his deep-sea electrical thermometer on board the 
United States Coast and Geodetic Survey steamer Blake, Commander 
Bartlett, in the summer of 1881, forwarded to him bj' J. E. Hilgard, the 
Sn])erintendent. The apparatus was specially ordered for the Govern- 
ment by Alexander Agassiz, and seems to have proved its reliability. 
{Nature, June, XXVI, p. 190.) 

Brown has given an extended resume of the various devices brought 
forward as temperature regulators. {Nature, June, xxvi, p. 111.) 

2. Expansion and Change of state. 

Russner has determined the expansion coefficient of several substances 
b3' means of the weight thermometer. Sulphur gave from 0° to 10°, 
.000; 47; 0° to 20°, .000160; Oo to 30°, .000170; to 40°, .< 00178; to 50°, 
.000183; and to 60°, .000186. Soft rubber of commerce, from 0^ to 10°, 
.000657 ; 0° to 20°, .000665 ; 0° to 30==^, .000670. Uard rubber has a coeffi- 
cient between that above given for caoutchouc and that for sulphur. 
Different specimens varied between .00023 and .00041. ( Carl. Rep., xviii, 
p. 152; J. Phys., April, II, i, p. 193.) 

Lebedeft" has sought to ascertain whether the apparent contraction 
of stretched caoutchouc by heat takes place in all directions or only in 
that in which it is stretched. He finds the latter to be the true hypothe- 
sis. He has found the cubic expansion coefficient of the rubber to be 
.000687 when stretched and .000675 when in its natural condition. (J. 
Soc. Phys. Chim. Busse, xiii, ]). 246; J. Phys., December, II, i, p. 576.) 

Hertz has studied the conditions of the evaporation of liquids, and 
has measured with great care, by means of a special apparatus, the 
pressure of the saturated vapor of mercury at different temperatures. 
The values obtained are lower than those of Regnault. Between 0° and 
40° the elastic force of mercury vapor varies from 0.00019 to 0.0063™"^ 
Hence, at ordinary temperatures the elastic force of the vapor of mer- 
cury is less than one-thousandth of a millimeter. ( Wied. Ann., xvii, 
pp. 173, 177; J. Phys., November, II, i, p. 512.) 

Cailletet has suggested the use of liquefied gases, especially ethylene, 
for producing low temperatures. Ethylene liquefies at 10° C. under a 
pressure of 60 atmospheres, at 8° under 56, at 4P under 50, and at 1° 
under 45. Its critical point is near -|- 13°. When a thermometer contain- 
ing CSa was immersed in the liquid it indicated a temperature of — 105°, 
much lower than that of hyponitrous oxide, which boils at —88°. Spe- 



476 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

cial devices to collect and use the liquid ethylene are necessary, which 
are described in the paper. {Comptes Rendus, May, xciv, p. 1224.) 

Demar9ay has studied the volatility of metals at low temperatures 
in a vacuum. The metal was placed in a glass tube 12°"" in diame- 
ter, closed at one end, and heated in a bath of the vapor of sulphur, 
mercury, methyl sebate, aniline, methyl oxalate or water, giving tem- 
peratures of 440O, 300°, 2920, 184°, 101°, and 100° respectively. A 
thin U tube of glass was placed inside the first, passing to within two 
centimeters of the metal, and kept cold by a current of water. The 
space containing the metal was exhausted by a Springel pump. In a 
longer or shorter time after the heating begins, a black deposit appears 
on the bend of the U tube, which soon becomes metallic. Cadmium, 
zinc, antimony, bismuth, lead, and tin were thus examined, and it was 
found that they were volatile, cadmium at 100°, zinc at 184°, antimony 
and bismuth at 292°, lead and tin at 300°. When the experiment con- 
tinued for 24 or 48 hours, the deposit was considerable enough to be 
weighed, being 5 to 15 milligrams. Cadmium at 184° gave in 20 hours 
a deposit weighing nearly 10 centigrams. ( Comptes Rendus^ July, xcv, 
p. 183.) 

Konowaloff has investigated the tensions produced by the vapors of 
mixed liquids, including those which are miscible in all proportions as 
well as those which are only partially soluble the one in the other. 
{Wied. Ann., V, xiv, pp. 34, 219; J. Phys., April, II, i, p. 188.) 

Chistoni has given a historic sketch of the different theories of dew. 
In his opinion the most efQcient cause of the production of dew is the 
evaporation from the surface of the ground, which has been super- 
heated during the day and the temperature of which Is maintained dur- 
ing the night above that of the air. After a longer or shorter time, of 
€Ourse this air becomes saturated. Contrary to the general impression, 
nocturnal radiation plays only a secondary part in the phenomenon. 
{II JSfuovo Cimento, III, x, p. 58; J. Phys., December, II, i, p. 566.) 

Troost has given a method for determining vapor densities at high 
temperatures in glass by using for the purpose a bath of selenium 
vapor, which boils at 665°. The glass must be difiBcultly fusible, the 
capacity of the balloons being about 300 c. c. The author obtained for 
the density of mercuric chloride thus determined 9.37 ; theory requiring 
9.38. For iodine, 8.57 and 8.53 were obtained, showing that its expan- 
sion coefficient does not differ from that of air, while its compression 
coefficient at 440° is notably different, and at this temperature the den- 
sity diminishes with the pressure from 8.7 to 7.35. Suli)hur vapor gave 
2.94 and 2.92, while at 440° it is 6.6, and at very high temperatures it 
is 2.2, showing a gradual decomposition like ozone. {Comptes Rendus, 
June, xcv, p. 30.) 

Wiedemann has described a new form of apparatus for illustrating 
geyser phenomena. It consists of a globe of glass of halt a liter capac- 
ity, surmounted by two tubes, one a centimeter in diameter and 70 



PHYSICS. 477 

centimeters long, passing just through the cork and narrowed above. 
The subterranean canals bringing water to the bottom of the geyser are 
represented by the other tube, narrower than the first, which descends 
into the globe where it is a little recurved upward. The upper end of 
this tube passes from the bottom of a lateral jar half filled with water, 
which is about on a level with the top of the vertical tube. The whole 
being filled with water to a level a little below the narrowed point of the 
large tube, it is only necessary to heat the globe with a Bunsen burner 
to obtain projections of boiling water to a height of 2 or 3 meters. 
{Wied. Ann., V, xv, p. 173; J. Phys., June, II, i, p. 290.) 

Yiolle has measured with great care the boiling point of zinc. De- 
ville and Troost some years ago gave it at 1048°, while Becquerel's de- 
termination makes it 932°. In the course of other experiments, Violle 
observed that silver, which melts at 954°, did not fuse in zinc vapor, 
lie then undertook to determine the boiling point of zinc by means of 
a special apparatus, and has found it to be 929°.G, or practically 930°. 
{Comptes Bendus, March, xciv, p. 720.) In a note, Troost says that this 
value was redetermined by Deville and himself, and fixed at 942° as a 
mean of 27 experiments. {Comptes Bendus, March, xciv, p. 788.) 

Troost has determined the boiling point of selenium with a view to 
use this substance for determining vapor densities by the method pro- 
posed by Deville and himself in 1880. The temperature was measured 
by air thermometers, with both porcelain and glass bulbs, and was 
found to be 664° to 666°, or 665° as a mean. The author proposes se- 
lenium vapor, therefore, because glass bulbs can be used in it without 
softening. [Comptes Bendus, June, xciv, p. 1508.) 

3. Conduction and Badiation. 

Thoulet has determined the thermic conductibility of rocks, defining 
the coefficient of conduction to be the quantity of heat which enters or 
leaves a homogeneous wall of indefinite extent during a unit of time, 
traversing a unit of surface, when the thickness is unity, and the differ- 
ence of temperature on the faces is 1° C. He has given the preliminary 
results obtained with his apparatus, which show the coefficient for glass 
to be 2.66, for wrought iron 10.26, and for Vizille anhydrite 4.56. (Ann. 
Chim. Phys., June, V, xxvi, p. 261.) 

Gratz has investigated the conductivity for heat of gases and its re- 
lations to temperature. He concludes : (1) that heat conduction in the 
gases — air, hydrogen, and (at low temperatures) carbon dioxide, — consists 
in the transference of progressive energy only, intramolecular energy 
contributing immeasurably little ; (2) that the relation of heat conduc- 
tion to temperature is found by experiment to be such as Clausius's 
theory requires ; (3) that all results for gases and vapors showing di- 
vergences from the values calculated from theory are without eviden- 
tial force since they give only the apparent heat-conducting .power in 
consequence of the absorption of radiant heat ; (4) that the divergence 



478 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

of the temperature coefficieut of friction from that calculated from 
theory caimot have for its cause (at least not alone) the decrease of the 
molecular diameter Aviih rising temperature. {^Yied. An7i. xiv, 232; 
Nature, January, xxv, ]>. 290.) 

Dahlander has ascertained that the velocity with which a body cools 
ill a liquid is: (1) nearly independent of its deiith below the surface; 
(2) is independent of the nature of its surface ; (3) is dependent on its 
excess of temperature ; and (4) for the same body in the same liquid 
with the same excess of temperature it increases rapidly with the tem- 
perature of the liquid. {J. PItys., September, II, i, p, 435.) 

Hill has calculated from data obtained by actinometric observations 
in India, that the true absorbent of solar heat in our atmosphere is 
aqueous vapor, the absorbing power being identical with that obtained 
by Violle from measurements taken by himself in the Alps. {Proc. Roy. 
iSoc, XXXIII, p. 210 ; J. Phys., June, II, i, p. 290.) 

Heine has measured the absorption of radiant heat by gases by 
means of the expansion produced. The gas is contained in a brass vessel, 
whose sides carry plates of rock salt, through which pass the radiations 
of a Buusen burner. A very delicate manometer registers automatically 
the variations of interior pressure. If air be used purified from water 
vapor and carbon dioxide no change of pressure takes place, but if car- 
bon dioxide be employed there is an increase of pressure resulting from 
the absorption of heat by the gas. On mixing definite quantities of 
carbon dioxide with air, definite curves were obtained, which were suffi- 
ciently well marked to permit of the solution of the inverse problem; 
*. e., the determination of the carbon dioxide in the air from the absorp- 
tion curves. The results agree well with those of chemical methods. 
{J. Phys., August, II, I, p. 380.) 

Ferrini has experimented with the Crookes phenomenon, using two 
similar tubes, one of which was exhausted only moderately, the spark 
passing direct from one tdectrode to the other, while the other contained 
air at the extreme of rarefaction. A Holtz machine furnished the elec- 
tricity, tubes of rubber filled with mercury being the conductors. One 
of these was directly attached to the machine. The other was adjus- 
table near the surface of mercury in circuit with the machine, so that 
when it was immersed a continuous currenr was sent to the bulbs, and 
when out of the mercury a longer or shorter spark could be obtained. 
When these discharges passed through the low vacuum tube, the phe- 
nomena varied like those observed by Hittorf, who used a constant cur- 
rent, but varied the rarefaction; being due to the increase of the resist- 
ance in the vicinity of the negative electrode as the i)0tential rises. The 
resistance of the second globe was very much greater ; but the phenomena 
from one globe to the other, vary in the same direction in which they 
vary for the first globe when the difference of potential is increased. The 
author rejects, consequently, the hypothesis of a fourth state of nuitter. 
(11 Nuovo Cimcnto, HI, ix, p. 179 ; J. Phys., oS^ovember, II, i, p. 521.) 



PHYSICS. 479 

Tyuclall has delivered a lecture at the Royal Institution on the action 
of free molecules on radiant heat, and its conversion thereby into sound, 
in which he gave a resume of the discussion on the question of the ab- 
sorptive action of aqueous vapor and then showed the apparently in- 
controvertible proof by means of the photophoue of the correctness of 
his etirly experiments. [Nature, January, xxv, p. 232; Ann. Chim. Phys., 
April, V, XXV, p. 177.) 

Dufour has confirmed the hypothesis that in the radiophone the 
radiant energy acts on the layer of air in contact with the solid body 
without expanding sensibly this body. A wire of blackened brass, 
stretched on the mounting of a lens, pressed against the lens a thin glass, 
which gave ISTewtou's rings ; and it was observed that no change took place 
in the rings when the wire was subjected to an intermittent beam of light. 
A very thin spiral of blackened zinc terminated in a small carbon cone 
connected with the positive pole of a battery and rested on a plate of 
carbon connected with the negative pole, a telephone being in circuit. 
'So sound was perceived when an intermittent beam was thrown upon 
the si)iral. The increased effect with increased absorption in a gas was 
well shown by putting carbon dust in dry air; a strong sound was 
heard when the tube was shaken. That short waves also produce the 
result was shown by using a bulb as a receiver in which hydrogen and 
chlorine were set free by electrolysis. {J. Phys., April, II, i, p. 19G.) 

Kalischer has observed that by using simply a selenium cell in the 
circuit of a telephone, and without battery, a sound is produced when- 
ever intermittent light falls on the selenium whose pitch corresponds t > 
the rate of intermittence. The result appears to be due to light, since 
it is not modified by alum or by water, and it is destroyed by colored 
glass, excei)t yellow. The cell should have a low resistance. ( Carl. Rep., 
p. 563; J. Phys., April, II, i, p. 197.) 

■4. Specific Heat. 

Strecker has determined the ratio of the specific heat at constant press- 
ure to the specific heat at constant volume, of chlorine, bromine, and 
iodine, all in the condition of gas, by comparing by Kundt's method the 
wave lengths produced by the same sound in air anil in the gas, at tem- 
peratures between 20° and 390°. The constants do not vary sensibly 
with the temperature, and approach closely the theoretic values, 1.323 
for chlorine, 1.290 for bromine, and 1.300 for iodine. The experimental 

values are: 

Sp. heat. Sp. heat const. 

Velocity. Ratio. const, press. vol. ref. to air 

Chlorine 205. S"" 1. 323 0. 1135 0. 2139 

Bromine 135. 1. 293 0. 0550 • 0. 2358 

Iodine 107. 7 1 . 294 0. 03489 0. 2350 

{Wied. Ann., V, xiii, p. 20; J. Phys., April, II, i, p. 187.) 
Thoulet and Lagarde, desiring to obtain the specific heat of small frag- 



480 SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1882. 

ments of minerals weighing from one to five decigrams, have devised 
a simple apparatus for the purpose, the minute rise of temperature, when 
the body, previously heated, is placed in a liquid, being determined by 
means of a thermo-electric couple. [Comptes Rendus, Jane, xciv, p. 1512.) 

Louguinine has described a new and improved form of calorimeter, 
the results of which appear to be very satisfactory. {Ann. Chim. Phys., 
November, Y, xxii, p. 398.) 

Yiolle has proposed an apparatus for applying the cooling method to 
the determination of the specific heat of bodies when the initial temper- 
ature of the body is between 100° and 500°. It consists of a small bot- 
tle of thin glass, with double walls and a straight neck, a good vacuum 
being made in the annular space. An agitator is introduced through the 
neck by the side of the thermometer. {Comptes Bendus, June, xciv, 
p. 1570.) 

Schuller has redetermined the heat of combination of water, in con- 
sequence of certain criticisms of Von der Than. The oxygen and hydro- 
gen meet in a combustion chamber formed of two parts ; they unite in 
the upper part, which is at 225°, evolving (1) Mi calories employed to 
heat them, (2) their heat of combination E, and (3) M2 calories corre- 
sponding to the condensation of three volumes to two. The vapor of 
water formed passes into the lower part at 0°, where it gives up M, 
calories. Hence Ep= — Mi + E + M2 + M3. In this way the author finds 
E=28810. ( Wied. Ann., V, xiv, p. 226; J. Phys., April, II, i, p. 192.) 

Louguinine has published an extended memoir on the measurement 
of the heat of combustion of organic bodies, giving a description of the 
apparatus employed, the mode of using it, and some of the results which 
have been obtained with it. {Ann. Chim. Phys., November, V, xxvii, 
p. 347.) 

LIGHT. 

1. Production and Velocity. 

Kruss has called attention to the fact that if the screen of a Bunsen 
photometer be moved between two fixed sources of light, there are two 
positions of this screen in which the fatty spot disappears. Both theory 
and experiment show that the true ratio of the intensities from the two 
sources is the geometric mean of the ratios calculated from both meas- 
urements. {J. Phys., April, II, i, p. 201.) 

A new photometer has been constructed by Sabine, in which a wedge 
of neutral tint glass is used to measure the intensity of a given light 
by equalizing it with a standard paraffin flame. To secure greater 
range *i set of diaphragms is used to regulate the amount of light com- 
ing from the standard. {Nature, December, xxvii, p. 201.) 

Crova and Lagarde have made an improvement in the spectropho- 
tometer whereby the illuminating power of simple radiations may be 
compared. The illuminating power of a simple light they regard as the 



PHYSICS. 481 

property which it possesses of rendering distinguishable upon a white 
screen iUuniinated with it minute details, as lines, etc. If, now, the light 
be weakened till they vanish, the ratio of the initial intensity to this 
limit of intensity will be sensibly constant and is a function only of the 
wave-length used. The light to be tested is therefore received normally 
on the slit of a spectrophotometer covered with a strip of glass, on which 
is photographed a series of tine and close dividing lines, their direction 
being perpendicular to the direction of the slit. A i)ure spectrum is 
seen furrowed by line longitudinal stride. If, now, the eye-piece slit be 
made to include any particular region, and the uico! prism be rotated 
till the strioB cease to be perceptible, a method is secured for compar- 
ing intensities. [Gomptes Rendus^ xciii, p. 959; J. Phys., April, II, i, p. 
1G2; Phil. Mag., January, V, Xlli, p. 72.) 

Briicke, finding that objects cease to be visible at a greater visual 
angle the more they differ in color but not in brightness from the 
background on which they are seen, has made use of this principle in 
photometry. A board, black at one end and white at the other, he calls 
a brightness table. It has successive shades of gray between. To de- 
termine the brightness of a colored paper, for example, he places a bit 
of it before different parts of the board and notes the place where with 
the shortest interval it becomes invisible. {Nature, June, xxvi, p. 138.) 

Koenig has reported to the Physical Society of Berlin on a new in- 
strument designed and constructed by Helmholtz, which he calls the 
leukoscope. It consists essentially of a calc-spar rhomboid, a plate of 
quartz, and a uicol prism. When a luminous pencil enters the calc-spar 
it is split into two rays polarized in planes at right angles, which trav- 
erse the quartz plate and the nicol. When analyzed by a prism these 
rays give two spectra containing absorption bands, those in the one 
being the complement of those in the other. The instrument is used by 
putting in a quartz plate of the proper thickness and then rotating the 
uicol until white light is produced. When different sources of light 
are employed, different degrees of rotation are necessary to effect this 
result, the relative quantity of different colors in different lights beiug 
different. The angle of rotation for stearin candles was 71°.20; for gas 
light, 710.5; for electric arc, 79° ; magnesium light, 80°; solar light 90o,5. 
The calcium light and burning phosphorus gave angles between gas and 
the electric light. Experiments with the Edison and the Swan incan- 
descent lamps showed that the luminosity increases much more rapidly 
than streugth of current, the illuminating power being increased sixtj"- 
fold by doubling the current. The angles of the leukoscope increase as 
the light rises ; so that a curve plotted with light intensities as ab- 
scissas and angles as ordinates is concave towards the axis of abscissas, 
approaching asymi)totically a maximum near 78° ; an angle approxi- 
mately equal to the angle of the arc. {Nature, November, xxvii, p. 95.) 
H. Mis. 20 31 



482 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

2. Reflection and Refraction. 

Chardonnet has made a series of experiments on the actinic trans- 
parency of certain media, especially of the mirrors of Foucault. Two 
methods were used : the first consisted in exposing sensitive paper to 
the solar rays after traversing the medium ; the second required a lens 
of quartz and Iceland spar and a prism of spar, the spectrum being re- 
ceived on a photographic plate or a fluorescent screen. In this way the 
various kinds of optical glass were studied, the results of which are 
given. Silv^ered-glass mirrors transmit the more refrangible rays, giving 
on the photographic plate a band from O to T ; thus acting as a filter, 
allowing obscure rays only to go through. In this way the author 
obtained photographs in absolute darkness. {J. Phys.. July, II, i, p. 305.) 

Subsequently Chardonnet has examined the spectrum of light re- 
flected from various bodies, and comes to the conclusion that absolute 
elective absorption does not exist; lampblack itself, deposited as an 
opaque layer on a plate of enamel, giving a complete spectrum. The 
substances tried were: white and black enamel, uranium glass, rough 
hematite, polished hematite, diamond, compressed carbon, rough and pol- 
ished, vermilion, gold, lead, nickel, Arcet's alloy, copper, rough and pol- 
ished steel, Prussian blue, green leaves, and mercury. Among liquids 
distilled water, fuchsine, acetosulphate of quinine, ammonia, copper sul- 
phate, potassium dichromate, milk, ink, alcohol, ether, benzene, olive 
oil; all of which gave a complete spectrum. The author concludes (1) 
every surface reflects in variable proportions all the colors of the spec- 
trum ; (2) the reflecting power of a liquid is independent of the sub- 
stances which it holds in solution or in suspension; and (3) specular 
polish increases only the total quantity of reflected radiations, the rela- 
tive intensity of the different regions of the spectrum depending upon 
the material employed. [J. Phys., December, II, i, p. 549.) 

Piltschikoff has suggested the use of a hollow lens for measuring the 
refractive index of small quantities of liquid. After filling the lens with 
the liquid to be examined, the focal distance of the image of a monochro- 
matic flame, placed at a given distance from the lens, is exactly meas- 
ured by means of a graduated rule. The constants of the apparatus 
are determined once for all, and then, by means of a simple formula, the 
index of the liquid is easily calculated. The results are exact, the index 
of glycerin thus determined being 1.47298 dL .00001. [J. Phys., Decem- 
ber, II, I, p. 578.) 

Boys has suggested a method of measuring the curvature of lenses 
with a view to determine their refractive index. The principle of the 
method is illustrated as follows: Fix an ordinary spectacle lens in a 
clip with its principal plane vertical; in front of it place a card with a 
small hole in it, and illuminate the hole with a candle flame. It will be 
found that, when the lens is at a certain distance from the card, there is 
an inverted image of the hole formed on the card. When this is the 



PHYSICS. 483 

case the light leaving tbe hole and meeting the front surface of the lens 
is refracted and meets the back surface normally. Most of the light 
passes through 5 but a small portion is reflected back along the path 
whence it came, and is sufficient to produce an image easily visible in 
the day. By fixing a plane surface of glass behind the lens it will be 
found that anotlier image may be produced when the lens is about 
twice as far from the card as it was before. The card is then at the 
principal focus. {PJiil. Mag., July, V, xiv, p. 30.) 

Bedson and Williams have experimented to ascertain whether the 
specific refraction of a solid body can be obtained from that of its solu- 
tions by applying the law of mixtures. Rock-salt, borax, boric acid, and 
sodium-metaphosphate were the substances used. The indices cor- 
responding to the three lines of hydrogen were measured for the three 
bodies first named by cutting prisms from them ; for the fourth by im- 
mersing it in a more refractive liquid, and adding a less refractive one 
until equality was obtained. The results show a satisfactory accord- 
ance. {J. Fhys., August, II, i, p. 377.) 

Crova has given the formula of a varnish for glass, given to him by 
Guinand, so that drawings may be easily made upon it for purposes of 
projection. It consists of ether, 500 grams; sandarac, 30 grams; mastic 
in tears, 30 grams. When dissolved add benzene until the varnish 
flowed on a plate of glass gives it a depolished appearance. To give 
a fine grain and a homogeneous layer, jiour upon it a little petroleum 
etlier, let it partially evaporate, and rub with a piece of muslin until 
perfectly dry. The coating may then be written upon either with ink 
or a lead pencil, and is ready for use. {J. PJiys., January, II, i, p. 42.) 

Demeny has given an account of the application of instantaneous pho- 
*tography to the studj* of animal locomotion as practiced by Marey at 
the physiological station of the Pare des Princes. The exposure is made 
by a rotating opaque disk, having an opening in the fornj of a sector. 
With a strong light it may be reduced to one thousandth of a second. 
An image is obtained with each turn of the disk, and since the object 
has moved in the interval these will be neither identical nor superposed. 
A white stone thrown by hand when thus photographed gives the im- 
age of a parabolic curve. A white point attached to a carriage wheel 
gives the cycloid described. {J. Pkys., November, II, i, p. 504.) 

Stokes has studied the phenomena of the light border frequently 
noticed in photographs just outside the outline of a dark body seen 
against the sky. The sunlight, being reflected horizontally into a dark 
room, is j>assed through a lens and allowed to fall on a phosphorescent 
screen of calcium sulphide, previously exposed to light, placed nearer 
to the lens than its principal focus. There is seen a circular disk of 
blue light much brighter than the general ground, separated by a dark 
halo from this ground, due to the action of the less refrangible rays 
which discharge the phosphorescence. But, since the first effect of 
these rays is to produce light, there is seen, when the exposure is very 



484 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1832. 

brief or the intensity of these rays is sufficiently reduced, a greenish 
light where they fiill on the screen, which faded much more rapidly 
than the deep blue, and after a short time became relatively dark. In 
photography, as in phosphorescence, there may be in certain cases an 
antagonistic action between the more and less refrangible rays, so 
that the withdrawal of the latter might promote the effect of the former. 
In a camera corrected for chemical i Jiys, when directed to a dark object 
on a bright ground, there is a sharp transition from light to dark for 
rays in focus, but a gradual one for rays out of focus. Just at the out- 
line of the object there would be half illumination for rays out of focus, 
and the illumination would go on increasing until the full intensity is 
reached at a distance equal to the radius of the circle of diffusion. If, 
now, the rays of low refrangibility tend to oppose the action on the 
sensitive plate of those of high refrangibility, acting negatively, just 
outside the outline, the active rays, being sharply in focus, are in full 
force while the negative rays have not yet acquired their full intensity. 
At an equal distance from the outline on the dark side the positive 
rays are absent, and the negative rays, having nothing to oppose, do 
nothing. [Proc. Boy. Soc, May 25 ; Nature, June, xxvi, p, 142.) 

3. Dispersion and Color. 

Ayrton has presented a paper to the London Physical Society de- 
scribing the latest form of his dispersion photometer. A concave leus 
is used to disperse the stronger light, thus obviating the necessity of 
putting it at a distance. The illuminating powers are compared by 
Rumford's method, the intensities of two shadows of a rod thrown on a 
white screen of blotting paper being adjusted to equality. A sperm 
candle is used as the standard, placed on a stand sliding on a graduated 
rod at an angle with the frame of the instrument which carries the lens 
and is also graduated. The stronger beam is reflected to the lens by a 
small mirror inclined at 45° to a horizontal axis, about which it can 
rotate. Collateral observations are taken through red and green glasses 
to get a better estimate of the power of the light. {Nature, March, 
XXV, p. 426; Phil. Mag., July, V, xiv, p. 45.) 

In order to show the focus after refraction through a prism, Crova 
replaces the slit of a spectroscope by a plate of silvered glass having two 
lines at right angles drawn through the silvering, the quadrants being 
filled with fine lines drawn in various directions. When illuminnted 
with sodium light, and viewed in the observing telescope, a sharp image 
is obtained by these lines, both horizontal and vertical, when at mini- 
mum deviation, but if the prism be displaced, the image of the lines 
perpendicular to the principal section becomes indistinct. These phe- 
nomena may be i^rojected on a screen by suitable modifications in the 
method. {J. Phys., February, II, i, p. 84. ) 

Chappuis has examined carefully the absorption spectrum of ozone, 
which he says characterizes this gas better than any other of its phys- 



PHYSICS. 485 

ical or chemical properties. He gives the wave-lengths of eleven ozone 
bauds, the strongest being the two near D, of wave-lengths 609.5-593.5 
and 577-560 respectively. He finds these bands also iu the spectrum 
of liquid ozone. He discusses the question of telluric lines in the solar 
spectrum, and regards the blue color of the sky as due, in part at least, 
to the presence of ozone. (J. Phys.., i^Tovember, II, i, p. 494.) 

Ciniician has carefully examined the spectrum of acetylene and finds 
that it diiiers from that of hj'drogen much more than do the spectra 
of ethylene and marsh gas. In these the characteristic carbon bands 
show the spectrum to be that of a hydrocarbon gas; while in that of 
acetylene the red, orange, and yellow portions resemble much more 
closely the spectrum of carbon dioxide than of hydrogen. ( Wied. Ann.j 
No. 10; V; Nature, January, xxv, p. 290.) 

Liveiug and Dewar have continued their researches on the spectrum 
of carbon, and in a paper presented to the Royal Society give the wave- 
lengths of twenty ultra-violet lines measured photographically by means 
of a Rutherford grating. In studying the spectrum of a Swan incan- 
descent lamp, they came to the conclusion that the temperature of the 
incandescent thread heated by fifty Grove cells is not far different from 
that of sodium heated in a cyanogen flame burning in air, but is less 
than that of an oxyhydrogen flame. {Proc. Boy. Soc, March 9 ; Nature^ 
April, xxv, p. 545.) 

Thollon has published in parallel columns the wave-lengths of the 
bands of the carbon spectrum as observed by Bigourdau in the arc of 
the electric lamp of Jamiu, by Salet in the condensed spark in cyanogen 
or illuminating gas, by Lecoq de Boisbaudran iu the blue flame of illu- 
minating gas, and by himself in the spectrum of comet &, 1881. (Ann, 
Chim. Phys., February, V, xxv, p. 287.) 

Abney has published minute directions for performing work in the 
infra-red region of the spectrum, including the preparation of the silver 
bromide emulsion, and the method of development. {Nature, Novem- 
ber, XXVII, p. 15.) 

Johnson has quoted Wollastou's paper in the Philosophical Transac- 
tions for 1802, and Newton's "Opticks," 1704, in proof of his assertion 
that Newton did employ a slit and did obtain a pure spectrum. Woll- 
aston says: "If a beam of daylight be admitted into a dark room by a 
crevice l-2Qth of an inch broad and received by the eye at a distance of 
10 or 12 feet through a prism of flint glass, /rcc/rom veins, held near the 
eye, the beam is seen to be separated into the four following colors only: 
red, yellowish-green, blue, and violet." Newton says: "Instead of the 
circular hole, 'tis better to substitute an oblong hole, shaped like a long 
parallelogram, with its length parallel to the prism. For if this hole 
be an inch or two long and but a tenth or twentieth part of an inch 
broad or narrower, the light of the image will be as simple as before, 
or simpler, and the image will become much broader and therefore more 



486 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882 

fit to have experiments tried iu its light than before." {Nature, October, 
XXVI, p. 572.) 

Liveing and Dewar have studied carefully the lines in the spectra 
of different elements which have been supposed to be coincident, and 
conclude, from the results that they have already obtained, that the coin- 
cidences as yet unresolved will yield to still higher dispersive power or 
are i>urely accidental. {Ann. Chim. Phys., February, Y, xxv, p. 190.) 

Langley has given the results of experiments made with the bolome- 
ter to determine the distribution of energy in the normal spectrum. 
This curve has its maximum ordinate very near the line D, the meas- 
urements extending from a wave length of 0.00035 to 0.00300"^™. Taking 
the bolometric indications when the sun was nearest the zenith, and 
when at a distance from it, the author has been able to calculate the form 
of the curve of solar radiation without the earth's atmosphere. This 
curve has its maximum ordinate near the line F, whence he concludes 
"that the total radiations of the solar photosphere, if they could reach 
us, would give us the sensation of a compound color resembling a dark 
blue." {Ann. Chim. Phys., February, Y, xxv, p. 211.) 

At the Southampton meeting of the British Association, Langley 
gave the results of his bolometric measurements made upon the sum- 
mit of Mount Whitney, in Southern California, at an altitude of 13,000 
feet. These, combined with the results obtained at Allegheny, gave 
tlie data for two charts, one of the prismatic, the other of the normal, 
spectrum. The extension of the spectrum by these measurements is 
remarkable. Between H in the extreme violet and A in the furthest 
red lies the visible spectrum, its length being about 4,000 of Ang- 
strom's units. The chart shows that the region below this extends 
through 24,000 units more, so much of it as lies below wave-length 
12,000 being here mapped for the first time. Moreover, the bolometer 
shows this region to be crossed by Fraunhofer lines ; and, with the aid 
of one of Eowland's concave gratings, their wave-lengths have been 
measured. The terminal ray of the solar spectrum whose presence has 
certainly been felt by the bolometer has a wavelength of about 28,000. 
He concludes with the remark that " while all radiations emanate from 
the solar surface, including red and infrared, in greater degree than 
we receive them, that the blue end is so enormously greater in propor- 
tion, that the proper color of the sun as seen at the photosphere is blue — 
not only bluish, but positively and distinctly blue." {Nature, October, 
XXVI, p. 586.) 

Several new forms of direct-vision prisms have been suggested. 
Ahrens uses a bisulphide prism cemented between two flint-glass prisms 
giving a wide dispersion with but little loss of light. Fuchs employs 
a single isosceles glass prism at minimum deviation, a silvered mirror 
being attached to the basal face of the prism tr» rectify the ray after 
emergence. Ricco has described a similar combination, in wbicb a total- 
reflection prism is substituted for the mirror. The second x)rism of the 



PHYSICS. 487 

combination is four-sided, so that it not only rectifies the ray which has 
been deflected by the first prism but also increases by a nearly equal 
amount the dispersion of the first prism. {Nature, December, xxvii, 
p. 182.) 

Wead has proposed a method of combining color disks by the rota- 
tion of a plane mirror slightly inclined to the axis around which it ro- 
tates. If the angle of inclination, the distances of the eye and the 
disks from the mirror, and the sizes of the mirror and the disk are 
properly proportioned, a good combination of the colors may be effected 
and the necessary adjustment of colors may be made without stopping 
the rotation. {Nature, January, xxv, p. 2CG.) 

For the mixture of spectrum colors, von Frey and von Kries illumi- 
nate two neighboring surfaces, one with a mixture of two spectrum 
colors, the other either by a mixture of white light and a given spec- 
trum color, or by white light alone. Their results for complementary 
colors confirm those of Helmholtz. If a curve be constructed with the 
wave-lengths of certain colors as abscissas and wave-lengths of their 
complemehtaries as ordinates, the two branches of an equilateral hy- 
perbola are obtained. But the curves obtained by the two observers 
under the same conditions are not identical, but intersect in the yellow- 
ish -blue. Analogous differences ajipear in the experiments made to 
reproduce the different tints of the spectrum by the mixture of two 
spectrum colors. Thus, when the red of C and the green of b are used 
to reproduce intermediate tints, von Kries must employ more green 
than von Frey, and less when the green of b is mixed with the violet of 
G. These results show the eye of one of these authors to be more 
sensitive to yellow than the other. They attribute it to unequal ab- 
sorption by the pigment of the yeUow sjiot. {J. Phys., November, II, 
I, p. 513.) 

Hastings has published a paper on the color correction of double ob- 
jectives, in which, after a review of the methods heretofore employed for 
attaining this end, he gives a theoretical solution of the problem, shows 
how the results may be applied to the practical construction of an ob- 
jective, and, finally, gives the resultsof some practical tests of the theory. 
Two forms of test were applied. In the one three objectives were con- 
structed from the theory and their performance studied. In the other 
objectives of the most approved makers were examined and their prac- 
tice compared with theory. The results in both cases were regarded 
as a decisive proof of the correctness of the theory. {Am. J. Sci., 
March, III, xxiii, p. 167.) 

4. Interference and Polarization. 

Michelson has investigated the interference phenomena observed in 
the form of refractometer employed by him in his experiments to deter- 
mine the relative motion of the earth and the ether. He finds satisfac- 



488 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

torj^ accordance of experiment with theory. {Am. J. ScL, May, III, 
XXIII, p. 395.) 

Rowland has pirtjlished a preliminary notice of the results accom- 
plished in the manufacture and theory of gratings for optical purposes. 
Having devised a plan for making a practically perfect screw, which 
proved successful, the ruling machine was at once constructed. No 
error as great as the one-hundred thousandth part of an inch has been 
detected in any part of this screw, and it has no appreciable periodic 
error. Gratings have been ruled on the machine having 43,000 lines 
to the inch, and a ruled surface has been made with it haA'ing 160,000 
lines, 20,000 to the inch, in size 6^ x 4:^ inches. Eowland then made an 
investigation of the theory of concave gratings and found their laws to 
be very simple. Draw the radius of curvature of the mirror to the cen- 
ter of the mirror, and from its central point, with a radius equal to half 
the radius of curvature, draw a circle. This circle thus passes through 
the center of curvature of the mirror and touches the mirror at its cen- 
ter. If the source of light is anywhere in this circle the image of this 
source and the difierent orders of the spectra are all brought to focus 
on this circle. This leads to a mechanical contrivance by which we can 
move from one spectrum to the next and yet have the api)aratus always 
in focus. It consists simj^ly in attaching the slit, the eye-piece, and 
the grating to three equal arms pivoted together at their other ends. 
The most interesting case is when the bars carrying the eye-piece and 
grating are attached end to end, forming a diameter of the circle, the 
eye-piece being at the center of curvature of the mirror, and the rod 
carrying the slit alone movable. In this case the spectrum viewed by 
the eye-piece is normal ; and when a micrometer is used, the value of a 
division on its head in wave-lengths does not depend on the position of 
the slit, but is proportional simply to the order of the spectrum. More- 
over, all the superimposed spectra are in exactly the same focus, and it 
is a beautiful sight to see the lines appear colored on a nearly white 
ground. A list of some of the flat and the concave gratings is given, 
together with the results obtained with them. {Mature, June, xxvi, p. 
211; November, xxvii, p. 95; Phil. Mag., July, Suppl., V, xiii, p. 4G9.) 

Frolich has studied the light which is reflected from very fine metal- 
lic gratings, comparing it with that reflected from the non-striated sur- 
face. When the light was polarized, the plane of polarization making 
an angle of 45° with the plane of incidence, he observed that the two 
portions of the black fringe of the compensator did not coincide, and 
that the plane of polarization, being restored, is not the same for the 
two halves of the field, the diflerence being 10° for an incidence of 70°, 
the lines vertical. If the angle of polarization of the incident light q) 
be varied, for the light reflected by the ruling the angle 4' of the re- 
stored plane of polarization does not satisfy the equation tan q) cot ^' = 
const. If cp be taken as 0, i/' = 5o 40' when i = GOo, the lines vertical. 
If a lens of 10 meters radius be superposed on the grating, the center 



PHYSICS. 489 

of the rings produced coinciding with the edge of the striated surface, 
it is observed that the diameter of the rings is different on the polished 
and the striated portions. These phenomena are inexplicable in the 
present state of optical science. ( Wied. Ann., V, xiii, p. 133; J. Phijs., 
January, II, i, p. 50.) 

Lommel some time ago showed that a plate of magnesium platino- 
cyanide perpendicular to the axis polarizes completely in the i^laue of 
incidence blue rays which fall upon it at an incident angle greater than 
2o. He has now constructed a polariscope with plates of this salt, anal- 
ogous to the tourmaline pincette; but a layer of copper sulphate must 
be ])laced before the polarizer so that blue rays only shall pass. For 
dicbroic substances with superficial colors, polarization by refraction is 
not due to absorption, but results from the fact that the light reflected 
from such a surface is completely polarized in a plane i^erpendicular to 
the plane of incidence. Hence the transmitted raj^s are polarized in 
this plane. ( Wied. Ann., V, xiii, p. 347 ; J. Phys., April, II, i, p. 199.) 

Govi has proposed to rotate the analyzing nicol prism of a ijrojection 
apparatus, to which a direct-vision prism is attached for the jjurpose of 
determining the direction of rotation of the polarized ray produced by 
a plate of quartz placed between the nicols. The spectrum will be cir- 
cular, the red being at the center and the violet at the circumference. 
When the quartz plate is interposed, two black archimedean spirals 
will appear, moving toward or from the center, according to the direc- 
tion of rotation of the quartz. {J. Fhys., August, II, i, p. 372.) 

The saccharimeter of Laurent has hitherto required monochromatic 
light. A new modification of this instrument, using ordinary light, has 
recently been introduced by the maker, in which the rotation of the 
sugar solution is balanced by a quartz compensator, as in the Soleil 
instrument. Dufet has given the theory of the new instrument, and 
shows that this modification restricts the use of the instrument to solu- 
tions of sugar, the law of rotation of which is sensibly the same as that 
of quartz, {Compes Eendus, xciv, 442; J. Phys., December, II, i, 552.) 

ELECTRICITY. 

1. Magnetism. 

Eaton has investigated the conditions of maximum magnetization of 
diamagnetic and feebly i)aramagnetic bodies, using an experimental 
method analogous to that of G. Wiedemann. The results obtained with 
ferric chloride show that the magnetism of a solution of this salt is ex- 
actlj^ proportional to the magnetizing force; hence a maximum of mag- 
netization does not exist for feebly magnetic substances, at least up to 
the limit given by seven Bunsen cells. With diamagnetic bodies, the 
author comes to the same conclusion. ( Wied. Ann.,Y, XV, 225 ; J. Phys., 
July, II, I, p. 333.) 

Schuhmeister has determined several magnetic and diamagnetic con- 



490 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Slants in absolute measure, by the method of oscillations, the magnetiz- 
ing forces being from 300 to 2,500 Gaussian units. For a solution of fer- 
ric chloride of density 1.40, K. 10^ = 35. The constants of diamagnetic 
liquids diminish when the magnetizing force increases; in gases the 
reverse is true. Oxygen charged with ozone is two or three times more 
magnetic than pure oxygen. For a rangnetizing force of 1,308, the fol- 
lowing values were obtained for K. 10'^: \A'ater, — 0.453; alcohol, — 0.41G; 
carbon disulphide, — 0.200; oxygen, -f 0.059 ; oxygen ozonized, + 0.181. 
{J. Phys., April, II, i, p. 201.) 

Berson has made a study of theeflect of temperature on the magnetic 
properties of metals by comparing the magnetic moments of different 
bars at different temperatures, when placed in a magnetic field of uni- 
form intensity. With irou the total and temporary magnetizations 
both increase up to 260°, above which the latter falls off rapidly, the 
former slowly. In steel, the maximum of total magnetization is obtained 
at 260° also, but the permanent magnetization reaches its highest value 
at 240°. A steel bar magnetized cold loses magnetism on heating, wbi.e 
one magnetized hot loses it on cooling. "With nickel the total magnet- 
ization increases up to 240° and diminishes so rapidly above 280° as 
to be at 330°. If magnetized at 280°, the magnetic moment first in- 
creases on cooling and then diminishes slightly; though it still remains 
greater than at the temperature of magnetization. {Nature^ December, 
XXVII, p. 183.) 

The elongation of a bar of iron when magnetized was determined 
by Joule in 1847 at l-200000th of its length, and by Mayer in 1873 at 
l-277000th. Hard steel was noticed by both observers to contract when 
magnetized. Barrett has now extended these investigations to cobalt 
and nickel, and finds that in his apparatus iron elongates l-260000th, 
and cobalt l-425000th, while nickel contracts l-130(]00th, the contraction 
being instantaneous. On heating the bar to 50°, the retraction is only 
three-fourths of its former value. {Nature^ October, xxvi, p. 585.) 

Gray has called attention to the converse of these results of Barrett's, 
obtained in some experiments made by his brother and himself under 
Sir William Thomson's direction. Barrett finds that the effect of lon- 
gitudinally magnetizing a bar of iron is to increase its dimensions lon- 
gitudinally and to diminish them laterally, so that the volume remains 
constant; while Thomson shows that the efl-ect of increasing longitudi- 
nal dimensions in an iron bar is to increase, and of increasing transverse 
dimensions to diminish its longitudinal magnetization. {Nature, Octo- 
ber, xxvi, p. 62o.) 

Oheesraan has investigated, under Kohlrausch's direction, the effect 
of mechanical hardening upon the magnetic properties of steel and iron, 
the results of which are in entire accordance with those obtained by 
Euths and others with magnets hardened by heat. (Am. J. Sci., Sep- 
tember, III, XXIV, p. 180.) 

Clemandot, in a communication to the French Academy, maintains 



PHYSICS. 491 

that steel submitted to great pressure, and cooled under this pressure, 
possesses coercitive force, and may be permanently magnetized. More- 
over, steel thus treated maybe heated, and even forged, without losing 
this property. Instead of being ephemeral and transitory, as coercitive 
force is in steel hardened in a bath, that produced by compression is 
permanent, unalterable. In proof of this, the author broke in pieces 
the magnets of a magneto-electric machine, forged them into a bar, 
compressed this bar, reformed the magnets, remagnetized tliem, and 
found them to have, on testing, the same magnetic ibrce as before. 
{Comptes Eendus, October, xcv, p. 587.) 

Goolden has contrived a convenient form of dip circle, which is con- 
structed by C Casella, of London, and which is sufficiently accurate 
for class instruction. {Nature, December, xxvii, p. 127.) 

Kohlrausch has described some portable instruments for measuring 
variations in the intensity of terrestrial magnetism. They include (1) 
a bifilar magnetometer, in which the magnet is inclosed in a rectangular 
box 13.5 X 5 X 5*^™, made of copper and having a glass front. The cover 
carries a tube 2.5«ra in diameter and 25'=°» high, furnished with a torsion 
circle, supporting a bifilar suspension consisting of two brass wires 
0.05""° ill diameter, 8°"" apart. The magnet is lO'^'" long, 1.4««i in diam- 
eter, with a hole 9""" in diameter through the axis. It weighs 83 grams, 
and is supported by a stirrup which carries a mirror. (2) An instrument 
for measuring variations by means of directing magnets, consisting of 
a compass, the needle of which is maintained at 90° to the magnetic 
meridian by four magnets carried by a metallic circle, with which is a 
second circle graduated. The author claims that these instruments 
will give the variations to 1-1 0000th of their total value. {Wied. Ann., 
V, XV, p. 550; J. Phys., October, II, i, p. 467.) 

2. Electromotors. 

The theory proposed by Exner, that electrification does not result 
from contact of metals, but from the chemical action of the air, j^roduc- 
ing oxidation, the layerof oxide remaining there permanently, has been 
criticised by several physicists. Exner's experiments tended to prove, 
as he thought, that the superior limit of the difference of potential of 
the metal and its oxide is proportional to the heat of oxidation of the 
metal. In contact with platinum, which he supposes incapable of ox- 
idizing, the other metal with its layer of electrified oxide forms a con- 
denser, the charge of which, measured by an electrometer, will be one 
half the electromotive force belonging to the metal in question. Stole- 
tow has taken up in order the eleven experiments which Exner cites in 
his second memoir as contradictory to the contact theory as ordinarily 
admitted, and shows that, considering the earth as a metallic conductor, 
all the eleven may be very simply explained in conformity with the 
contact theorj'. Sokoloff has examined mathematically the condenser 



492 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

theory of Exner, and found it in error. (J. Phys.^ December, II, i, p. 
574.) 

Ewing and Jenkiu have observed that a wire of iron or steel sub- 
mitted to the action of a magnetizing helix yields, when twisted, an 
instantaneous longitudinal current directed from the north to the south 
end when the torsion is in the direction of an ordinary screw, and from 
south to north when the torsion is in the other direction. On reversing 
the longitudinal magnetization of a wire submitted to torsion, a moment- 
ary energetic current is produced ; but the interruption or re-establish- 
ment of the current produces only a trifling effect. A magnetized wire 
not under the action of an external magnetizing force also gives a cur- 
rent when twisted, *in the same direction as before. The authors give 
the name "polarization" to the state produced in a wire by the super- 
position of a torsion and a longitudinal magnetization, a state which 
persists after the magnetizing force ceases; it is measured by the mo- 
mentary current which accompanies its production. The molecular 
condition opposing magnetization, ordinarily called coercitive force, the 
authors call hysteresis. {Proc. Boy. Soc, xxxiu, p. 21; J. Phys., July, 
II, I, p. 332.) 

Felice shows to an audience the fundamental fact that in the interior 
of a battery the current goes from the zinc to the copper by using a 
cell of considerable length and suspending a needle just above the 
liquid. {J. Phys., December, II, i, p. 571.) 

Bennet has constructed a cheap form of battery which can be made for 
sixijeuce. An iron meat or milk can forms at the same time the nega- 
tive plate and the containing vessel. In it is a porous cup containing 
a zinc plate passing through a paraffined cork as cover. The liquid 
used is caustic soda, which is electronegative to zinc, and in which iron 
does not rust. Its electromotive force is 1.23 volts. Iron filings round 
the porous cup facilitate depolarization. At a subsequent meeting of 
the London Physical Society, Lecky stated that the electromotive force 
of the Bennet cell as determined by Guthrie was 1.14 volts, the internal 
resistance being 0.8 ohm; both quantities varying somewhat. McLeod 
also gave the results of his tests. On charging, the electromotive force 
was 1.005 volts, but on standing three days it rose to 1.213 volts. The 
internal resistance was 1.007 ohms. {Nature, May, June, xxvi, i)p. 71, 
119.) 

Wright, in a paper presented to the London Physical Society, gives 
the results of his investigations on the Daniell cell, as a i)art of his more 
extended research on the determination of chemical affinity in terms of 
electromotive force. He concludes that when a Daniell cell is made 
with equal-sized plates of pure zinc and pure copper, immersed re- 
spectively in solutions of pure zinc and copper sulphates of the same 
density, and is made to generate a current not exceeding in density 8 
microamperes per square centimeter, an electromotive force is set up 
always lying fairly close to 1.115 volts, and practically identical with 



PHYSICS. 403 

the electromotive force corresponding to the energy gained in the 
net chemical change ensuing. By taking suitable precautions in the 
construction of a cell, one may be obtained the electromotive force of 
which does not difler more than ± 0.25 per cent, from 1.114 volts. 
But such a cell cannot be kept for many hours without altering in 
value materially, and is in practice, therefore, a far less convenient 
standard than the Clark mercurous sulphate cell. {Nature, February, 
XXV, p. 403 ; Phil. Mag., April, Y, xiii, p. 265.) 

Potier has given a description of the various classes of dynamoelectric 
machines exhibited at the Electrical Exposition in Paris in 1881. The 
Gramme, Edison, Siemens, Burgin, Giilcher, and Brush machines are 
figured. The ring of the Brush machine is criticised as giving rise to 
injurious Foucault currents ; so that while the Gramme and the Siemi^ns 
machines give above 90 pei; cent, efl&ciency, that of the Brush machine 
is below 80. {J. Phys., September, II, i, p. 389.) 

Lacoine has investigated the increased resistance in dynamo-electric 
machines due to increased velocity of rotation, and finds it to be due to 
variations in contact between the commutator and brushes. Using a 
copper cylinder 5<'™ in diameter, having longitudinal grooves cut in its 
surface, two steel springs were made to press on opposite sides of it, 
which were in circuit with a battery, telephone, and galvanometer. 
When at rest, the resistance of the circuit was 68 ohms; at 2,000 rota- 
tions, 183; at 4,000, 900; at about 5,000, 1,567; at a higher velocity 
not measured, 2,900. Each spring touched the cylinder over three 
grooves, and increasing the pressure diminishes the resistance. Using 
a smooth cylinder, the results were the same except that a little higher 
velocity was necessary to obtain the same resistance. {Comptes Eend^is, 
xciii, p. 958; Phil. Mag., January, V, xiii, p. 76.) 

Sir William Thomson has devised two dynamos, one gi%ing continuous, 
the other alternating currents. In the former, a drum-armature in the 
form of a barrel is used, the staves being of copper and insulated from 
one another. At one end of the drum these copper bars are all united 
to one metallic plate, and at the other their prolongations serve as com- 
mutator bars. Inside this armature is a stationary electro-magnet, its 
poles facing those of the nearly circular field magnets placed outside. 
The armature is supported on friction rollers, the lower pair made of 
non-conducting material, the upper of copjjer, to take off the currents. 
The alternating current machine is a disk dynamo, in which the rota- 
ting armature has no iron. The disk is made of wood, having projecting 
wooden teeth upon its sides, around which the copper wire or strip is 
carried alternately backwards and forwards, going finally to the axle. 
The field magnets are placed round the circumference of a circular 
frame with their poles alternating and facing inward. They are formed 
of a cast-iron ring with lugs screwed ujDon its face, around which, back- 
ward and forward, the zigzag conductors pass. {Nature, November, 
xxvn, pp. 58, 78.) 



494 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Gordon's dynamo has attracted considerable attention because of its 
size, being more than 9 feet high and weighing 18 tons. The armature 
is a disk of boiler-iron having upon its faces G4 circular coils. Upon 
the fixed framework are 128 " taking-ofl'" coils, sector-shaped, alternately 
connected to two circuits. There are 32 groups in parallel circuit, each 
group containing 4 coils in series. The current is taken from the fixed 
coils, the movable coils being excited by two Biirgin machines, through 
the commutator. With 140 revolutions the electro motive force is 105 
volts, and the current sustains 1,300 Swan lamps, but is expected to run 
5,000 to 7,000 with increase of driving power. {Nature, Xovember, 
XXVII, p. GO.) 

Lodge has given an ingenious geometrical construction, giving the 
relation between the waste and the useful work in a shunt dynamo. 
{Nature, July, xxvi, 311.) 

In a lecture at the Electrical Exhibition,* Ayrton has considered the 
question of the economy of gas-engines in the production of electricity. 
Using the highly purified gas employed for illumination, even at 75 cents 
per thousand cubic feet (which is twice the Paris price), the gas-engine 
cannot compete with the steam-engine in economy. But using some 
form of the newer and cheaper water gas, such as is made by the Dowson 
process, by passing air and steam through a mass of burning fuel, the re- 
verse condition obtains. While the calorific power of a cubic meter of 
coal gas is 5,590,399 heat units, and the calorific intensity 2,554° C, that 
of the Dowson gas is 1,558,358 and 2,268, respectively. The figures 
taken from a gas-engine of 30 horse-power driven by means of the Dow- 
son gas for 300 days of nine hours each showed that the cost was about 
45J per cent, less than when worked with gas at 75 cents per thousand 
feet, and 47J per cent, less than a portable steam-engine. A steam- 
engine consuming 6 pounds of coal per indicated horse-power per hour 
requires 217 tons of coal to give the same power as 39 tons of coal con- 
verted into gas by the Dowson process. In a series of trials made with 
3^ horse-power gas-engines, it appeared that one indicated horse-power 
is obtained from a consumption of gas derived from 1.4G pounds of coal, 
after allowing 10 per cent, for impurities as well as for the gas burned 
in the manufacture. As the cost is less as the engine is larger, the 
author believes that an engine indicating 40 horse-power would require 
90 cubic feet of Dowson gas per indicated horse-power per hour, requir- 
ing a consumption of coal of only 1.2 pounds per indicated horse-power 
per hour. (Nature, January, xxv, p. 281.) 

Bouty has suggested a striking analogy of thermodynamic with 
thermo-electric phenomena and with the phenomenon of Peltier. {J. 
Phys., June, II, i, p. 267.) 

In 185G, Sir William Thomson showed that magnetization of iron and 
steel modified their thermo-electric properties. Stroubal and Barus have 
repeated the experiments for the case of longitudinal magnetization and 
have reached the same conclusion. Relatively to the hardness, the 



PHYSICS. 495 

influence of magnetization is extremely feeble. ( Wied. Ann., Y, xiv, p, 54; 
J. Pliys., June, II, i, p. 291.) 

The Thomson effect, or the transference of heat by an electrical cur- 
rent, has been investigated by Trowbridge and Penrose, both in nickel 
and carbon. The strip of nickel was 45^"^ long, 2.6*=™ wide, and 2™™ 
thick. The transference of the heat was found to be negative ; i. e., heat 
is absorbed by a current which passes from hot to cold, and evolved 
when it passes from cold to hot. On testing the question whether the 
l^henomenon is reversible, the results were quite inconclusive, though 
tending to prove rather than to disprove it. No eflect upon the Thom- 
son effect was produced by a magnetic field. Eepeating with copper the 
first experiment with nickel, the relative values for the two metals were 
obtained. Calling copper 2, the effect for nickel is 2.25, but of opposite 
sign. The carbon employed was that of a Faber pencil, and the direc- 
tion of the Thomson effect was found to be negative, like nickel. [Am. 
J. ScL, November, III, xxiv, 379.) 

Elster and Geitel have investigated the electrical properties of flame, 
using the Thomson quadrant electrometer. They find that as long as 
either of the electrodes is outside the flame and the other inside, the 
outside one is positive and the other negative. The film of hot air 
outside the flame is always positive and the flame inside relatively neg- 
ative. The result is the same with gas flames, candle flames, alcohol 
flames, and even in air flames burning in coal gas, the difference of poten- 
tial being from 1^ to If times that of a Daniell cell. If in place of two 
platinum wires, the upper one is copper, the e. m. f. rose to 2 Daniell 
cells, with aluminum it rose to 3, and with magnesium to 3.2 cells. 
With a lumj) of clean sodium it even reached 5 cells. Using 25 spirit 
lamps in series, a curved piece of platinum wire passing from the base 
of one flame to the tip of the next, a flame battery was produced. 
Finally, a difference of potential was observed between an incandescent 
platinum wire heated by a current and a second wire whose tip entered 
the hot-air currents from the former, no flame or combustion products 
being present. Hence a flame in itself is not a source of electrification 
at all. The authors conclude, (1) that the production of electricity by 
flames is independent of the size of the flame; (2) dependent on the 
nature and state of the surface of the electrodes; (3) dependent on the 
nature of the gases that are burning in the flame ; and (4) dependent on 
the state of ignition of the electrodes. Hence it is a thermo-electric 
l)henomenon and analogous to the counter e. m. f. of the arc. ( Wied. 
Ann., V, XXYI, p. 193 ; Fhil. Mag., September, Y, xiv, p. IGl; Mature, 
August, XXVI, p. 321.) 

3. Electrical Measurements. 

In his address as president of the British Association at the South- 
ampton meeting, Dr. C. W. Siemens gave a resume of the progress 
made iu the establishment of electric units, culminating finally in the 



496 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

adoption by tlie International Congress of Electricians, held in Septem- 
ber, 1881, of the volt, obm, coulomb, ampere, and farad. To these, 
however, he suggested that some others should be added. For the unit 
of magnetic quantity he adopted Clausius's suggestion, and proposed 
the name "weber." For the unit of electrical power or rate of work, 
i. e., the power conveyed by the current of an ampere through the dif- 
ference of potential of one volt, he proposed the name " watt." For the 
unit of intensity of magnetic field he suggested the name proposed by 
Thomson, of "gauss," the gauss being the intensity of field produced 
by a weber at the distance of one centimeter, and a weber the absolute 
c. Gr. s. unit strength of magnetic pole. Two poles, each of one weber 
strength, at one centimeter distance, will attract with the force of one 
dyne. For the unit of heat, produced in one second by one ampere of 
current flowing through one ohm resistance, he proposed the name 
"joule." Its value in absolute measure is 10^ c. G. s. units, and there- 
fore, taking Joule's equivalent as 4.2 x lO'^ units, it is the heat neces- 
sary to raise 0.238 gram of water one degree centigrade. {Nature^ Au- 
gust, XXVI, p. 390.) 

The Congress of Electricians delegated to an International Conference 
(1) the final determination of the ohm, (2) the investigation of earth cur- 
rents and atmospheric electricity, and (3) the standard of light. This 
conference met in Paris, in October, 1882. As regards the ohm, L e., 
the length of a mercury column one square millimeter in section, whose 
resistance is equal to 10^ c. G. s. units, several values were before the 
conference. These are, Kohlrausch's, 1.0593 meters; Eayleigh's (by 
B. A. method), 1.0G24; (by the method of Lorenz) 1.0620; Glazebrook's, 
1.0624; H. Weber's, 1.0611; W.Weber and Zollner's, 1.0552; Kowland's, 
1.0572; Dohrn's, 1.0546. But opposed to these is F. Weber's value, 
1.0471, which is very near the B. A. ohm. So that the conference 
postponed further action, and recommended experimentalists (1) to 
compare their resistances with the standard of resistance which the 
French Government will furnish; (2) to compare the induction coils 
by Kohlrausch's method with the wire circuit; and' (3) to use in their 
measurements the modified and improved method of Lorenz. The 
second section resolved that the various Governments be requested 
to favor regular and systematic observations of atmospheric electric- 
ity upon their systems of telegraph; that the study of storms should 
be undertaken in every country ; that wires independent of the tele- 
graph system should be provided for the special study of earth currents; 
and that, as far as practicable, the great subterranean telegraph lines, 
especially those running from south to north and from east to west, 
should be utilized for the same purpose, the observations in the differ- 
ent countries taking place on the same day. The third section ex- 
pressed the opinion that the light emitted by a square centimeter of 
melting platinum would furnish an absolute standard. The conference 



PHYSICS. 497 

adjourned to meet on the first Mouday iu October, 1883. {Nature, 
November, December, xxvii, pp. 18, 144.) 

Several excellent expositions of the absolute or c. G. s. system of 
electrical units have appeared since the adoption of these units by 
the International Congress of Electricians. Of these may be espe- 
cially mentioned a lecture by Levy, delivered before the Soci6te d'En- 
courageraent {Ann. Chim. Phys., May, V, xxvi, p. 85), and a paper by 
Pellat (J. Phys., June, II, i, p. 255). 

Clausius has published a paper on the different systems of measures 
for electric and magnetic quantities, in which he maintains that Max- 
well has committed an error iu his formula for the static magnetism 
unit. {Phil. Mag., June, V, xiii, p. 381; J. Phys., June, II, i, p. 273.) 

To this paper there have been many replies : Everett {Phil. Mag., 
V, XIII, pp. 376, 431) ; J. J. Thomson {lb., xiii, p. 427; xiv, p. 225) ; Lar- 
mor {lb., XIII, p. 429) ; Lodge {lb., xiv, p. 357) ; Wead {lb., xiii, p. 
530) ; Saigant {lb., xiv, p. 395) ; and finally von Helmholtz {lb., De- 
cember, XIV, p. 430). The latter says: "In all this I cannot percei\e 
any mistake of Maxwell's; and his equations, derived from the form- 
ulation of the fundamental phenomena chosen by him, are altogether 
as consistent with each other and as correct, if understood in the sense 
of their authoi', as those of Professor Clausius." 

Yon Helmholtz has devised an electrodynamic balance, in which two 
coils are suspended, with their axes vertical, from the ends of the beam. 
Above these coils, which can rotate about their axes, are fastened two 
larger coils. These are so connected that one of the movable coils is 
attracted, the other repelled. The movable parts are connected with 
the fixed parts by bands of Dutch metal 8.3 meters long, 6 to 7 milli- 
meters wide. The instrument will measure to l-2000th a current bal- 
anced by one gram. ( Wied. Ann., V, xiv, 52 ; J. Phys., January, II, i, 
p. 52.) 

Sir William Thomson has contrived two new forms of galvanometer, 
which he calls graded galvanometers, which have for their object the 
determination of the value sought without calculation. One of these 
is for measuring differences of potential in volts, and is called a poten- 
tial galvanometer. The other measures current strength in amperes, 
and is called a current galvanometer. The plan of both instruments is 
essentially the same. Each consists of a coil and a magnetometer. 
The coil of the former instrument is a ring of circular section, 14^'"^ 
in outside diameter and O"^"" inside; the diameter of its section, there- 
fore, is 4*^™. It is made of German silver wire covered with silk, of 
No. 32 B. w. G., and contains 2,200 yards wound in 7,000 turns, having 
a resistance of 6,000 ohms. It is saturated with paraffin and served 
with silk ribbon. This coil is firmly attached to one end of a horizon; 
tal wooden platform, its plane being vertical. The magnetometer con- 
sists of a system of magnets properly supj)orted so as to be free to 
H. Mis. 26 32 



40 o SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 18S2. 

turn round a vertical axis. Each magnet is l'^™ long, made of glass- 
hardened steel wire, No. 18. Four of these form the needle, and the 
sides of the mounting are prolonged so as to form an index, moving 
over a graduated scale, the whole inclosed in a quadrautal shaped box. 
A semicircular magnet placed vertically over the angle of the quad- 
rant intensifies the field when necessary. The magnetometer box is 
placed on the platform so that the axis of the needle passes through 
the center of the coil and can be moved to and from it at pleasure. 
The coil of the current galvanometer is made of stout copper strip 
1.2'^'" broad, 1.5*^™ thick, wound in six turns and insulated with as- 
bestus paper. It will measure currents up to 100 iunperes; and with 
a single coil of still heavier copper, currents of 1,000 amperes. {Na- 
ture, September, xxvi, p. 506.) 

Gray has published a valuable article upon the graduation of gal- 
vanometers for the measurement of currents and potentials in absolute 
measure, in which he discusses the method of determining the horizon- 
tal component of the^arth's magnetism, the theory and construction of 
the standard galvanometer, the theory and relations of electric units, 
and the method of graduating and using Sir William Thomson's graded 
galvanometers. (Nature, xxvii, pp. 32, 105, 319, 339.) 

Boys has suggested a current meter based on a new principle. The 
rate of a pendulum clock depends on gravity and is proportional to the 
square root of its strength. That of a watch depends on the strength 
of the hair-spring and is proportional to the square root of its strength. 
The force due to an electric current is proportional to the square of the 
current strength. Hence if a portion of a circuit is capable of vibrating 
under electromagnetic force, the speed of vibration will be proportional 
simply to the current strength. If, now, such a contrivance takes the 
place of the balance of a pendulum clock, the clock will measure elec- 
tric current instead of time. A meter of this kind has been constructed 
in which the controlling power depends on iron crescents and solenoids, 
and in which a portion of the main current is shunted through secondary 
solenoids giving an impulse at each swing, when the balance is in its 
neutral position, thus producing no effect on the rate of oscillation. 
{Nature, February, xxv, p. 355.) 

Wartmann has contrived an apparatus which he calls a "rheolyzer" 
for varying the strength of a derived current from zero to a maximum, 
indicating at the same time the ratio of these variations. A graduated 
metallic ring, round a column carried by a tripod, incloses a thick disk 
of glass or ebonite resting on six radii of the ring. In the upper sur- 
face of the disk is a circular trough of mercury receiving two copper 
electrodes at the bottom, 180^ apart. A cross-bar on the top of the 
column, on which it turns as an axis, acts as a movable Wheatstone 
bridge; it has two terminal verniers, and two screws dipping in the 
mercury. These latter are insulated, but communicate through central 



PHYSICS. 499 

biudiug screws with a mirror galvanometer. The strength of the shunt 
current varies as the bridge is displaced. {Nature, June, xxvi, p. 139.) 

Von Fleischl has claimed this apparatus as having been constructed 
by him in 1877, and described under the name "rheonom." He says it 
has been in Prof. E. Du Bois Reymond's cabinet for more than five years. 
{Nature, December, xxvii, p. 127.) 

Stone has constructed an electrodynamometer, in which the suspended 
coil was made of aluminum wire, was 1^ inches internal diameter, 
contained forty-two turns of wire in five layers, weighed 6^ grams, and 
had a resistance of half an ohm. Its performance was satisfactory. 
{Nature, June, xxvi, p. 201.) 

Slotte has given a method for calculating the length of the platinum 
wire belonging to the Wheatstone bridge (which cannot always be deter- 
mined by direct measurement), which is founded on that of comparing 
and exchanging resistances. {Wied. Ann.,Y, xv, p. 176; Phil. Mag., 
March, V, xiii, p. 227.) 

Sloguinoff has contrived a simple form of compensator for use with 
the method of Du Bois Reymond for measuring electromotive forces by 
the method of compensation. Two wires of equal length are stretched 
parallel to one another and connected together at one end. To the 
other ends a standard cell is connected. To one of these same ends one 
wire of the battery to be tested is connected, a galvanometer being in 
the circuit, the other battery wire being attached to the end of a third 
wire parallel to the others. Across the three wires is a slider for ad- 
justing the distance. {J. Phys., March, II, i, p. 138.) 

The International Electrical Congress adojjted the ohm as the unit 
of resistance and defined it to be 10^ c. a. s. units. But they left to a 
special commission the determination of the length of a prism of mer- 
cury one millimeter in cross-section which should have this resistance. 
In consequence a large number of important papers has been published 
upon the best method of making this measurement; or, what is practi- 
cally the same, of determining the actual value of the B. A. unit called 
the ohm. Before the meeting of the Congress, Rayleigh and Schuster 
had repeated the original determination, using Thomson's method and 
the identical apparatus with which the B. A. Committee worked. They 
find that the standard called an ohm by the committee is 0.9893 x 
10^ c. a. s. units; a value near that obtained by Rowland, 0.9911 x 10^ 
{ProG. Roy. Soc, April, 1881 ; J. Phys., January, II, i, p. 43.) 

Joubert has suggested a method for the determination of the ohm 
founded on the measurement with the electrometer of the electromotive 
forces in an induced circuit. {Compfes Rendus, June, xciv, p. 1519.) 

Lippmann has proposed a thermoscopic method for the determination 
of the ohm, which requires no measurement of amount of heat, nor an 
exact value of Joule's equivalent. ( Gomptes Rendus, October, xcv, p. 634.) 
The various other methods which have been jjroposed have been dis- 
cussed by Lippmann (J. Phys., July, II, i, p. 313); by Lorenz {J. Phys.^ 



600 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

November, II, i, 477) ; by G. Wiedemann {EJectroteclinisclie Zeitschrift, 
July ; Phil. Mag., V, xiv, p. 258) ; and by Rayleigb {Phil. Mag., Novem- 
ber, V, XIV, p. 329.) 

Naccari and Guglielmo bave studied tbe electromotive forces ot bat- 
teries which are not constant, and find that the nature of the plate on 
which the hydrogen is evolved affects the value of the electromotive 
force of a single liquid cell ; and that the electromotive force of such a 
couple varies always inversely to the intensity of the current, and that 
this variation does not appear to be produced by the oxygen dissolved 
or by the zinc sulphate produced. {II Nuovo Cimento, III, ix, p. 1G2 ; J. 
Phys., November, II, i, p. 521.) 

Mazzotto has examined the constants of various cells, the internal 
resistance being determined by Mance's method, and the electromotive 
force being calculated from this and the current strength. He finds 
that in all the batteries tested the electromotive force diminishes con- 
tinuously when the current strength increases, and conversely. The 
internal resistance is greater as the battery is longer in action and as 
the current is weaker. {J. Phys., November, II, i, 522.) 

Minchin, in a paper on the determination of electromotive force in 
absolute electrostatic measure, has discussed the theory of and given 
the results obtained with his absolute sine electrometer (referred to 
in this report a year ago). He finds, for example, the electromotive 
force of a Daniell cell with his instrument to be 0.00352 absolute electro- 
static unit ; while the value as obtained by Sir William Thomson, was 
0.00374. {Nature, January, xxv, p. 278.) 

Rayleigh, in a paper read before the Physical Section of the British 
Association upon the absolute measurement of electrical currents, said 
that the measurement of current strength in absolute measure was 
more difficult than that of resistance. All the methods hitherto em- 
ployed require either accurate measurements of the horizontal intensity 
of the earth's magnetism or of coils of small radius and many turns. 
This latter is difficult to evaluate. Kohlrausch's method is free from 
this objection, but it requires a knowledge of the moment of inertia, a 
quantity not easy accurately to determine. Mascart's method is simple 
to think about but not calculated to secure precise results. {Nature, 
September, xxvi, p. 465.) 

With the aid of a Mascart electrometer, Berthelot has studied the 
polarization of a zinc-carbon couple. When first set up, the electro- 
motive force surpasses that of a zinc-platinum couple in the ratio 1 : 1.7(>, 
and a Daniell cell in the ratio 1 : 1.29, or even 1: 1. 37. It falls, how- 
ever, very rapidly on closed circuit, becoming equal to that of a Dan- 
iell in a few minutes, and falling to 0.83 of a Daniell in a few hours. 
After thirty-six hours it became only half that of the Daniell. If the 
plates be now washed several times in water frequently renewed, they 
give the original electromotive force again. {Ann. Chini. Phys., Sep- 
tember, y, XXVII, p. 106.) 



PHYSICS. 501 

Edlund has discussed the phenomena which bear on the question of 
the electrical resistance of vacuum, and comes to the conclusion that 
they all indicate that a vacuuip is a good conductor of electricity, the 
resistance commonly experienced taking place between the electrode 
and the vacuum. "It seems to me," he says, "that in drawing, from 
the known impossibility of an electric current traversing the most per- 
fect vacuum between electrodes, the conc*lusion that a vacuum is abso- 
lutely non-conducting, the same mistake has been made as when from 
the circumstance that the sun rises in the east and sets in the west, it 
was believed that one might infer that the sun in reality goes round 
the earth." {PJiil. Mag., V, xiii, p. 1,200 ; J. Phijs., May, II, i, p. 235.) 

Eayleigh in conjunction with Mrs. Sidgwick, has determined the spe- 
cific resistance of mercury. Four tubes were used to contain the mer- 
curj^, from 87 to 194 centimeters long. Tube I gave the value 0.95416, 
tube II 0.95419, tube III 0.95416, and tube IV 0.95427. Hence the 
mercury unit is 0.94130 x 10^ c. G. S. {Nature, May, xxvi, p. 94; J, 
Phijs., July, II, I, p. 327.) 

S. P. Thompson has made a series of measurements to prove that the 
change in electric resistance produced by pressure on carbon is solely 
due to an increase in the perfection of the superficial contact. The 
carbon used was Carre's electric light carbon. {Phil. Mag., April, Y, 
XIII, p. 262 ; Nature, March, xxv, p. 427.) 

Mendenhall, using the soft carbon buttons made for the Edison tele- 
phone, finds not only that the resistance is diminished by pressure, but 
also that this decrease in the resistance continues for some time. When, 
for example, a carbon button having a resistance of 11.67 ohms was 
pressed by a weight of 50 grams, this resistance fell at once to 3.52 
ohms ; but it continued to fall for an hour and a half, and even for 
24 hours. In one case pressure was continued for a week ; but upon 
removing the pressure the original resistance was at once recovered. 
{Am. J. 8ci., July, III, xxiv, p. 43.) 

4. Electric 8par1c and Electric Light. 

Nipher has put into practice at the observatory of the Washington 
University, Saint Louis, a simple device for the transmission of clock- 
beats upon telegraph lines. In it two platinum plates attached by a 
light framework fastened to the lower end of the pendulum cut alter- 
nately a globule of meicury just below them. As the break is deter- 
mined by the distance apart of the plates, and as these are adjustable, 
the length of the break may be made whatever is desirable. {Am. J. Sci.y 
July, III, XXIV, 54.) 

Bailie, by means of a special apparatus, has measured the differences 
of potential corresponding to a given distance of the explosive dis- 
charge. He concludes, (1) for the same length of spark, the potential is 
a maximum when the two electrodes have the same curvature; (2) the 
potential varies from the maximum in proportion as the difference be- 



502 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882, 

tween the curvature of the electrodes is greater and the potential itself 
higher ; (3) for a given length of spark, taken between electrodes of 
equal curvature, the potential varies with the diameter of the sphere, 
so that a sphere can be found of such diameter that the potential shall 
be a maximum ; (4) the diameter of these equal spheres corresponding 
to the maximum is as much smaller as the potential is itself smaller. 
These two values increase together, but not proportionally ; (5) the 
potentials V corresponding to the explosive distances d between two 
planes can be expressed by the empirical hyperbola V^ = 10500 {8 + 
0.08) S. {J. Phys., April, II, i, p. 169 ; Ann. Chim. Phys., April, Y, xxv, 
p. 486.) 

Keitlinger and VVachter explain the Lichtenberg figures by a disag- ' 
gregation of the electrodes by the passage of positive electricity. Those 
positive figures which are radiating in form, are attributed to the trans- 
portation electrically of particles of dust torn from the positive elec- 
trode ; while those positive and negative figures alike, which have rounded 
contours, are attributed to the transport of the dust by the gases shaken 
by the discharge. {J. Phyft., April, II, i, p. 203.) 

Goldstein has investigated the question of the influence of the shape 
of the kathode on the distribution of the phosphorescent light in Geiss- 
ler's tubes, and figures some remarkable forms obtained. {Phil. Mag., 
December, V, xiv, p. 455.) 

Spottiswoode, in a lecture at the Eoyal Institution upon matter and 
magneto-electric action, gave a resumS of the work accomplished by 
himself and Moulton in studying the electric discharge in rarefied gases, 
especially with the use of alternating currents. {Nature, April, xxv, 
p. 539.) 

Jacquelain has presented a memoir to the French Academy on the 
purification of graphitoidal carbons, either natural or artificial, with 
special reference to the electric light. He concludes that the luminous 
power and the steadiness of the voltaic arc from a pure carbon, obtained 
either directly or by a method of purification, increase with the den- 
sity, the hardness, and the purity. The natural graphitoidal carbon 
from Siberia has the unexpected property of giving when purified double 
the light of the unpurified material. Its light-giving power surpasses 
by one-sixth that of the purest artificial carbon, although a very hard 
and brilliant pure artificial carbon has given an illumination equal to 
236 carcels. Though the hardness of gas carbon is greater, its density 
is less than that of the Siberian graphite, the former ranging from 1.90 
to 1.99, while that of the latter is from 2.28 to 2.41. To this its superior 
light-giving power is ascribed. {Ann. Chim. Phys., December, V, xxviii, 
p. 537.) 

Foussereau has published an article on electric lighting, in which the 
subject is divided as follows : 1st. Preparation of the carbons. The car- 
bons most in use in France are those of Carre, made of coke, calcined 
lampblack, and thick gum- water; of Gauduiu, made of the coke fix)m 



PHYSICS. 503 

tar or petroleum, mixed with lampblack, and of Napoli, made of gas 
coke and tar. 2d. Voltaic arc lamps, monophotal, like those of Fou- 
cault, Serrin, Jaspar, &c. 3d. Polyphotal lamps, as the Gramme, which 
is a shunt lamp; the Siemens and the Brush, which aie differential, 
and the Brockie, which is periodic in its action. 4th. The distribution 
of lights (1) all in multiple arc, as in the Giilcher system; (2) all in 
series, as in the Brush, and (3) upon the different circuits of a multiple 
machine, as in Mersanne's system. 5th. Electric candles, as the Jabloch- 
kofif, Jamin, and Soleil. Gth. Incandescent lamps, divided into (1) those 
in air or an inert gas, as the Reynier, Werdermann and Sawyer, and (2) 
those in a vacuum, like tlie Edison, Swan, Maxim, and Lane Fox. 7th. 
Intensity of the light and its distribution in space. {J. Phys., February, 
March, II, i, pp. 72, 125.) 

Ayrton and Perry have presented to the London Physical Society the 
results of their experiments on the resistance and counter-electromotive 
force of the arc. The latter was measured by a voltmeter placed be- 
tween the terminals of the lamp. When the distance between the car- 
bons was constant the electromotive force diminished as the current 
increased. With a constant current, the electromotive force increased 
rapidly at first with an increasing length of arc, afterward more slowly. 
To produce an arc one third of an inch long, 80 volts are required. For 
further increase, the electromotive force is proportional to it. {Nature, 
December, xxvii, p. 215.) 

Tommasi has shown that when the arc is made to pass between two 
metallic tubes, of copper for example, so arranged that a rapid current 
of cold water may flow through them, and placed horizontally, the illumi- 
nating power is very much weakened, the arc is very unstable, it does 
not set fire to paper, it appears to be formed of a luminous globule 
moving up and down between the rheophores, it is extinguished by 
the presence of a magnet, being attracted or repelled according to the 
pole presented, and a large amount of ozone is produced. {Compies 
Rendus, xciii, p. 716; Phil. Mag., January, Y, xiii, p. 75.) 

Jamin has studied the effects produced when the alternating current 
of a Gramme machine passes between carbon points in a vacuum. 
Gramme machines with alternating currents resemble both batteries and 
induction coils, but they differ from batteries by the great intensity of 
their currents. Hence, the effects will be those of batteries, with an in- 
tensification due to the high tension, and those of the induction coil, with 
the advantage of increased quantity. In place, therefore, of a single arc 
in air several can be maintained; the author has maintained 60 from a 
machine which originally supported only 8. When, now, this alternating 
current is used to maintain an arc in an electric egg, as soon as the ex- 
haustion reaches 12™™ the light begins to spurt out spontaneously from 
the entire surface of the carbons, both of them being enveloped with the 
blue aureole noticed in Geissler tubes around the negative pole. The 
carbons become heated to bright ledness throughout, and are rapidly 



504 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882 

volatilized. The vessel becomes filled with a blue gas similar to iodine 
vaj)or, which deepens, becoming like indigo. The vapors condense on 
the sides of the globe, making it opaque. The deposit resembles finely 
divided carbon, but dissolves with effervescence in nitric acid. The lumi- 
nous effect is more striking when copper electrodes are used. {Comptes 
Eendvs, xciv, pp. 1271, 1615; Phil. Mag., July, Supplement, Y, xiii, p. 
538.) 

Abdank has invented a new arc lamp, which was described by Preece 
at the Southampton meeting of the British Association, in which the 
regulating arrangement is separated from the lamp. The lower carbon 
is fixed, the upper attached to a brass rod movable in the core of an 
electro-magnet and lifted by a clutch when the magnet is charged. The 
magnet and carbon holder are fastened to the end of a rack, the pinion 
of which is controlled bj" an electro-magnetic brake. The regulator is 
differential in its action, and throws a shunted current on to the elec- 
tro-magnet of the brake whenever the resistance between the carbons 
becomes too great, thus allowing the carbons to approach. A cut-out 
is attached, by which the lamp is taken out of circuit when necessary. 
(Nature, September, xxvr, p. 526.) 

In his address as chairman of the Council of the Society of Arts, Sie- 
mens took for his subject electric lighting and the transmission of force 
by electricity, considering the more practical side of the electrical ques- 
tion. He made a calculation of the cost required to light the i^arish of St. 
James, with its 30,000 peoi)le, 3,000 houses, and 784,000 square yards of 
area, and concludes that an expenditure of 12 horse-power per house 
would be required. The cost of the electricity he assumes to be in Lon- 
don one shilling per 10,000 watts (ampere-volts). Hence, to maintain 
64,000 Swan lights it would cost £16 per hour. The total cost of the 
plant he puts at £177,000. At the same rate the plant necessary for 
the entire city would cost £14,000,000. The cost of each lamp per year 
he estimates at 21s. 9^d. ; while the same light by gas at 2s. 8d. a thou- 
sand feet would cost 20s. {Nature, November, xxvii, p. 67.) 

In a lecture before the Royal Institution, Swan has discussed the 
subject of incandescent lighting with si)ecial reference to its economy. 
The great economy of high incandescence he strikingly illustrated by 
passing through one of his lamps one unit of current. The light ob- 
tained was equal to two candles. When one and a half units of cur- 
rent was sent through the lamp, it gave thirty candles; so that for an 
increase of current of one-half, involving a doubling of the energy ex- 
pended, fifteen times the light was produced. In conjunction with Mr. 
Stearn, in 1878, he reached the result that "when a well-formed carbon 
filament is firmly connected with conducting wires and placed in a 
hermetically sealed glass ball perfectly exhausted, the filament suf- 
fers no apparent change even when heated to an extreme degree of 
whiteness." " The first lamp having this elementary character (a simple 
bulb pierced by two platinum wires supporting a filament of carbon) 



PHYSICS. 505 

ever publicly exhibited was shown in operation at a meeting of the 
Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester, in February, 1879." 
On tlie question of cost, he claims 200 candles per horse-power; but 
calling- it 150, we have for the 50 horse-power obtainable from 1 cwt. of 
coal, 7,500 candles, as against 3,000 from an equivalent value of gas 
{Mature, August, xxvi, p. 35G.) 

Thn experimental committee of the jury of the Paris Electrical Ex 
hibilioii, of which Tresca was president, appointed the following sub 
committee to make the tests on incandescent lamps : Barker (chairman) 
Crook es, Hagenbach, Kundt, and Mascart. They examined the Edison 
the Swan, the Lane Fox, and the Maxim lamps, the only four exhibited 
The following are their results: At 16 candles, the candles produced 
per horse-power of current were, for the Edison lamp, 196.4; for the 
Swan, 177.9; for the Lane Fox, 173.6; and for the Maxim, 151.3. At 
32 candles the Edison lamp gave 307.25 candles per horse-power of 
current; the Swan, 262.49; the Lane Fox, 276.89; and the Maxim, 
230.41. Subsequently a committee, consisting of Tresca, AUard, Le 
Blanc, Joubert, and Potier, made tests of these lamps as collateral to 
their tests of machines. Four Swan lamps, six Lane Fox lamps, one 
hundred Maxim lamps, and five hundred and twenty eight Edison lamps 
were tested in the same circuit, the following results being the mean of 
all these lamps. The results of the tests made by the first committee 
refer to the light emitted in a horizontal plane, the direction being 45° to 
the plane of the loop. Those of the second are expressed in terms of 
mean spherical intensity calculated from the measurements. For com- 
parison, therefore, the results of both measurements are given below, 
the mean spherical intensities being calculated for the former measure- 
ments, the first and second referring to the two committees : 

Maxim. EdisoD. Lane Fox. Swan, 

let. 2d. Idt. 2d. Ist. 2d. 1st. 2d. 

a. b. 
Mean spherical intensity.. 1.25 2.80 1.36 1.57 1.16 1.64 1.16 2.32 2.19 
Candles per H.P. of cnrrent 118.0 151.0 145.3 172,0 119.^ 130.6 122.7 211.1 204.7 

"Although the two sets of experiments were made with a different 
object, and by methods entirely different, it will be observed that the 
figures of the one approach closely ttose of the other, thus characteriz- 
ing very clearly each of the four systems of lamps by their electrical 
data." [Coiriptes Rendus^ November, xcv, p. 946.) 

5. Electro- Chemistry. 

The weight of water decomposed by a current whose strength is one 
electro-magnetic unit, passing for one second of time, has been variously 
stated. Weber gives it as 0.9376 milligram; Bunseu, as 0.0265; Cas- 
selmann, 0.9387 ; Joule, as 0.9222; and Cazin, as 0.9372. Mascart has 
undertaken a new determination of this value. To this end he submit- 
ted to electrolysis water acidu'ated with phosphoric acid and solutions 
of silver nitrate and copper sulphate. For the measurement of current 



506 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

he used an electro-dynamometer of special construction, consisting of 
two flat coils, in the center of which a cylindrical coil was suspended 
from the scale-pan of a balance, the axes of the three coils being coin- 
cident. As a result the author finds that a current whose strength is 
equal to one C. G. S, unit decomposes 0.9373 milligram of water per 
second, and, therefore, a fraction equal to 0.9373 -^ 9, or 0.10415 of the 
equivalent of any other substance expressed in milligrams. Conversely 
the current capable of producing in one second the electrolysis of one 
equivalent of a body expressed in milligrams is 96 amperes. Taking 
the gram as the unit of weight, the electro-chemical equivalent of water 
is 9.373 X 10-*. {J. Phys., March, II, i, p. 109.) 

Streinitz has assigned to voltaic polarization the production of the 
oxygen and hydrogen gases which appear at each of the electrodes 
when the discharges of a Leyden jar are passed through water. By the 
aid of a quadrant electrometer he has measured the difference of poten- 
tial of the electrodes. He finds that when the electrodes are narrow 
this difference changes sign if the number of discharges does not ex- 
ceed a certain limit. The same inversion appears after a few minutes 
with voltaic currents of short duration and disappears when the vol- 
tameter is completely polarized. {J. Phys., April, II, i, p. 202.) 

Tommasi has given experimental evidence to disprove Bourgoiu's 
statement that water is not an electrolyte. He maintains that water 
can be electrolyzed by the current of a very feeble battery, provided 
that the heat liberated by the battery is equal to that absorbed by the 
water in decomposing into its elements (69 calories). {Comptes Rendiis, 
April, xciv, p. 948; Phil. Mag., May, V, xiii, p. 377.) 

Berthelot has given the results of a large number of electrolytic ex- 
periments in two important papers — one on the limits of electrolysis, 
and the other on* the electrolysis of hydrogen peroxide. In both he 
gives the thermo-chemistry of the action which appears to control the 
results. {Ann. Chim. Phys., September, V, xxvii, p. 110.) 

Gore has investigated minutely the phenomena of the electrolysis of 
copper sulphate, and finds that in this, as in nearly all cases of elec- 
trolysis, chemical and electro-chemical forces coexist and operate in- 
dependently at the same surfaces "of liquid and metal. The greatest 
obstacle in finding the electro-chemical equivalent of copper is the difii- 
culty of determining how much the ordinary chemical corrosion is de- 
creased at the anode or increased at the kathode by the electric current. 
The method does not admit of a great degree of accuracy, because the 
chemical corrosion of cojjper, even in a cold neutral solution of copper 
sulphate, causes a loss of that metal, and prevents the true weight be- 
ing obtained. Hence the method of measuring the strength of a cur- 
rent in electric lighting by the electrolysis of a solution of copper sul- 
phate must be more or less inaccurate. {Nature, March, xxv, p. 473.) 

Bartoli and Papasogli have discovered that when dilute sulphuric 
acid is electrolyzed with gas carbon positive electrodes, there is formed 



PHYSICS. 507 

a solid black amorphous substance, having the composition Cu H2 O4, 
and which, from its characteristic property of being transformed into 
mellitic acid by oxidizing agents, they call mellogen. If phosphoric 
acid be electrolyzed, a similar body is formed, which, since it contains 
phosphorus, they call phosphomellogen. (J. Phys., December, II, i, p. 
571.) 

Krouchkoll has experimented to determine whether the variation of 
the friction produced in the electromotograph of Edison by the passage 
of a current is a result due to electrolysis. His apparatus consisted of a 
shallow glass dish, having a piece of polished glass at bottom, placed 
on a horizontal metal disk, rotated about a vertical axis by means of a 
small Gramme machine,* a rubber made of a series of small brushes of 
platinum wire, fixed in ebonite, rubbed against the glass during the 
rotation, tending to carry with it the needle of a sensitive balance, to 
which it is fastened. In the dish was sulphuric acid diluted with five 
parts of water, which moistened the brushes. One pole of the battery 
was connected to the brushes; the other was fastened to a copper strip 
immersed in copper sulphate solution to avoid jjolarization. This solu- 
tion was contained in a porous cup, immersed in. a second porous cup con- 
taining water and standing in the acid in the dish. On starting the 
movement of rotation and adjusting the balance to equilibrium, it is 
easy to show by the inclination of the needle that the polarization by 
oxygen increases the friction and that polarization by hydrogen dimin- 
ishes it. Half a Daniell cell is quite sufficient for the experiment, though 
the efiect increases with an increase of the electromotive force used. 
{Comptes Eetidus, July, xcv, p. 177.) 

Plants has found that the lougi)rocess of forming his accumulators is 
shortened if they are warmed during charging. The temperature best 
for this purpose is between 70° and 80° C, at which limit the opposing 
electromotive force is somewhat less than when cold, and the resistance 
very much less. He does not find it advantageous to exceed this limit. 
Thompson suggests that the reason may be that at the above tempera- 
ture the gases are evolved under normal conditions, no ozone being 
formed. {Nature, February, xxv, p. 376.) 

Gladstone and Tribe have published a series of valuable papers on the 
chemistry of the Plants and Faure accumulators, in which they have 
considered (1) local action, (2) the charging of the cell, (3) the discharge 
of the cell, and (4) the function of sulphate of lead. {Nature, xxv, pp. 
221, 4GL ; xxvi, pp. 251, 208, 342, 590, 002.) 

A sub-committee of the experimental jury of the Electrical Exhibition 
has tested in the Conservatoire des Arts et Metiers the efficiency of the 
Faure secondary battery. Thirty-five accumulators of the spiral form, 
each in a stoneware pot 35'=™ high and 25'='" in diameter, were charged 
in series by the current from a Siemens dynamo driven by a steam en- 
gine. The working electromotive force of an accumulator was found to 
be from 2.08 to 2.17 volts. The battery was charged for 22 hours 45 miu- 



508 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1682. 

utes with a current of the average strengtli of 8.5 amperes, requiring 
1.558 horse-power. The total work expended in charging, therefore, was 
6,020,000 kilogrammeters. The battery was then discharged througli 
eleven Maxim lamps, and required eleven hours. From this it appeared 
that 60 per cent, of the energy stored in the accumulators could be re- 
covered as electric current. {Nature, January, March, xxv, pp. 299, 476.) 

Ayrton and Perry have published an account of their experiments on 
the Faure accumulator, using a single cell containing 81 pounds of red 
lead. It gave on discharge a mean current of 18 amperes for eighteen 
hours, or a total work of l,4i0,000 foot-pounds, equivalent to a horse- 
power for 43 minutes ; thus giving a capacity of 18,000 foot-pounds per 
pound of red lead. They find that up to a million foot-pounds the loss 
in storage need not be greater than 18 per cent., provided the charging 
and discharging be slow. {Phil. Mag., July, V, xiv, p. 41.) 

Ayrton, in a lecture delivered at the London Institution in March 
upon the storage of energy, discussed at "length the economy of the 
accumulator for commercial purposes, as lighting and power. {Nature, 
March, xxv, p. 495.) 

De Kabath has devised a new form of secondary battery which fs 
practically a Plants, but which has been specially devised for exposing 
a very great surface. Corrugated strips of lead are packed closely to- 
gether to form the plates. The forming is done with the current as in 
the Plants battery. {Nature, June, xxvi, p. 180.) 

At the Montreal meeting of the American Association, Barker pre- 
sented a paper giving the results of his experiments with the Faure and 
the Plante secondary batteries. He takes the ground that the action of 
the battery is a purely chemical one, " the amount of electricity obtained 
from a given secondary battery being proportional to the amount of 
electrolytic products deposited upon its plates." The Faure cells used 
were of the type exhibited at the Paris Exhibition, each exposing about 
1.5 square meters of surface, and weighing 17 kilograms. The electro- 
motive force was about two volts as a mean, and the internal resistance 
0.02 ohm. In charging the 32 cells employed, the current strength was 
generally 15 amperes, a specially-devised cut-out being put in circuit 
to prevent the discharge of the battery through the machine if from any 
cause the electromotive force of the latter fell. The author concludes 
that to the very considerable local action which takes place in these 
batteries, and to the want of uniformity in the different cells, is due in 
large measure their low efficiency. {Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. ScL, 1882, 
XXXI, 207.) 



CHEMISTRY. 



By H. Carrington Bolton, Ph. D., 

Professor of Chemistri/ in Trinity College, Hartford, Conn. 



The year 1882 is marked by great industry in all departments of 
chemistry; no startling announcements have been made, but several 
extremely interesting syntheses of organic bodies have been accom- 
plished, viz, tyrosine and uric acid, both of the animal organism. Great 
activity is noted in the revision of the atomic weights. Progress has 
been made in unraveling the knotty problem of ihe rare earths in cerite, 
samarskite, and gadolinite, but no satisfactory conclusions have been 
reached as to the existence of the larger number of elementary bodies 
announced since 1877c 

In the brief space at our disposal we can barely note the salient fea- 
tures of the year's work in a series of short abstracts, and these we con- 
fine chiefly to pure chemistry, paying little attention to analytical and 
industrial chemistry. Periodical literature, devoted exclusively to chem- 
istry and its applications, is becoming voluminous ; the fifteen principal 
journals of America, England, France, and Germany publish annually 
about 18,000 images; in this rough estimate journals of physics and 
transactions of societies are not included, and both classes of serials 
contain much chemical material. We need hardly say that no attempt 
is made in the following pages to chronicle the prodigious amount and 
varietj^ of work contained in these and other sources of information. 

PHYSICAL AND INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. 

On the Reciprocal Solutions of Liquids. — Wladimir Alexejeff has de- 
voted eight years to a study of the mutual solutions of mixed liquids, 
anil he finds that the hypothesis proposed by Dossios is subject to ex- 
ceptions. The latter stated that the mutual solubility of liquids in- 
creases with the rise in temperature, but Alexejefl' finds that in certain 
bodies (isobutyl alcohol, for example) the solubility diminishes with an 
increase of temperature. He also discovers that the solubility decreases 
to a definite point and then increases again, or, in other words, that a 
minimum of solubility exists, just as certain solids have a maximum of 
solubility. 

When phenol and water are brought together two layers form; the 
lower is a solution of i)henol in water, the upper a solution of water in 

5U'J 



510 • SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

phenol. 'Now tbe mutual solubility of these liquids increases with the 
temperature, and at a certain point (68° for pure phenol) the two liquids 
mix in all proportions. Many liquids, such as aniline and water, follow 
the same law ; solids, too, obey the same law, as is shown by the mutual 
action of water and salicylic acid. The author claims that the solutions 
of solid and of liquid salicylic acid exhibit a true physical isomerism. 
(Bull. Soc. Cimn., xxxviii, p. 145.) 

Molecular Structure and Physical Properties.— Tha,t a close connection 
exists between the structure of molecules and the physical properties 
of the substances composed of these molecules is becoming more and 
more evideut. Pawlewski finds that the "critical temperatures" of 
isomeric ethers are very nearly identical, aud that isomers containing 
doubly-linked atoms of carbon have a higher critical temperature than 
those in the molecules of which the carbon atoms are singly linked. 
(Berichte d. cliem. Ges., XV, p. 460.) 

Determination of Gas Densities. — H. Goldschmidt and Victor Meyer 
have devised a simple method for determining gas densities in an expe- 
ditious manner. The process was employed at first in connection with 
experiments made on the density of cyanogen at various temperatures, 
but is applicable to many bodies. The vessel employed is first filled 
with pure, dry air of the temperature at which the density is to be 
taken ; the air is then displaced by hydrochloric acid gas (free from air), 
collected over water and measured. The hydrochloric acid gas is in 
turn replaced by air. The gas to be examined is then introduced until 
all the air is expelled, and this gas is again displaced by hydrogen, or 
by air, and collected in a potash bulb containing a liquid capable of 
completely absorbing it. The increase in weight of the potash bulb 
gives the weight of the gas ; the weight of an equal volume of air at the 
same temperature is determined from the volume collected, and the 
quotient gives the density sought. 

The apparatus consists of a glass cylinder 200™"* long, 30°*™ in diam- 
eter, with a capillary tube at each end, the extremities of which tubes 
rise above the upper end of the cylinder and are bent at right angles. 
This apparatus is heated in a glass tube with a bulbous extremity 
4Q0mm long, and of sufficient size to contain the liquid, whose boiling 
point is the temperature of measurement. The liquids used in the outer 
vessel are water, aniline, amyl benzoate, and diphenylaraine. For 
higher temperatures boiling sulphur and penta-sulphide of phosphorus 
are used, in which case the inner vessel receives a spherical form, and 
the outer vessel is made of iron. 

The authors obtained by this process a density of 1.53 for carbonic 
anhydride, and of 1.26 for hydrochloric acid gas, figures exactly equal 
to the theoretical values. 

The apparatus can also be employed as an air thermometer. Sulphur 
was found to boil at 426^ C. {Berichte d. cheni. Ges., xv, p. 137.) 



CHEMISTRY. 511 

Chemical Reactions in the LecJanclte Cell. — l)r. Edward Divers lias 
presented the followiug reactions : Zinc is slowly acted upon by a solu- 
tion of ammonium chloride, and crystals of zinco-diammouium-chloride 
are formed; this is decomi)Osed by water alone into an insoluble and a 
soluble portion, probably as shown in this equation : 
3Zn (NH3 Cl)2 + 2 OH2 = 2 HO Zn NH3 CI + (CI H4 N)2. Zn (NH3 Cl)2 

Zinco-diammonium-chloride dissolved in solution of ammonium chlo- 
ride acts gradually on artificiallj' prepared hydrogen manganite, H2 O4 
Mu2, causing manganese to go into solution, and the precipitation of 
zinc on the manganite, probably thus : 

(NH3 Cl)2 Zn 4- H2 04Mn2 = 2 NH4 CI + Zn O4 Mug 

These experimental facts lead the author to the following theory of 
the action of the cell: 

Primary action: — Formation of hydrogen manganite and zinco- 
diammonium-chloride. 

- + 

Mn2 O4 + 2 H^^Hj CI + Zn 

become Muj O4 H2 + (NH3 Cl)2 Zn. 

Secondary actions, causing polarization. — The hydrogen manganite acta 
locally upon the zinco-diammonium chloride solution, and forms zinc 
manganite and ammonium chloride ; this proceeds more rapidly by gal- 
vanic action when the cell is at work, thus : 

— + 

Mn2 O4 + Zn (NH3 Cl)2 + Zn 
become Mug O4 Zn (NH3 Cl)2 Zn. 

The zinc manganite and the hydrogen manganite by coating over 
the manganese dioxide, protect it from the primary action of the am- 
monium chloride and zinc, and thus cause polarization of the cell.. 

Secondary actions, causing depolarization. — The ammonium cliloride 
dissolves manganous and zinc oxides out of the manganite, the manga- 
nous oxide liberating ammonia: 

Mn^ O4 Zn + 4 CI H4 N = Mn O, + 2 OH^ -f Cl^ Mn + (NH3 CI), Zn + 

2NH3. 
The manganous chloride dissolves in the presence of the free ammonia 
as a double chloride of manganese and ammonium. By the solution of 
these oxides the manganese dioxide of the manganite becomes active 
again. The depolarizing action proceeds slower than the polarizing, 
and therefore the battery requires to be left uncircuited, in order to 
recover its full power after use. {Ghent. Weivs, xlvi, p. 259.) 

Atomic Weights of the Elements. 

Carbon. — Koscoe has redetermined the atomic weight of carbon by 
the direct combustion of the diamond. If O = 15.96, he obtained as a 



512 SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR ISS^ 

mean of six experiments C = 11.9757. Dumas and Stas in 1840 ob- 
tained 11.9708. {Comptes Revdvs, civ, p. 1180.) 

Uranium. — Zimmermann has prepared metallic uranium by Peligot's 
method and studied its properties. Its specific gravity is 18.685, and 
its specific heat between 99° and 0° is .02765; the latter number multi- 
plied by 240 gives a product of 6.64, which agrees with the mean atomic 
heat indicated by Dulong and Petit's law. This settles the controversy 
concerning the correct value in favor of 240 and in accordance with 
Mendelejeff's classification. {Berichted. chem. Ges., xv, p. 847.) 

Glucinum. — Dr. James Blake thinks that the evidence derived from the 
physiological action of the salts of glucinum may be of use in determin- 
ing its true position among the elements. He finds that the effects pro- 
duced by the introduction into the blood of salts of Be are the same as 
those caused by the salts of alumina and of ferric oxide. He regards 
glucinum as a member of the aluminium group of metals. {Chem. News, 
XLV, p. 111.) 

Aluminium. — The atomic weight of this element has been subjected 
to a painstaking revision by Prof. J. W. Mallet. The general mean of 
30 experiments gives Al = 27.032, with a probable error of dL 0.0045. 
[Oxygen = 15.901.] {Chem. Netrs, XLV, pp. 256 e< seg.) 

Rubidium. — Charles T. Heycock has redetermined the atomic weight 
of rubidium with the view of testing its relation to Prout's hypothesis. 
The figures obtained by titration of the chlorine in pure chloride of 
rubidium are 85.344; and those by titration of the bromide are 85.387, 
results which lead the author to the conclusion that at present rubidium 
cannot be regarded as conforming to Prout's hypothesis. {Report of 
British Assoc, in Nature, xxvi, p. 467.) 

Didymium. — Brauner has determined the atomic weight of didymium 
as M6.18, and that of lanthanum as 138.88. {J. Chem. Soc, xli, p. 68.) 

Yttrium has been prepared by Cleve free from terbium and its atomic 
weight redetermined. He assigns the value 88.9 to Y'" when O^ 15.9033. 
{Comptes Rendus, December 11, 1882.) 

Thorium. — L. F. Mlson has redetermined the atomic weight of tho- 
rium by ignition of the carefully purified sulphate: Th (804)2.9 fl20, 
and obtains as a mean of ten experiments 232.40. {Berichte d. chem. 
Ges., XV, p. 2519.) 

A recalculation of the atomic weights, by Prof. E. W. Clarke. — Brief 
mention must be made in this connection of the systematic recalculation 
of the atomic weights carried out by Professor Clarke and published by 
the Smithsonian Institution as Part Y, of the Constants of Nature. 
Chemists are under great obligations for this invaluable treatise. 

Composition of the Atmosphere. 

Several chemists have carried on independently more or less elaborate 
researches on this subject. Eeiset has made numerous determinations 
of the amount of carbonic anhydride in the atmosphere, and finds the 



CHEMISTRY. 5 1 3 

values usually given (4 to G volumes in 10,000) much too high. He gives 
2,9G2 vols, in 10,000 as the mean of 220 experiments made near Dieppe. 
The ratios obtained in Paris are somewhat higher, being 3,1G8 vols, of 
carbonic anhydride in 10,000 of air. {A7in. Chim. et Phys. (5) xxvi, pp. 245 
et seq.) 

A. Mnntz and E. Aubin have also made determinations of the pro- 
portions of carbonic anhydride in the atmosphere- at Paris and near 
Vinceuues, and the results (which confirm Reiset's figures) show that 
the variations in the amount of carbonic anhydride are due to local in- 
fluences, and that in general the heavier gas is quite uniformly distrib- 
uted throughout the lower strata of tbe atmosphere. These chemists 
also examined the air of elevated regions, conducting experiments at 
the altitude of 2,S77 meters (9,422 feet) in the Pyrenees. Although the 
direction of the wind and state of the atmosi)here varied greatly during 
their experiments, the proportion of carbonic anhydride was found to 
be constant, being about 2.86 vols, in 10,000 of air. For the sake of 
comparison the air was examined in two valleys at the foot of tbe 
Pyrenees, one near Pierrefitte (507 meters above the sea-level) and the 
other near Luz (730 meters) ; at the first station the air was found to 
contain 2.79 vols, of carbonic anhydride in 10,000, and at the second 
2.G9 in 10,000, the latter determination being made in the midst of lux- 
urious V( getation. Muntz and Aubin conclude that carbonic anhydride 
is very uniformly distributed throughout the atmosphere, and regard 
their results as confirming Eeiset's statements and Schloesing's theories 
concerning the circulation of carbonic anhydride upon the surface of 
the earth. {Comptes Keiidus, xoiii, p. 797.) 

Dr. Edward W. Morley has devised a method for accurate and rapid 
analyses of air, and has made a series of daily analyses in duplicate of 
air collected at Hudson, Ohio, for six months, beginning with January 
1, 1880, and one for six months and twenty days, beginning October 1, 
1880. For details of the apparatus and process we refer to the original 
paper. Each pair of analyses occupied about 70 minutes of time, and 
the mean error of a single analysis for half a month was less than the 
thousandth part of one per cent. By comparing the results of this long 
series of daily determinations with the data obtained from the thrice- 
daily maps of the state of the weather furnished by the United States 
Signal Service Bureau, Dr. Morley finds that most of the variations in 
the amount of oxygen are caused by the vertical descent of air from 
high elevations. This descent of cold air seems to be the effect of 
sudden and severe depressions of temperature rather than the cause ; 
the descent follows the cold by a day or two, and the decrease in amount 
of oxygen begins simultaneously with the descent from above. {Proo. 
Am. Assoc. Adv. ScL, 1881 ; abstract in Chem. iVe?rs, XL, pp. 245, 284 et 
scq ) 

II. Mis. 2G So 



514 



SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1882. 



Lkt of New ricmcnifs announced since 1877. 

The six years ending iu 1882 Lave been unnsually prolific in new 
elements, or at least in announcements of the same, for it must be con- 
ceded that most of them will fail to stand the test of more thorough 
investigation. These alleged discoveries are widely' scattered in pe- 
riodical literature, and the following list may prove useful for reference: 

List of elpmentary nuhntunces announced from 1877 to 1862. 



Date. 


Name. 


Source. 


Discoverer. 


1877 
1878 

1879 

1880 

1881 
18S2 

! • 


Neptunium 

Lavoesium 

Moaandrum 

Davyum 

" Now earths "... 

"X" 

Philippium 

Decipium 

Ytterbium 


Columbite 

Pyrite 


Hermann. 

Prat. 

J. L. Smith. 

Sei gins Kern. 

Gerland. 

Sorct. 

Delafontaine. 

Di lafontiiine. 

Maiianac. 

Nilson. 

Dahll. 

Guyard. 

Lecoq do Boisbaudran. 

Wagner's Jahresbericht. 

Cleve. ! 

Cleve. 

J. L. Smith. 

J. L. Smith. 

Scacehi. 

K a em merer. 

Maiignac. 

Phipson. 

Cleve. 


Samarskite 

Platinum ores 

Unnamed mineral 

Gadpliuite 

Samarskite 

Samarskite 

Gadolinite 

Gadoliuitc 

Ger.sdorffite 

Platinum 

Samarskite 

(Misapprehension) 

Gadolinite 

Gadolinite . 

Samarskite 


Norwegium 

Uralinm 

Samarium 

Barcf ninm 

Thulium 


Holmium 

Columbium 

Rogerium 

Vesbium 

Comesinm 

TaandY/if 








Didymium/3 


Gadolinite 



New Elementary Svhsiances. — At the meeting of the Eusslan Chemical 
Society held October 20, 1881 (and reported iu the Bulletin de la SocietS 
Chimiqne de Pai-is, for August, 1882), Mendelejeflf, the distinguished au- 
thor of the periodic law, remarked that only two of the recently an- 
nounced elements — scandium and ytterbium — had been satisfactorily 
confirmed. These have been obtained in a pure state by Nilson, and 
neither of them has absorption spectra. All the other metals seem to 
be mixtures, as was the case with the old erbium of Bunseu and Bahr, 
and which proves to contain Sc, Yb, Er, Tr, and other elements. Scan- 
dium corresponds in its atomic weight and properties to ehihor, a hypo- 
thetical substance, the existence of which had been foreseen by the 
speaker. 

Mendelejeff expressed himself convinced that his periodic law will find 
further confirmation iu the results to be yet obtained in stutlying the 
elements of cerite and of gadolinite. {Bull. Soc. Chim., xxxviii, p. 140.) 

A new element accomimnying didymmm is announced by the Swedish 
chemist, Prof. P. T. Cleve. He has long studied the rare earths existing 
in cerite, gadolinite, and similar minerals, and the behavior of the oxide 
of didymium obtained from the latter has led him to suspect the presence 
of a new element. In the beginning of the year 1882 he submitted to 
fractional precipitations about 200 grams of didymium oxide, and sepa- 
rated from the yttria earths with potassium sulphate by repeated pre- 
cipitations; the atomic weight of the first fraction was 14G, that of the 



CHEMISTRY. 515 

last 142. The examination of the ignition spectrnm of the last frac- 
tion showed, besides strong rays of didymium and lanthanum, new rays, 
among which is a very strong one having the wave-length of 4333.5. This 
ray belongs neither to didymium, lanthanum, yttrium, erbium, terbium, 
nor to Marignac's Ya, and is regarded by Cleve as peculiar to a new 
element which he designates provisionally by i>i/9. [Comptes Bendus; 
abstract in Chem. N'ews, xlv, p. 273.) 

Soon after the publication of the above statement by Professor Oleve, 
B. Brauner printed a not€ in the Chemical Neics (46, 16), in which he 
6how8 that he anticipated the Swedish chemist in discovering a new 
element accomi^anying didymium in cerite. His experiments were made 
in Professor Eoscoe's laboratory, and some of his results were published 
intha Anzeigerderlcais. Academie der Wissenschaften (October 6, 1881). 
Brauner thinks that oxide of didymium, as usually known to chemists, 
consists of a mixture of at least three elements, true didymium having 
an atomic weight =145.4, Cleve's element, more basic than didymium, 
and a third with a higher atomic weight is less basic than didymium. 
This last may possibly be samarium. 

Professor Cleve in a still later communication states that continued 
researches by himself and Thalen have convinced him that the ray 
4333.5 belongs to the spectrum of lanthanum, and that the existence of 
a new element is very improbable. {Chem. Neics, xlvi, p. 43.) 

The earths contained in samarsMte have been studied by Professor 
H. E. Eoscoe, with the object of ascertaining the existence or non-ex- 
istence of Delafontaine's philippium. Boscoe worked up 1,500 grams of 
samarskite and obtained about 60 grams of oxides containing terbium, 
erbium, yttrium, and philippium {!). The oxides were converted into 
formiates, and these salts carefully examined to obtain pure philippium 
salt, but the author failed to get an oxide having a constant atomic 
weight equal to 122 (claimed by Delafontaine). The numbers varied 
between the atomic weights of terbia and y ttria. Eoscoe then tried the 
following conclusive experiment : 3 grams of terbia, having an atomic 
weight of 147.9, and 3 grams of crude yttria, with an atomic weight of 
101.4, were respectively converted into formiates. Of each of these two 
formiates, two-thirds were brought into solution separately while the 
other third of the terbium formiate was mixed with the remaining third 
of yttrium formiate, and the mixture dissolved. Each of the three so- 
lutions was then mixed with an equal bulk of alcohol and allowed to 
stand for the same length of time. The two solutions, containing re- 
spectively terbia and yttria, gave crystals presenting the ordinary ap- 
pearance of formiates of the metals in question, but the third solution 
containing the mixed formiates deposited rhombic prisms exactly like 
the crystals which Delafontaine claims are peculiar to the formiate of 
philippium. The non-existence of i^hilippium is thus undoubtedly es- 
tablished. {Chem. News, xlv, p. 184.) 



516 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Researches on other Elements^ etc. 

Thorium. — Two important memoirs have been published by L. F. Nil- 
son on thorite and its chief constituent, thorium. He worked upon two 
kilograms of the rare mineral and prepared a very pure thorium sulphate, 
from which he made a determination of the atomic weight of the element. 
{See paragraph on atomic weights.) He determined the specific gravity 
of thoria, finding the figures 10.2199. He also prepared the metal by 
the reduction of potassio-thorium chloride with sodium in the iron appa- 
ratus he had previously used for beryllium. The metal obtained formed 
a gray shining powder showing distinct crystals under the microscope; 
it is unaltered by exposure to air up to 100-120° C; when heated higher 
it burns brilliantly, forming a snow-white oxide. The metal burns in 
chlorine, bromine, and iodine gases, yielding sublimates ; it is slowly 
attacked by dilute sulphuric acid, and by dilute nitric ; concentrated 
nitric acid has very little effect. Hydrochloric acid dissolves the metal 
readily. The metal has the specific gravity of about 11, results being 
not perfectly satisfactory. {Bcrichte d. chem. Ges., xv, pp. 2519-2547.) 

Properties of Pure Metallic Aluminium. — Prof. J. W. Mallet, in the 
course of his researches on the atomic weight of this metal, required a 
quantity in a very i)ure condition, and this gave an opportunity of study- 
ing its properties. Crude (commercial) aluminium contains: 

Al 96. 89 

Fe 1.84 

Cu trace. 

Si 1.27 



100.00 

This was converted into bromide by treatment with liquid bromine, 
and the product purified by fractional distillation. It was then reduced 
by sodium in a crucible lined with a mixture of purified and dried 
alumina, with sodium aluminate. The metallic globules were again 
fused and further purified with hydrochloric acid. The metal thus ob- 
tained was perceiJtibly whiter than the commercial article, also softer, 
more malleable, and had a fracture with some appearance of fibrous 
silkiness. Its specific gravity at 4° C. is 2.583. Its specific heat is 
0.2253 as a mean for the range of temperature 0-100° C. Attempts 
were made to roughly estimate the fusibility, and the pure metal seems 
to be a little less fusible than the commercial article. It also presents 
greater resistance to the prolonged action of solvents — acids and alka- 
lies — than the impure metal. [Chem. News, xlvi, p. 178.) 

Iridium, according to Mr. John Holland, can be alloyed with phos- 
phorus at a high heat, and the alloy fuses at a comparatively low tem- 
perature. The fused metal contains, according to Prof. F. W. Clarke, 
about 7^ per cent, of phosphorus. The phosphorus is removed by heating 



CHEMISTRY. 517 

in a Hessian crucible with lime. The iridium melted by tins process is 
compact and crystalline; it is harder than the natural metal, being 
nearly as hard as the ruby; it has the color of steel and is not attacked 
by acids. {Chem. Isfews, xlv, p. 168.) 

Preparation and Properties of Metallic Ccesium. — Owing parti 3' to the 
extreme scarcity of material Bunsen's attempts to obtain caesium in me- 
tallic form were unsuccessful, but Carl Setterberg, availing himself of 
the tons of alums obtained in Marquart's establishment as a secondary 
product in the manufacture of lithium compounds from lepidolite, has 
isolated this rare metal and studied its properties. Setterberg prepared 
in 14 days 40 kilograms of rubidium alum and 10 kilograms of caesium. 
He obtained metallic rubidium by decomposing the hydrogen-tartrate 
with calcium carbonate and sugar, in a mercury flask, but attempts to 
prepare caesium by a similar process were futile. By the electrolysis of 
the cyanide of caesium mixed with barium cyanide in the ratio of 4 mole- 
cules to one, Setterberg obtained the metal quite free from impurities. 
Metallic caesium resembles closely the other alkali metals; is silver 
white, malleable, and very soft at ordinary tem peratures. Thrown 
upon water it floats around and decomposes it with evolution of heat and 
light, in the same manner as potassium and rubidium. It inflames easily 
when exposed to the air unless protected by a film of oxide or by a layer 
of petroleum. The metal melts between 26° C. and 27° C; its specific 
gravity is 1.88 at 15° C. Examined in the spectroscope it showed only 
traces of sodium as an impurity. 

Setterberg failed to detect new elementary substances in the residues 
from which he extracted the rubidium and csesium salts. {Liehig's An- 
nalen, ccxij p. 100.) 

Nascent Hydrogen. — D. Tommasi, by numerous experiments on the 
reducing power of nascent hydrogen, has been led to the conclusion 
that its peculiar power varies with the reaction by which it is generated. 
Hence, hydrogen in a nascent state may be regarded as hydrogen 4- 
calories ; or H -f o', in which a has different values according to the 
source of the hydrogen ; thus : 

SO4H2 4- Zn + aq ; a = 38 cal. 
SO4H2 + Cd -f aq ; a = 23.8 cal. 
SO4H2 + Mg + aq ; a = 112 cal. 

The hydrogen increases in activity with the increase in value of a ; 
for sodium amalgam it is 112 cal. (Bull. 80c. O/iim., xxxviii, p. 150.) 

Preparation of pure Nitrogen. — Attempts to remove the last traces of 
oxygen from atmospheric air by means of phosphorus, potassium pyro- 
gallate, hyposulphites, potassiumsodium alloy, and red-hot copper prov- 
ing unavailing. Dr. Walter Flight found that it can be effected by pass- 
ing the gas over a large surface of freshly precipitated ferrous hydrate. 
The latter reagent he prepares by adding a strong solution of 80 grams 



518 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

of caustic potash to one of 200 grams of ferrous sulphate. The nitrogen 
thus treated failed to develop a brown color with potassium pyrogallate. 
{Chem. News, xlv, p. 105.) 

Behavior of Nitrogen in the Distillation of Coal. — Text-books usually 
state that coal contains about 2 j)er cent, of nitrogen, which comes off 
as ammonia when the coal is heated in closed vessels. Prof. W. Foster, 
however, finds that only a small fraction of the total nitrogen comes off 
as ammonia. In an experiment with coal containing 1.73 per cent, of 
nitrogen, only 14.5 per cent, of this amount was evolved as ammonia, 
1.56 per cent, as cyanogen, 35.26 remained unaltered, and 48.68 of the 
whole amount remained in the coke. [Chem. Neics, xlv, p. 299.) 

Presence of Arsenic in Bismuth Suhnitrate. — Of fourteen samples of 
bismuth subnitrate examined by E. H. Chittenden and S. W. Lambert, 
only one was found to be perfectly free from arsenic. The average con- 
tent of poison in the samples was .013 per cent, or 13 ragms. (about two- 
tenths of a grain) of ASa O3 in 100 grams of bismuth. The subnitrate of 
bismuth is extensively used in medicine, and though it may not contain 
arsenic in sufficient quantity to be in itself injurious, the presence of the 
poison is greatly to be deplored. Fortunately, as the further experi- 
ments of the authors show, the arsenic is not readily absorbed into the 
system when combined with the bismuth preparation. {Am. Chem. J., 
ni, p. 396.) 

A new Oxichloride of Sulphur. — J. Ogier, by heating to 250° C. in 
sealed tubes a mixture of equal weights of chloride of sulphur and 
chloride of sulphuryle, obtained the body Sj 001;;; it forms a dark red 
liquid, boiling at 60° and having a specific gravity at 0° of 1.656. Its 
formation is explained by the equation : 

2 S2 CI + 2 SO2 CI = 2 S, OCI2 + SO2 + S 

It is decomposed by water, forming a precipitate of sulphur, sul- 
phurous anhydride, sulphuric acid, hydrochloric acid, and thio-acids. 
(Bull. iSoc. Chim., xxxvii, p. 293.) 

An abundant source of selenium, according to P. Kienlen, exists in 
the crude hydrochloric acid condensed in Glover's towers. The selen- 
ium is derived from the pyrites, and being volatile at a red heat is car- 
ried over by the hydrochloric acid gas during the calcination of the 
salt cake, and condenses in the first recipients in the form of a red- 
dish mud ; this mud, when dried, contains In some cases from 41 to 45 
per cent, of selenium. The author extracts the selenium from this 
deposit by acting upon it with chlorine, which converts it into a tetra- 
chloride, and this, in the presence of water and chlorine, is transformed 
into selenic acid. The acid liquid obtained is then precipitated with 
hydrogen sodium sulphite and purified. {Bull. Soc. Chim., xxxvii, p. 
441. 



CHEMISTRY. 519 

Presence of Tellurium in Copper. — Prof. Th. Egleston has detected 
tellurium in commercial copper to the extent of about 0.1 per cent. A 
surprisingly small quantity renders the copper red-short, and conse- 
quently worthless for rolling. ( Trans. Am. Inst. Mining Engineers^ Har- 
risburg Meeting, Oct., 1882.) 

Complex Inorganic Acids. — Dr. Wolcott Gibbs has published a con- 
tinuation of his remarkable researches on the complex inorganic acids. 
He has demonstrated that inorganic compounds possess an unexpected 
degree of complexity, and has entered a very wide field of research, yield- 
ing a rich barvest. After discussing in detail several phospho-molyb- 
dates, he describes the preparation of the arsenio-molybdate having the 
composition: 

10 M0O3. AS2O5. 5 (NH4)2 O. H2O -f 8 aq. 

The study of these two scries (phospho- and arsenio-molybdates) 
leads to the following general results : 

1. The phosphomolybdates form a series of which the lowest term 
contains five atoms of molybdic to one of phosphoric oxide, and the 
highest twenty-four atoms of the former to one of the latter. 

2. As in the case of the phospho-tungstates, the greater number of 
the molybdenum compounds contain an even number of atoms of tuug- 
stic acid. The homologizing term is, therefore, 2 M0O3 for these cases. 

3. By far the greater number of phospho-molybdates contain three 
atoms of fixed base (old style), or, in more modern language, may be 
considered as derived from acids containing six atoms of hydroxyl. 
Anhydrous compounds of this type occur, and are not always simply 
residues obtained by heating salts which may be considered as acid, as 
containing, for example, 3 1^20. 3 H2O. It seems, therefore, necessary 
to admit the existence of acide of the general type n M0O3. P2O5. 3 H2O. 

4. On the other hand, while no single phospho molj'bdate containing 
more than three atoms of fixed base for one of phosphoric oxide has 
been obtained in a state of indubitable purity, there is probably at least 
one salt with six or more atoms of fixed base, viz : 

22 M0O3. P2O5. 7 AgoO -f 14 aq. 

5. Negative evidence concerning the probable non-existence of a 
series of phospho- or arsenio-molybdates containing more than three 
atoms of fixed base, must not be too highly regarded. 

6. As in the case of the phospho-tungstates, there exists a class of 
phospho-molybdates in which the ratio of the number of atoms of base 
to that of the number of atoms of phosphoric oxide is as 5 : 2, the num- 
ber of atoms of molybdic oxide being even. 

Dr. Gibbs presents a series of structural formulae which explain all 
degrees of basicity which appear to be possible under the general con- 
ditions of the problem. For these and other details we refer to his origi- 
nal paper. [Am. Chem. J., iii, p. 402.) 



520 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Constitution of Bleaching Powder. — Chemists have devoted much labor 
to the determination of the exact constitution of bleaching powder, and 
have arrived at results expressed in a great variety of formulae. 

Thorpe gives: CaaHgOgCli (= CaCl302+ CaCl^ + CaHgOz + 2H2O); 
Eose gives : (CaCl2,Ca202) CaOzClz + 4 H2O; Kolb after a very thorough 
investigation : (2 CaO C12H20), CaHaOz. Odling proposed the formula 

Cal^^ 

'^^ioci 

and this view has been quite generally adopted. Stahlschmidt regards 
bleaching powder as calcium hydroxychloride, 

^^ i OCl, 

t. e.j calcium hydroxide, CaH202 in which one atom of hydrogen is 
replaced by chlorine. 

The question has been again investigated by Dr. Karl Kraut, who 
examined the action of chlorine on lithium hydroxide and obtained a 
compound very similar to the calcium analogue. When chlorine gas 
was brought in contact with the melted lithium hydroxide, the latter 
increased only 1 per cent, in weight in 4^ hours, but by the addition of 
crystallized lithia in such quantities that the mixture contained about 
1.4 per cent. HgO the action of the chlorine was hastened. The reaction 
is as follows : 

4 LiOH + 2 CI = LiCl + LiOCl + 2 LiOH + H2O 

This equation was confirmed by analysis of the product. The lithium 
bleaching powder reacts with carbonic anliydride exactly like the cal- 
cium compound, i. e., it is decomposed with liberation of chlorine. It 
also behaves with chlorine just like the calcium compound. Since, how- 
ever, lithium is a mono-valent element, one atom of the metal cannot 
simultaneously bind chlorine and the radical of hypochlorous acid, and 
Odling's manner of representing the constitution of bleaching powder 
is inapplicable. Besides, the lithium bleaching powder contains lithium 
chloride ready formed. The author therefore concludes that bleaching 
powder is a mixture of calcium hypochlorite, calcium chloride, and cal- 
cium hydrate. (Liebig's Annalen, ccxiv, p. 354.) 

Lead peroxide can be advantageously prepared, according to Fehr- 
mann, by decomposing a concentrated solution of chloride of lead at 50° 
or QO^ C. with a solution of bleaching powder. The latter is added un- 
til the filtrate no longer shows a brown color when tested with an ad- 
ditional quantity of the bleaching powder. The lead peroxide is well 
"washed and collected on a filter. It is nearly black, and very pure. 
The acetate of lead does not yield such good results as the chloride. 
{Berichte d. chem. Ges., xv, p. 1882.) 



CHEMISTRY. 521 

Determination of Organic Matter in Potable Water. 

Prof. J. W, Mallet, in compliance with the instructions of the National 
Board of Health, has made a thorough investigation of the chemical 
methods in use for the determination of organic matter in the potable 
waters. Assisted by Mr. W. A. Noyes, Dr. Charles Smart, and Dr. J. 
A. Tanner, he examined the merits and demerits of the "combustion 
process," the " albuminoid-ammonia process," and the " permanganate 
process." The special conclusions as to the combustion process may be 
briefly stated : The combustion itself, carried out according to Frank- 
land's directions, is a process of great delicacy and satisfactory in trained 
hands ; it requires constant practice to secure good results ; the defect- 
ive point is tbe failure of the evaporation to leave a residue represent- 
ing the original organic matter of the water, a loss in carbon and a gain 
in nitrogen being constant errors ; the dissociation of ammonia salts 
during the evaporation occasions a loss of nitrogen; in the presence of 
nitrates the difficulties of combustion are great and as yet insuperable; 
finally, the combustion process cannot be considered as " determining" 
the carbon and nitrogen of the organic matter in water in a sense to 
justify the claim of " absolute" value for its results which has been de- 
nied to those of all other methods. 

The special conclusions as to the albuminoid-ammonia process are as 
follows : In the determination of both " free " and " albuminoid " ammo- 
nia there is a loss resulting from imperfect condensation of the ammonia 
during distillation ; when urea is present some ammonia is easily formed 
by boiling with sodium carbonate, and this vitiates the determination 
of "free" ammonia; in the distillation with alkaline permanganates 
the nitrogenous matter sometimes fails to be completely acted upon be- 
fore the contents of the retort is nearly reduced to dryness, and great 
uncertainty results ; the value of the results by this process depends 
more upon watching Wxe progress and rate of evolution of the ammonia 
than upon determining its total amount. 

The special conclusions as to the permanganate process are : The re- 
sults obtained by the Tidy method, and by Kubel's modification of the 
same, differ irregularly, the latter usually giving much higher figures; 
the results obtained by the Tidy process are liable to variations with 
the atmospheric temperature prevailing at the time the process is ap- 
plied; the amount of oxygen consumed cannot be taken as a measure 
either of the organic carbon or of the total organic matter, though a 
general resemblance may be traced between strongly marked results, 
high or low, for the consumption of oxygen on the one hand and inor- 
ganic carbon (by the combustion process) on the other; the process is 
capable of giving more valuable information by watching the rate and 
progress of the oxidation of organic matter present than by any single 
determination of the absolute amount of oxygen consumed in a given 
time. [Am. Chem. J., iv, p. 341.) 



522 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Use of QuicTclime in Blasting. 

An interesting application of the force resulting from the expansion 
due to hydration is recorded in Nature, To obviate the danger at- 
tending the use of explosive substances in coal mines, the following 
process has been successfully employed in Derbyshire; A series of 
holes six feet apart and about three feet iu depth are drilled into the 
coal at the proper points ; these holes are then filled with cylinders of 
compressed quicklime, each 2J inches in diameter and 4^ inches long; 
each hole receives seven of these blocks. A groove in each cylinder 
admits the insertion of a ^-inch pipe which extends a few inches beyond 
the aperture of the drilled hole; through this pipe water is forced by a 
small hand pump. Each hole is of course firmly tamped with paper 
and rubbish. Soon after the water is introduced a sound as of escap- 
ing steam is heard, here and there the tamping is blown out, and in a 
few minutes the whole mass of coal is thrown out from the face upon 
"sprags," short timber props placed to receive it. The time required 
in the various operations is as follows : drilling 12 minutes, charging 
4 minutes, watering 2 minutes, total 17 minutes for each bore hole. 
{Nature, xxvi, p. 298.) 

ORGANIC CHEMISTRY. 

Formaldehyde (or oxymethylene) has acquired great importance within 
a short period, the researches of Baeyer, Wurtz, and others having 
shown that it forms an intermediate product between carbonic acid 
and carbo-hydrates in the physiology of plant-life. It may be regardetl 
as the first product of the assimilation of carbonic acid by plants, and 
by simple polymerization and elimination of water, is probably capable 
of producing sugar, glucose, starch, and cellulose. 

B. Tollens has described a convenient method for preparing this sub- 
stance, which is based upon the oxidation of methylalcohol by air and 
incandescent platinum. For details we refer to the original paper. 
{Berichte d. cheni, Ges., xv, p. 1629.) 

Curcumin and other Substances from Turmeric. — C. Loring Jackson 
and A. E. Menke give the following : Bengal turmeric root is ground and 
treated in an extracter with ligroine to remove turmeric oil, and then 
the curcumin, mixed with a large quantity of resin, is extracted with 
ether and finally purified by cr3stallization from alcohol. The average 
yield of curcumin was 0.3 of one per cent. The mean of five analyses 
indicates the following composition: 

Carbon G8. 30 

Hydrogen 5. 63 

Curcumin crystallizes from alcohol in stout needles often in radiating 
groups. It has an orange to yellow color with &, blue reflex; its ether 
solution fluoresces green ; it melts at 178<^ C. It is nearly insoluble in 
water, slightly in benzol, readily soluble iu hot alcohol, and more read- 



CHEMISTRY. 523 

ily soluble in glacial acetic acid; dissolved in strong snlphnric acid it 
blackens by charring ; it is readily soluble in alkalies and alkaline car- 
bonates. It forms two potassium salts K2 C14 H12 O4 and K Cu H^ O4, 
as well as calcium, zinc and barium salts, the last named being insoluble. 
By a study of the esters of curcumin the authors definitely establish Cu 
H]4 O4 as the true formula. The results of incomplete oxidation are 
most interesting ; by treating an aqueous alkaline solution with potas- 
sium permanganate, not in excess, a strong smell of vanilla was observed. 
Further treatment effected the separation of an oil, gradually solidifying 
in circular groups of radiating needles, and having a strong odor of 
vanilla. By sublimation and purification of this product, white needles 
of vanillin, melting at 78° C, were obtained. The yield was very small. 
The authors also show that diethylcurcumin yields by oxidation ethyl- 
vanillic acid. [Am. Cliem. Jonrn., iv, p. 77.) 

Urea, its Synthesis and its Estimation. — Fenton has succeeded in trans- 
forming urea into cyanamide; the dehydration was effected by means 
of sodium in accordance with the reaction : 

2 CON2 H4 + 2 Ka = 2 CN2 H2 + 2 Na OH -f Hg 

Prof.W. G. Mixter has succeeded in forming urea by the reaction of am- 
monia on carbonic anhydride at a red heat. The urea forms slowly, 2 
to 3 decigrams per hour, and collects in fine crystals in the cooler parts 
of the tube through which the gases are conducted. He regards the 
formation of urea, as preceded hy that of cyanic acid, thus : CO2 + NH3 
= HCNO -f H2 O. The cyanic acid probably unites with ammonia in 
the cooler part of the tube to form urea. {Am. Chem. J., rv, p.. 35.) 

J. R. Duggan described a modification of Knop's process of estimating 
urea by the amount of nitrogen evolved on the addition of an alkaline 
hypobromite. His method consists in mixing the urea and caustic soda 
solutions first and then adding the bromine. He employs a caustic soda 
solution made by dissolving 20 grms. of sodium hydrate in 100 c. c, of 
water ; and with each 20 c. c. of this he uses 1 c. c. of bromine. The re- 
sults are satisfactory. The weight of nitrogen multiplied by 2.143 gives 
the amount of urea. [Ayn. Chem. J., iv, p. 47.) 

Dr. Theodore G. Wormly has also investigated the above method of 
determining urea and finds that only under the following conditions is 
the whole of the nitrogen uniformly set free : 1st. The reagent (hypo- 
bromite) should be freshly prepared ; 2d. The urea solution should be 
wholly added to the reagent ; 3d. The amount of urea operated ui^on 
should not exceed 1 part to about 1,200 parts of the diluted reagent; 
4th. When comparatively large amounts of urea are present the sur- 
rounding temperature should not be less than about 20° C. (68° Fah.). 
{Chem. Netvs, xlv, p. 27.1 

Acrolein Urea. — Hugo Schiff has described under the name acryldiu- 
reide, a body resulting from the union of two molecules of urea and one 
of acroleine : Prof. A. R. Leeds has obtained a body having the same 



524 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

coustitution, CO (NH)2 C3 H4. It forms a white amorphous substance, 
slightly soluble in alcohol, ether, chloroform, and carbondisulphide. 
Dr. Leeds points out some irrational conclusions in Schifit's paper, and 
accounts for them by presuming that Schift' operated upon imperfectly 
purified material. {Berichte d. chem. Oes., xv, p. 1159.) 

Synthesis of Uric Acid. — This interesting synthesis has been accom- 
plished by Prof. Johann Horbaczewski. Pure, finely powdered glyco- 
coll (made from hippuric acid) is mixed with ten parts of pure urea (made 
from ammonium cyanate) and heated in a flask to 200° to 230° C, until 
the material becomes brownish-yellow and viscous. After cooling the 
mass is dissolved in diluted potassium hydroxide, saturated with ammo- 
nium chloride, and precipitated witha mixture of ammoniacal silver 
nitrate and magnesia mixture. The i)recipitate, which contains the uric 
acid, is well washed with ammonia water and treated with potassium sul- 
phide. The filtrate is then over-neutralized with hydrochloric acid and 
boiled down to a small bulk. The raw material thus obtained is purified 
by solution in potassium hydroxide, and after repeating the operation, 
the yellowish crystalline powder is washed with alchohol, dried with 
carbon disulphide (to remove the sulphur), and finally with ether. This 
purified material exhibits all the properties and reactions of uric acid. 
The author is engaged in a further study of this synthetical reaction. 
{Berichte d. ch'^em. Ges. XY, p. 2G78.) 

Synthesis of a new AmidoAcid analogous to Hippuric Acid. — By the 
action of silver glycocoUate on benzoylchloride, Th. Curtins has obtained 
three acids, ordinary hippuric acid, hippurylglycocoll, and a third of un- 
known constitution having the empirical formula C10H12 N3O4. The 
hippurylglycocoll or hippurylamidoacetic acid crystallizes from hot 
water in rhombic tables or needles which melt without decomposition 
at 206O.5 0. The new acid crystallizes in microscopic needles which 
become brown when heated to 230°, and are decomposed at 240^ C. 
{Journal prak. Chem. N. F., xxvi, p. 145.) 

Synthesis of Tyrosine. — Tyrosine forms a crystalline nitrogenous body 
existing in the animal organism (spleen, liver, urine, &c.), produced by 
the decomjiosition of albuminoid substances. It has long been studied 
by chemists; Liebig obtained it by acting on decomposing caseine with 
melted potash, Miiller found it in putrefying yeast, Hinterberger pre- 
pared it by boiling oxhoru with sulphuric acid, and its constitution has 
been discussed by several authors. In 1869 L. Barth pointed out that 
tyrosine could be regarded as a parahydroxyphenylamidopropionic acid, 
but his attempts to prepare it, as well as the proposed reactions of Beil- 
stein and Kuhlberg, were unsuccessful. 

Erleumeyer has been engaged for several years in experimenting in 
this direction, and with the assistance of Dr. A. Lipp has at length 
accomplished this interesting synthesis. The process is as follows : 



! 



CHEMISTRY. 525 

Pheuylalaniii (phenyl-a'-amidopropionic acid) is converted into paranitro- 
pheuylalanin by tlie action of sulphuric and nitric acids, and this product 
is transformed into paraamidophenylalanin by means of tin and hydro- 
chloric acid. The chloride of this diamido compound is treated in 
alcoholic solution with nitrous acid and the resulting body heated with 
water. On evaporating and treating the residue with ether a sirupy 
liquid is obtained which is probably parahydroxyphenyllactic acid. 
This product is supersaturated with ammonia and concentrated by 
evaporation, which gives a crystalline mass showing under the micro- 
scope the crystalline characters of tyrosine. By recrystallizing from 
dilute boiling alcohol the material is purified. Analysis shows it to 
have the exact constitution of tyrosine : 

C9H11 NO3 or CsH4 J cH2CH.NH2.COOH 

{Berichte d. chem. Oes., xv, pp. 1006 and 1544.) 

Synthesis of Anthracene and Phenanthrene from Orthobrombenzyl- 
bromide. — C. Loring Jackson and J. Fleming White, with a view to set- 
tling the exact constitution of anthracene, have studied the action of 
sodium on orthobrombenzyl-bromide, and obtained anthracene and phen- 
anthrene. The former was identified by its melting point (2120),by the 
formation of anthraquinone (melting at 273^), and of alizarine ; the latter 
was identified by the melting ijoint of its quinone, 198°, and by Lauben- 
heimer's test. Dibenzyl also forms in this reaction, and an oil of uncer- 
tain composition, po:^sibl3' benzyltoluol. 

By this synthesis it is proved that the two connecting carbon atoms 
in the benzol rings are attached to each ring in the ortho-position, and 
the last doubt about the constitution of anthracene is removed. {Chem. 
j^ews, XL VI, p. 44.) 

Synthesis of Organic Bodies by the Electrolysis of Water and Solu- 
tions with Electrodes of Carbon. — A. Bartoli and G. Papasogli, in re- 
searches on galvanic polarities, had observed that coke, charcoal, or 
graphite, under the action of the current, is disaggregated ; the elec- 
trolyte is blackened more or less, according to its nature and that of the 
carbon, and the gas evolved at the positive pole is below the normal 
volume. The authors undertook the present investigation to ascertain 
what becomes of the oxygen. They experimented with graphite, coke, 
and wood charcoal, purified by chlorine at high temperatures. With 
coke or charcoal as positive electrode and distilled water as electrolyte 
and a battery of 1,200 Daniell cells, they remarked after two days a 
brown color in the electrolyte and an acid reaction. The battery was 
then reduced to 100 Bunsen cells, and ten days later to 20 Bunsen cells j 
these were in operation for 30 days. The water became black; the elec- 
trode, which weighed about 500 grams, was totally disaggregated, and 
a thick muddy deposit was formed. The electrolyte was found to contain 



526 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1682. 

mellitic acid and some of its derivatives, such as the hydromellitic, 
pyro-mellitic, and hydro-pyro- mellitic acids. 

The muddy deposit contained a black substance soluble in liot water 
and alkalies, but insoluble in most mineral acids and in the majority of 
organic solvents. The authors named this body mellogen, since, on 
oxidation, it yields acids of the benzo-carbonic series. It has the com- 
position O14H2O4. {Comptes Eendus, May 15, 18S2.) 

Acetoxims. — By the action of acetone on hydroxylamin, Alois Janny 
has obtained the first member of a new series of bodies, for which series 
he proposes the name of acetoxims. This name is applied to bodies 
containing the group =CNOH united on two sides to carbon. When 
only one bond of the carbon group is united to carbon and the other 
to hydrogen, derivatives of aldehyde are formed for which the name 
aldoxims is suggested. 

The simplest bodj'^ of the acetoxims is dimethylacetoxim, having the 
formula CH3 — C(NHO) — CH3. This is obtained by mixing an aqueous 
solution of hydroxylamine with acetone and extracting ether, which 
leaves, on evaporation, brilliant white, hard, volatile, prismatic crys- 
tals. It is soluble in water, alcohol, ether, &c., and melts at 59° to 60° 
C, distilling without decomposition at 1340.8 C. It is a neutral sub- 
stance, and has a slight odor, resembling chloral. 

The author has also prepared and studied ethyl-methylacetoxim, 
methylpseudobutylacetoxim, and some analogous phenyl derivatives. 
(Berichte d. cliem. Ges., xv, pp. 1324 and 2778.) 

Biphenylaminaeroleine has been prepared by Prof. Albert E. Leeds by 
heating an alcoholic solution of diphenylamine with an excess of acro- 
leine. After a few hours' digestion a heavy red precipitate forms, soluble 
in boiling alcohol, together with a sticky insoluble mass. The latter is 
treated with alcohol and water until it becomes pulverulent and capa- 
ble of being powdered in a mortar. This amorphous substance proves 
to be diphenylaminacroleine (Ci2HioN)2 C3H4. It does not fuse nor 
sublime, but is decomposed, on heating, into a carbonaceous mass. It 
is insoluble in ether, slightly soluble in alcohol and acetic acid, and solu- 
ble in chloroform, yielding a dark red liquid. It could not be obtained 
in crystals. Bromine converts it into a bromocompound, also amor- 
l^hous, and not further examined. 

Homoquinine, a new Alkaloid. — Howard and Hodgkin have obtained 
a new alkaloid from cinchona bark, for which they propose the name 
homoquinine. Its properties are similar to those of quinine, having the 
same specific rotary power, and nearly the same composition, but it 
crystallizes from ether more readily, and differs in the solubility of its 
salts. One part of the suli^hate of homoquinine requires more than 100 
of water for solution. Alcohol of 90 per cent, dissolves 7.64 parts of 
the alkaloid, a 5 per cent, solution of which shows a rotation of — 168"^. 
{J. Chem. Soc, xli, p. 66.) 



CIIEMISTKY. 527 

Iodide of Bismuth and Potassium as a Reagent for Allcaloids. — F. Man- 
gini prepares this reagent by mixing 3 i)arts of iodide of potassium with 
16 of iodide of bismuth (liquid) and 3 parts of hydrochloric acid. Thus 
prepared it is not de( omposed by water and gives characteristic phe- 
nomena with many alkaloids. 

Strychnine, a light-yellow precipitate, limpid solution; after stand- 
ing the precipitate turns dark yellow. One part of strychnine in 500,000 
of water can be detected. 

Brucine, a golden-yellow silky precipitate becoming lighter in color. 

Morphine, a reddish-yellow precipitate disappearing after some days, 
when the liquid becomes canary-yellow. 

Codeine, a yellowish-red precipitate turning brick-red on standing. 

Narceine, a light-yellow precipitate remaining a long time suspended 
in the liquid; it turns reddish-yellow on standing. 

Atropine, a silky precipitate, which settles as a reddish-yellow powder; 
on standing the precipitate turns canary-yellow and slowly dissolves, 
coloring the liquid golden yellow. 

Aconitine, a flaky precipitate, which settles as a chrome-yellow pow- 
der; no change on standing. 

Nicotine, a red pulverulent precipitate, becoming reddish yellow. 

Conicine, a red i^ulverulent precipitate of a more intense color than 
the preceding, and becoming dirty white on standing. 

Solanine, a golden-yellow precipitate forming slowly, and turning 
darker. 

Veratrine, a light-yellow precipitate, turning lighter. 

Quinine sulphate, a brick-red precipitate, turning dirty white. , 

Cinchonine sulphate, like the preceding, but darker after standing. 
{Gazzetta Chimica ItaUana, 1882,]). 155, and abstract in 5i<7Z. Soc. Chim., 
XXXVIII, p. 670.) 

Application of Electrolysis to Dyeing. — Dr. Frederic Goppelsroeder, of 
Miihlhausen, has extended the application of electrolysis to the form- 
ation of coloring matters and to the art of dyeing. He has employed 
the galvanic current in producing and simultaneously fixing dyes on 
various textile fabrics, in preventing the oxidation of colors during the 
printing, and in preparing solutions of reduced dye-stuffs, the so-called 
blue-vats. To obtain, for example, an aniline black on a fabric or on 
paper, the stuff" is soaked in an aqueous solution of a salt of aniline (the 
chloride is preferred), and then placed on an unoxidizable metallic plate 
connected with one pole of a galvanic battery or with a small dynamo 
machine. A second metallic ])late, bearing in relief the design and con- 
nected with the other pole, is then placed upon the stuff". By pressing 
gently and passing the current of electricity a black design is formed. 
Medals and coins may be copied in a similar manner. By drawing lines 
on the paper or fabric impregnated with the aniline salt, with a piece of 
carbon forming one of the poles, or with a non-oxidizable metal, black 



528 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

lines are obtained whenever the presence of the conducting carbon per- 
mits the passage of electricity. 

Hydrogen generated at the negative pole may be employed instead 
of zinc, ferrous sulphate, glucose, hydrosulphite, and the other common 
agents, to reduce baths of indigo, of aniline black, «Ssc. A feeble contin- 
uous current gives the best results. The two electrodes must be sep- 
arated completely. Dr. Goppelsroeder expresses the hope that his ex- 
periments may eventually become of industrial importance. (Reprinted 
from I? Ulectricien, and communicated by the author.) 

Method and Apparatus for Testing Inflammahle Oils. — In accordance 
with the instructions of the New York State Board of Health to its san- 
itary committee, and in response to an order of said committee, Arthur 
H. Elliott has made an exhaustive report on the methods and apparatus 
for testing inflammable oils, with special reference to dangerous kero- 
sene. The investigations were made with the ultimate intention of es- 
tablishiug a standard for testing petroleum in New York State. Mr. 
Elliott examined thirteen kinds of testers, including three open testers, 
and some electric testers, and experimented with four different samples 
of oil ou each apparatus. His tests show that it is very important to 
know which apparatus has been used when an oil is said to have a given 
flashing point. One of the oils showed a range of temperature from 95° 
to 130° F. The general conclusions to which Mr. Elliott comes are briefly 
as follows : Of all the 13 apparatuses not one can be called perfectly 
satisfactory ; open testers are entirely untrustworthy for determining 
the safety of kerosene oil ; of the closed testers the Wisconsin State 
tester, with a few alterations suggested by the author, gives the most 
reliable results. The electric testers are troublesome to keep in order. 
{Second Annual Report of the State Board of Health of New York, Albany, 
1882, p. 449.) 

'•'' BenzoV or ^^ Benzene, ^^ a Question in Nomenclature. — Attention is 
being directed to the necessity of greater uniformity in nomenclature, 
especially as regards the important hydrocarbons CeHe and CioHs. Ger- 
man, French, and most American chemists designate Ce He by the name 
benzol (sometimes spelled with a superfluous final e), while English chem- 
ists use the term benzene; in like manner continental chemists name 
CioHg naphthalin, and Englishmen call it naphthalene. 

A few years ago the London Chemical Society issued a six-page pam- 
phlet* to its corps of abstractors giving rules of nomenclature and nota- 
tion, and this has materially aided in securing uniformity. In preparing a 
paper for the Berichte der deutschen chemischen Gesellschaft, on the "Laws 
of Substitution in the Nai)hthalene Series," Prof. Henry E. Armstrong, 
of the London Institution, employed the customary English terms, and 
desired the publication committee to refrain from changing them. This 
led to correspondence which is published in the Berichte (vol. xv, p. 



Reprinted in Chemical News (1883), vol. xlvii, p. 15. 



CHEMISTRY. 529 

200). Professor Armstrong objects to the termination ol for hydrocar- 
bons not of the paraflSn series, and would restrict it to the alcohols — 
carbinol, phenol, &g. He calls attention to the confusion which results 
from the terms "ethylene," "anthracene," "phenanthrene," on the one 
hand, and "benzol," "toluol," and " naphthalin " on the other; and he 
expresses the hope that the German Chemical Society may unite with 
the London organization in attempting a uniform nomenclature. The 
publication committee of the Berichte approved of an exchange of views 
on the question. 

American chemists are vitally interested, for in this country the oc- 
currence of the petroleum i3roduct called benzine complicates the mat- 
ter. While the English custom has much in its favor, the similarity in 
pronunication of "benzine" and "benzene" leads many Americans to 
follow the continental terminology. Consistency is eminently desirable. 
It will be interesting to watch the result of the movement. 

The Berichte d. cliem. Oes. for 1882 contains articles on the nomen- 
clature of special groups. We refer to Herrmann on the nomenclature 
of azo-compounds (p. 813), and to Wallach's paper on the same subject. 
Liebig's Annalen also has a paper, by Aug. Bernthsen, on the nomencla- 
ture of derivatives of carbonic acid. (Liebig's Annalen^ ccxi, p. 85.) 

NOTES. 

Blade phosphorus is formed, according to Maumen^, when phosphorus 
is distilled in hydrogen (made from zinc and sulphuric acid), and not 
formed when the distillation is conducted in carbonic anhydride. The 
black color soon disappears. 

Lecture experiment. — H. Schwarz finds that zinc dust and sulphur, 
when intimately mixed, combine with very great energy, and the experi- 
ment is more brilliant and interesting than the usual one with iron fil- 
ings (or copper turnings) and sulphur. The best proportions are two 
parts by weight of zinc and one of sulphur. The mixture inflames also 
when struck heavily by a hammer, and when ignited in a confined space 
(gun-barrel) explodes with about one-fourth the energy of gunpowder. 

The rare met^l vanadium occurs in large quantity, according to Witz 
and Osmond, in the residues of the iron furnaces of Creusot, and they 
describe a process for extracting it on a large scale with a view to its 
industrial applications. 

Solid paraffine has been discovered by Silvestri in basalt. It occurs 
in cavities about a centimeter in diameter, and is nearly identical with 
the paraffine occurring in petroleum. 

Bernthsen has discussed the unsatisfactory nomenclature of the iso- 
meric sulpho-derivatives of carbonic acid, and proposes to call the radi- 
cal =C=S thio-carbonyl, and to name the acids thio-carbonyl acids. In 
like manner we may have for =C=!N^H imido carbonyl and similar de- 
rivatives. 

Phosphate of chromium, prepared by the action of phosphoric acid and 
H. Mis. 26 34 



530 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

sodium hyposulphite on chromates of the alkalies, forms a fine green pig- 
ment, which is proposed by Ad. Carnot as a substitute for the injurious 
arsenical and cupriferous colors. 

Paul Sabatier has published a note claiming priority over A. Colson 
in the discovery of the sulpMdes of silicium, Si S, and Si SO. 

Constantine Fahlberg has patented a process for [>reparing sulphate 
of aluminium free of iron for the mineral bauxite. The essential point 
in the method is the use of lead peroxide for the removal of the iron; 
the lead compound being afterwards recovered in a very simple manner. 

Hautefeuille and Chappuis have studied the formation of pernitric 
oxide, and assign to it the formula N2O6. 

Cailleteb has obtained a crystalline hydrate of i)hosphoretted hydro- 
gen by strongly compressing the gas in the presence of water and then 
suddenly decreasing the pressure. Hydrates of ammonia and of sul- 
phureted hydrogen have also been obtained by this method. 

Wroblewski, by a somewhat similar method, has obtained a solid crys- 
talline hydrate of carbonic anhydride, OO3 8H2O. 

In a letter to Nature, G. F. Rodwell revives the controversy concern- 
ing the relative claims of Lavoisier and of Priestley to the discovery of 
oxygen. Eodwell endeavors to give the greater houor to Lavoisier. 

Hydroxylamine is found by G. Bertoni and 0. Raimondi to be an act- 
ive poison when injected into the blood. Less than 0.2 gram killed a 
medium-sized dog. It also exerts a poisonous effect when introduced 
into the stomach or under the skin. The blood assumes a chocolate 
color and yields on dialysis nitrous acid, an oxidation product of hydro- 
xylamine. 

Two neic antiseptics, calcium- and sodium -glj'cero-borates, have been 
announced by G. Le Bon, and experiments prove their utility. They 
are odorless and without injurious action on the most delicate tissues. 

The discovery of hydrazin, NH2, claimed by Maumeu^, has been denied 
by several chemists who repeated the process (action of potassium per- 
manganate on ammonium oxalate) and obtained negative results. 

Br omo -sulphide of carbon has been discovered by Carl Hell and Fr. 
Urech. It is obtained by the direc^ action of bromine on carbon di- 
sulphide, and forms small brilliant prismatic crystals having the com- 
position CaSsBre. 

Rose'' s fusible alloy has been prepared by W. Spring by subjecting the 
constituents (lead, bismuth, and tin) in their proper proportion, to enor- 
mous pressure. Wood's alloy, melting at 65° C. can be obtained in a 
similar manner. The pressure employed was 7,500 atmospheres. 

Metallic uranium, according to Zimmermann, forms a silver-white, 
somewhat malleable metal, very hard, but scratched by steel. It has 
a specific gravity of 18.7. It burns with brilliant light and scintil- 
lations, forming a bulky oxide. It is slowly attacked by warm nitric 
acid and by sulphuric acid, and readily dissolves in hydrochloric. 

The Royal Society awarded the Davy medal (in duplicate) to D. Men- 



CHEMISTRY. 631 

delejeff and to Lothar Meyer for their discovery of the periodic relations 
of the atomic weights. This has drawn out a protest from John A. E. 
Newlands, of London, who claims priority in the publication of the peri- 
odic law, and who produces evidences of his assertion. {Ghem. NewSj 
46, 278.) 

The French Academy of Sciences offer the new Volta prize of 50,000 
francs to the author of the discovery which shall enable electricity to 
be applied economically in one of the following directions : as a source 
of heat, of light, of chemical action, of mechanical power ; as a means 
of the transmission of Intelligence, or of the treatment of disease. 
Competition is open until June 30, 1887, to scientific men of all nations, 
and the award will be decided in December, 1887. 

The German Ghemical Society is in a very flourishing condition. At 
the close of 1882 it numbered 2,527 members, of whom 16 are honorary 
and 263 associate members. The Berichte, published annually by the 
society, forms one of the most important of chemical journals ; the two 
volumes issued in 1881 comprise over 3,000 pages, and the volumes for 
1882 attain about the same size. The total income of the society for 
1882 amounted to 56,247 marks, and the expenses for the same period 
were 44,697 marks. 

Necrology. — During the year 1882 the deaths of many eminent chem- 
ists were recorded. Among them may be mentioned : Dr. John W. 
Draper, of New York ; Dr. Henry Draper, of New York ; Prof. Will- 
iam B. Eogers, of Boston ; Dr. John Stenhouse, of Manchester ; Prof. 
Eudolph Bottger, of Frankfort ; Dr. Ludwig Feder, of Munich j Prof. 
A. Popoff, of Warsaw j Prof. Friedrich Wohler, of Gottingen. 



MINEEALOGY. 



By Edward S. Dana, 

Professor in Yale College, New Haven, Conn, 



The following pages contain a summary of the progress of Mineralogy 
during the years of 1881 and 1882. The attempt has been made to give 
as complete a statement as possible, in the allotted space, of the recent 
advances made in the different departments of the science. Especial 
attention is devoted to the mineralogical discoveries in America. In 
presenting the subject, the recent contributions to general mineralogi- 
cal bibliography are first mentioned ; then follows a general statement 
of work done in crystallography and physical mineralogy ; following 
this is given an account of recent investigations on the chemical side 
of the subject; next comes a somewhat particular statement of dis- 
coveries of new localities of minerals; and finally descriptions are 
given of the new species added to the science. 

1. GENEEAX, WOEKS ON MINERALOGY. 

The most important of the recent additions to the works on general 
mineralogy is the eleventh edition of the Elements der Mineralogie of 
Naumann, edited by Zirkel. Since the publication of the first edition 
in 1846, Naumann's Mineralogy has been the standard work in Ger- 
many; and the later editions have more thoroughly established its 
position. Since the death of the author in 1873, the work has been 
continued by Zirkel, and two editions have been published under his 
editorship; the tenth in 1877, and the eleventh in 1881. The funda- 
mental changes introduced by him in the classification of species and 
other respects have brought the work more into harmony with modern 
views. Of the large number of other mineralogical books recently pub- 
lished in the German tongue, the majority are of an elementary char- 
acter. The Lehrhuch der Mineralogie, by Tschermak, however, deserves 
especial mention, because of the clear and satisfactory manner in which 
the physical portion of the subject is treated ; the descriptive part is, 
however, rather meager and inadequate. It is stated that an English 
translation is soon to appear ; and if so, it will doubtless meet with a 
good reception. 

An addition to the list of English mineralogical text-books has been 
made by Bauerman in his Text Book of Systematic Mineralogy. The 

533 



534 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

first volume, the only one thus far published, is devoted to the theoret- 
ical portion of the subject, leaving the description of species for another 
volume. The work has many excellent features, and it is worthy of note 
that it is the first important contribution to mineralogical treatises pub- 
lished in England since the Mineralogy of Greg and Lettsom in 1858. 
The second edition of Groth's Tabellarische Uebersicht der Mineralien, 
tfcc, published in 1882, is a work of more importance than might appear 
at a first glance. It professes to be only a system of tables giving a 
statement of the crystalline system and chemical composition of each 
species, designed especially for the use of the student in the lecture- 
room; but in the discussion of the chemical formulas of the species, 
many new points are brought out, and in their classification, the rela- 
tion of the species, especially on the chemical side, has been developed 
with an unusual clearness. The book is consequently a real contribu- 
tion to the development of the science. 

A third appendix to the fifth edition of Dana's System of Mineralogy 
has been recently published (April, 1882), covering the period from 1875 
to 1882. It is comprehensive in its scope, and gives full descriptions of 
the species announced as new, and also references to all mineralogical 
memoirs and articles, large and small, which have appeared during the 
seven years mentioned, with a brief mention of the contents of the more 
important. Some idea may be formed of the amount of mineralogical work 
done in recent times from the fact that this appendix covers 134 large 
octavo pages in small type; and also of the zeal for naming "new species" 
from the fact that 300 new names are here included. 

Among mineralogical works of a more local character is to be mentioned 
first, the continuation of the Materialien zur Mineralogie Busslands by 
Kokscharof, of which great work the eighth volume is now completed. 
The monographs of the crystalline form of the species contained in these 
volumes are models of accurate, careful work. The third edition of the 
Mineralogia, by Domeyko, is also an important work. It was published 
in 1879, and a first appendix to it appeared in 1881. This work gives a 
complete account of the present state of the mineralogy of Chili and the 
neighboring countries of South America. Although far removed from 
the great centers of science, Professor Domeyko has carried on his work 
for many years with great zeal, and his labors have done much to make 
known the remarkable mineral riches of the countries in which he is 
interested. Another important work is that on the minerals of New 
South Wales, by A. Liversidge, which covers 140 pages. 

Among works of a more special character is to be mentioned the 
^ammlung von Mikrophotographieen, (&c., by Cohen, which gives on a 
series of quarto plates excellent i)hotographs of the various points of 
interest involved in the microscopical study of minerals and rocks ; some 
of these are the inclusions in crystallized minerals, the phenomena of 
abnormal double refraction, figures produced by etching, the kinds of 
cleavage and structure, and so on. The execution of these plates leaves 



MINERALOGY. 535 

nothing to be desired, and they will be of great assistance to those who 
are either studying or teaching this branch of mineralogy. Thus far 
four numbers of this work have appeared. 

This seems to be the proper place to mention the Sicetch of the Prog: 
ress of American Mineralogy by Prof. G. J. Brush, delivered as the presi- 
dential address before the Montreal meeting of the American Associa- 
tion for the Advancement of Science, in August, 1882. This address 
gives an interesting and valuable account of the development of the 
science of mineralogy in America, commencing from its earliest begin- 
ning with the formation of the "American Miueralogical Society," iu 
1798. The great ignorance of the science which characterized the early 
years of this century is shown, and then the successive stejis are pointed 
out which have gradually led up to the advanced position of mineralogy 
in this country at the present time. As typical of the work done and 
the workers engaged in it, sketches are given of four leading mineral- 
ogists : Dr. Archibald Bruce, who founded the American Miueralogical 
Journal ; Col. George Gibbs, whose collections made abroad afforded a 
great stimulus to the development of the science at home ; Prof. Parker 
Cleaveland, author of the most valuable work for the time, an Elemen- 
tary Treatise on Mineralogy and Geology 5 and Prof. Benjamin Silliman, 
of Yale College, who established the American Journal of Science. 

2. CRYSTALLOGRAPHY AND PHYSICAL MINERALOGY. 

Among the recent general treatises devoted to crystallography and 
physical mineralogy, those of Tschermak and Bauerman have already been 
alluded to. In addition to these the Geometrische Krystallograpliie by Lie- 
bisch is to be mentioned. It devotes nearly 500 octavo pages to the devel- 
opment of the subject, and accomplishes this with system and thorough- 
ness. Eammelsberg has published the first volume (615 pp.) of a new 
edition of his Handbuch der Icrystallographisch-physiJcaUschen Chemie, a 
work which is a valuable auxiliary to the study of minerals, although 
discussing the crystalline form of artificial compounds. The Stereogra- 
phische Projection of Reusch will be a help to those studying the system 
of mineralogy based upon it. 

A noteworthy advance in the methods of research in physical miner- 
alogy has been made through the introduction of a solution of mer- 
curic iodide in potassium iodide as a means of determining the specific 
gravity of minerals, and also of separating different minerals when mixed 
together in the form of small fragments. The solution, called the Son- 
stadt solution, because proposed by E. Sonstadt in 1873, has a high 
specific gravity, attaining at a maximum about 3.2, so that a fragment 
of fluorite floats in it. This specific gravity can be varied almost in- 
definitely by the gradual addition of water, so that it may be used to 
determine the specific gravity of any mineral not heavier than the limit 
mentioned; all that is necessary being to obtain the weight of a known 
volume of the liquid in which the mineral in question just floats. The 



53f) SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 188-2. 

solution is even more useful for the separation of two or more minerals 
when mixed together in the form of small fragments, the solution being 
graded by successive dilution so that in succession one constituent after 
another of the mixture sinks and is removed while the others float. This 
method of procedure is much used in connection with the study of the 
minerals in rocks, and for the development of it science is especially 
indebted to Thoulet and Goldschmidt. Another solution of similar 
properties has been proposed by D. Klein ; this is best made, as be states, 
from the boro-tungstate of cadmium, and may be obtained with a si)ecific 
gravity up to 3.6, Breon has obtained remarkable results from a liquid 
obtained by fusing lead chloride and zinc chloride together at about 
400° C. A liquid with a specific gravity above 7.5 has been obtained, 
and although the practical use of such a liquid is not very convenient, 
Breon has been able with it to separate as many as twelve constituent 
minerals from a sample of sand; he has also used it for minerals as 
heavy as wolfram. 

In optical mineralogy the subject which has attracted most attention 
during the period under consideration, as indeed for the few years pre- 
ceding it, is the cause of.the so-called "optical anomalies" of crystals. 
Since the time of Brewster it has been well known that many species 
exhibit in polarized light optical phenomena not in accordance with their 
apparent geometrical form ; for example, that alum, fluorite, the diamond, 
and other species show double refraction, while their crystalline form is 
apparently isometric. Later investigations have largely increased the 
list of crystallized minerals exhibiting these "optical anomalies," as they 
have been called, and various explanations have been offered for them. 
At present there may be said to be two opposed theories, both having 
strong supporters, and the weight of evidence is hardly sufiQcient to 
make it possible to decide finally between them. 

In the view of Mallard, first advanced in 1876, the apparent symmetry 
exhibited by the crystals of the species under discussion, which show opti- 
cal anomalies, is only pseudo-symmetry ; the optical properties observed 
belong inherently to the molecular structure of the individual parts of the 
crystal ; and the external crystalline form observed is really due to the 
grouping; or twinning, of several simple crystals, each of a lower grade of 
symmetry than that which the complex whole so formed simulates. For 
example, according to this view, an apparent isometric cube may in fact be 
made up of six four-sided pyramids, each optically uniaxial, and united so 
that their bases form the sides of the cube and their vertices are grouped 
at the center. Similarly, an apparent regular octahedron may be made 
up of eight uniaxial triangular pyramids ; or, still more generally, a hex- 
octahedron of garnet may be composed of forty-eight triangular pyra- 
mids, each optically biaxial, and four together forming a pseudo-rhombic 
pyramid. The theory of Mallard has been warmly supported by Ber- 
trand ; and the labors of the French mineralogists in general, includ- 
ing Des Cloizeaux, have increased largely the list of so-called pseudo- 



MINERALOGY. 537 

isometric, pseudo-tetragonal, pseudo-hexagonal, &c., species. The most 
common typical species under the systems of high grade of symmetry 
have thus been thrown over into systems of lower symmetry 5 the list 
includes such species as garnet, fluorite, analcite, apophyllite, rutile, 
zircon, beryl, apatite, and so on. 

Opposed to the theory of Mallard is that advanced by Marbach and 
Reuscb, and developed by Klocke, Klein, Ben Saude, and other min- 
eralogists, which explains the "optical anomalies" by reference to the 
state of molecular tension existing within the crystal and produced 
during its growth. According to this view, the apparent geometrical 
form of the crystal represents its true symmetry, and the optical proper- 
ties observed which are at variance with it do not belong inherently 
to the substance of the crystal, but have been produced by secondary 
causes. Klocke has applied this theory to alum, Klein to boracite and 
garnet, and Ben Saude to analcite and perofskite, but the full explana- 
tion would require an amount of detailed description inconsistent with 
the space allotted for this summary. 

As between the two theories, it may be said that while pseudo- 
symmetry has a real existence — twins of orthorhombic species, arago- 
nite, for example, often imitating hexagonal forms — still the weight of 
argument seems to be in favor of referring the phenomena observed to 
secondary causes, so that it is not yet necessary to call garnet a triclinic 
species. On the other hand, although the extreme view of Mallard 
may not be accepted, it is beyond question true that the result of the 
accurate crystallographic and optical investigations of the past few 
years has been to show that many crystals really belong to systems of a 
lower grade of symmetry than that to which they have been previously 
referred. It is impossible at present to say how far this may be carried. 
The number of minerals to whose crystalline form and optical properties 
especial attention has been directed in the past two years is so large 
that they cannot be even enumerated here. 

One explanation for the great amount of study that has been devoted 
to the questions above mentioned, and for the interest which they have 
excited, is to be found in the fact that recent years have brought great 
improvements in the instruments for the investigation of both the form 
and optical properties of crystals. The microscope of Rosenbusch, since 
1876 much used in the study of rock-sections, has been improved so as 
to be suitable for the optical study of minute crystals. A microscope 
especially adapted for this purpose has been devised by Bertrand in 
Paris, and in his hands, as also those of Des Cloizeaux, it has given ac- 
curate results in very many cases where the earlier instruments would 
have yielded nothing. Improvements have also been made in the 
polariscope and other similar instruments. New methods have been 
introduced for the determination of the indices of refraction of crystal- 
lized minerals; the most recent is that employed by Bauer, in which 
he obtains the desired values by calculation from the measured distances 



538 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 188-2. 

between the black rings of the axial interference figures seen in mono- 
chromatic converging polarized light ; he has applied this method to 
muscovite and more recently to the uniaxial mineral brucite. 

3. CHEMICAL MINERALOGY. 

In the direction of chemical mineralogy the most important advances 
that have been made are in the artificial formation of minerals. This 
is a subject to which the French mineralogists and chemists have es- 
pecially devoted themselves, and the results they have attained are 
most remarkable. Some of the more recent achievements in this line 
are the making of analcite, leucite, gaylussite, opal, wurtzite, scorodite, 
&c. It would not be appropriate to discuss here the methods employed 
in these or similar cases, but attention may properly be called to a work 
on the subject by Fouqu6 and Levy entitled Synthese des Mineraux et 
des Roches. These authors have already themselves performed some of 
the most important of the synthetic experiments, and they have now 
published a volume of 420 pages octavo, in which all previous results 
are brought together. The work is admirably constructed, giving a 
summary of the methods employed, a discussion of the principles in- 
volved, as well as of the value of the synthetic method, and further, a 
statement of the artificial production of the individual species, with full 
references to previous experimenters and observers. This valuable work 
cannot but act as a stimulus to further the develoj)ment of a most im- 
portant branch of mineralogy, which has a wide bearing not only upon 
this science itself, but beyond, upon geology and chemistry. 

The analytical method has also, as of old, been followed most indus- 
triously in the past two years, and the result has been to settle the 
composition of some minerals in cases where it has long been doubtful, 
and to throw light on many obscure points. Among the many cases 
coming under this head may be mentioned the work of Penfield on 
amblygonite, in which he shows that the many varieties of the species 
all conform to the same general formula, although differing in the amount 
of fluorine and water they contain, the latter increasing as the former 
diminishes. He explains this variation by assuming that hydroxyl 
comes in to replace the fluorine to a greater or less extent. The same 
chemist has also settled the doubtful composition of monazite. Early 
analj'ses showed the presence of a considerable amount of thorium, while 
some later ones have aflbrded no thorium at all. Penfield has proved 
that the mineral is a simple phosphate of the metals of the cerium 
group, the thorium being due to admixed thorite. He analyzed sam- 
ples of monazite from different American localities, and showed that 
while all afforded thorium in widely different amounts, the silica pres- 
ent also in each case was sufficient to unite with the thorium ; more- 
over, thin sections showed the existence of a foreign mineral which 
gelatinized with acids. The doubtful relations of the minerals of the 
cryolite group have been made clear by the chemical work of Brandl 



MINERALOGY. 539 

and tJie crystallographical work of Groth. The species thomsenolite 
and pachnolite, which have often been confounded, are shown to be 
distinct both in form and in composition. Oathrein has examined the 
minerals called leucoxene and titanomorphite, both of which are altera- 
tion minerals of titanic iron or of rutile, and has shown that they are 
really identical with the common mineral titanite. It will be remem- 
bered that Lasaulx attempted to set up titanomorphite as an independent 
species on the ground that it was simply a new calcium titanate, but 
the analysis of Bettendorflf, on which the conclusion was based, is shown 
to have been inaccurate. 

The gaseous inclusions in smoky quartz, especially that of Branch- 
ville, have been studied microscopically by the late Dr. Hawes, and 
chemically by Prof. A. W. Wright. W. E. Hidden has also described 
large fluid cavities in the quartz of North Carolina. The Branch ville 
quartz is shown to be exceptionally rich in cavities with liquid carbon 
dioxide, so much so that a thin fragment broken off by a tap of a hammer 
separates with explosive force, and a fragment held in the flame of a 
Bunsen burner flies to pieces with great violence. The analysis of these 
gases by Wright has proved the presence, besides the carbon dioxide, 
of nitrogen, sulphureted hydrogen, ammonia, sulphur dioxide, and fluo- 
rine. 

Bamberger has shown that the picranalcite of Bechi, supposed to be 
a distinct mineral, is ordinary analcite, containing only a trace of mag- 
nesia. H. Sjogren has proved the presence of both chondrodite (mono- 
clinic) and humite (orthorhombic) in Sweden, and he has attempted 
to establish the chemical composition of these two closely related spe- 
cies, as also of the third species of the group, called clinohumite. It 
will be remembered that these are equivalents of Scacchi's three types 
of Yesuvian humite: type I = humite, type 11= chondrodite, and type 
III = clinohumite. 

The chemical comi)osition of the zinc silicate, calamine, has been 
established by Fook. He shows that it remains unchanged at 340 ^ 
C, and loses its water only at a red heat; the water consequently 
is not to be regarded as water of crystallization, but the true formula is 
H2 Zn2 Si O5, it being thus a basic silicate with an oxygen ratio of 3 : 2 like 
andalusite. A similar change had already been made earlier in the 
method of viewing the composition of the copper silicate dioptase. 

Dr. Genth has published some new observations bearing upon the 
subject of the alteration of corundum, a subject to which he devoted an 
extended and important memoir in 1873. Some of the cases noted by 
him are: (1) Corundum altered to spinel. At the Carter mine, Madison 
County, North Carolina, corundum is found in white and pink crystals 
and in irregular grayish- white or white cleavage masses enveloping a 
variety of a delicate pink color ; this corundum is often more or less 
comi)letely changed to a massive greenish black spinel of a fine granular 
structure, but rarely showing octahedral crystals in the compact mass. 



540 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

The corundum of Shimersville, Pa., is also in part altered to spinel. (2) 
Corundum altered to zoisite. A new locality is mentioned in Towns 
County, Georgia. (3) Altered to feldspar and mica (damourite). At Pres- 
ley mine, Haywood County, North Carolina, feldspar and mica have 
been observed as alteration products of corundum ; the larger crystals 
of the latter mineral are of a grayish-blue color and contain patches of 
a white, cleavable feldspar often surrounded by mica. In other cases a 
small nucleus of the original mineral is surrounded by an aureole of deli- 
cate subiibrous mica. One crystal of muscovite contained in the center 
remnants of a smooth bluish-gray cleavable corundum ; another mass 
resembled a coarse granite, consisting of albite, muscovite, and scattered 
remnants of grayish-blue corundum. At Belts' Bridge, Iredell County, 
North Carolina, large crystals of corundum one foot in diameter occur 
which are more or less completely altered to mica, though they also 
contain radiating masses of black tourmaline. From the mica- schists 
near Bradford, Coosa County, Alabama, fine hexagonal crystals have 
been obtained, consisting of a central part of corundum of a brown or 
bronze color, inclosing grains of menaccanite, and surrounding this is 
a perfect ring of subflbrous greenish-white mica; other crystals are al- 
most entirely altered, often being flattened out and so forming nodules 
in the mica-schist ; the mica is sometimes scaly, sometimes very fine- 
grained and compact. Flattened nodules of mica, inclosing a nucleus of 
corundum, also occur at the Haskell mine, Macon County, North Caro- 
lina. Various new localities are also given of (4) corundum altered to 
margarite. From Shoup's Ford, Burke County, North Carolina, speci- 
mens showing (5) the alteration to tibrolite have been obtained ; they 
consist of brown corundum with a thin shell of fine fibrous radiating 
white fibrolite. Corundum altered (6) to cyanite has been noted from 
Statesville, Iredell County, North Carolina ; the specimen consisted of 
a nucleus of pink corundum with pale blue cyanite crystallized about it 
and presumably having resulted from its alteration ; in another speci- 
men from Wilkes County, North Carolina, the cyanite was still further 
altered to mica. 

Notes of work by students in the laboratory of the University of 
Virginia, recently published as a continuation of a series commenced 
several years since, contain some points of interest. An analysis is 
f given of the allanite from Bedford County, Virginia, by Page, the re- 
sults of which are remarkable as showing the presence of over 50 per 
cent, of the oxides of the cerium metals ; analyses are also given of the 
helvite recently discovered near Amelia Court-House, Virginia (see 
beyond), of mimetite from Nevada, a sulph antimonite of copper and zinc, 
near bournonite, from Park County, Colorado ; of fergusonite, samarskite, 
orthite from North Carolina ; of metallic iron found in small flattened 
scales in the alluvial washings of Brush Creek, Montgomery County, 
Virginia, of native palladium gold, containing 8.2 per cent, palladium, 
from Taguaril, near Subara, Minas Geraes, Brazil. 



MINERALOGY. 541 

An important memoir, containing the result of numerous chemical 
analyses on the sodalite-sjenite and the associated minerals of the Tunugd- 
liarfik and Kangerdluarsuk fiords of Southern Greenland, has been pub- 
lished by J. Lorenzen, of Copenhagen. The chief constituents of the 
rock area greenish- white feldspar, arfvedsonite (andaegirite) andsodalite; 
there also occur eudialyte, nephelite, lepidolite, asnigmatite, and a new 
mineral called steenstrupine (see beyond) ; also at one spot ilvaite with 
calcite; and finally some zeolites, in particular analcite and natrolite. 
Analyses are given of most of the minerals mentioned. It is especially 
interesting to note that the association of minerals is nearly identical 
with that observed in the syenite of Langesunds fiord of Southern Nor- 
way. 

4. DISCOVERY OF NEW MINERAL LOCALITIES. 

Not the least important advance in general mineralogy is to be found 
in the discovery of new mineral localites. Great progress has been 
made in this direction, particularly in the western part of the United 
States, where the recent development of gold and silver mines has 
brought to light much that is of very great interest. Of general state- 
ments of American mineral regions are to be mentioned the following 
works : The minerals anfl mineral localities of Xorth Carolina,, by F. A. 
Genth and W. C. Kerr, wicfi i^otes Dy W. E. Hidden ; The second report 
of the State mineralogist of California, by H. G. Hanks ; J^otes on the 
mineralogy of Missouri, by Alexander V. Leonhard ; Biennial report of the 
State geologist of the State of Colorado, by J. Alden Smith. Similar mem- 
oirs in regard to foreign regions are that by Schmidt on the zinc de- 
posits at Wiesloch in Baden, and by Cohen on the minerals of the region 
about Heidelberg. 

In the southwestern Territories of New Mexico and Arizona important 
mineralogical discoveries have been made. For example, in Arizona, 
Sillimau has called attention to the occurrence of the hitherto very 
rare mineral vanadinite in beautiful crystals, often of a ruby-red color, 
in Yuma County, at the Hamburg, Princess, and Eed Cloud mines; also 
of fine wulfeuite at the last-mentioned mine; further of crocoite and 
other chromium minerals, with yellow vanadinite, at several mines in the 
Vulture district J of jarosite from the Vulture mine; of thenardite, in 
large deposits from the Eio Verde, in Maricopa County. W. P. Blake 
has described beautiful vanadinite with mimetite, wulfeuite, «S:c., from 
the Castle Dome mines, Yuma County. Various interesting copper 
minerals have been obtained from the Copper Queen mine, Pinal County; 
crystallized silver, argentite, &c., from the Silver King mine; beautiful 
dioptase, almost equal to that from the Kirghese steppes, from near 
Clifton. The ancient turquoise locality at Mount Chalchuitl, New Mex- 
ico, has been recently investigated and good specimens obtained. In 
Oregon considerable deposits of a hydrous nickel silicate allied to 



542 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

garnierite have been discovered in Douglas County. The rare min- 
eral wurtzite has been identified at the original Butte mine, Montana, 

Onofrite has been discovered at Marysvale, Southern Utah, by New- 
berry, and described by Brush. Native lead with minium has been 
described by W. P. Blake as occurring in the midst of masses of galena, 
at the Jay Gould mine, Alturas County, Idaho; the metallic lead is in 
small rounded masses or grains from one-eighth to one-quarter of an 
inch in diameter, also in irregular reniform bunches weighing an ounce 
or more; the red oxide forms a coating in the native metal. The same 
author mentions the occurrence of orpiment and realgar in a thin bed 
in the horizontal sedimentary formations underlying lava in the Coyote 
district, Iron County, Utah. 

The minerals of Colorado have been studied by Cross and Hillebrand, 
by Konig, by M. W. lies, and others. The first-mentioned authors have 
given a complete description with analyses of the zeolites of Table Moun- 
tain, near Golden ; they have also described the occurrence of phenacite, 
of topaz, of zircon, and of several minerals of the cryolite group in the 
Pike's Peak region. Alaskaite, beegerite, ilesite, are new minerals 
from Colorado, descriptions of which are given on a subsequent page. 
Konig has described jarosite, from Chafiee County. 

In the Southern States W. E. Hidden has continued his investiga- 
tions near Stony Point, Alexand;.'r County, ^"orth Carolina, and has 
brought to light many most interesting and valuable minerals. The 
beautiful emerald-green variety of spodumene, called hiddenite, has been 
found in fine prismatic crystals, and of a size and clearness affording 
gems which are highly valued. The same locality has afforded splendid 
emeralds in crystals up to 10 inches in length ; they are not often clear 
enough for use in jewelry, but in size and beauty of color they are unique 
among mineralogical specimens. Splendent rutiles, highly modified and 
brilliantly polished quartz crystals accompany the emeralds, also fine 
monazite, allanite, and other species. Monazite has been obtained from 
the gold washings at Brindletown and elsewhere, also in situ from several 
localities in the same State. Another interesting locality is that near 
Amelia Court-House, Amelia County, Virginia. This has afforded large 
crystals of microlite, up to several pounds in weight. It will be remem- 
bered that the original crystals of the mineral from Massachusetts were 
extremely minute, and to them the name given was appropriate, as it is 
not to those from Virginia. There also occur fine columbite, monazite 
in large masses, orthite, the rare mineral helvite, and other more com- 
mon species. 

In Maine topaz has been found in fine crystals, sometimes very large, 
though sparingly, at Stoneham, as first pointed out by G. F. Kunz, with 
triplite and columbite. Norway has yielded triphylite (lithiophilite) and 
chrysoberyl. From Peru, triphylite, columbite, and spodumene have 
been obtained. It is also worthy of mention that the famous tourmaline 



MINERALOGY. 543 

locality, at Paris, has been reopeued and has offered some more good 
specimens. 

The many minerals occurring in the diabase dike at Deerfield, Mass., 
have been exhaustively studied and described by Emerson. 

Middletown, Conn., has afforded at Pelton's quarry a few specimens 
of monazite and samarskite. 

De Kalb, N. T., has yielded interesting crystals of white tourmaline. 

In Canada the locality at Eganville, Eenfrew County, Ontario, has 
continued to yield tine specimens ; among these are gigantic crystals of 
apatite and titanite, also large twin crystals of zircon, which are unique 
for the species. From Hull, Quebec, fine colorless garnets have been 
obtained. Samarskite has been found in the township of Brassard, 
Berthier County, Quebec. Lazulite has been analyzed by Hoffmann 
from Churchill Eiver, Keewatin district. 

In regard to new mineral discoveries outside of the United States 
and Canada, it is unnecessary to speak in detail. Attention may be 
called to the discovery of vanadates, vanadinite, descloizite, &c., in the 
Argentine Republic ; to the description by Silliman of a mountain of 
martite, the Cerro de Mercado of Mexico. The ancient mines recently 
reopened at Laurium, Greece, have afforded, besides the commoner zinc 
species, also adamite, cabrerite, and several new species mentioned 
later. 

The rare mineral danburite, long known only in imperfect imbedded 
crystals from Danbury, Conn., afterward (1880) found in large and fine 
crystals, often transparent, at Eussell, N. T., has now been discovered 
on the Skopi, Switzerland. The discovery of this borosilicate is worthy 
of note; the crystals are small, quite clear, and have the same remark- 
able resemblance to topaz characteristic of the crystals from Eussell; 
the composition is identical with that of the American mineral. The 
hydrous carbonate of alumina, called dawsonite by Harrington, from 
specimens found at Montreal, has been identified in Tuscany. A re- 
markable variety of tourmaline containing chromium has been described 
from the Urals. Euclase and phenacite have been obtained from the 
Alps. Beautiful blue opals are now brought from Queensland ; their 
occurrence has been described by Eobertson in the Proceedings of the 
Philosophical Society of Glasgow for 1881-82. 

5. NEVr MINERALS. 

The following pages contain brief descriptions of the minerals an- 
nounced as new, during the past two years. Only a small portion of 
these have characters sufficiently distinct to justify their being accepted 
as true new species. The list is arranged in alphabetical order, and the 
names of the most clearly defined species are printed in smaU capitals, 
the others italics. 

Alaskaite. — A massive mineral with metallic luster and whitish 
lead-gray color. It contains sulphur, bismuth, lead, silver, and copper; 



544 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 188-2. 

and the chemical formula is analogous to that of miargyrite with bis- 
muth in the place of antimony. It is described by Konig as occur- 
ring intimately mixed with barite, chalcopyrite and tetrahedrite at the 
Alaska mine, Poughkeepsie Gulch, Colorado. Silberwismutliglanz is a 
name given by Rammelsberg to a closely related mineral from Moro- 
cocha, Peru; it contains only sulphur, bismuth, and silver. 

Annerodite. — A mineral occurring iu prismatic crystals closely re- 
sembling columbite iu habit and in angles. It has a black color and 
submetallic luster. In composition it is very near samarskite, and the 
describer, Brogger, regards it as bearing the same relation to columbite 
which samarskite bears to tantalite, found in a pegmatite vein at Anne- 
rod, near Moss, Norway. 

Arctolite. —A mineral of doubtful character, only interesting because 
of its source, Hvitholm near Spitzbergen. The name indicates that it 
comes from the Arctic. It has the prismatic angle of the amphibole, 
while in composition it appears to be near prehnite. The describer is 
Professor Blomstrand of Lund, Sweden. 

Balvraidite. — A name given by Heddle to a supposed homogeneous 
substance, having a saccharoidal structure and pale purplish-brown 
color, which was found in the granular limestone of Balvraid, Inverness- 
shire, Scotland. An analysis makes it a hydrous silicate containing alu- 
mina, iron sesquioxide, lime, magnesia, and alkalies. It has not yet been 
shown to be a distinct mineral. 

Beegerite. — Occurs in elongated isometric crystals, also massive, 
with a brilliant metallic luster and gray color. In composition it is a 
sulpho-bismuthite of lead. It is described by Konig as occurring at 
the Baltic Lode, near Grant P. O., Park County, Colorado, and is 
named for Mr. Hermann Beeger of Denver. 

Bergamaskite. — A variety of amphibole remarkable because contain- 
ing almost no magnesia. It is described by Lucchetti as occurring in 
quartzose hornblende-porphyry at Monte Altino, province of Bergamo, 
Italy. 

Berlauite. — A name given by Schrauf to a chloritic substance filling 
cavities between granite and serpentine, found in the serpentine region 
near Budweis, Southern Bohemia. It is near other members of the 
vermiculite group, but has not yet been shown to be a distinct min- 
eral. 

Brackebuschite. — A hydrous vanadate of lead, containing small 
amounts of iron, manganese, and copper; related to descloizite. It 
occurs in small prismatic crystals of a black color, with other vana- 
dium minerals in the State of Cordoba, Argentine Republic. Named 
by Doring after Dr. Brackebusch of Buenos Ayres. 

BuTisenin. — See below under krennerite. 

Chaecomenite. — Occurs in bright blue monoclinic crystals, and 
crystalline crusts. In composition it is a hydrous selenite of copper. 
The describers, Des Cloizeaux and Damour, speak of it as found witii 



MINERALOGY. 545 

various selenides of silver, copper, and lead from the Cerro de Caclieuta, 
Mendoza, Argentine Eepublic; it has resulted from the alteration of 
these minerals. 

Cobaltomenite. — According to Bertrand this is a cobalt seleuite from 
Cacheuta, in the Argentine Republic. It occurs in minute rose-red crys- 
trals, resembling erythrite in appearance. 

Cossynte. — A mineral near amphibqle in form, but triclinic in form 
and having a prismatic angle (cleavage) of only 114o. In composition 
it approaches some very ferruginous amphiboles. Described by Foerst- 
iier as found imbedded in the liparite lavas of the island of Pantellaria 
(ancient name Cossyra). 

Craigtonite. — A name given by Heddle to a blue-black substance 
forming dendritic stains on red granite, in the quarry of Craigton, Hill 
of Fare, Aberdeenshire, Scotland. An analysis gave alumina, iron 
sesquioside, manganese protoxide, magnesia, and alkalies. It is not a 
mineral, and the name deserves no recognition. 

Gyprusite. — A supposed new iron sulphate of doubtful character; de- 
scribed by Eeinsch. It occurs in larger quantities in an impure con- 
dition incrusting the side of a hill in the western part of Cyprus. It is 
soft, chalk-like in consistency, and of a yellowish color. 

Destinezite. — Announced by Forir and Jorissen as a new iron j)hos- 
phate related to delvauxite, but not yet fully described. It is from the 
ampelite of Argenteau, Belgium, and occurs in yellowish-white, nodular 
masses of earthy aspect. 

Bouglusite. — A hydrous chloride of potassium and iron from the salt 
mines of Douglass hall, Germany; described by Ochsenius and Precht. 
It seems to be essentially the same as the Yesuvian mineral called 
erythrosiderite by Scacchi. 

Dumortierite. — A silicate of alumina occurring in prismatic crystals 
of a light blue color, also in fibrous forms imbedded in blocks of gneiss 
at Chaponost near Lyons, France. Named for the paleontologist, M. 
Eugene Dumortier. 

Edmonsonite. — A compound of nickel and iron identified by Flight in 
the meteoric iron of Melbourne, Australia, and regarded as a new and 
distinct mineral. 

Ellonite. — A name attached by Heddle to a pale yellow unctuous pow- 
der fi'om the gneiss of Ellon, Aberdeenshire, Scotland. It is an impure 
hydrous silicate of magnesia, not a distinct mineral. 

Enophite. — A name given by Schrauf to a chloritic variety of serpen- 
tine, related to the hallite of Cooke. The specimens analyzed were 
from the serpentine region of Southern Bohemia, near Budweis. 

Erilite. — A name given by H. C. Lewis to minute acicular crystals 
occurring as inclusions in quartz from Herkimer County, New York. 
Their chemical nature was not determined; there is every probability 
that they belong to some well-known species. 

Erytlirozincite. — A mineral occurring, according to Damour, in thin 
m H. Mis. 26 35 



546 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

crystalline plates in the lapis lazuli from Siberia. They have a red color, 
and chemically contain sulphur, zinc, and manganese. Des Cloizeaux, 
on the basis of an optical examination, regards it as probably a man- 
ganesian variety of wurtzite. 

Ounnisonite. — A name given by Clarke and Perry to a supposed new 
mineral from near Gunnison, Colo. The substance examined was mas- 
sive and had a deep purple color. It contains calcium fluoride, silica, 
lime, alumina, &c., and is probably either an altered or a very impure 
fluorite. It is not a distinct mineral. 

Hieratite. — According to Cossa, a potassium fluo-silicate. It forms 
with lamellae of boracic acid stalactitic concretions of a grayish color 
and generally spongy texture. The concretions contain also selen-sul- 
phur, arsenic sulphide, and the alums of potassium, caesium, rubidium, 
and, in small quantities, thallium. From the fumaroles of the crater of 
Vulcano (Greek name Hiera), one of the Lipari Islands. 

Eydrobiotite. — A name used by Lewis for a hydrated biotite; also 
employed, with a slightly different meaning, by Schrauf, in his descrip- 
tion of the serpentine minerals of Budweis, Southern Bohemia. 

Ilesite. — A hydrous sulphate of manganese chiefly, with also zinc 
and iron. The mineral occurs in loosely adherent crystalline aggregates, 
of a white color, and bitter, astringent taste. It is readily soluble iu 
water. Occurs in a siliceous gangue, with sulphides of iron and zmc, 
in Hall Valley, Park County, Colorado. Named after Dr. M. W. lies, 
of Leadville. 

Kelypkite. — A gray serpentinous substance coating crystals of pyrope 
from Kremze, near Budweis, Southern Bohemia. The name is given, 
but without sufficient reason, by Schrauf. 

Kenteolite. — A silicate of manganese and lead, occurring in dark 
reddish-brown crystals. The crystals are minute, and often grouped 
in sheaf-like forms, resembling stilbite (the name is from the Greek 
xevrpnv, spike). Described by vom Rath and Damour as coming from 
Southern Chili. 

Krennerite. — A rare telluride of gold from Nagyag, Transylvania ; 
it contains also a little silver and copper. It occurs in vertically 
striated prismatic crystals, silver-white to brass-yellow in color, and 
with brilliant metallic luster. It was first named Bunsenin by Krenner, 
but afterwards more completely described by vom Eath under the 
name Krennerite, because the former name already belonged to another 
species. 

Latitite. — Described by Frenzel as a new mineral containing sulphur, 
arsenic, copper, and silver; from Lauta, near Marienberg, Saxony. 
Since shown by Weisbach to be a mixture of metallic arsenic with a 
mineral related to tennantite; the name, consequently, is to be dis- 
cf^rded. 

Lennilite. — A name given by Schrauf to a substance from Budweis, 
Bohemia, produced by alteration, which is near the vermiculite of , 



MINERALOGY. 547 

Lenni, Pennsylvania, described by Cooke. Schranf writes the name 
Lernilite, which, however, is a mistake in orthography for the form 
above given. 

Leucochalcite. — A white mineral, with silky luster, occurring in slen- 
der, needle-like crystals. It is essentially a hydrous arsenate of copper, 
having a composition analogous to that of the phosphate tagilite. De- 
scribed by Sandberger and Petersen as from the Wilhelmine mine in 
the Spessart, Germany. 

Manganbrucite. — A manganesian variety of brucite, occurring, accord- 
ing to Igelstrom, in granular form with hausmannite and other man- 
ganese minerals at the Jakobsberg, Sweden. It is massive, shows no 
cleavage, and has a honey-yellow to brownish-red color, though perhaps 
originally nearly colorless. 

Melanotekite. — A silicate of iron sesquioxide and lead, apparently 
related in composition to the manganese lead silicate called kentrolite 
(see above). It occurs massive, with two cleavages ; it has a metallic 
to resinous luster, and black or blackish-gray color. It is found with 
native lead, and intimately mixed with magnetite and yellow garnet at 
the remarkable mines at LSngban, in Wermland, Sweden. The same 
locality has previously furnished two other lead silicates called hyalo- 
tekite and ganomalite. The name melanotekite, given by Lindstrom, 
is from [liXaq^ hlaclcj and TTjxetv, to melt. 

Molybdomenite. — A lead selenite, named by Bertrand, from noXu^SSq^ 
lead, and p.'^^yj, moon. It occurs in thin, transparent crystalline lamellae, 
white or slightly greenish, with vitreous luster. Obtained with other 
selenium minerals from Cacheuta, Argentine Eepublic. 

MoNETiTE. — A mineral from the guano of the islands of Moneta and 
Mona, West Indies, described by C. U. Shepard, sr. It occurs in mi- 
nute triclinic crystals, confusedly aggregated, of a white or pale yellow- 
ish color. It is intimately mixed with gypsum. An analysis, by C. U. 
Shepard, jr., shows that it contains lime, phosphoric acid, and water, 
and making the hydrogen basic, it is an orthophosphate. 

MoNiTE. — Another guano mineral, associated with the above mone- 
tite, and named after the other island, Mona. It is intimately associated 
with monetite, and occurs in an uncrystalline, earthy, slightly coherent 
form, of a snow-white color. In composition it is a calcium orthophos- 
phate, with one molecule of water. 

Mtrobarite. — Groth has described crystals of native barium nitrate 
from Chili. They are in apparent octahedrons, formed of the plus and 
minus tetrahedrons; also in twins; the crystals are colorless. The 
name nitrobarite was suggested by H. C. Lewis. 

Kocerine. — According to a preliminary note by Scacchi, a double fluo- 
ride of calcium and magnesium, occurring in white acicular crystals in 
volcanic bombs in the tufa of Nocera. 

Parachlorite and proiocklorite. — General terms used by Schrauf for 
eertain groups of chloritic substances produced by alteration. 



548 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

PhytocolUte. — A black gelatiuous hydrocarbon, closely related to 
dopplerite, first described by T. Cooper, later by H. 0. Lewis, who at- 
tached the above name (from ^urov, xolXa, or plant-jelly). It was found 
in a stratum of m uck under a i:)eatbed at Scranton, Pa. When first ob- 
tained it was jelly-like in consistency, but on exposure it became 
tougher and elastic, like India rubber, and when quite dry it was hard 
and brittle ; in the latter condition it burns with a yellow flame. 

Plinthite. — A name given by Heddle to a substance of a deep red color 
and greasy or dull luster, forming layers in amygdaloid, from Quiraing, in 
Skye. It is an impure hydrous ferruginous silicate of alumina. There 
is no excuse for attaching a new name in such a case. 

Bezbanyite. — According to Frenzel, a new sulpho-bismuthite of lead 
from Eezbanya, Hungary. It is a massive mineral, of metallic luster 
and light lead-gray color. It occurs intimately mixed with chalcopyrite 
and calcite, also imbedded in quartz. 

Eosterite. — A variety of beryl, occurring in short prismatic to tabular, 
doubly-terminated crystals of a pale rose-red color. It differs somewhat 
from the ordinary kinds in optical characters and in composition, but 
is not to be regarded as distinct. From the island of Elba ; described 
by G. Grattarola. 

Schneebergite. — A mineral of doubtful relations, occurring in transpar- 
ent isometric crystals of vitreous to adamantine luster and honey-yellow 
color. It contains principally lime and antimony, but its exact chemi- 
cal composition is unknown. Described by A.Brezina; from Schneeberg, 
Tyrol. 

Schuchardtite. — A name given by Schrauf to the so-called chrysopra- 
serde, from Glaserndorf, Silesia. 

Semseyite. — Briefly described by Krenner as occurring in gray metal- 
lic crystals at Felsobanya, Hungary. It contains sulphur, antimony, 
and lead, and is said to be related to plagionite. 

Serpierite. — Occurs in minute tabular crystals, often grouped into 
tufted forms. The color is greenish blue. The crystalline form has 
been described by Des Cloizeaux, but its exact chemical composition 
is unknown. Damour states it to be a basic sulphate of copper and zinc. 
It is from the ancient mines, recently re-opened, at Laurium, Greece. 

Siderophyllite. — A black mica from near Pike's Peak, Colo., described 
by H. C. Lewis. It is near biotite, but is remarkable as containing 25J 
per cent, of iron protoxide, and almost no magnesia. 

SiliciopMte. — A heterogeneous substance, high in silica, produced by 
the continued alteration of serpentine (derived from chrysolite) near 
Budweis, Bohemia. Tbe name was given by Schrauf. It is not a min- 
eral. 

Steenstrupine. — A mineral described by Lorenzen, from the sodalite 
syenite of Greenland. It occurs massive and indistinctly crystal- 
lized, perhaps in rhombohedrons, of a brown color ; it is associated 
with lepidoHte and segirite. Chemically contains chiefly silica, the oxides 



MINEKALOGY. 549 

of the rare metals cerium, lanthanum, didymlum, thorium; also iron, 
lime, soda, &c. 

TalMripUte. — A phosphate of iron and manganese protoxides, of lime 
and magnesia, perhaps to be regarded as a tripKte, peculiar in contain- 
ing lime and magnesia. It occurs in small transparent grains of a yel- 
low or yellowish-red color, together with lazulite, svanbergite, and other 
phosphates, at the Horrsjoberg, in Wermland, Sweden. Described by L. 
I. Igelstrom. 

Tritochorite. — A vanadate of lead, copper, and zinc, related to eusyn- 
chite, described by Frenzel as from Mexico or South America. It is a 
massive mineral, with fibrous-columnar structure, and blackish or yel- 
lowish-brown color. 

Tyreeite. — A name given by Heddle to the soluble portion (in sul- 
phuric acid) of a small amount of red mud obtained as a residue after 
dissolving 150 pounds of the carnelian marble of Tyree, Scotland, in 
hydrochloric acid. The author has given many names to bad minerals, 
but this is the worst case of all. 

Uranopilite. — According to Weisbach a hydrous silicate of lime and 
uranium, forming a lemon-yellow ocherous substance, at Johanngeorgen- 
stadt, Saxony. The material analyzed was so impure that the existence 
of a new mineral is yet to be proved. 

UranoilialUie. — A hydrous carbonate of uranium and lime, occurring 
in confused aggregates of siskin-green color at Joachimsthal ; the form, 
according to Schrauf, approximates to that of aragonite. The same 
mineral was earlier analyzed by Lindacker and partially described by 
Vogl. 

Uranothorite. — A variety of thorite remarkable as containing 10 per 
cent, of uranium oxide. The single specimen found was massive, had a 
dark-red color, aM resinous to subvitreous luster. It is described by 
P. Collier as from the Champlain iron region of 'New York, but the exact 
locality is unknown. 

ZiNOAirUMiNiTE. — A mineral occurring in thin hexagonal plates of 
a white or slightly bluish color. It is a hydrous sulphate of zinc and 
alumina. It is described by Bertrand and Damour from the zinc mines 
of Laurium, Greece. 



BOTANY. 
By Prof. Wllliam G. Faelow. 



The greatest activity has been shown this year in the departments of 
vegetable physiology and anatomy and publications describing new spe- 
cies of phaenogams and fungi, while comparatively few works have ap- 
peared relating to algse and higher cryptogams. 

VEGETABLE ANATOMY. 

Strasburger has published two important papers on the structure of 
the cell. In his Theilungsvorgang der Zellkerne he describes and figures 
the minute changes which the cell-nucleus undergoes during division, 
and finally concludes that the division of the cell does not arise prima- 
rily from the division of the nucleus, but rather that the changes which 
tend to bring about cell-division are the exciting cause of the division 
of the nucleus itself. In his second paper, Bau und Wachsthum der Zell- 
haute, he treats not only of the formation and thickening of the cell- wall, 
but also of the growth of starch grains, the molecular structure of or- 
ganized structures, the function of the nucleus, and several other points. 
Many of the facts which have hitherto been explained by the theory of 
intussusception Strasburger now believes can be better explained by 
the apposition theory. He is confirmed in his previous view that the 
nucleus plays an active part in the formation of j)rotoplasm, since, if we 
except the sieve-cells, the nucleus is of all the living parts of a cell the 
most persistent part. Tangl has published a paper on the division of 
the nucleus and the cell in the formation of the pollen in HemerocalUs 
fulva, and the Bot. Zeitung has a paper by Zalewski on the division of 
the nucleus in the mother cells of the pollen in some Liliacece. In the 
last-named journal is also a paper by Zacharias, in which he gives a de- 
tailed statement of the opinions of different writers on the chemical 
nature of the different parts of the nucleus and a critical review of the 
terminology of the parts of the nucleus. The chemical character of 
protoplasm has been studied by Loew, Bokoruy, and Eeinke in papers 
in the Bot. Zeitung and elsewhere, but the complications of the subject 
can hardly be followed except by persons thoroughly versed in chem- 
istry. 

Two important papers have appeared from Schwendener — die Schutz- 

scheide und Hire VerstcirJcungen and Scheitelwachsthum der Phanerogamen 

551 



552 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Wurzeln. In the first-named paper he discusses the formation and 
thickening of the protective sheath and its adaptation to climate and 
locality ; in the second he states that as a rule there are groups of 
scheitel cells in phsenogamic roots, four being a frequent number, al- 
though in Heleocharis palustris there is a single cell, and he denies that 
in the root there is a distinct plerom in the sense the word was used 
by Hanstein. A new structure, which he calls the coleorhiza, has been 
described in the young roots of Eucalyptus by Briosi. The development 
of the hoftuepfel in Coniferae has been the subject of a controversy be- 
tween Sanio and Russow in the Centralblatt. Russow's original paper 
appeared at Dorpat, in 1881, and this paper is the subject of a sharp 
criticism by Sanio, to which Russow replied. The Annates des Sciences 
contains French translations of the papers of Russow and Janczewski 
on the structure and development of sieve-cells, which have been men- 
tioned by us in reports for previous years. The Annales also contains 
papers by Tr6cul on large spiral cells in the parenchyma of the leaves 
of Crinum; by Mangin on the development of spiral cells, and on the 
origin of adventive roots in Monocotyledons; and a paper by Vesque 
on the possibility of characterizing species by means of their histo- 
logical structure, followed by another paper in which he applies this 
principle to the Capparidacew, and shows that the species and groups 
classified on an histological basis correspond closely to those formed 
in the usual manner from morphological characters. In his Anatomie 
der Baumrinden, Joseph Moeller describes the anatomical structure of 
the bark of 392 different species of plants. In the third part of his 
Beitrdge zur Morphologie des Blattes, Goebel treats of the arrangement 
of the stamens in certain flowers. Under the title of Beitrdge zur 
allgemeinen Morphologie der Pflanzen, Fr. Schmitz gives to the botanical 
world miscellaneous matter left by Hanstein, who at the time of his 
death contemplated writing an extensive work on general morphology. 
On the subject of vegetable embryology should be mentioned Ludwig 
Koch's JEntwicTcelung des Samens von Monotropa hypopitys, in the Bot. 
Zeitung; Guignard's Recherches sur le sac emhryonnaire des Phanerogames 
angiospermes ; Treub's Notes sur Vembryo, le sac emhryonnaire et Vovule^ 
in which the species specially studied were Peristylus grandis and Avi- 
cennia officinalis ; and Bower's "Germination and Embryogeuy of Gne- 
tum Gnemon,''^ in Quart. Journ. Micros. There has also appeared a work 
in Danish by N. Wille, on the Development of the Embryo in Euppia ros- 
tellata and Zannicliellia palustris. 

VEGETABLE PHYSIOLOGY. 

The principal general work on physiology which has appeared this 
year is Vorlesungen iiber Pflanzen-Physiologie, by Sachs. The author 
states in the beginning that he has given up the intention of publish- 
ing a fifth edition of his Eandbuch, and that the present work is, to a 
certain extent, a substitute for a new edition of that work. The sub- 



• BOTANY. 553 

ject is presented in the form of twenty-two lectures. The first eleven 
treat of the physiological organography of the organs of vegetatiou j 
the next two lectures treat of the general vital conditions and proper- 
ties of plants ; and the remainder of the book is devoted to the subject 
of nutrition, which will be continued in the next volume. The second 
part of Detmer's System der Pflanzen-Physiologie, published in Schenk's 
Eandhuch, is devoted to the physiology of growth. The continuation 
of Van Tieghem's work, Traite de Botaniqiie, contains a large amotint of 
information on physiological subjects. 

The subject of the action of light on plants and the relations of 
chlorophyl to the plant economy has not occupied the attention of 
botanists to the same extent that it did during 1881, although several 
papers have appeared this year on the subject. Dr. Adolph Hansen, 
in his doctorate thesis at Wiirzburg, called in question the correctness 
of the views of Pringsheim on the nature of hypochlorin and its re- 
lation to chlorophyl, and his paper was published at Leipsic this year. 
Pringsheim in consequence addressed a circular to the philosophical 
faculty of the University of Wiirzburg in support of his views, and this 
circular, which is of a personal character, was embodied by him in an 
article on GJilorophyllf unction und Lichtwir'kung in der Fflanze, published 
in Pringsheim's Jahrhuch. The paper includes a summary of the views 
of botanists up to the present day on the subject of assimilation. 
Arthur Meyer, in the Bot. Zeitung, has a paper on the nature of what 
Pringsheim calls hypochlorin-crystals.and another in the Centralblatt on. 
chlorophyl- grains, starch-builders, and chromatophors. A summary 
of recent works on the nature and function of chlorophyll is given by 
Bonnier in the Annales des Sciences. Pringsheim's Jahrhuch contains 
a lengthy paper on i^lant respiration by Godlewski. Schimper has a 
paper on Oestalten der StdrTcebilner und FarhJcorper in the Centralblatt. 

The accuracy of Darwin's views on the action of the root- tip, advanced 
in his "Power of Movement in Plants," had been called in question by 
Wiesner, and this year two pupils of Wiesner, Burgerstein and Toma- 
schek, have published articles on the sensitiveness of the root-tip, in 
which they agree with Wiesner in believing that there is no intrinsic 
power in the tip by means of which it tends to grow away from an object 
pressing against it. Kirchuer, on the other hand, in studying the same 
subject, thinks that the conclusions of Darwin are correct. A paper by 
Darwin, was presented in March, before the Linnean Society, on the 
" Action of carbonate of ammonia on the roots of certain plants." In JEJu- 
phorbia, peplus a cloud of fine granules is formed in the root-cells, even 
when the carbonate is dissolved 1 part to 10,000 of water. In Cyclamen 
the roots are turned green by the carbonate. At the same time Darwin 
also presented a paper on the "Influence of the carbonate of ammonia 
on chlorophyl bodies." Dr. Emil Detlefsen, in a paper on what Darwin 
has called the "brain function" of the root, in the Proceedings of the 
Wirtzburg Laboratory, concludes that the whole of the growing part of 



554 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. « 

the root, and not merely the tip, in consequence of unequally distributed 
moisture, bends in the direction of the greater moisture. 

Sachs, in his second paper on Stoffund Form der PJlanzenorgane, takes 
occasion to criticise sharply the statements of Vochting in his Organ- 
bildung iw Pfianzenreich. Detlefsen in the Wirtzburg Proceedings of- 
fers a mechanical explanation of the excentric thickenings of woody 
stems and roots, and Kny has also published an elaborate paper on the 
thickening of woody axes and its dependence on external influences. 
In the second volume of Schenk's Eandbuch, Haberlandt has a treatise 
on the Physiologischen Leistungen der PJlanzengeivebe, which is an elabo- 
ration of the subject of the physiological significance of the different 
histological systems of plants from the point of view first adopted by 
Schwendener in his Mekanische Princip des Monocotyledones Baues. 
Cunningham, in the Quart. Journ. Micros.^ and Gardiner, in the Proc. 
Moyal Soc, state that by means of reagents which contract the proto- 
plasm in contractile organs, especially in the pulvinus of the petioles 
of the sensitive plant, there is a direct communication of the protoplasm 
of adjacent cells through pits in the cell walls. 

The relations of plants to insects and the contrivances for cross-fer- 
tilization in different species have been studied by a number of botanists, 
includiug several in this country. Hermann Miiller has a third part of 
his Weitere Beohachtungen iiber Befruchtung der Blumen durch Insecteriy in 
which the arrangements for crossing in a considerable number of species 
are given in detail, and also a paper on the "Relation of the Honey-bee 
to Flowers," in which he states that the bee assists not only in the crossing 
of insectivorous but also of anemophilous flowers. In the Bot. Zeitung, 
Miiller describes the biological significance of the arrangements for 
crossing in Eremurus spectabilis. In a paper in the Proc. Ifat Hist. 
Soc. of Boston, by Trelease, on the "Structures which favor cross-fertiliza- 
tion in several plants," he explains the arrangements for fertilization in 
several obscure cases which have not been hitherto well studied by bot- 
anists, more particularly in the Ericaceae and Proteacece. Trelease also 
has a paper in Am. Naturalist, on the "Heterogony of Oxalis violacea," 
and in the jBo^. Gazette is a discussion by Trelease and A. F. Foerste as to 
the character of the dichogamy in Umbelliferce. The Am. Naturalist has 
a paper by J. E. Todd on the flowers of Solarium rostratum and Cassia 
chamcBcrista with reference to cross-fertilization. F. Ludwig, in Kosmos, 
hints that in Philodendron bipinnatijidum fertilization may be aided by 
snails. The subject of caprification is treated in an elaborate paper by 
Solms-Laubach; and in Cosmos Fritz Miiller, under the title of Gaprificus 
und Feigenbaum, gives the results of his observations on the fertility of 
fig trees in Brazil. " Insectivorous plants" are described by Schimper in 
the Bot. Zeitung, the species observed belonging to the genera Sarra- 
eenla, Drosera, and Utricularia. 



, « BOTANY. 555 

yEEMENTS AND BA.CTEEIA. 

Most of the very numerous papers on bacteria have treated the sub- 
ject from a purely medical point of view. Of those having also a botan- 
ical interest the most important are two papers by Robert Koch. The 
first paper, Ueher Tuberculose, published in the Berlin Medicin. Wochen- 
sclirift, contains a description of a new Bacillus, which is shown by 
means of inoculations to be the cause of tuberculous disease, which 
Koch shows to be contagious rather than hereditary. The second paper, 
Ueber die Milzbrandimpfung, is a pamphlet published in Te]i9y to the 
address delivered by Pasteur at Geneva, in. September, before the inter- 
national hygienic congress. In his address Pasteur replied to the 
strictures upon his work made by Koch in the Mittheil. aus dem Kaiser- 
lich. Gesundheitsamte, issued in 1881. The reply of Koch is impor- 
tant from a botanical point of view, because, while criticising the inac- 
curacy of some of Pasteur's investigations, he admits that it is possible 
by means of cultures to produce a harmless form of Bacillus from a 
pathogenic form ; in other words, he admits in the present paper what 
he denied in his paper in the Gesundheitsamte, viz, the possibility of 
changing the pathogenic character of a fungus like Bacillus anthracig 
by changing its conditions of growth, and thus practically acknowledges 
the truth of the view upheld bj^ Pasteur, Naegeli, and Buchner. The 
practical method of producing a harmless Bacillus for vaccination 
from a pathogenic Bacillus may hereafter be considered as at least pos- 
sible, even if the method at present pursued by Pasteur is not alto- 
gether satisfactory. In the Proc. Roy. Soc, Dr. W. Roberts states that 
he collected in glass globes the air expired by patients suffering with 
phthisic and found constantly bacterial forms. 

The Comptes Bendus contains several references to pathogenic bacteria. 
Pasteur presented a report on the results of inoculation for splenic 
fever in 85,000 cases, showing the reduced percentage of death in con- 
sequence of the inoculation. Pasteur, in conjunction with Chamber- 
land, Raux, and Thuillier, reports on the nouveaux faits pour servir a, 
la connaissance de la rage, and Strauss and Chamberland report their ob- 
servations on cobayas, which seem to show that, contrary to the hitherto 
accepted opinion, the *' bact^ridie charbonneuse" can be transmitted 
from the mother to the foetus. Richard describes an oscillarioid para- 
site which is found in the blood corpuscles in malaria. A pathogenic 
Schizophyte of the hog is described by Detmers in the Am. Naturalist. 

In a paper read before the Munich Academy Buchner discusses the 
experimental production of the splenic fever contagion, and gives an 
account of the method used by him to transform the infectious into the 
harmless form, which consists principally in allowing the bacillus to 
grow in the presence of an abundance of free oxygen. Naegeli, in a 
paper, Zur Umwandlung der Spaltpilzformen, emphasizes the fact that 
the species of bacteria cannot be distinguished by their form, but can 



556 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

only be determined by long and careful observations on their action 
under difierent physiological and chemical conditions. 

Zopf studi h1 the development of several filamentous forms of Schizo- 
mycetes and ScMzopfiytce, and in his work, Zur Morphologic der Spalt- 
pflanzen, as well as in a preliminary communication in the Botanisches 
Centralblatt, advances the view that forms commonly regarded as lila- 
mentous may have a micrococcus, a bacterium, a lei^tothrix, a spiril- 
lum, and in some cases even a spirochsete condition, and he gives full 
accounts of the different transformations in Cladothrix, Crenothrix, and 
several other genera. 

Dr. T. W. Bugelmann has studied the relations of bacteria to light 
and air, and comes to the conclusion that bacteria collect in heaj^s 
where there is a development of oxygen, and he also describes in Pflii- 
ger's Archiv a new species, Bacterium pliotomctricum, found in the 
Rhine, in which he studied the action of light, and found that it did 
not act momentarily, but produced an after effect, which he terms pho- 
tokinetic induction. In the Centralhlatt, Haberkorn has a paper on the 
"Genesis, Morphology, and Properties of Pathogenic Bacteria," in which 
he maintains the polymorphic nature of these organisms. The Bacteria is 
the subject of a paper in the Eleventh Report Illinois Industrial Uni- 
versity, by Prof. T. J. Burrill. It is a summary of the known species of 
schizophytes, preceded by an introduction on the nature and effects of 
bacteria. He gives full descriptions of Micrococcus amylonoims, pear 
blight, 3L toxicatus found in the poison dogwood, and M. insectorum 
found in the digestive organs of chinch bugs. 

Two important papers relating to the action of species of Saccharomy- 
ces in fermentation have appeared during the year, Ih the reports of the 
Carlsberg Laboratory, IJansen gives an account of the organisms found 
in the air at different seasons near Carlsberg, especially those which 
can develop in beer wort. He found that Dematium pullulans could 
invert sugar to some extent, and states that Saccharomyces pasiorianus is 
a dangerous organism in breweries on account of the rapidity with 
which it produces alcoholic fermentation and the ease with which it 
produces its endospores, while it gives a disagreeable, bitter taste to the 
beer in which it is found. In Compfes Bendus, Gayon has a report on 
the action of some molds in alcoholic fermentation. Some, as several 
species of Mucor, produce a fermentation in glucose, but are not able 
to invert cane sugar, so that in substances like molasses they can be 
used as a means of separating cane sugar from other sugars. Edward 
Kern has discovered a new ferment, which he calls Diaspora caucasica, 
in a fermented liquor known as kephir, formed from milk in the Cau- 
casus. Ferments et maladies^ by E. Duclaux, is a good general statement 
of the action of ferments of Saccharomycetes and Schizomycetes, both from 
a chemical and pathological standpoint. 



BOTANY. 557 

THALLOPHYTES. 

Fungi. — Papers describing new species of fungi have been excessively 
numerous, but those relating to their development have not been so 
numerous as usual. Of developmental works mention should first be 
made of Woronin's beautifully illustrated BeAtrcige zur Kenntniss der 
Ustilagineen, which forms the fifth part of De Bary and Woronin's Bei- 
trdge zur 3Iorphologie und Physiologie der Pilze. The greater part of 
this paper is devoted to the development of Tuburcinia trietitalis, and 
at the end is a classification of the genera of JJstUaginecB. The Bot. 
Zeitung has a paper by Fisch on the "Development of Ascomycetes," in 
which the principal genera studied were Polystigma, Xylaria, and Clani- 
ceps. In the first-named genus Fisch found spermatia and trichogynes 
re sembling those found by Stahl in Collema, but no sexuality could be dis- 
covered in the two last-named genera. In Grevillea and the Gardener's 
Chronicle Plowright gives an account of his experiments on the HeUrce- 
eism of Uredineoe, in which he confirms the views of continental my- 
cologists as to the connection between several forms, and shows further 
that the t€leutosi>ores of Puceima grmninis may be made to grow directl^'^ 
on wheat without the intervention of an aecidium. The act of fertilization 
in Achlya and Saprolegnia was treated by Pringsheim in a i)aper read 
before the Berlin Academy. He differs with De Bary in regard to the 
apogamic character of some of the species of the genera named above, 
and thinks that there is really a fertilization which may be accomplished 
by means of motile masses of protoplasm, which lie calls spermamcebse- 
Zopf, in a communication in the Bot. Centralblatt states his belief that 
the spermamoebse of Pringsheim are really parasites. The parasites of 
Saprolegnice are described by Alfred Fischer in Pringsheim's JahrhucJi. 

Eclating to the fungi of this country should be mentioned two papers 
by Peck in the Torry Bulletin : " Fungi in Wrong Genera," where it is 
shown that Mitruta inplata Schw, is a new genus of Basidiomycetes ; and 
an " Imperfectly described Phalloid." New species of fungi are de- 
scribed by Peck and Ellis in the Bulletin, the Bot. Gazette, and Am. Nat- 
uralist, and a new Polyporus is described in the Bot. Gazette by A. P. 
Morgan. MieJielia contains descriptions by Saccardo of more than a 
hundred species of American fungi, most of which are new. 

The most extensive descriptive work which has appeared during the 
year is the Sylloge Fungorum of Saccardo, the first part of which forms 
a large volume, including the Perisporiacece and a part of the Sphaeri- 
acece. New British fungi have been described by Berkeley and Broome 
in Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., and by Cooke in Grevillea. In the last- 
named journal is a "Monograph of British Hypomyces," by Plowright. 
Cooke's " Illustrations of British Fungi" has been continued through 
several j)arts. The first volume of Rabenhorst's Krypotogamen Flora has 
been continued during the year, completing the Uredinea; and including 
a large part of the Rymenomycetes. Michelia contains papers on the 



558 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Fungi Gallici and Fungi Veneti by Saccardo, who has, in addition, 
issued parts 28 to 32 of his Fungi Italici Delineati. lu Hedicigia are 
descriptions of new Ascomycetes by Eehm, and new Sordarice bj' Oude- 
mans. Bainier, in his J^tude sur les MucorinSes, describes several new 
species of that order, and Blytt describes a new species of Myxomy- 
Cetes, Glastoderma De Baryanum. The development of the sclerotium of 
Feziza sclerotiorum has been published by Mattirolo in the Giorn. Bot. 
Schrceter has notes on the genus Fhysoderma in the Bericht Schles. 
Gesellsch. Fungi rom South America have been described by Speg- 
gazzini; from Australia by Cooke, and from the Cape of Good Hope by 
Kalchbreuner, the last two of which appeared in Orevillea. The Revue 
Mycologique contains numerous notices of fungi by Eoumeguere, includ- 
ing notes on the species included in Fungi Gallici Exsiccati^ which has 
reached the " 24th century." 

Of works relating to the diseases of plants caused by fungi should 
be mentioned R. Hartig's Lehrbuch der BaumJcranJcheiten. Michelia 
contains an elaborate article by Penzig, Funglii Agrumicoli, in which 
he describes all the species of fungi known by him to be parasitic on 
different species of Citrus. The diseases of grape-vines have been 
treated by Millardet, Thuemen, and Comes. In his paper on Pourridie 
et Phylloxera, Millardet ascribes the rotting of vines at first attacked 
by Phylloxera to the growth of Bhyzomorpha fragilis, whose action 
on the roots and young stems he describes and figures. Thuemen 
ascribes the origin of the rotting of the roots to the moisture in the 
ground. Comes considers what is known in Italy as the Mai Fero to 
be a gummy degeneration like similar diseases in the Amygdalece. 
Prillieux, in the Comptes Bendus, describes the change produced in 
grapes by mildew. Marshall Ward presented to the Linnaean Society 
the results of his later observations on the coffee-leaf disease, giving 
still stronger reasons than before for considering the fungus Hemiltia 
vastatrix to belong to the Uredinew. Prillieux regards the rot of 
grapes as caused primarily by Peronospora viticola, and states that 
Phoma uvicola follows, but is not the cause of the disease. He also 
notes the occurrence of disease of beets in France caused by Pero- 
nospora jSchachtii. Of works relating to disease in animals caused by 
plants of a higher grade than bacteria, we should mention the Actino- 
myltosis des Menschen, in which Ponfick describes and figures a species of 
Actinomyces, which attacks primarily the lower jaw in man, causing a 
disease similar to one already known to occur in cattle. The diseases 
produced by the growth of species of Aspergillus is the subject of a 
paper by L. Lichtheim^ in the Berlin Klinische Wochenschrift. 

AlgcB. — Among the more important works on the development and 
general structure of algae should be mentioned the Chromatophoren der 
Algen by Fr. Schmitz, in which he gives an account of the morphology 
and development of the colored body in the cells of algae. These 



BOTANY. • 559 

bodies, which contain nuclei, to which he gives the name of i)yrenoids, 
are always deriv^ed from some previously existing chromatophor and 
are not formed from the protoplasm proper. The Nuovo Giornale Bot. 
Hal. contains an important continuation of Borzi's " Morphology and 
Biology of the Fhycochromacea'" in which many new facts of the growth 
and reproduction of that group are brought forward. The paper of Zopf 
on Spaltpjfanzen, previously mentioned under the head of "Bacteria," 
also contains an account of the development of certain Phyeochromacece, 
in which he finds that the filamentous species have also a glceeocapsoid 
condition. Pringsheim's Jahrhuch contains a lengthy article by Ber- 
thold, Beitrdge znr MorpJiologie und Physiologie der Meeresalgen, relating 
principally to the development of the frond. Eostafinski, in a paper on 
Hydrurus und seine Verwandschaft, gives an account of the development 
of that genus and a detailed synonymy of the species H. penicillatus. 

Eelatiug to the marine species of the United States, we would men- 
tion a description of a new genus, Phceosaccion, and some new species 
by Farlow; "Notes on New England Algoe," by F. S. Collins; and " Note 
on Arthrocladia villosa" by A. B. Herveyj all in the Bulletin of the Tor- 
rey Club. " Fresh Water Algse of the United States" have also been 
described in the Bulletin by Wolle. 

The paper by Agardh, Til Algernes Systematik, is an illustrated account 
of a number of new species and genera, most of which belong to the 
Ghordariacece and Dictyotacew. The eighth monograph of the Flora and 
Fauna of tJie bay of Naples is by Berthold, and includes the Bangiacew, 
in which he gives an account of the reproduction by antheridia, and 
procarps resembling those already known in other Floridew, although of 
a more simple type. Of the second i)art of Rahenliorsfs Kryptogamen- 
Flora, including the marine algae by Hauck, the earlier numbers ap- 
I)eared at the end of the year, and include the lower orders of Floridew. 
Hauck has also described a curious new genus, MarcMsettia. A species 
of alga, Cladophora ophiophila, growing on a reptile, Herpetion, from 
Bangkok, has been described by Magnus. New Arctic marine algfB have 
been described by M. Foslie, and algse from Patagonia and the Argentine 
Republic have been described by Nordstedt in Bot. Notiser. In the Bo- 
tanische Zeitung are articles by Fr. Schhiitz and Just on Phyllosiphon 
arisari, a singular parasite on the lenves of Arisarum in Italy, whose place 
among algie is donbtful, and Schmitz is inclined to place it in fungi. 
A new work by M.. C. Cooke, on British Fresh- Water Alga, has ap- 
peared, the three parts already issued this year including the Palmel- 
lacece, Protococcacew Volvocinea?, and Zygnemacece. The Pediastra and 
Palmellacece of the region of Stockholm have been described in a paper 
by Lagerheim. "The Development and Systematic Position of Vam- 
pyrella" is the subject of an illustrated paper by Klein, in the Bot. Gen- 
tralblatt. Parts 9 and 10 of Wiltrock and Nordstedt's Algea Scandi- 
navicw appeared during this year, together with an index to the ten parts 
already published. 



560 , SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

A number of descriptive papers on diatoms have appeared. Cleve 
and Moller described a large number of species from Northern Siberia, 
collected by the Yega Expedition ; Reinhard described the diatoms of 
the White Sea; Cleve and Jentzsch, species from North Germany, 
and Juhlin-Dannfelt, species from the Baltic. Of Schmidt's Atlas der 
BiatomeenTiunde parts 19 and 20 have appeared, and of Van Heurck's 
Diatomees de Belgique, part 5, including the Crypto- Raphidece. The Am. 
Micros. Journ. contains two articles on the motion of diatoms by H. 
Mills and C. M. Vorce. 

Lichens. — The most important work on lichens which has api)eared 
during the year is Tuckerman's Synopsis of North American Lichens, 
part 1, which gives descriptions of all our species of ParmeUacei, Clo- 
doniei, and Ccenogoniei, including 411 species and 40 genera. Minks 
has issued a second part of his Symbolw Licheno-Mycologicw. G. Krabbe, 
in the Bot. Zeitung, has an article on the apothecia of certain lichens, 
belonging principally to the genera Bceomyces and Cladonia, and finds 
that the formation of the apothecia is entirely a vegetative process, as 
he was unable in the genera studied to find ascogonia and trichogynes, 
as had been observed in Collema by Stahl. Additions to the lichen 
flora of Europe have been published by Nylander in Flora, which jour- 
nal also contains the continuation of Arnold's Lichenologische Frag- 
mente; Jatta has described Lichens from Southern Ltaly in the Giorn. 
Bot.', Miiller, Socotra lichens, collected by Bayley Balfour, in Proc. Boy. 
Edin. Soc. ; and Crombie, species collected in the East Indies by Main- 
gay, in the Proc. Linn. Soc. The Lichenes Gallici of Eoumegu^re have 
been continued in a fourth part, and Olivier's Herhier des Lichenes de 
VOrne et du Calvados has been continued through parts 5 and 6. In the 
Journ. Linncean Soc, Charles Knight has described a considerable num- 
ber of new species from New South Wales. 

ARCHEGONIATA. 

Characece. — The manuscript of the late Alexander Braun has been 
edited by Norstedt, and has been published in the Abhandl. AJcad., 
Berlin, under the title Fragmente einer Monographie der Characeen. The 
number of species and subspecies described is 142, including many forms 
which had not been previously described. In this country Dr. T. F. 
Allen has published two papers : " Observations on some American 
Forms of Ghara coronata" in Am. Naturalist', and "Development of 
the Cortex in Ghara^^ in the Torrey Bulletin. 

Hepaticw. — But little has appeared on this group of plants. Lind- 
berg's Monographia jjrwcursoria Peltolepidis, Sauterice, et Clevcw, besides 
treating of the three genera just named, has notes on some other Mar- 
chantiacece. Massalongo and Carestia describe some Hepaticae from the 
Apennines, in the Giorn Bot. A general synopsis of the Hepaticae of 



BOTANY. 561 

Germany, Austria, and Switzerland has been published by P. Sydow, 
under the title Die Lebermoose Deutschlands, etc. In the Bot. Gazette 
for February, L. M. Underwood gives a list of North American Hepati- 
cse, including 49 genera and 219 species. 

Musci. — A number of important papers on Sphagnece should be men- 
tioned. In his Fromotionsprogramm, Lindberg gives an account of 
" European and North American Sphagna,''^ preceded by a short notice 
on the general organization and development of mosses. In Flora, 
Warnstorf describes some new German Sphagna, and in the Bot. Central- 
hlatt, the same writer gives an account of the Sphagna in the royal botan- 
ical museum at Berlin. He has also issued a second part of his Sphagno- 
theJca Europea. The Centralblatt also has a paper, by Limpricht, Zur 
Systematik der Torf moose. Husnot has published a paper on the same 
group, Sphagnologia Europea. One of the most important papers on 
mosses is 0. Mueller's Prodroimis Bryologice Argentinicce, the second 
part of which appeared this year in Linnwa, and contains descriptions 
of 131 new species, collected principally by Lorentz. The British Moss- 
flora of Braithwaite has been continued through part 6, which includes 
the Bicranaceod. In the Froc. Roy. Soc. of Victoria is an "Enumeration 
of Australian Mosses," by Mitten. Of other papers on mosses we would 
mention Lindberg's " Observations on Species of Timmia" and Venturi's 
Barbulce rurales, both in the Bevue Bryologique; Limpricht's " New and 
Critical Mosses" in Flora; Fehlner's Moss-Flora of Lower Austria ; Gob- 
bel's Male Inflorescence of Poly trichum, and Lindberg's Families and Gen- . 
era of Swedish and Noricegian Mosses. 

Ferns and higher Cryptogams. — Eaton describes some "New or little 
known Ferns of the United States" in the Torrey Bulletin, and in the same 
journal are "Fern Notes" Nos. 3 and 4, by G. E. Davenport, besides 
numerous other short notices of species in new localities from several 
contributors. 

Dr. J. H. Mellichamp records the occurrence of Psilotum triquetrum in 
Blufl'ton, S. C. In the Botanical Gazette, Davenport has some " Notes on 
Alaska Ferns," and J. G. Lemmon describes a new species, Woodsia 
Plummerce. The Trans. Saint Louis Academy contains an elaborate paper 
by Dr. EngeLmann on the Genus Isoetes, with minute descriptions of 
North American species and a very full account of their distribution. 
An enlarged second edition of Lucien M. Underwood's, Our Native Ferns 
and their Allies, contains synoptical descriptions of the American Pteri- 
dophyta north of Mexico. 

Of papers on exotic ferns there is very little to be said. In the Journ. 
Linn. Soc. Baker describes some species, collected by Rev. E. B. Comins, 
in the Solomon Islands, and in the Journ. Bot. the same writer describes 
some ferns from Southern Brazil. The Bot. Centralblatt has a paper by 
Luerssen, Pteridologische Mittheilung, ih which he describes some spe- 
H. Mis. 26 36 



562 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

cies from Is'ew Holland and Polynesia. The development of the fruit 
of Pilularia globuUfera is discussed by Gcebel in the third part of his 
Xeitrage zur JEntwiclcelungsgeschicMe der Sporangien. 

PH^NOGAMS. 

^Relating to species of this country, we should mention, in the first 
,f)lace, Gray's Contributions to North American Botany, which consists of 
two parts. The first gives the results of his studies of Aster and Solidago 
in the older herbaria; the second, entitled N'ovitiw Arizonicw, describes 
ipriucipally Oamopetalce from Arizona and adjacent regions, including 
several new genera. In a note two new gentians are described by 
Engelmann. In the Bot. Gazette, Professor Gray describes a new spe- 
■cies, Farishella Californica, and at the meeting of the Am. Ass. Adv. 
Sci., at Montreal, he delivered an address on the history of the study of 
botany in this country. In the Froc. Am. Acad, of Boston, Watson 
has published a list of plants from Southwestern Texas and Northern 
Mexico, consisting principally of Poli/petalm collected by Dr. E. Palmer 
in 1879-'80, and a "Description of New Species of Phints," chiefly from 
the Western Territories. Several important papers by Dr. Engelmann 
liave appeared in difierent journals. In the Botanical Gazette are " Notes 
on Western Conifers;" "Additions to the North American Flora," in- 
cluding new species of Stellaria, Campanula, &c,; the "Black-fruited 
•Cratjegi," with a description of a new species, G. hrachyacantha; and 
"Some Notes on Yucca." In the Gardener^s Chronicle, Engelmann has 
'some notes on Ficea, Engelmanni and Finus pun gens. New grasses have 
been described by Vasey, spec'es of Foa and Stipa from California, in 
Bot, Gaz. : and species from Arizona and California, described in Torr. 
Bull, by F. L. Scribner. Dr. Parry has papers on a new rose, B. minuti- 
folia, and on the " Fruits of Cucurhita ,''^ both in Torr Bulletin. M. S. 
Bebb has " Notes on Salix Sitchensis and its Afflnities," and " Salixflave- 
scens var. Scouleriana,^^ both in Bot. Gazette. " New Species of Com- 
positse" and "New Western Plants" by E. L. Greene, and "New Cali- 
fornia Plants " by M. E. Jones, have appeared in the Torr. Bulletin. 
The Bulletin also contains "Notes on Hybrid Oaks" by Professor 
Meehan and N. L. Britton; "Notes on the Trees of the Southwest" 
byH. S. Kusby; "Notes on the White Mountain Flora" by W. W. 
Bailey; and a paper on the "Migration of Weeds" by H. W. Kavenel. 
The "Native Trees of the Lower Wabash" are described by Eobert 
Eidgway in the Froc. National Museum. The Flora Feoriana, by Fred. 
Brendel, is an account of the i^lants near Peoria, 111., published in Ger- 
man at Buda-Pesth. 

Except as continuations of previous works, no very elaborate books 
have appeared this year on exotic floras. Vol. v of Boissier's Flora 
Orientalis includes monocotyledons. Hooker's Flora of India has been 
continued, and also the Icones Flantarum, which has reached the 4:th 



BOTANY. . 563 

volume of the 3d series. Hooker has also described a new genus of 
rubber-producing plants, Dyera, from the Malay Archipelago. J. G. 
Baker has published Contributions to the Flora of Central Madagascar, 
and he has also described four new Bromeliacece from British Guiana. 
G. Maw gives the Life History of a Crocus and the classification and 
geological distribution of the genus. Crepin's monograph of Roses has 
been continued, and his Manuel de la Flore de Belgique has reached a 
fourth edition, while the popular Flora von Deutscliland, by Garcke, has 
reached a fourteenth edition. Ferd. Mueller's Fucalyptographia and his 
Fragmenia PhytograpJiia; Australicm have been continued in parts. Spe- 
gazzini, who has been traveling in South America, has made a prelim- 
inary report on the flora of Patagonia and Terra del Fuego. New orchids 
have been described by Eeichenbach and four new genera of Aroidece 
by N. E. We should also notice the appearance af Arcangeli's Com- 
pendio della Flora Italianaj Eegel's description of plants in the Beise 
nach Turkestan; a monograph of the European Festucece by Edouard 
Hackel ; the Palmacece of the Flora Brasiliensis by Drude ; and Bret- 
schneider's Botanicon sinicum. Engler's Jahrhiicher includes several 
important papers on difierent orders discussed from a morphological 
point of view, amongst which are Hceck's MorpJiology and Distribution 
of Valerianacece ; Koehne's monograph of Lythracew; and Buchenau's 
Beitrdge zur Kenntniss der Butomaceen, A lismaceen, und Juncaginaceen. 
With relation to the foliar theory, as shown in the truit of the aMetinece, 
there has been a controversy between Celakovsky and Eichler, and there 
is a review of the subject by Dr. Engelmann in the Am. Journ. Science. 

GENERAL. 

Under this heading may be mentioned A. P. De CandoUe's Origine des 
Plantes cultivees, which is a very important contribution to our knowledge 
of the origin of useful plants. The second part of Engler's Versuch 
einer FntwicJcelungsgeschichte der Pflanzenicelt includes the extra- tropical 
regions of the southern hemisphere and the tropics. Cohn's Bie Pflanze 
is a series of popular essays on various botanical topics, historical, jjhys- 
iological, &c. John Smith has published a Dictionary of Popular Names 
of the Plants which furnish the natural and acquired wants of man. 



ZOOLOGY. 



By Prof. Theodore Gill. 



INTRODITOTION. 

Zoologists continued during the year 1882 the lines of investigation 
followed in the past, and the methods of modern science have been 
applied to the investigation of various mooted questions in Morphology 
and Taxonomy. Some valuable works have been published on sys- 
tematic Zoology, and of these several are worthy of special mention on 
account of the completeness with which the classes treated of have been 
brought up to date. Such are Mr. Saville Kent's "Manual of the Infu- 
soria," Professor Verrill's "Report on the Cephalopods of the north- 
eastern coast of America," Mr. G. A. Boulenger's catalogues of the 
Batrachia Salientia, Gradientia, and Apoda in the collection of the 
British Museum. On account of the general interest attached to the 
groups thus elaborated, the results of the investigations recorded in 
these volumes are detailed at some length. 

Another subject of popular interest that has received unusual atten- 
tion the past year is the natural history and especially the natural and 
artificial propagation of the oysters. Much light has been thrown on 
the life history of that important mollusk, and it can be foreseen that 
man may greatly assisj; nature and thereby benefit himself by due atten- 
tion to those details which science has shown to be necessary for suc- 
cessful ostreaculture. 

The line of zoological stations which may be said to have been inaugu- 
rated by the establishment of that at Naples, now so well known, less 
than ten years ago, seems destined soon to girdle the globe. 

A station has been established at Sydney, 'New South Wales, chiefly 
through the efforts of Baron Miclucho-Maclay. Among other contribu- 
tions, the Royal Society of New South Wales has made a grant therefor 
of £25 for the year, and assistance is expected from the Royal Society 
of Victoria and the Australian Biological Association. The station will 
be open to "biologists of the male sex" of all nations on the payment of 
a small weekly sum, which is to meet the expenses of service, &c. 

The past year may also be considered as memorable for the great mor- 
tality that occurred among the marine animals along the shallower part 
of a belt " (in 70 to 150 fathoms) where the southern forms of life and 

565 



566 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

higher temperatures (48o to 50°) are found," The cause is supposed to 
have originated in March. (See Verrill in A. J. S., (3,) Nov., 1882.) 

Questions of nomenclature have received attention from various natu- 
ralists as well as scientific bodies. The Zoological Society of France 
published a report on Eules applicable to the Nomenclature of Organic 
Beings (Eagles applicable ^ la Nomenclature des lOitres Organises). The 
proposed rules are essentially those which for a long time have regu- 
lated.the usage of zoologists, but there are some which have not found 
universal acceptance, and some which are of trivial importance. Thus, 
it is recommended that specific names derived from persons should be 
nouns in the genitive and with a single i (unless actually used and 
declined otherwise in the Latin language), as in LamarcM, while those 
referring to places should be adjectives, e. g., Neo-Batavus and not 
Novce-Hollandice. Discretion is permitted as to the use of capital or 
small initials for proper names. Names of similar import, as ^'•fluvio- 
rum, Jluvialis, and Jiuviatilis,^^ are negatived for different species of the 
same genus; and names once used, but fallen into disuse, cannot be re- 
peated or resurrected for other forms. It is laid down, also, that no 
name once published shall ever be discarded on account of its impro- 
priety. Families should invariably have the patronymic termination 
*Hdce:^ (A. J. S., (3,) v. 23, pp. 157-158.) 

As in the previous report a partial bibliography of noteworthy mem- 
oirs and works relating to different classes of animals is supplied, and 
will, it is hoped, prove to be of use to those to whom the voluminous 
bibliographies and records of progress in science are inaccessible. But 
it has been a difBcult matter to select the titles which might be most 
advantageously introduced in a limited report like the present. Arti- 
cles of a general interest or of special importance as contributing to 
throw light on the afiSnities of certain groups have been ^given the first 
place. Necessarily many very important papers have not been referred 
to and very few descriptive of species have bee;p admitted, and only 
when unusual interest attaches to the new species or the groups which 
they enlarge. 

The compiler desires to make special acknowledgment for most mate- 
rial assistance to the Zoologischer Anzeiger of Professor Carus and to 
the Journal of the Boyal Microscopical Society. 

The language of the original from which the abstract is compiled is 
generally followed as closely as the case will permit, as the advantages 
of such a course must be obvious to all on a little reflection. It has, 
however, been found necessary to limit the abstract to the illustration 
of the prominent idea underlying the original memoir, and pass by the 
proofs and collateral arguments. At the same time it has been often 
attempted to bring the new discovery into relation with the previous 
status of information respecting the group under consideration. As to 
the special discoveries recorded, they have been generally selected (1) 
on account of the modifications the forms considered force on the sys- 



ZOOLOGY. r)67 - 

tern ; or (2) for the reason that they are or have been deemed to be of 
high taxonomic importance ; or (3) because the animals per se are of 
general interest ; or finally (4) because they are of special interest to 
the American naturalist. Of course, zoologists cultivating limited 
fields of research "will find in omissions cause for censure, and may urge 
that discoveries of inferior importance have been noticed to the exclu- 
sion of those better entitled to it. It is freely admitted that this charge 
may even be justly made; but the limits assigned to the record have 
been largely exceeded, and the recorder has studied the needs of the 
many, rather than of the few. The summary is intended, not for the 
advanced scientific student, but for those who entertain a general inter- 
est in zoology or some of the better-known classes. 

SYNOPSIS OF ARRANGEMENT. 

I. General Zoology. 
II. Protozoans. — Sporozoans; Infusorians. 

III. PoRiFEKS. — Sponges. 

IV. Cgelenterates. — Polyps ; Acalephs. 
V. ECHINODERMS. — Echinodcrms. 

VI. Worms. — Dicyemids; Platyhelminths ; Nematelmlnths ; An- 
nelids. 

VII. Arthropods. — Merostomes; Crustaceans; Arachnids; In- 
sects. 
VIII. MoLLTJSCOLDS. — Polyzoans ; Brachiopods. 
IX. MOLLUSKS. — Conchifers; Gastropods; Cephalopods. 
X. Protochordates. — Tunicates. 

XI. Vertebrates. — Fish-like Vertebrates; Leptocardians ; My- 
zonts; Selachians; Fishes; Amphibians; Reptiles; Birds; Mammals. ^ 

I. GENERAL ZOOLOGY. 

HISTORICAL ZOOLOGY. 

Archiv fur Naturgeschichte. Gegriindet von A. F. A. Wiegmann. Fortgesetzt von 
W. F. Erichson. In Verbindung mit Prof. Dr. R. Leuckart in Leipzig herausge- 
geben von Dr. F. H. Troschel, Professor in der Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universitat 
zuBonn. 48. Jahrgang. Berlin, NicolaisclieVerlags-Buclihandlung, 1882. (8vo.) 

Bibliotiieca Historico-naturalis, physico-chemica et mathematica, oder systematiscb 
geordnete Uebersiclit der in Deutschlaud und dem Auslaude auf dem Gebiete der 
gesammten Naturwiesenschaften, etc., erschieneuen Biicber. Herausgegeben von, 
F. FrenkeL xxxi. Jabrg. Gottingen, Vandenboeck & Ruprecbt, 1882. (8vo. 
M. 1.20.) 

Zoological (Tbe) Record for 1881, being Vol. xviii of tbe Record of Zoological Litera- 
ture. Edited by Edw. Caldwell Rye. Loudon, Van Voorst, 1882. (8vo.) 

Zoologiscber Anzeiger. Herausgegeben von Prof. J. Victor Carus. V, Jabrgang^ 
1882. Leipzig, W. Engelmann, 1882. (8vo.) 

Zoologiscber Jaliresbericbt fUr 1880. Herausgegeben von der zoologischen Station za 
Neapel. Redigirt von J. Victor Cams. I. Abtb. AUgemeiues bis Vermes. II. 
Abtb. Artbropoda. III. Abtb. Tuuicata, Mollusca. IV. Abtb. Vertebrata. . 
Leipzig, Engelmanu, 1682. (8vo.) 



568 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882, 



DIRECTORY. 

International (The) Scientists' Directory. Containing the Names, Addresses, Special 
Departments of Study, etc., of Amateur and Professional Naturalists, etc., etc., in 
America, Europe, Asia, Africa, and Oceanica. Compiled by Sam. E. Cassino. Bos- 
ton, S. E. Cassino & Co, 1682. (8vo. vm, 391 pp.) 

SYSTEMATIC ZOOLOGY. 

Bert (Paul). Lectures sur I'histoire uaturelle des Animaux, suivies d'nu Vocabulaire 
des mots techniques employes dans I'ouvrage. Paris, Hachett« & Co., 1882. 
(r2mo. IV, 399 pp., 75 fig., Frcs. 2.) 

Brehm's Thierleben. Mit 170 Tafeln in Farbendruck, unter Leitung der Zoologen 
Dr. Girtanner, Klunzinger, O. Schmidt und Taschenberg uach dem Leben ausge- 
fiihrt vom Maler Olof Winkler. 4 Bd., 8 Heft, [etc.] Vogel. Leipzig, Bibliogr. 
Instit., 1881. (8vo. M. 1 each.) 

Bronu's Klassen und Ordnungen des Thierreichs. 1. Bd. Protozoa, neu bearbeitet 
von O. BUtschli. 10-19. Lief. 2. Bd., Porifera, neu bearbeitet von G. C. J.Vos- 
maer. 1 Lief. 6. Bd., 3. Abth. Eeptilien, von C. K. Hoflfmauu. 30—35. Lief, 
[etc.] Leipzig und Heidelberg, C. F. Winter'sche Verlagshandluug, 1882. (8vo. 
M. 1.50 each.) 

Claus (C.) Grundztige der Zoologie. 4. Aufl. 2. Bd. 2. Lief. (Schluss.) Marburg, 
Elwert, 1882. (8vo. M. 4.) 

■■ Trait6 de Zoologie. 2. ^dit. franc trad. sur. la 4. 6dit. allem. Eutiferement re- 

fondue et considerablement augment6e par G. Moquin-Taudou. Paris, 1882-'83. 
(8vo. 1. 2. Fasc.) ■ 

Edwards (A. Milne), filaments d'histoire naturelle des Animaux. I. Partie Zoologie 
m^thodique et descriptive. Paris, Masson, 1881. (18mo. 395 pp., 487 fig.) 

Hayek (Gustav von). Grofter Handatlas der Naturgeschichte aller drei Reiche. lu 
120 Folio-Tafeln ausgefuhrt von S. Czeiger in Wien. 1 — 4. Lief. Wien und Leip- 
zig, Mor. Perles, 1882. (Fol., M. 2 each.) 

Koehne (E.) Eepetitions-Tafeln fiir den zoologischenUnterricht anhoheren Lehran- 
stalten. 1. Hft. Wirbelthiere. 3. Aufl. 2. Hft. Wirbellose Thiere. 2. Aufl. 
Berlin, H. W. Miiller, 1882. (8vo. h M. 80.) 
/ Leonhardt (Carl). Vergleichende Zoologie fiir die Mittel und Oberstufe hoherer 
Schulen. Mit 18 lith. Taf. Jena, P. Matthaei, 188.3. (Sept., 1882. 8vo, xiv, 330 
pp. M. 6.) 

Leuckart (Rudolf) und H. Nitsche. Zoologische Wandtafelu zum Gebrauche an Uni- 
versitaten und Schulen. 4. Lief. Taf. X-XI. Cassel, Fischer, 1881. (M.S.) 

Lubarsch (O.) Systematischer Grundriss der Zoologie. 2. Theil. Wirbellose Thiere. 
Berlin, Hirschwald, 1882. (8vo, iv, pp. 135-255. M. 2.) 

ZOOTOMY. 

General. 

Aristoteles. On the Parts of Animals. Translated, with Introduction and Notes, 

by W. Ogle. London, Paul, 1882. (8vo, 280 pp. 12s. 6d.) 
Briihl (C. B.) Zootomie aller Thierklasseu fiir Lernende uach Autopsien skizzert. 

Lief, 26. Wien, A. Holder, 1882. (4to. M. 4 each.) 
Perrier (Edmond). Anatomie et Physiologic animales pour I'enseignement de la 

Zoologie dans la classe de philosoi^hie, etc. Avec 328 fig. Paris, Hachette & 

Co., 1882. (8vo, xii, 608 pp. Frcs. 8.) 
Schmidt (Edouard Oscar). Haudbuch der vergleichenden Anatomie. Leitfadon bei- 
. zoologischen und zootomischbu Vorlesungen. 8. Aufl. Jena, G. Fischer, 1882. 

(8vo, iv, 327 pp. M. 7.50.) 



ZOOLOGY. 569 

Invertebrates. 

Brooks (William K.) Handbook of Invertebrate Zoology for Laboratories and Sea- 
side Work. Boston, S. E. Cassino, 1882. (8vo, 392 pp.) 

EMBRYOLOGY. 

Metschnikoflf (E.) Vergleichend-embryologische Studien. 3. tlber die Gastrula 
einiger Metazoen. Mit 2 Taf. Zeitschrf. wise. ZooL, 37. Bd. 2. Hft. pp. 286-313. 

Valaoritis (Em.) Die Genesis des Thier-Eles. Nach der Tode des Verfassersheraus- 
gegeben von W. Preyer. Mit 3 Taf. ii. 1 Hotzschn. Leipzig, Th. Gneben's Ver- 
lag, 1882. (8vo, xii, 227 pp. M. 6.) 

EVOLUTION. 

Pusey (S. E. B. Bouverie). Permanence and evolution ; an Enquiry into the sup- 
posed Mutability of Animal Types. London, Kegan Paul, French & Co., 1882. 
(Bvo.) 

Romanes (George J.) The Scientific Evidences of Organic Evolution. London, 
MacMillan, 1882. (12vo, 88 pp., 2s. 6d. Nature Series.) 

NOMENCLATURE. 

Scudder (Samuel H.) Nomenclator Zoologicus. An alphabetical list of all generic 
names that have been employed by naturalists. Part 1. Supplemental List. 
Washington, Govt. Printing Office, 1882. (8vo, xxi, 376 pp. Bull. U. S. Nat. 
Mu8., No. 19.) 

TAXIDERMY. 

Martin (Ph. L.) Die Praxis der Naturgeschichte. 3 Theile. 3. Th. Naturstudien. 2. 
Halfte. Allgemeiner Naturschutz ; Einbilrgerung fremder Thiere und Gesund- 
heitspflege gefangener Saiigethiore und Vogel. Bearbeitet von Ph. L. Martin 
u. Sohu. Die Piiege gefangener Reptilien und Amphibien nebst Pflege und 
Ziichtung der Makropoden. Bearbeitet von Bruno Diirigen. Weimar, B. F. 
Voigt, 1882. (8vo, xv, 210, pp. M. 5.) 

GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION. 

General. 

Blanchard (Emile.) Les preuves de I'eftbndrement d'un continent austral pendant 
I'Age modeme de la Terre. Compt. rend. Acad. Sc, Paris, t. 94, pp. 386-393. 

Thom^ (Otto Wilhelm). Thier-undPlianzengeograpbie. Nach der gegenwartigenVer- 
breitung der Thiere und Pflanzen, so wie mitRiicksicht auf deren Beziehungzum 
Menschen dargestellt. Mit zahlreichen Voll-und TextbUdem in Uolzschn. 
Stuttgart, Spemann, 1882. (8vo. M. 14, 50.) 

Arctic Regions. 

Norske (Den) Nordhavs-Expedition, 1876-1878. VI. Zoologi. Christiania, 1882, 
viz : 

6. Holothuroidea, by D. C. Danielssen and Johan Koren. 2 titles, 95 pp., 13 pi. 
1 map. 1882. 

7. Annelida, by G. Armauer Hansen. 2 titles, 54 pp., 1 map, 7 pi., 1882. 

8. Mollusca. I. Buccinidae, by Herman Friele, 2 titles, 38 pp., 1 map, 6 pi., 1882 

North America. 

United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries. Part VII. Eejiort of the Commia 
sioner for 1879. — A. Inquiry into the decrease of food-fishes. B. The propaga- 
tion of food fishes in the waters of the United States. — Washington, Govt. Print- 
ing Office, 1882. (8vo, liv and 846 pp. ; many plates.) 



570 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1S82. 

Verrill (A. E.) Notice of the remarkable Marine Favma occupying the outer banks oif 
the Southern coast of New England. No. 7 ; and of some additions to the Fauna 
of Vineyard Sound. Amer. Journ. Sc, (3,) v. 24, p. 360-376. 

. Notice of recent additions to the Marine Invertebrata of the North Eastern 

coast of America, with descriptions of New Genera and Species, and critical Re- 
marks on others. Part IV. Additions to the Deep- Water Mollusca, taken off 
Martha's Vineyard in 1880 and 1881. Proc. U. S. ^at. Mns., v. 5, pp. 315-343. 

Eurojje. 

Germany. Vierter Bericht der Commission zur wissenschaftlichen Untersuchung 

der deutscheu Meere, in Kiel flir die Jahre 1877-1881. Herausgegeben von H. A. 

Meyer, K. Mobius, G. Karsten, V. Hensen, A. Engler, 7.-11. Jahrg. 1. Abth. 

Berlin, Parey, 1882. (Fol., xix, 184 pp., 15 Taf. M. 25.) 
Graeffe (Ed. ) Biologische Notizen uber Seethiere der Adria. 1. Uber die bei Oxyrhyn- 

chen Yorkommende Maskirung. Mit 2 Taf. Bollett. Soc. Adriat. Sc. Nat., v. 7. 

Fasc. 1, 1882. (U pp.) 

Suez Canal. 

Keller (Kour.) Die Fauna im Suez-Kanal und die Diffusion der mediterraneu und 
erythriiischen Thierwelt. Mit 1 Taf. und 1 Karte. Denkechr. d. schweiz. Ges. 
fiir die ges. Naturwias., 28. Bd., (39 pp.) 

Southern Faunag. 

Edwards (Alphonse Milne). Recherches sur la Faune des regions australes. Suite. 
Avec 6 pi. Ann. Sc. Xat. Zool., (6,) t. 13, Art. 5 (64 pp.) 

II. PROTOZOANS. 



Balbiani (E. G.) Les Organismes Unicellulaires. Lee Protozoairea. Legone faites 

au College de France. Journ. de Microgr., 6, ann. 
Biitechli (O.) Protozoa. Neu bearbeitet. 8. Lief. Leipzig, C. F. Winter, 1882. 

(Bronn's Klaesen und Ordnungen Thierreiche.) 
Lanessan ( J. L. de). Traite de Zoologie. Protozoaires. Paris, Doin, 1882. (8vo, vii, 

336p., 281 lig. Free. 10.) 

SPECIAL GROUPS. 

Infusorians. 

Kent (William Saville). A Manual of the Infusoria, including a description of all 

known Flagellate, Ciliate, and Tentaculiferous Protozoa, British and Foreign, and 

an account of the organization and affinities of the Sponges. London, 1880-1882. 

.(8vo.) 

Sporozoana. 

Balbiani (E.) Les Sporozoaires. Seconds partie du Cours d'Embryogenie compar6e, 
professe au College de France pendant le second semestre de 1882. Journ. de Mi- 
crogr., 6. ann., pp. 281-290; pp. 348-356; pp. 448-457. 

Schneider (Aime). Seconde Contribution h I'^tude des Gr6garines. Avec 1 pi. Arch. 
Zool. Experim., t. 10, pp. 423-450. 

Kenfs classification of the Infusorians. ^ 

In the report on the progress of zoology during 1881, a notice was 
given of "A Manual of the Infusoria," by Mr. W. Saville Kent, condensed 
from the journal of the Eoyal Microscopical Society : the notice of the 
work in that journal not having been entirely comprehensible, the ex- 



'V ZOOLOGY. 571 

cerpts were indicated by quotation marks. Some misapprehension was 
evidently entertained, as the classification really given by Mr. Kent is 
quite different from wbat would be supposed from the original notice. 
The Infusorians of Kent are accepted with nearly the same limits as were 
accorded to them by Pritchard, and are essentially those Protozoans 
which for some time have enjoyed the name, including the mouthed 
forms and certain others evidently related to them, though dectituteof 
the "mouth." The sponges are, however, also included in the group, 
although the best theoretical naturalists now regard them as the most 
generalized of metazoic animals, and thus diflerentiated as representa- 
tives of a series contrasting with the Protozoans. Three classes are ad- 
mitted by Mr. Kent for the Infusorians, and are designated by him 
Flagellata, Ciliata, and Tentaculifera. These three classes include about 
900 species, representing about 300 genera. 

Mr. Kent's work, so far as the details are concerned, will prove invalu- 
able to the student of the low forms described. It is not at all likely, 
however, that his philosophical conclusions will be generally accepted 
soon, or that they will stand the test of time. Some of the principal 
types of the animal kingdom are supposed to be genetically derivable 
from special types of Infusorians j for example, the Annelids from the 
Holotrichous (or Peritrichous) Ciliates, the Echinoderms, Polyzoaus, and 
Mollusks from the Peritrichous Ciliates, the Eotifers and Arthropods from 
the Hjpotrichous Ciliates; and the Coelenterates from the Tentaculifers. 
In other words, the complexities of the metazoic organism must have 
been many times independently attained from unicellular organisms, 
and the associations or colonies of cells known as metazoic animals must 
be supposed to repeat, as a whole, unessential features of protozoic ani- 
malcules. Doubtless many biologists will object to such conclusions. 

Families of Flagellates. 

The Flagellata have been extended by Mr. Kent to include not only 
the Mastigamcebidfe, the Euchitonidse, and the Noctilucidce, but also 
the Sponges, and quite subordinate rank is given to the Koctilucidae 
(treated as a simple family of the Eustomata), although many natural- 
ists regard the type as of class value and more differentiated than most 
of the Flagellates are from each other. The Flagellates thus reconsti- 
tuted are distributed among seven orders and thirty-nine families, not 
counting the Sponges, which are omitted from the work. The classifi- 
cation is as follows : 

Order 1. Tryanosomata, with 1 family — the Trypanosomatidae. 

Order 2. Ehizoflagellata, with 1 family, Mastigamoebidre. 

Orders. Eadioflngellata, with 2 families : (1.) Actinomonadidai and 
(2.) Euchitonidse. 

Order 4. Pantostomata, with 18 families: (1.) Monadidae; (2.) Pleu- 
romonadidse ; (3.) Cercomonadidae ; (4.) Codonoecidse ; (5.) Dendrom- 
onadidse; (6.) Bikoecidae; (7.) Amphimonadidae; (8.) Spongomonadidaej 



572 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

(9.) Heteromitidse; (10.)Trepomonadid8e; (ll.)Polytomid8e; (12.)Pseudo- 
sporidse; (13.) SpumellidsBj (14.) Trimastigidae ; (15.) Tetramitidoe; (16.) 
Hexamitidse ; (17.) Lophomonadidse ; and (18.) Catallactidae. 

Order 5. Ghoanoflagellata, or Discostomata, with 2 sections : 

Section I. Gymnozoida, with 3 families : (1.) Codonosigidae ; (2.) Sal- 
pingoecidse ; and (3.) Phalansteriidae. 

Section II. Sarcocrypta (the Sponges not described). 

Order 6. Eustomata, with 9 families : (1.) Paramonadidae; (2.) Asta- 
siadaej (3.) Eugleuidse ; (4.) IsToctilucidae ; (5.) GhrysomouadidsB; (6.) 
Zygoselmidae ; (7.) Chilomonadidae 5 (8.) Anisonemidse ; and (9.) Sphe- 
nomonadidse. 

Order 7. Cilioflagellata, with 5 families : (1.) Peridiniidse ; (2.) Heter- 
omastigidse ; (3.) Mallomonadidoe ; (4.) Stephanomonadidae j and (5.) 
Trichonemidae. 

The Families of Ciliates. 

Mr. Kent's " class " of " Ciliata" is identical with that called Infusoria 
(after the exclusion of the Suctoria) by some recent authors, e. g. Pro- 
fessor Glaus, and his orders bear names that have been current for some 
time. Perhaps the most noteworthy characteristic is the number of 
families which is greater than is given in any other text-book. Thirty- 
four are admitted, viz : 

Order 1. Holotricha, with 13 families : (1.) Paramoecidae ; (2.) Proro- 
dontidae; (3.) Trachelophyllidas ; (4.) Colepidae; (5.) Euchelyidae; (6.) 
Trachelocercidae ; (7.) Tracheliidae ; (8.) Ichthyophthiriidae ; (9.) Oph- 
ryoglenidae; (10.) Pleuronemidse ; (11.) Lembidae ; (12.) Trichonymphi- 
daB ; and (13.) Opalinidce. 

Order 2. Heterotricha, with 7 families: (1.) Bursariidae; (2.) Sjnros- 
tomidae; (3.) Stentoridae; (4.) Tintinnodae ; (5.) Trichodinopsidae ; (6.) 
Codonellidae ; and (7.) Galceolidae. 

Order 3. Peritricha, with 8 families: (1.) Torquatellidae ; (2.) Dicty- 
ocystidae; (3.) Actiuobolidae ; (4.) Halteriidae; (5.) Gyrocoridae; (6.) 
TJrceolariidaB; (7.) Ophryoscolecidae ; and (8.) Vorticellidae. 

Order 4. Hypotricha, with 6 families : (1.) Litonotidae 5 (2.) Ghlamy- 
dodontidae; (3.) Dysteriidas ; (4.) Peritromidae ; (5.) OxytrichidaB; and 
(6.) Euplotidae. 

The families of Tentaculifers. 

A special class is admitted for the reception of the suctorial Infuso- 
rians — the "Tentaculifera" — and its representatives, included by Glaus 
and other zoologists in one family, are distributed by Mr. Kent into two 
orders and six families, viz : 

Order 1. Suctoria, with 4 families : (1.) Ehynchetidae; (2.) Acinetidae; 
(3.) Dendrocometidae ; and (4.) Dendrosomidae. 

Order 2. A ctinaria, with 2 families: (1.) Ephelotidae; and (2.) Ophry- 
odendridae. 



ZOOLOGY. 573 

III. PORIFERS. 

Bowerbank (J. S.) A Monograph of the British Spongiadae. Edit >d with Mditions 

by A. M. Norman. Vol.4. (Supplementary.) Loudon, Eay Society, 1882. (8vo, 

xvii, 250 pp., 17 pi.) 
Marshall (W.) Die Ontogonie von Reuiera filigrana O. Schm. Zeitschr. f. ivies Zool., 37 

Bd., pp. 221-246, pi., 13-14. 
Vosmaer (G. C. J.) Porifera. Neu bearbeitet. 1. Lief. Leipzig, C. P. Winter, 1882. 

(Bronn's Klassen und Ordnungen Theirreicha, 2. Band. 8vo.) 
Weltner (Wilhelm). Beitriige zur Keuntniss der Spongien. Mit 3 Lichldrucktaf. 

Inaug.-DiBs. Freiburg, i, Br., 1882. (8vo, 62 pp.) 

Relati&ns of the Sponges. 

Inasmuch as Mr. Kent has raised again the question as to the affini- 
ties of the Sponges, the conclusions reached by Professor Marshall from a 
study of the development of Benierafiligrans, one of the Fibrous Sponges 
representing a family allied to the commercial species, may be aptly 
noticed here. After traversing the views of previous investigators, 
Marshall contends that the Sponges are less differentiated from the 
Coelenterates than some of those even who admit the value of its met- 
azoic characteristics — e. g. Balfour — have been disposed to concede. 
The Fibrous Sponges, by their developmental history, are shown to be 
less specialized than the calcareous types. The objection that the ab- 
sence of tentacles and nettle-cells is of prime importance is met by the 
assertion that such are also wanting in Beroe, and that, at any rate, it 
is no more than might be a priori looked for, on account of the habits 
and characteristics of nutrition of the forms. In fine, the Sponges are 
asserted to be derivatives in common with the typical Coelentrates from a 
Protactinian stock, and both are Metazoans with gastric cavities and 
mesenterial pouches and with centrifugal canals originating from the 
former, which may open to the exterior by pores and thereby take in 
nutriment ; they are invested by endodermal cells which may become 
converted into flagellate cells. (J. R. M. S., (2,) v. ii, p. 798.) 

IV. CCELENTERATES. 

GENERAL. 

Hamann (Otto). Studien libor Ccelanteraten. Mit2Taf. Jena. Zeitachr.f. Naturwisa, 
XV Bd., pp. 545-557. 

HYDROIDS. 

Hamann (Otto). Der Organismua der Hydroidpolypen. Mit 6 Ta£ Jena. Zeitschr. 

f. Naturwiaa., v. xv, pp. 473-544. 
Haeckel (Ernst). Report on the Deep Sea Medusae dredged by H. M. S. Challenger. 

With 32 pi. Report Sci&niif. Results, Challenger, Zool., v. iv, cv, 154 pp. 
Mereschkonsky (C. de). Structure et developpment des Nematophores Chez les Hy- 

droides. Avec 2 pi. Arch. Zool. JExjyerim., t. x, pp. 583-610. 

Primordial Medusae. 

The earliest indications of Medusae hithierto known have been of 
triassic age and found in the lithographic slate of Solenhofen. The con- 
sistency of these organisms naturally militates against their preserva- 



674 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

tion or even any indications of their existence, save in exceptional 
circumstances. But Mr. Natborst, of Sweden, has lately been pur- 
suing certain investigations wbicb may throw some light on their past 
history, and at the same time serve to explain the nature of certain 
problematical bodies discovered in the palaeozoic rocks of Scandi- 
navia. While visiting Oeresund numerous Medusae of the geuus Au- 
relia were cast ashore with the mouth downwards. "When he took up 
one he observed that it had sank in the soft ground by its own weight, 
and that its gastrovascular system had made a star-like impression," 
"which reminded him of a Cambrian fossil, described as iSjiatangopsu. 
^'He then followed the matter up further, partly by making impressions 
of various Medusae and partly by filling up their gastrovascular system 
with plaster, and so obtained a cast. The preparations thus made cor- 
responded so exactly in every detail with the problematical bodies from 
the Cambrian" that no doubt existed as to their analogy. " The stars 
and pyramids are casts of the gastrovascular systems of the Medusae, 
the rays of the stars and the angles of the pyramids correspond with 
the arms, and the crescent-shaped projections occasionally occurring 
between the angles are casts of the genital cavities. The impressions 
on the slabs of rocks are produced by Medusae thrown on the shore, and 
which, sinking more or less into the soft ground by their own weight, 
make a more or less complete imj^ression of the body-cavity. The 
bodies lying free in the clay were probably produced by Medusae which 
lay on their backs, their gastrovascular system becoming filled up with 
the sand or mud. There are some Medusae which do not swim, but sink 
into the mud on their backs, and lie still watching for their prey." The 
"rays" in the fossils vary from four to five. It is urged, however, that 
•even "in the present day individuals are found with five, six, or nine 
rays," but it is admitted that "certainly this deviation from the normal 
number appears more frequently in the Cambrian Medusae than in the 
existing species." In further e\idence of the medusoid nature of the 
Cambrian fossils, it is stated, among other things, that "the impression 
•/jf the disk and traces of the tentacles are distinctly seen round a four- 
rayed star on a rock from Luguas." In fine, the testimony seems to 
Mr. Nathorst to justify the identification of the fossils in question as 
true Medusae, and three "species" are considered to be recognizable 
among those found in the deposits at Lugnas. Inasmuch as the names 
Spatangopsis and Astylospongia, which had been proposed for the Cam- 
brian organisms, were given under a misapj^rehension as to their rela- 
tionships and convey misleading ideas, the new Medtisites has been pro- 
posed, and the three species have been designated as M. radiatus (ex 
Linnarson), M. Lindstromi (ex Linnarson), and 31. favosus (n. sp.). If the 
alleged fa<3t8 and conclusions are confirmed, the results of the investi- 
gation recorded are of unusual interest, as it establishes the contempo- 
raneity of Medusae with the oldest animals of which we have distinct 
evidence. (J. R. M. S., (2 II. 326-327), from Handl. K. Svenska Yeton- 
43kab Akad., xix. 



ZOOLOGY. 575 

V. ECHINODERMS. 

GENERAL. 

Ludwig (H.) Morphologische Studieu an Echinodermeu. ii Bd, 2. Hft. Mit. 

SPECIAL ORDERS. 
Crinoids. 

Bell (F. Jeffrey). An attempt to apply a method of formulation to the species of the 

Comatulidae ; with the description of a new species. With 1 pi. Proc. Zool. Soc. 

London, 1882. " Pp. 530-586. Ahstr. in Journ. B. Microsc. Soc, (2,) vol. ii, p. 791. 
Carpenter (Phillip). On the Relations of Hyrocrinus, Bcerocrinus, and Hybocystites. 

With 1 pi. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc, London, vol. xxxviii, p. 298-312. 
W^achsmnth (Ch.) and F. Springer. Revision of the Palteocriuoidea. Part III. Proc. 

Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila,, 1882. 

Echinoida. 

Kohler (R.) Sur quelqnes essais d'hybridation entre diverses especes d'Echinoid^es. 
Compt. rend. Acad. Sci., Paris, t. 94, pp. 1203-1205. 

Ophiiiroids. 

Verrill (A. E.) Restoration of the Disk in Ophiuraus. Amer. Journ. Sci., (3,) v. xxiii, 
p. 408: Ann. 4' Mag. Nat. Hist. (5,) v. ix, pp. 47&-477. 

Asierioids, 

Ludwig (Hub.) Entwicklungsgeschichte der Asterina gibbosa. Forb. Mit 8 Taf. 

Zeitschr.f. tvis-s. Zool, 37 Bd., pp. 1-98. 
Perrier (Edmond.) Sur une Astdrie des grandes profondeurs de I'Atlantique, pourvue 

d'un p^donculo dorsal ICaulaster pedunculatus, n.] Compt. rend. Acad. Sci. Paris, 

T. 95, pp. 1379-1381. 

Holothurioids. 

Jourdan (Et.) Sur les organes sexuels males et les organes de Cuvier des Holothu- 
ries. Compt. rend. Acad. Sci. Parts, t, 95, pp. 252-254. 

Hyhrization among Echinoids. 

Mr. E. Kohler lias made "some experiments in hybridization between 
different species of Echinoidea," and found, that cross fecundations "are 
possible between different species of Echinoidea, and that between very 
wide limits," as, for example, between a Spatangus and a PsammechinuSj 
which he thonght (without sufi&cient justification) were at least as differ- 
ent as two mammals of allied orders. "And if the plutei obtained by 
crossing between regular Echinoids do not appear to differ much from 
the legitimate plutei of the type functioning as female in the experi- 
ments, there are certainly well marked differences between a legitimate 
pluteus of Spatangm and a hybrid pluteus of Spatangus and Psamme- 
cMnus^ He calls si)ecial attention to the fact that " because the ova 
of a species when fecundated by the spermatozoidsof another species ar- 
rived at the state of pluteus, it does not follow that the converse is true. 
Thus, the ovules of Spatangus are perfectly fecundated by the sperma- 
tozoids of Psammeeliiniis, but the ovules of the latter, subjected to the 
influence of the semen of the Spatangus^ remain for the most part in- 
tact, while the rest scarcely reach the blastula stage." 



676 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

VI. WORMS. 

ORTHONECTIDS. 

Julin (Charles). Contribution 5, I'histoire des M^sozoaires. Recherches sur I'organ- 
isation et le d6veloppement embryonnaire des Ortbonectides. Avec 3 pi. Arch, de 
Biolog., t. Ill, pp. 1-54. 

DICYEMIDS. 

Van Benedeu (Edouard). Contribution h I'histoire des Dicyemides. Avec 2 pi. Arch. 

de Biolog., t. 3, pp. 195-228. 
Whitman (C. 0.). A contribution to the embryology, life-history, and classification 

of the Dicyemids. With 5 plates. MitiheU. Zoolog. Station eu Neapel, iv bd, pp. 

1-89. 

Characteristics of the Dicyemids. 

The peculiar parasites known as Dicyemids, found in the renal organs 
of the Dibranchiate Cephalopods, have been the subject of an elaborate 
monograph by Dr. O. 0. Whitman, and much light has been thrown on 
their true nature. 

The Dicyemids are of special interest, inasm.uch as Professor Van Bene- 
den regarded them as the constituents of a i)rimary group of animals in- 
termediate between the Protozoans and Metazoans (all animals above 
Protozoans), distinguished as many-celled animals, developing only two 
germ-layers, and destitute of a mesoderm. Dr. Whitman's studies, how- 
ever, have led him to consider that the " Dicyemids may be said to have 
a transient triploblastic stage, represented by an ectodermal layer, an 
axial endodermic cell, and two intermediate mesodermic cells, derived 
from the two poles of the endodermic cell." 

Prof. Edouard Yan Beueden was led to believe that there was an 
extraordinary parallelism as to mutual relations between the Dicyemids 
and their hosts, and that they were differentiated in ratio to the ceph- 
alopods — genus for genus and species for species ; thus, two species of 
Dicyema accompanied two species of Octopus, two of Bioyemella two of 
Eledone, two of Dicyemina two of Sepia, and one of Dicyemopsis one of 
Sepiola. Dr. WTiitman, on the contrary, failed to confirm the generic sub- 
divisions of Van Beneden and discovered that the species of Dicyemids 
were not limited respectively to single species of cephalopods, or the 
sole parasites of their kind on their respective hosts. The American 
naturalist was led to differentiate all the known Dicyemids into two 
genera; Dicyema with one eight-celled "head" or calotte, including 
seven species, and Bicyemennea, with a nine-celled calotte, formed for 
three other species. In two species of Decaceres of different families 
were found two species of Dicyemids of the two genera (but different 
sets of species), and the same species of Dicyemids were found in two 
or three species of cuttle fishes. 

PLATYHELMINTHES. 

Francotte (P.). Sur Fappareil escr6teur des Turbellairds Rbabdocoeles et Dendro- 
coeles. Avec 1 pi. Bull. Acad. Sc.,Belg. (3), t. in, pp. 88-98. 



ZOOLOGY. 577 

Adaptation to environment of Trematods. 

Professor Ercolani has publisbed a useful summary of facts in the 
development of Trematods related to adaptation for environment. (1) 
The succession of i^hases of development is not always the same in all 
Trematods, some leaving the eggs as ciliated embryos requiring water, 
and others as non-ciliated ones, developing in terrestrial gastropods ; (2) 
the different phases of development are not the same for all encysta- 
tion, e. g., being sometimes omitted ; (3) a special form of scissiparous 
generation may occur e. g., in the racemose sporocysts where certain 
living parts (as in Polyzoans and Hydroids) are connected by atrophied 
stolons ; (4) the direct conversion of the tail of a cercaria into a nurse 
sometimes occurs; (5) encystation may not only be normal, but also 
accidental or abnormal. 

It is far from true that there is a determinate relation between Trem- 
atods and Mollusks, and that the latter have only one species each ; 
Bythinia tentaadata, e. g., has as many as twelve different species of 
cercariae. (J. E. M. S., (2) v. 3, p. 784, from Arch. Ital. Biol, v. 1, p, 
439-453.) 



NEMATELMINTHS. 



Diasche (Rich. von). Revision der in der Nematoden-Sanimlung des k. k. zool. Hof- 

Cabiuots befindlichen Original Exemplare Diesing's und Molins. Mit. 4 Taf. 

Verhandl. k. k. zool. bot. Ges. Wien, 1882, pp. 117-138. 
Fourment (L.). Sur la vitality des Tricliines enkyst6es dans les viandes salves. 

Compt. rend. Ac. Sc. Paris, t. 94, p. 1211-1213. 
M6gnln (P.). Sur de petits Helminthes aganies ekyst^s qui peuvent 6tre confondus 

et qui 1' ont 6t6 avec la Trichina Spiralis. Avec 3 pi. Bull. Soc. zool. France, 6. 

Ann. p. 189-198. 
M^gnin(P.). Sur 1' organisation de la boucbe des Dochmius on Ankylostomes, apro- 
pos de parasites de ces deux genres trouv^s cbez le cblen. Compt. rend. Acad. 

Sc. Paris, t. 94, p. 663-666. 
Orley (L.). Report on the Nematodes in the possession of the Britisb Museum, with 

a review of the classification of the order. With 1 pi. Ann. & Mag. of Nat. Hist., 

(5,) V. 9, p. 301-318. 
Orley (L.). Monographic der Anguilluliden. Mit. 7 Taf. Term^sz Fiizetek, v. 4, 

p. 154-177 (Deutsches Auszug d. ungar. geschriebenen Arbeit., p. 16-150). 
Schulthess (Wilhelm). Beitrage zur Anatomic von Ankylostoma duodenale (Dubini)= 

Dochmius duodenalis (Leuckart). Mit 2 Taf . Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., 37 Bd., p. 

163-220. 

The Nematoid Worms. 

Dr. L. Orley has recently studied the Nematoids in the British Museum 
and has come to the conclusion that there are three •' suborders " although 
"there are perhaps few orders in which so continuous a series of forms 
exists as in the Nematodes." His views as to the question of relationship 
between parisitism and non-parisitism and classification may be gleaned 
from his daignosis of the several groups. 

1. The Nematentozoa are " thread worms completing their early 
stage in the free condition, their maturity as parasites in the bodies of 
H. Mis. 26 37 



578 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

tlie higher or the lower animals j the species being propagated by the 
production of immense numbers of ova, whose development is more or 
less complicated." This group includes most of the nematoids and is 
exemplified by the Ascarides, Filarise, etc. The groups proposed by 
Schneider — Polymyarii, Meromyarii, and Holomyarii — are adopted for 
its constituent genera. 

2. The Ehabditiformes are "small, chiefly microscopic thread- worms, 
which live generally free, but in exceptional cases as parasites, and have 
without exception the power of developing to the sexually mature state 
in organic substances in a state of decomposition, or in earth saturated 
with such substances, such condition being necessary to the process." 
Only two species were represented in the British Museum. 

3. The AnguillulidsB are ''small microscopic thread-worms leading a 
free existence in mould or in water throughout all their stages, devel- 
oping without a complete metamorphosis." The common Vinegar eel 
is the type. 

ANNELIDS. 
1. GENERAL. 

Kleinenberg (N.). De 1' origine dusystfeme nerveux central dee Ann^lides. Arcli. Ital. 

Biol., t. 1, p. 63-77. 
Verrill (A. E.). New England Annelida. Parti. Historical Sketch, with annotated 

lists of the species hitherto recorded. Trans. Conn. Acad. Arts. & Sc, v. 4, p. 

285-324, 324 a— e., pi. 3-12. 

2. SPECIAL ORDERS. 

Folychceta. 

Giard (Alfred). Sur un type synthetique d'Anndllide (Anoplonereis Hermanni) com- 
mensal des Balanoglossus. Compt. rendus Acad. Sc. Paris, t. 95, p. 389-391. 

Haswell (Will. A.). On the Structure and Functions of the Elytra of the Aphrodi- 
tacean Annelids. Ann. & Mag., Nat. Hist., (5,) v. 10, p. 238-242. 

Kennel (J.). Ueber Ctenodrilus pardalis Clap. Ein Beitragzur Kenntnis der Anato- 
mie und Knospung der Anneliden. Mit 1 Taf. Arb. Zool.-zoot. Instit. Wiirz- 
burg. Bd. 5, p. 273-429. 

Wilson (Edmund B.). Observations on the Early Developmental Stages of some 
Polychietous Annolides. With 4 pi. Stud. Biolog. Laborat. Johns Hopkins Uui- 
vers., V. 2, p. 271-300. 

Powell (Thomas). Remarks on the Structure and Habits of the Coral-reef Annelid 
Palolo viridis. Journ. Linn. Soc. London, Zool., v. 16, p. 393-396. 

A periodical worm. 

One of those forms whose movements coincide with the phases of the 
moon once every year at least, appears to be established as the Palolo 
or Mbalolo of certain of the coral archipelagoes of the Pacific — Samoa, 
Viti, and the Gilbert group. The Palolo is an annelid related to the 
Nereids, and its binominal designation is Palolo viridis. It was first 
scientifically described by Dr. J. D. Macdonald in 1857 (Trans. Linn. 
Soc, London, V. 22, pp. 237-239, pi. 41). The Fijian name has ref- 



ZOOLOGY. 579 

erence to the coincidence of its movements with the moon, and when 
the worm makes its appearance it does so in snch vast numbers that it 
is collected by the natives as a dainty article of food, and is so much 
prized that formal presents of it are often sent considerable distances, 
from certain chiefs, to others whose small dominions do not happen 
to be visited by the Mbalolo." The worms only make their appearance 
to spawn, and "the time of their appearance is the day of the last 
quartering of the moon in October, unless that fall at the beginning of 
the month, in which case there will intervene another lunar month." 
So says the Eev. T. Powell, and he adds that "the observations of 
many years, made by many old European inhabitants as well as by the 
natives, show that, if from the time of spawning in October, we reckon 
354 or 355 days, that will bring us to another spawning, unless such 
reckoning terminate at the end of September or the beginning of Oc- 
tober, say from the 1st to the 4th day. In that case the reckoning 
must extend to 383 or 384 days, when the Palolo will appear. Thus, 
instead of an interval of only twelve lunar months, one of thirteen will 
occur. Whether the moon, directly., has anything to do with the move- 
ments of the Palolo, may be still an open question, but that there is a 
coincidence between the two, seems to be beyond doubt. But although 
the great host of Palolo makes its appearance as indicated, according 
to Mr. Powell, "there is a second appearance of Palolo each year, 
occurring a month after the first, consisting of such worms, probably, 
as were not sufficiently mature to spawn in October, or, it may be, of 
an other species." 

VII. ARTHEOPODS. 

MEROSTOMES. 

Trilobites. 

Edwards (H. Milne). Compte rendu des nouvelles recherches de M. Walcott sur la 
structure des Trilobites, suivi de quelques considerations sur I'interpretation 
des faits aussi constates. Avec 3 pl. Ann. Sc. Nat., (6,) Zool., t. 12, Art. No. 3. 
(33 p.). 

Schmidt (Fr.). Revision der ostbaltischen silurischen Trilobiten nebst geognostischer 
Uebersicbt des ostbaltischen Silurgebiets. Abth.l. Pbacopiden, Cheiruriden und 
Encrinuriden. Mit. 16. Taf. Mem. Acad. St. Petersburg., 7. Ser., No. 1. (237 
p.— M. 15.) 

XipTioaura. 

Moseley (H. N.). The Development of Limulus. Ann. & Mag. of Nat. Hist. (5), v. 9, 
' p. 412. 

Moseley (H. N,). Limulus. Nature, v. 25, p. 582. 

Packard (A. S., jr.). Is Limulus an Arachnid? Amer. Naturalist, v. 16, p. 287-292; 
Ann. & Mag. of Nat. Hist. (5), v. 9, p. 369-374. 

Is Limulus an Arachnid ? 

An abstract of Prof. Eay Lankester's contention that "Limulus [is] an 
Arachnid" has been reviewed by Professor Packard. It is recalled that 



580 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1882. 

Limulus differs from Arachnids " in having trachese, no spiracles, and 
no Malphigian tubes," and "also in having compound eyes, no functional 
mandibles or maxillse," &c. Professor Packard especially objects to the 
comparison of the nervous system of Limulus with that of the Scorpion; 
in reference to Professor Lankester's claim that " between the sixth ab- 
dominal segment and the spine there are six segments," he ventures to 
suggest that four of these segments are purely imaginary ; in opposition 
to Professor Lankester "would continue to regard the anal spine as the 
telson "; repudiates Professor Lankester's interpretation of the nature of 
the compound eyes, the respiratory amellse, the four last pair of biramous 
respiratory feet, and the " parabranchial stigmata" of Limulus, and cites 
the alleged discovery of a naupliiform larva of the Japanese Limulus by 
Willemoes-Suhm. 

Professor Mosely, in answer to Professor Packnard, renews expression 
of faith in the views of Professor Lankester as to the relationship of 
Limulus to the Arachnids, and shows that Willemoes-Suhm was mis- 
taken in referring this naupliiform larva to Limulus. 

CRUSTACEANS. 

FAUNAS. 

North America. 

Smith (Sidney I.). Occasional occurrences of tropical and subtropical species of De- 
capod Crustacea on the coast of New England. Trans. Conn. Acad. Arts and 
Sci., V. 4, p. 254-267. 

Reports on the results of dredging by the United States Coast Survey steamer 

Blake. Report on the Crustacea. Part I. Decapoda. Bull. Mus. Comp. ZooL, 
V. 10, p. 1-108, 16 pi. 

Eu7'ope. 

Joliet (Lucieu). Observations sur quelques Crust^ces de la Mediterran^e. Archiv. 
Zool. Experiment., t. 10, p. 101-120 (viz: 1. Sur une troisi€me esp^ce du g. La- 
mippe, L. Duthiersii, parasite du Paralcyonium elegaus M. Edw. ; 2. Sur I'usage 
des pieds dorsaux chez les Crustac6s Notopodes; 3. Un exemple de Mim^tisme) 
Pontonia diazona n. sp.) 

Sars (G. O.). Oversigt of Norges Crustaceer med forelbige Bemaerkninger over de 
nye eller mindre bekjendte Arter. I. (Podophthalmata, Cumacea, Isopoda, Amphi- 
poda.) Med. 6 autograph PI. (Christian. Vidensk. Selsk-Forhandl. 1882, No. 18.) 
(124 p.) Note. — 576 sp. are enumerated for the Fauna, of which 107 are new. 

Australia. 

Haswell (Will. A.). Catalogue of the Australian stalk and sessile-eyed Crustacea. 
Printed by order of the trustees [of the Australian Museum Sydney]. Sydney, 
1882. (8v, xxiv. 324 p., Addenda, Explan. of pi., 4 pi.) 

SPECIAL GROUPS. 

Branchipods. 

Herrick (C. L.). A new genus and species of the Crustacean family Lyncodaphnidse. 
Amer. Naturalist, v. 16, p. 1006-1007, pi. 16. 



ZOOLOGY. 581 

Pycnogonids. 

Hoek(P. P. C.)- Nouvelles etudes 8ur les Pycnogonides. Avec. 8pl. Arch. Zool. Ex- 
periment, t. 9, p. 445-542. 

. Pycnogonides du Challenger. Traduction du Resume general de I'auteur. 

Arch. Zool. Experiment, t. 9, note, p. xlix-lii. 

Copepods. 

Biesbrecht (W.). Beitrage zur Kenntnis einiger Notodelphiden. Mit. 3Taf. Mittheil. 
Zool. Station Neapel, 3 Bd.', p. 293-372. 

Edriophthalma. 
Kossmann (R.). The Entonisddae. With 1 pi. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), v. 10, p. 

81-99. 
Mocquard (C). Sur les amxioules pyloiques des Crustaces isopodes. Compt. rend. 

Ac. So. Paris, t. 94, p. 1208-1211. 
Schiodte (J.), et Fr. Meiuert. Symbolae ad Monographiam Cymolhoarum, Crustaceo- 

rum Ispodum Familiae. II. Anilocridae. Cum 10 tab. Naturhistor. Tidsskr. 

(3,) 13. Bd. p. 1-166. 
Wals (Rud.). Ueber die Familie der Bopyriden mit besonderer Berucksichtigung der 

Fauna der Adria. Mit. Taf. Wien., Alfr. Holder, 1882. (Arbeit. Zool. Inst. 

Wien., t. 4, Hft. 2, (p. 125-200.) 

DecaiJods. 
Vitzou (Alexandre N.). Recherches sur la structuro, et la formation des teguments 

chez les Crustac68 D^capodes. Avec 6 pi. Archiv. Zool. Experiment., t. 10, p. 

451-576. 
Guppy (H. B.). Note on the cocoanut-eating habit of the Birgua in the Solomon 

Group. -Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales, v. 7, p. 661-665. 

Tropical Crustaceans in New England waters. 

Crustaceans of various kinds are apt to be carried far from their cus- 
tomary habitats, especially in their embryonic stages, by currents or 
other causes, and Prof. Sidney I. Smith has recorded a number of such 
visitants to the coast of New England. Ten species of Decapods have 
been thus signalized, the most noteworthy of which are the common 
West Indian and Southern Ocypode quadrata or arenaria, Gra2)SHS 
pictus, Pacliygrapsus transversuSj and Calappa marmorata. The Qrapuns 
(1 specimen) and Pacliygrapsus (4 specimens) were obtained in the adult 
condition from the bottoms of whalers in Provincetown Harbor, while 
the Ocyopode and Calappa were found in considerable numbers, in the 
eraryonic stage, at Wood's Holl, Massachusetts. 

A parasitic Cirriped. 

To the numerous and remarkable parasites of the animal kingdom a 
strange one has recently been added by Professor Tozzetti, of Florence. 
A small pedunculated cirriped or barnacle {Ornitliolepas australis) has 
been discovered living upon the ends of the abdominal feathers of a 
pufBn — the Priofinus cinereus. The anomaly arises from the fact that 
the cirripeds are branchiferous, and especially fitted for submarine life, 
while the puffin, although a waterfowl, is "one of the most aerial of 



582 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882.' 

birds." Nevertheless, all of the puffins taken in the Soutli Atlantic and 
Indian Oceans — nearly a hundred — were found to be infested with the 
cirripeds. 

Cocoanut-eating Grabs. 

It has long been known that a large terrestrial relative of the hermit- 
crabs, known as Birgus latro, inhabiting the Philippine Islands, feeds 
on cocoanuts, and Darwin, in his Voyage of a Naturalist (ed. 1860, p. 
468), has recorded the observations on its attack on the husk of the 
nut made by an English resident of Keeling Island. Mr. Guppy has 
lately found on an uninhabited islet of the Solomon Group a species 
sup];)osed to be the Birgus latro, and recorded his observations. He 
found an individual about 15 inches long, which had apj)arently "not 
only husked the shell, but also broken the hole at the eye-hole end of 
the nut" itself: in confinement it did not actually accomplish such a 
feat. "On one occasion the Birgus was surprised with the nut between 
its large claws; but notwithstanding that no other food was otfered to 
it for a day and a half, it did not attempt to. strip off the bark ; so the 
operation was done for it, and a small hole was knocked in the top of the 
shell." The Birgus was kept alive by Mr. Guppy for three weeks, and 
"its appetite for cocoanuts continued unimpaired to the last day of its 
life." It consumed about two nuts in three days, or at the rate of about 
250 a year. "Other foods, such as bananas, were offered to it, but were 
left untouched." 

It may be here noted that the stomachal armature of Birgus has been 
recently described by Mr. Mocquard in the Annales des Sciences Na- 
turelles. 

ARACHNIDS. 

General. 
Bertkau (Pli.) Ueber das Cribellum und Calamistrum. Ein Beitrag zur Histiologie, 

Biologie und Systematik der Spinnen. Mit Abild. Arch. f. Naturgescb., 48. 

Jahrg.,pp. 316-362. 
MacLeod (Jul. ) Recberches sur la structure et la signification de I'appareil respiratoire 

des Aracbnides. Avec fig. Bull. Acad. Sc. de Belgique, (3, ) t. 3 ; pp. 779-792. 

FAUNAS. 
Europe. 

Cambridge (O. P.). Notes on British Spiders, with descriptions of three new species 
and characters of a new genus. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (5), v, 9, pp. 1-13, pi. 1, 

1882. 

Australia. 

Koch (L.). Die Arachniden Australiens noch derNatur beschrieben und abgebildet. 
Fortgesetzt von Graf E. Keyserling. 30 Lief. Niirnberg, Bauer & Raspe, 1882. 
(4°. M. 9.). 

SPECIAL GROUPS. 

Jcariana. 
Kramer (P.) Ueber Gamasiden. Mit 2 Taf. Archiv f. Naturgesch., 48. Jahrg, pp. 
374- 434. 



ZOOLOGY. 583 

Araneians. 

Emerton (J. H.). New England Spiders of the famity Tlierididae. Trans. Conn. Acad. 

Arts & Sc, V. 6, pp. (86) with 24 pi. 
Campbell (F. Maule). On a probable case of Parthenogenesis in the House-Spider 

(Tegenaria Guyonii). Journ. Linn. Soc. London, Zool,, v. IG, pp. 536-539. 

Spiders of Great Britain. 

The Rev. O. P. Cambridge completed, in 1881, the publication of a 
monograph on the " Spiders of Dorset " (in the Proceedings of the Dorset 
Natural History and Antiquarian Field Club), and in a subsequent 
article has added several other species, and given the statistics of the 
Arachnid fauna of Great Britain. It appears therefrom that " the num- 
ber of spiders recorded in Great Britain and Ireland is 620 ; but there is 
little doubt that this number might be considerably increased by diligent 
search in many as yet untried localities, especially when we consider 
that a small area of Dorsetshire alone has produced nearly 400 species." 

New England Theridiid Spiders. 

An illustrated monograph of the spiders of the family of Theridiids 
inhabiting New England has been published by Mr. J. H. Emerton, 
almost the only student of the spiders in the United States. As might, 
therefore, be expected from a field so little cultivated, a very large pro- 
portion of the species was previously undescribed. One hundred and 
thirty-four species of the family have been described and illustrated 
by Mr. Emerton, and of these no less than 85 were "new." — (Verrill in 
A. Jr. S., (1,) V. 24, p. 477.) 

INSECTS. 
GENERAL. 

Systematic. 

Austin (E. P.). A Manual of Entomology. Directions for collecting, preparing, and 

mounting insects of all orders. Boston. (12mo.) 
Brehm (A. E.). Merveilles de la Nature. Les Insectes. fidit. franj. par J. Kunckel 

d'Hercules. 2-6. b6t. Livr. 11 ^ 60. Paris, J. B. Bailli&re et fils, 1882. 
Camerano (Lor.) Anatomia degli Insetti. Con. 57, figure . . . e nove tav. dopp. in 

fotolit. Torino, Loescher, 1882. (8vo. viii, 251 pp.) 
Hocejo y Kosillo (J.) Manual de Eutomologia. Tom. 1. Madrid, 1882. (8vo., 248pp.) 
Karsch (A.). Die Insektenwelt. Eln Taschenbuch zu entomologischen Excursionen 

flir Lehrer und Lernende. 2. Aufl. Leipzig, O. Lenz, 1882. (8vo.) 

Periodicals. 

Annales de la Soci6t6 Entomologique de France. 5 s6r., t. 12, Paris, 1882. (8vo.) 
Bullettino della Society. Entomologica Italiana. Anno xiv. Firenze, 1882. (8vo.) 
Entomologiske Tidskrift. Utgifv. af Jac. Spangberg. 1882. Stockholm, 1882. (8vo.) 
Mittheilungen der Schweizerischen Entomologischen Gesellschaft. Bulletin de la 

Soci6t6 Entomologique Suisse, v. 7. Schaffhausen, 1882. (8vo.) 
Papilio. Organ of the New York Entomological Clnb. v. 2. New York, 1882. (8vo.) 
Psyche. Organ of the Cambridge Entomological Club. v. 4. Cambridge, JIass., 

1882. (8vo.) 



584 SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOR 1882. 

Socidt^ Entomologique de Belgique. Comptes-rendus des stances. 3. s6t. Bruxelles 

1882. (8vo.) 
Stettiner Entoniologisclie Zeitung. 43. Jahrg. Stettin, Grobmann, 1882. (8vo.) 
Zeitschrift fiir Entomologie. Herausgegeben vom Verein fiir schlesisclie Insecten- 

kuude zu Breslau. Neue Folge. Breslau, Maruschke & Berendt in Comm., 1882. 

(8vo.) 

Physiology. 

Barrett (Charles G. ). The Influence of Meteorological Conditions es Insect Life. En- 

toraolog. Monthly Mag., V. 19, p. 1-8. 
Bennett (Alfred). On the Constancy of Insects in their visits to Flowers. Report 51. 

Meet. Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sc, p. 667-668. 
Graber (Vitus). Die chordotonaleu Sinnesorgane u. das Gehor der Insecten. II. Phy- 

siologischer Theil. Mit 4 Holzschn. Arch. f. mikroskop. Anat.,21. Bd., p. 65- 

145. 
Hagen (H. A.). On the Color and Pattern of Insects. Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sc. 

V. 17, p. 234-267. 
Miiller (Fritz). On some difflcult cases of mimicry. Nature, v. 26, p 436. 
MUller (Hermann). Weitere Beobachtungen iiber Befruchtung der Blumen durch In- 
secten. III. Mit 2 Taf. Verhandl. naturhist. Ver preuss. Rheinl. u. Westf. 

Bonn. 
Plateau (Felix). Recherches exp^rimentales sur les mouvements respiratoires des 

Insectes. Bull. Acad. Sc. Belgique (3), t. 3, pp. 727-737. 

Economical entomology. 

Hagen (H. A.). Experiments with yeast in destroying Insects. Canad. Entomologist, 

1882. pp. 38-39. 
Packard (A. S. ), jr., Insects injurious to Forest and Shade Trees. U. S. Entomol. Com- 

miss. Bull. No. 7. Washington, 1881. (8vo., 275 pp., 100 fig.) 

FAUNAS. 

Hurope. 

Erichson (W. F.), H. Schaum, etc. Naturgeschichte der Insecten Deutschlands. 1. 

Ab theil. Coleoptera. 3. Bd. 3 Ab theil., 1. Lief. Bearbeitet von Edm. Reitter. 

Berlin, Nicolai, 1882. (8vo, vi, 298 pp. M. 4. 50.) 
Fairmaire (L^on). Histoire naturelle de la France. 8. Partie ; Col6opt&res. Avec 27 

pi. et. fig. Paris, Deyrolle, 1882. (8vo., 381 pp.) 
Wood (J. G.). Common British Insects, selected from the Typical Beetles, Moths, 

and Butterflies of Great Britain. With 120 tig. by E. A. Smith, engraved by G. 

Pearson. Loudon, Longmans, 1882. (8vo., 292 pp. 3s. 6d.) 

Fossil Insects. 

Deichmiiller (J. V.). Fossile Insecten aus dem Diatomeenschieffer von Kutschlin bei 
Bilin, Bohmen. Mit 1 Taf. Halle, Leipzig, W. Engelmann in Comm. 1881. (1882. 
4°. aus : Nova Acta Acad. Leop. Carol., vol. 42, No. 6, 293-331 pp. M. 3. 

SPECIAL GROUPS. 

Myriapods. 

(Protosyngnaths.) 

Scudder (Samuel H.). The affinities of Palwocampa Meek and Worthen as evidence 
of the wide diversity of type in the earliest known Myriapods. Amer. Journ. Sc, , 
(3,) V. 24, pp. 151-170; Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., (5,) v. 10, pp. 286-295. 



ZOOLOGY. y 585 

( Archipolypods, ) 

Scudder (Samuel H.). Archipolypoda, a subordinal type of spined Myriapods firom 
the Carboniferous Formation. With 4 pi. Mem. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., v. 3, pp. 
143-182. 

(Chilopods.) 

Voges (Ernst). Das Respirationssystem der Scutigeriden. Zool. Anz., 5. Jhg., pp. 
67-69. 

Hexapoda. • 
Aptera. 

Taschenburg (Otto). Die Mallophagen, mit besonderer Beriicksichtigung der von 
Dr. Meyer gesammelten Arten sysematisch bearbeitet. Mit 7 Taf. Nova Acta 
Acad. Cses. Leop. Carol., v. 44, No. 1. 

Orthopters. 

Berlese (Ant.). Osservazioni sulla anatomia descrittiva del Gryllua campestris. 

Con 4 tav. Atti Soc. Yen. -Trent. Padova, v. 7, pp. 200-299.» 
Brogniart (Charles). Observations sur la manifere dont les Mantes construisent leurs 

oothfeques ; sur la structure des oothfeques ; sur I'^closion et la premiere mue des 

larves. Ann. Soc. Entomol. France (6), t. 1, pp. 449-452. 
Brunner von Wattenwyl (C. ). Prodromus der europaischen Orthopteren. Mit 11 

Taf u. IKarte. Leipzig, W. Eugelmann, 1882 (8vo., xxxii, 466 pp. M. 18). 

PhyUoxera. 

Congr^s international phyllox6riqiie de Bordeaux. (Edit^ par Feret ^ Bordeaux et 

Masson h Paris. Prix: 5fr.) Compte rendu ire Les Mondes (Moigno) (3) t. 1, 

No. 9, pp. 304-305. 
Du Mesnil (Bar. Eug.) Nouvel essai contre le phylloxera, lettre (17 f^v. 1882). Les 

Mondes (3), t. 1, pp. 302-303. 
Girard (Maurice). Le phylloxera. 3. Edit. Avec gravures et carte. Paris, Hachette et 

Co., 1882. (8vo., 120 pp.) 
Marion (A. F.). Application du sulfure de carbone au traitement des vignes phyl- 

lox6r^es. Rapport sur les travaux des ann6es 1880 et 1881 et sur les r^sultats ob- 

tenus en grande culture. Paris, 1882. (4to., 141 pp., 4 pi.) 

Pseudoneuropters. 

Hagen (H. A. ). The tarsal and autennal characters of Psocidce. Entomolog. Monthly 

Mag., vol. 19, June, pp. 12-13. 
. Beitrtige zur Monographie der Psociden. Stettin. Entomolog. Zeit., 1882 

pp. 265-300. 

Vayssi^re (Alb. ). Recherches sur I'organisation des larves des eph^m^riens. Avec 11 pi, 
Ann. Sci. Nat., Zool. (6), t. 13, Art. 1 (137 pp.) 

Romo2}iers, 

Pascoe (Francis P.). Note on the classification of the Homoptera. Ann. & Mag. of 
Nat. Hist. (5), v. 9, pp. 424-425. 

Coleopters. 

Allard (Ern.). Essai de classification des Blapsxdea de I'ancien monde, 3. P. Ann. Soc. 

Entomolog. France (6\ t. l,pp. 493-526. 
Burgess (Edward). Structure of the mouth in the larva of Dyiiscus. Proc. Boston 

Soc. Nat. Hist., v. 21, pp. 223-228. 



686 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1882. 

Borre (A. Preudh. de). Aualyse et K^8um6 d'un M^moire de G. H. Horn, on the genera 

of Carabidie, etc. Soc. Entomolog. Belg. Compt. rend. (3), p. Ix, Ixxiii. 
Dolirn (C. A.). Geo. Horn's Cardbidce besprocheu. Stettin. Entomolog. Zeit., 1882, 

pp. 301-305. 
Fairmaire (L6on). Essai sur les Col^opt^res des lies Viti (Fidgi). (Suite et Flu,) 

Ann. Soc. Entomolog. France (6), t. l,pp. 461-492. 
Horn (G. H.). On tbe genera of Carabidm, with special reference to the fauna of 

Boreal America. Philadelphia, 1882. (8vo., 106 pp., 8 pi.) 
Horn (G. H.). Revision of the species of Polyphylla of the United States. With 2 pi. 

(Philadelphia), 1882. 8vo. (18p*p.) 
Horn (G. H.). Synopsis of the Silphidce of the United States, with reference to the 

genera of other countries. With 3 pi. (Philadelphia), 1882. 8vo. (104 pp.). 
Jayne (Horace F.). Revision of the Dermestidse of the United States. Proc. Am. 

Phil. Soc, V. 20, pp. 343-377, pi, 14. 
Kraatz (G. ). Revision der europiiisch-syrischen Arten der Melonthiden-Gattung Rop- 

lidia Hope. Deutsch. Entomolog. Zeitschr. , 26. Jahrg., pp. 33-42. 
Lidth de Jeude (Theod. Will. van). De Spijsverteringsorganen der Phythophage 

Lamellicornienlarven. Med 1 pi. Proefschr. Utrecht, Kemink & Zoon, 1882. 

(8vo., 52 pp.) 
Eedtenbacher (L. ). Tables dichotomiques pour servir k la determination des families 

et des genres de Col6opt6res d'Europe. Bruxelles, 1882. (8vo., 146 pp.) 
Reitter (Edm.). Besprechung von Horn. Revision of the Nitidulidae of the U. S. 

Deutsch. Entomolog. Zeitschr., 26 Jahrg., pp. 165-170. 
Riley (C. V.). Further notes on the imported Cloverleaf Weevil (Phytonomus punc- 

tatus). Amer. Naturalist, v. 16, pp. 248,249. 

Hymenopters. 

Bassett (H. F.). Arrangement of N. A. Cynipidae, by Dr. Mayr. Amer. Naturalist, 
V. 16, p. 329. 

Bridgman (John B.) and Edw. A. Fitch. Introductory Papers on Ichneumonidse. 
No. II. Ichneumonidae (con tin.). Entomologist, v. 15, pp. 78-85. 

Cameron (Peter). A Monograph of the British Rhytophagous Hymenoptera (Ten- 
thredo, Sirex, and Cynips Linn6). Vol. 1. London, Ray Society, 1882. (8vo., vii, 
340 pp., 21 pi.) 

Kirby (W. F.)'. List of Hymenoptera, with descriptions and figures of the typical 
specimens in the British Museum. Vol. 1. Tenthredinidae and Siricidae. Lon- 
don, 1882. (8vo., xxviii, 450 pp., 38 s.) 

Kriechbauraer (J.). Ichneumonidon Studien. Katler's Entomolog. Nach., 1881, pp. 
117-120; 133-137; 1882, pp. 122-129. 

Lewis (D. M.). Sound-producing Ants. Nature, v. 25, p. 266. 

Lubbock (Sir John). Ants, Bees, and Wasps; a Record of Observations on the Social 
Hymenoptera. London, Kegan Paul & Co., 1882. (8vo., with colored plates. 
International Scientific Series, vol. xl.) 

Riley (C. V.) List of North American Cynipidae. Amer. Naturalist, vol, 16, p. 246. 

Riley (C. V.) The Utilization of Ants in Horticulture. Nature, v. 26, p. 126. 

Schmiedeknecht (H. L. Otto). Apidae europeae per genera, species et varietates 
dispositae atque descriptae. Acced. tabulae incis. Fasc. 1 et 2. Gumperda (Ber- 
lin, Friedlander & Sohn), 1882. (8vo., pp. 1-122, 6 Taf. M. 14.) 

Dipters. 

Beoher (Ed.). Zur Kenntnis der Mundtheile der Dipteren. Mit 4 Taf. Denkechr. d, 

Akad. d, Wiss, Wien., Math. nat. CI., 45 Bd., pp. 123-162. 
Dimmock (George). Anatomy of the Mouth-parts and of the suctorial apparatus of 
Culex. With 1 pi. Psyche, v. 3, pp. 231-241. 



ZOOLOGY. 587 

Williston (S. W. )• Contribution to a knowledge of Nortli American SyrpMdse. Proc. 
Am. Phil. Soc, v. 20, pp. 279-332. 

L^dopters. 

Berg (F. E. ). Schmetterlingsbuch. Ganzlich ungearbenitet und vermehrt von H. von 

Heiumann, Neu durcbgesehen und erganzt von Dr. Wilh. Stendel. 6 Aufl. 1-3. 

Lief. Stuttgart, Jul. Hoffmann. 1882. (4to. each M. 1.50.) 
Distant (W. L.). Rhopalocera Malayana; a Description of the Butterflies of the 

Malay Peninsula. Parti. London, 1882. (4to., 28 pp., 4 pi.) 
Grote (Augustus Eadcliff). An Illustrated Essay on the Noctuidae of North America, 

with a colouy of butteriies. London, Van Voorst, 1882. (8vo.) 
Heylaerts (F. J. M.,) fils. Essai d'une Monographie des Psychides de la Faune 

Enrop6enne, pr6c6d6 de considerations g^n^rales sur la famille des Psychides. 1, 

Partie. Ann. Soc. Entomolog. Belg., t. 35, pp. 29-73. 
Kirby (W. F.). European Butterflies and Moths. With 61 colored plates, based upon 

Berge's Schmetterlingsbuch. London, Cassell, 1882. (4to., 486 pp., 35 s.) 
Lindeman (K.). Coleophora Tritici, ein neues schadliches Insect. Bull. Soc. Imp. 

Nat. Moseou, t. 56, pp. 39-42. 
Eiley (C. V.). Probable Sound Organs in Sphingid Popae. Amer. Naturalist, v. 16, 

pp. 745, 746. 
Eiley (C. V.). The Silk- worm ; being a brief Manual of Instruction for the produc- 
tion of Silk. Withillnstr. Washington, 1882. (8vo., Dept. of Agriculture. Special 

Eeport No. 11, 2d edition.) 
Scudder (Samuel H.). Fragments of the coarser Anatomy of Diurnal Lepidoptera. 

Psyche, v. 3, pp. 263-275 ; 295-298 ; 307-309. 
Selvatico (Silvestre.). Sullo sviluppo embrionale dei Bombici. Con7tav. Bollet. di 

Bachicoltura. Anno 8, pp. 79-115. 
. Sur le d6veloppement embryonnaire des Bombyciens. Avec 1 pi. Jour, de 

Microgr.,6. Ann., pp. 167-172,- 216-223. 
Zimmermann (Carl). Die Variabilitat der Schmetterlinge in ihren verschiedenen 

Entwickelungsstadien und der biologische'Werth von Form, Farbe, und Zeinchnung. 

Verhandl. Ver. f. Naturwiss. Hamburg, 5 Bd., pp. 58-62 ; 66-68. 

A new order of Myriapods. 

In 1865 Messrs. Meek and Worthen described a peculiar genus of 
articulates based on a specimen found in the carboniferous forma- 
tion of Illinois and named it Palseocampa. They referred the new type, 
with some hesitation, to the class of worms. Other specimens have 
been lately examined by Mr. S. H. Scudder, and that naturalist came 
to the conclusion that the old type was neither a worm nor caterpil- 
lar, but really belonged to the group of Myriapods, and represented in 
that group a previously undifferentiated order, which has been named 
Protosyngnatha. Mr. Scudder was led by the study of this type to the 
conclusions, (I) that in this ancient Myriapod, as old as any with which 
we are acquainted, we find dermal appendages of an extraordinary high 
organization^ more complicated than anything of the sort found in liv- 
ing arthropods ; and, (2) that at the early period when it lived the 
divergence of structure among Myriapods was as great as it is to-day. 
The bearings of these facts are discussed at length by Mr. Scudder. 



588 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Mimicry hy plume-moths. 

The plume-moths have wiugs cleft into feathery plumes, and when 
flying remind one of drifting thistle-down. Mr. J. E. Taylor recalls that 
of about twenty species of Pterophorus whose larval habits are known, 
one-half feed on composite plants having plumed seeds, and it is there- 
fore suggested that the wings of the moths, mimicking the down, must 
be protective to females when depositing their eggs, as well as when 
they are flying. 

VIII. MOLLUSCOIDS. 

POLYZOANS. 

Barrois (Jules). Embryog6uie des Bryozoaires. Essai d'une tb^orie g^n^rale du 
d^velopement bas6e siir I'^tude des metamorphoses. Avec 1 pi. Journ. del'Anat. 
etde la Physiol., 1882. 

. Embryogeny of the Bryozoa; an attempt at a general theory of their devel- 
opment, [etc. ] With 1 pi. Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), p. 265-279, p. 388-403, pi. 14. 

Julieu (J.) Note sur une nouvelle division des Bryozoaires cheilostomiens. Bull, 
Soc. Zool. France, 6. Ann., j)p. 271-285. 

Hicks (Thomas). On certain remarkable modifications of the avicnlarium in a species 
of Polyzoan ; and on the relation of the vibraculum to the avicnlarium. Ann. 
and Mag. Nat. Hist., (5,) v. 9, pp. 20-25. 

M'Intosh (W. Carmichael.) Preliminary notice of C^phalodiscus, a new type allied 
to Prof. Allman's Rhabdopleura, dredged by H. M. S. " Challenger." Ann. and Mag. 
Nat. Hist., (5,) V. 10, p. 337-348. 

A new Bhahdopleuran. 

A new genus of Ehabdopleurse, an order of Polyzoans hitherto only 
known through one genus — Rhabdopleura — has been made known by 
Professor Mcintosh. It has been named Cephalodiscus. It is especially 
distinguished by remarkable branchial or tentacular plumes and by the 
perfectly free condition of the polypides. It may be added that Profes- 
sor Lankester visited Norway in August expressly to study Rhabdo- 
pleura, and was successful in finding it in considerable numbers and 
under favorable conditions. 

Variations of the avicnlarium in Polyzoans. 

As the Rev. Thomas Hincks well remarks, " The homology between 
the curious avicularian [or bird-head-like] appendage which is present 
on so many of the cheilostomata and the zocecium with its contained 
zooid has been amply demonstrated and is now generally admitted. 
Indeed the rudimentary or primary forms of the organ exhibit so slight 
an amount of divergence from the ordinary cells that we have no diffi- 
culty in recognizing the morphological relationship between the two; 
and from this starting point a series of transitional forms conducts us 
to the most highly specialized term, in which the zooecial type is 
effectually marked." Further, ''the avicnlarium with more or less 
elongated mandible is a step towards the second of the appendicular 
organs with which the Cheilostomatous Polyzoa are furnished, the 



ZOOLOGY. • 589 

vibraculum.^^ Transitions between these two types have even been 
found iu one species of Polyzoan, the ubiquitous Microporella ciliaia. 
In specimens from the Queen Charlotte Islands the following modifi- 
cations were found: (1) "ordinary avicularium with pointed beak"; 
(2) " avicularium with the mandible elongated into a spine " ; (3) " avicu- 
larium with the spinous mandible supporting a membranous flapper"; 
and (4) "vibraculoid structure with tall, well-developed seta and 
partially-modified beak." 

BRACHIOPODS. 
General. 

Bemmelen (J. F. van). Over den Bouw der Schelpen van Bracliiopoden en Chitonen. 

Med 1 pi. Acad. Proefsclir. Leiden, Brill, 1882. (8vo. 103 pp.) 
. Untersuchungen iiber den anatomisclien und bistologischen Bau der Bra- 

cbiopoda testicardiuia. Mit 5 Taf. Jena. Zeitsclir. f. Naturwiss., 17. Bd., pp. 

88-161. 

Relations of the BracMopods. 

For the benefit of such as may desire to become acquainted with the 
literature of Brachiopodology, it is fit to state here that Van Bemmelen's 
article on the anatomical and histological structure of the Brachiopods 
is directed in part to the attempt to prove an intimate relationship 
between that class and the worms. It is claimed that instead of being 
allied to the Mollusca, the Brachiopods "appear to present the closest 
resemblance to the Chaetognatha. Not only do the ectoderm, enteric 
canal, and the body-cavity present just the same developmental history, 
but in both we observe a feeble development of connective tissue 5 the 
only differentiation in this layer is the formation of supporting fibres." 
It is concluded that "the important differences are the possession by 
the Brachiopod of a shell and of a stalk; but the former has been shown 
to be merely a thickening of the cuticle, and the secondary value of the 
latter is shown by the differences between the Testi- and Ecardines." 
(J. R. M. S., (2,) V. 3, p. 338-360.) 

Dr. Van Bemmelen's facts, so far as given by the abstract, appear 
on the whole to be well enough, but his use and collocation of them 
scarcely seem justifiable on principles of sound logic and the facts con- 
travening his postulate have scarcely been sufficiently considered. 

IX. MOLLUSKS. 

General tvorls. 

Fischer (Paul). Manuel de Conchyliologie ou histoire uaturelle des Mollusques vi- 
vants et fossiles. Fasc, iv (C^phalopodes). pp. 305-416, fig. 105-201. Paris, F. 
Savy, 1882. 8vo. 

Kobelt (Wilbelm). Kataloge lebender Mollusken {Fuaus Lam., Pisania Biv., Pollia 
Gray, Metula H. et A. Ad., Bucdnopais Jef6-., Neohuccinum E. A. Sm., Chla/ndota 
Marts., Clavella Sws., DesmouJea Gray). Jabrb. deutscb. Malakozool. Ges., 9. 
Jahrg.j pp. 8-29. 



590 SCIENTIFIC RECOKD FOR I88i. 

Martens (Edouard von). Conchologisclie Mittbeilnngen, ala Fortsetzung der Xovi- 
tates conchologicte. Kassel, Th. Fischer, 1881. (8vo. Bd. I, viii, 101 pp., 18 Taf. 
M. 22. Bd. II, Heft. 1,2, pp. 103-128, Taf. 21-24. M. 8.) 

Martini imd Chemnitz (Systematisches Conchylien-Cabinet von ) ; neue reich ver- 
mehrte Ausgabe [etc.], forgesetzt von Dr. W. Kobelt und H. C. Weinkauff. 314. 
Lief. [etc. J Niirnberg, Baner u. Easpe, 1882. (4to. M. 9, each.) 

Pfeilfer (Louis). Malakozoologische Blatter. Forgesetzt von S. Clessin. 5. Bd., 
Bog. 7, etc. Kassel, Th. Fischer, 1882. (8vo.) 

Tryon (George W.), jr. Manual of Conchology, structural and systematic. With il- 
lustrations of the species. Vol. IV. Philadelphia, Author, 1882. (8vo. Col., $20; 
plain, $12.) 

. Structural and systematic Conchology. An introduction to the study of the 

MoUusca. Vol. I. Philadelphia, Author, 1882. (8vo.) 

Journals. 

Journal de Conchyliologie [etc.], public sous la direction de H. Crosse et P. Fischer. 

[t. 30, or] 3. s6i., t. xxii. Paris, H. Crosse, 1882. (8vo.) 
Journal (The) of Conchology. v. 4. London, D. Bogue, 1882. (8vo.) 
Proc6s-verbaux des stances de la Soci^t^ Eoyale Malacologique de Belgique. t. xi. 

Ann^e 1882. Bruxelles, 1882. (8vo.) 

Morphology. 

Simroth (H.) Ueber das Nervensystem und die Bewegung der deutschen Binnen. 

schnecken. Mit 1 Taf. Progr. Eealschule II. Ordn. Leipzig, 1882. (Progr. No. 

503), pp. 3-29. 
Cattaneo (Giac.) Le Colonie lineari e la Morfologia dei Molluschi. Con 15 incis. in 

legno 6 2 tav. cromolit. Milano, frat. Dumolard, 1882. (8vo., xxiv, 420 pp.) 
. Individualita dei Molluschi. Communic. preventiva. Boll. Scientif. Maggi, 

Zoja, etc. Anno 4. pp. 659-664. 

Faunas. 

{North America. ) 

Verrill (A. E.). Catalogue of Marine Mollusca added to the Fauna of New England 
during the past ten years. With 6 pi. Trans. Connecticut Acad., v. 5, pp. 447- 
587. 

Notice of recent additions to the marine Invertebrata of the north-eastern 



coast of America [etc.]. Part IV. Additions to the deep-water Mollusca taken 

off Martha's Vineyard in 1880 and 1881. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. v. 5, pp. 315-343. 
Wetherby (A. G.). Geographical distribution of certain fresh- water Mollusks of 

North America and the probable cause of their variation. Amer. Journ. Sc, (3,) 

v. 23. pp. 203-212. 
White (C. A.). Conditions attending the geological descent of some fresh-water 

gill-bearing Mollusks. Amer. Jour. Sc, (3,) v. 23, pp. 382-386. 

(Europe.) 

Locard (Arnauld). Prodrome de malacologie franf aise. Catalogue g^n€ral des mol- 
lusques vivants de France (Mollusques terrestres, des eaux douces et des eaux 
saum&tres). Lyon, Georg; Paris, J.-B. Baillifere et fils, 1882. (8vo.,vi, 466 pp.) 

V 

(Asia.) 

Martens (E. von). Ueber centralasiatische Mollusken. Mit 5 Taf. M^m. Acad. Imp. 
Sc. St. -Petersburg (7), t. 30 (65 pp. M. 4. 70.) 



ZOOLOGY. 591 

M^moires concernant I'Histoire natiirelle de I'empire chiuois par ties Pferes de l.» Com- 
pagnie de J^sus. 2 cahier. Notes sur les mollusqiies terrestres de la valine du 
Fleuve Bleu. Chang-Hai, 1882. (4to, 90 pp., 10 pi.) 

Mollendorff (O. von). Materialien zur Fauna von China. I. Die Deckelschnecken, 
Mit 2 Taf. Jahrb. deutscli. malak. Ges., 9. Jahrg., 1882, pp. 251-278. 

(Africa.) 

Crosse (Henri). Faune malacologique dulac Tanganyika. Aveclpl. Jouru. de Con- 
chyliol., t. 30. 

(Australia.) 

Smith (Edgar A.). On the fresh-water shells of Australia, with 3 pi. Journ. Linn. Soc. 
London, Zool., v. 16, p. 255-317. (155 sp., of which 27 are new; 14 pseudo-Aus- 
tralian sp.) 

CONCHIFERS. 

Morpltology. 

Mitsukuri (K.). On the structure and significance of some aberrant forms of Lamel- 
libranchiate gills. With 1 pi. Stud. Biolog. Laborat, Johns Hopkins University, 
v. 2, p. 257-270. (Reprinted from Quart. Journ. Micr. So.) 

The Oysters. 

Bouchon-Brandely. De la sexuality chez I'hultre ordinaire (0. cdulis) et chez I'hultre 
portugaise (0. aw<7Mtoa). F6condation artificielle de I'hultre portugaise. Note 
de M. Bouchon-Brandely, presentde par M. Berthelot. Comptes rendus, Acad. Sci. 
Pans, t. 95, pp. 256-259, July 31, 1882. 

. On the sexuality of the common and that of the Portuguese oyster (0. a)igu- 

lata). Artificial fecundation of the Portuguese oyster. Translatedby J. A. Ryder. 
Bull. U. S. Fish Commission, v. 2, pp. 339-341. 

. Rapport relatif a la g6n6ration et i\ la f^condation artificielle des huitres, 

adress^ an ministre de la marine et des colonies, par M. Bouchon-Brandely, se- 
cretaire du Coll6ge de France. Journal ofiiciel de la R^publique Frangaise. Dec, 
16 and 17, 1882 ; pp. 6762-6764 and 6778-678S. 

Report relative to the generation and artificial fecundation of oysters, ad- 



dressed to the minister of the marine and colonies. (With notes by J. A. Ryder.) 

Bull. U. S. Fish Commission, v. 2, pp. 319-338. 
Hoek (P. P. C.) Recherchessur les orgaues g^nitaux des huiitres. Comptes rendus, 

t. 95, Nov. 6, 1882. 
. Researches on the generative organs of the oyster (O. e(7H?!s). (A translation 

of the foregoing by J. A. Ryder.) Bull. U. S. Fish Commission, v. 2, pp. 343-347. 
Horst (R.) Bijdrage tot de Kennis van de Ontwikkelingsgeschiedenis van de Oester 

(Ostrea edulis L.). Tijdschr. d. Ned. Dierk. Vereen., dl. 6, 1882. 
. On the development of the European oyster (Ostrea edulis L.). Quar. Journ. 

Mic. Sci., n. s. v. xxii, pp. 341-346, pi. 27. 
. A contribution to our knowledge of the development of the oyster (Ostrea 



edulis L.). (Translated from the original Dutch by J. A. Ryder.) Bull. U. S. 
Fish Commission, v. ii., pp. 159-167. 

Oysters and their propagation. 
Much alarm has been felt in some quarters lest nature unaided should 
be unable to answer the demands of an oyster-loving, population, in- 
creasing in an extraordinary ratio, and covering a continent. The U. 
S. Commissioner of Fisheries therefore delegated Mr. John A. Eyder, an 
accomplished embryologist, to investigate the feasibility of the artilicial 
propagation of the esteemed mollusk. Meanwhile Euroj)ean goverii- 



592 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

ments and naturalists were on their side seeking what could be clone 
for the old world, and Messrs. Hoek and Horst in the Netherlands, and 
Bouchon-Braudely in France, especially took up the investigation of the 
question. These several naturalists have materially added to the infor- 
mation previously gleaned by Davaine and Brooks, and the results of re- 
cent investigations have been ably digested by Mr. Eyder in " a sum- 
mary of recent progress in our knowledge of the culture, growth, and 
anatomy of the oyster." From that summary we derive the following 
data, using in most cases Mr. Eyder's own words: 

The oysters of greatest economical importance are three in number, 
(1) the common species of Northern Europe, Ostrea edulis; (2) a more 
southern species, formerly not occurring northward of the Lusitanian 
peninsula, Ostrea angulata, and (3) the ordinary Virginia oyster, Ostrea 
virginica. 

According to M. Bouchou-Brandely, " twenty or twenty-five years ago 
the Portuguese oysters, indigenous to the Tagus, did not exist on the 
coasts of France. A damaged vessel discharged its cargo into the 
Gironde, upon the old Banc de Eichard. Here they have since so mul- 
tiplied that they cover an extent of from twenty -five to thirty kilome- 
ters, a vast bed which will soon be limited only by the banks of the 
river. 

Ostrea edulis is undoubtedly hermaphrodite - - - "The Portu- 
guese oyster is, on the other hand, incontestably unisexual. Like the 
American oyster, as shown by Brooks, .its ova and milt are expelled 
from the shell. Neither ova nor embryos are ever found in its mantle. 
The young of the common oyster cannot live outside of the shell. Ac- 
cording to M. Berthelot's investigations the fluids in the mantle cavity 
of 0. edulis contain albumen in a notable proportion, upon which the 
young are supposed to be nourished. M. Bouchon-Brandely found that 
the young of 0. edulis, whether in the form of white or gray spat, could 
not be developed in sea water external to the parent; the white embryos 
died in three days, the gray after twelve or fifteen days after their re- 
moval from the parent, although within reach of collectors. These facts 
he thinks, preclude the jiossibility of the crossing of the species. With 
respect to this point, however, our author made direct experiments, or 
attempts to hybridize the two species, which gave only negative results. 
Mixtures of the eggs of 0. edulis with the milt of 0. angulata and rice 
versa, never resulted in fertilization, although the experiments were 
repeated at different times for the last two years. 

M. Bouchon-Brandely succeeded in artificially fertilizing eggs of 0. 
angulata. The vital properties of both elements were retained for two 
to three hours. The embryos began to swim at Verdon in seven hours. 
The shell was formed on the sixth to the seventh day. The temperature 
of the water was 22 deg. O, (equal to about 71 deg. Fahr.). The artificial 
fecundation presented no dififtculties. Four times out of five, if good 



ZOOLOGY. 593 

spawn is used, mobile embryos will be produced. The spawning takes 
place in 0. angulata for several weeks and gradually. 

"An inclosure about thirty- five feet square was prepared at Verdon, 
into which the animated products of successive fecundations were 
pouved. The sea water was permitted to enter this space through a 
bed of fine sand, and to pass out in the same way. This epabled the 
exi^erimenter to retain the artificially spawned embryos within the in- 
closure. After a month of reiterated experiments our endeavors were 
crowned with success. We had the satisfaction of finding some brood 
fixed on each of the tiles placed in our experimental 'clear.' This is so 
much the more remarkable as until last week [this ai)pears to have 
been in July] no spat had yet attached itself to the numerous collectors 
immersed on the oyster beds of the Gironde; that is to say, in the very 
center of the clear." 

Mr. Ryder, commenting on these experiments, justly claims that they 
are of the highest interest and may be of great practical value, especially 
the means resorted to in order to prevent the escape and loss of the 
embryos from the clear or pond. The Virginian oyster is related physio- 
logically as well as mori>hologically to the Portuguese species, and what 
could be done for the one could doubtless be accomplished for the 
other. 

Mr. Ryder turned his special attention to the American form. Dur- 
ing the past season he found, after opening the animal carefully, that it 
is easy to remove the ova and milt from the female and male by strok- 
ing the generative ducts towards their outlet, when the products can 
be picked up with a pipette or " medicine dropper " and transferred to 
water free from extraneous matters of every kind. He also found that 
when the milky mass is dropped into water the character of the cloud 
of particles produced in the water at once diagnoses the sex of the 
individual from which the spawn has been obtained. If the animal be 
a male the cloud produced upon stirring breaks up into wisps and 
streaks, which resemble the cirrus clouds or mare's tails of meteorolo- 
gists. If the specimen be a female the spawn when dropped into the 
water immediately breaks up into a distinctly granular cloud. These 
differences are so marked that any person may be taught to recognize 
them in a few minutes. The new method of removing the spawn and 
milt from the reproductive organs insures greater success in impregna- 
tion. Mnety per cent, of the eggs may be fertilized by the new methotl, 
a result scarcely possible with the usual plan of chopping up the re- 
productive organs. This method, together with the mode of discrimi- 
nating the sexes without the use of a microscope, puts us in a fair way 
to realize some part of a scheme of artificial proi^agation. 

Mr. Ryder also ascertained the nature of the collapse and shrinking 
of the oyster body about the end of the breeding season. It is due to 
a total atrophy or wasting away of the reproductive organs at the com 
pletion of the spawning season. The whole of the connective tissue sub 
H. Mis. 26— —58 



594 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1882. 

jacGDt to the mantle, and between the latter and the liver, disappears, 
together with all traces of the reproductive organs, ducts and all. " At 
the first bend of the intestine there is still some of the connective tissue 
remaining, but even here and in the mantle it has changed its charac- 
ter entirely, and become very spongy and areolar, instead of solid, and 
composed of .large vesicular cells, such as are met with when the animal 
is in a better condition of flesh. In fact, it appears as if this mesen- 
chymal or connective tissue substance had been used up and converted 
into reproductive bodies — generative products — in the case of the 
spawn-spent and extremely emaciated individuals. In sections from 
individuals in various conditions, from that in which the rudimentary 
network of generative tubules has just appeared in the connective 
tissue, on up to those in which the reproductive tissues are enormously 
developed in bulk and proj^ortion to the mass of the remaining struct- 
ures, there is a perfect gradation from their complete absence to their 
full development. This would api^ear to be very strong evidence in 
support of the theory that the reproductive follicles or tubules are de- 
veloped anew each season directly from the specialization of certain 
strings or strands of connective tissue cells." 

Mr. Ryder adds that many animals manifest a j)eriodic development 
of the glandular portions of the reproductive organs, but he knew of no 
form in which there is any such presumptive evidence that these organs 
are annually regenerated and finally altogether aborted as seems to be 
the case with the oyster. "Together with the changes here described, 
the most remarkable changes in the solidity and consistence of the ani- 
mal take place. The shrinkage of a spawn-spent oyster in alcohol or a 
chromic acid solution is excessive, and will, when complete, reduce the 
animal to one-tenth of its bulk while alive. This shrinkage is due to 
abstraction of the water with which the loose, spongy tissue of the ex- 
hausted animal is distended. A so-called 'fat' oyster, on the other 
hand, will suffer no such excessive diminution in bulk when placed in 
alcohol or other hardening fluid. In consequence of this variable de- 
velopment of the reproductive organs as well as that of the connective 
tissue of the body mass, the amount of solid protoplasmic material con- 
tained in the same animal at different times must vary between wide 
limits. And inasmuch as the nutritive and reproductive functions of 
animals are notoriously interdependent, it follows in consequence of 
the enormous fertility of the oyster that a vast amount of stored mate- 
rial in the shape of connective tissue must be annually converted into 
germs and annually replaced by nutritive processes. Plenitude or 
dearth of food are also to be considered, but it now becomes a little 
easier to understand the physiological interdependence of the repro- 
ductive function and the so-called fattening process. 

"The widespread belief in 'fat' and 'poor^ oysters is simply a 
widespread delusion, if it be maintained that fleshy oysters owe their 
rotundity to a deposit of oleaginous or fatty matter. Far from deny- 



ZOOLOGY. 595 

ing that there is absolutely no fatty matter iu these mollusks, I do most 
emphatically deny that the winter plumpness of the animal is due to 
such a cause, but rather to large accumulations of protoplasmic matter 
of a soft, slimy consistency, identical with the more substantial jjarts 
of the higher animals. This popular error in regard to the true cause 
of the plumpness or leanness of the oyster, as the case may be, is only 
another illustration," adds Mr. Ryder, " of the Very many erroneous ideas 
of the intensely practical multitude who decry .scientific methods, which 
are after all only very rigorously exact common sense methods under 
another name." 

The much-mooted question as to the cause of the green color of some 
oysters was also inquired into by Mr. Ryder. 

His investigations of green oysters confirmed a former conclusion 
reached by him — that the color was due to a tinctui e of the blood cells 
either derived from green vegetable food or possibly by an effect of cer- 
tain food upon the secretions of liver which have changed in color. The 
greened blood cells accumulate in some cases iu the interstices of the 
muscular trabeculoe of the ventricle, and are sometimes even i)acked 
down behind the auriculo-ventricular valves so as to impede their ac- 
tion. They apparently lose their amoeboid disposition to a great extent. 
"This amoebal character of the blood-cell of the oyster is very striking, 
and may continue to exhibit itself in the living blood-corpuscles ^r 
four hours after their removal from the animal. The cysts tilled with 
green cells are simply points in the pallia! vessels which have been dis- 
tended by these abnormal accumulations. The greenish cells and blood 
corpuscles are of about the same size, or about l-3,000th of an inch in 
diameter. They are evidently not parasitic ; none were ever seen to 
present anything like an appearance of commencing fission." 

GASTROPODS. 

General. 

Dall ("W. H.) On certain Limpets and Chitons from the deep-sea waters off the east- 
ern coast of the United States. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 4, p. 400-414. 

Grabau (H.) Ueberdie Spiralen der Conchylien, mit besonderer Bezngnahme aut d ie 
Naumann'sche Conchospirale. Leipzig, Hinrich's Veiiag in Comm., 1882 (4to, 39 
pp. mit 1 Taf. M. 1.) 

Amphineurans. 

Hnbrecht (A. A. \V.) A Contribution to the Morphology of the Amphineura. With 
woodcuts. Quart. Jour. Miscroscop. Sc, v. 22, p. 212-228. • 

Pitlmonates. 

Morelet (A.) Observations critiques sur le m^moire de M. E. R. Martens, intituld: 
Mollusques des Mascareignes et des S6chelles. Journ. de Conchyliol., v. 30, pp. 
85-106. 

Rochebrune (A. T. de). De I'ovoviviparit^ chez les Mollusques pulmonis terrestres 
inopercul6s. Bull. Soc. Philomath., Paris, t. 6, pp. 219-225. 



596 SCIENTIFIC EECOED FOR 1882. 

Schepmann (M. M.) Die Zungen der Hyalinen. Mit 3 Taf. Jahrb, deutsch. Malak. 

Ges., 9. Jahrg., pp. 23(3-243. 
Taylor (J. W.) Life History of British Helices. Helix arbustorum. With 1 pi. Journ. 

of Conchol., V. 3, p. 241-256. 

Aglossate Nudibranchiates. 

Graff (Ludwig von). Ueber lihodope Veranii Koll. (^^Sidonia elegans M, Scliultze.) 
Mit 1 Taf. Morpbol. Jabrb., 8. Bd., pp. 73-84. 

Nudibranchiates . 

Berg (Rudolf). Beitriige znr Kenntniss der Aeolidiaden. Mit 6 Taf. Verhandl. 
k, k. zool.-bot. Ges., Wien, 1882, pp. 7-74. 

Peetinibranchiates. 

Carri^re (Justus). Marginella glabella L. und die Pseudomarginellen. Zeitschr. f. 

wiss. Zool., 37. Bd., pp. 99-120, pi. 9. 
Haller (B61a). Zur Kenntniss der Muriciden. Eine vergleichend-anatomische. 

Studie. 1. Tb. Auatomie des Nervensystems. Mit 3 Taf. u. 2 Holzscbn. (Arbeiten 

aus dem zool.-vergl.-anat. Institute der Univers. Wien.) Denkscbr. d. Wien. Akad., 

Matb.-Nat. CI., 45. Bd., pp. 87-106. 

Bhodope a Nudibranchiate. 

Many years ago a small worm-like animal was described by Kolliker 
under the name Bhodope Veranii, and approximated by him to the 
Nudibranchiate Mollusks, and it has been there retained by several 
malacologists. Some doubt has been entertained as to its relationships, 
however, and the same type was redescribed as Sidonia elegans, and re- 
ferred by Schultze to the Turbellarian worms. Recently the species 
has been re-examined by Professor Graff, and according to that naturalist 
it differs from the Turbellarians by its central ganglia, its sensory appa- 
ratus, its generative organs, and the anus, and in these respects most 
resembles the Nudibranchiate Gastropods. Nevertheless it is devoid of 
a buccal mass and odontophore, as well as gills. Although retained in 
the order of Nudibranchiates, it is therefore regarded as the lowest term 
of that series. It is considered to be a derivative from a generalized 
Rhabdocoelid stock named " Alloioccela" — a conclusion which some may 
doubt until its embryology is known, and that may be required even to 
prove its pertinence to the Nudibranchiates. 

A new family of American Gastropods. 

Ten years ago, in the Canadian Naturalist, certain small shells found 
in Postpliocene deposits of Canada were described by Dr. P. P. Carpen- 
ter as representatives of a new generic type, Ghoristes elegans. This 
form has been found living by attaches of the U. S. Fish Commission 
in deep water (225 fathoms) off Martha's Vineyard, and an examination 
of its structure has caused Professor Verrill to difterentiate it as a pecu- 
liar family type — the Choristidse. These are Tectibranchiates with a 
thick short head; large retractile pharynx; well-developed jaws; an 



ZOOLOGY. 697 

odontophore, with three rows of rhachidian teeth, and on each side a 
broad bilobed inner lateral, and two rows of small, hook-shaped outer 
lateral teeth (1.1 + 1.2 x 2) ; with frontal tentacles, united by a fold and 
small posterior tentacles, and with a heliciform shell provided with a 
paucispiral operculum. 

Although the living shells have been referred to the same species as 
the fossilized, they have been distinguished as a variety (named tenera), 
inasmuch as they have a "much thinner and more fragile texture," but 
this difference, it is suggested, "maybe due to mere local conditions." 

It should be added that the gills of the Choristiids are "large, attached 
to the inner surface of the mantle on the left side of the neck, and ex- 
tending over to the right side, consisting of numerous lamellae. {Proc. 
TJ. 8. Nat 31us.,y. 5, p. 337.) 

A new deep-sea family of Docoglossates. 

The family Cocculinidae has been proposed for two limpet-like mol- 
lusks, of deep water, exhibiting a peculiar combination of characters. 
The two are congeneric, representing a new genus called CoccuUna, and 
belong to the order of Rhipidoglossa. The dentition is typical — 
50-150 (1 + 3) I (3 + 1) 150-50— and resembles that of the Fissurellidae 
aud Helicinidae; but there is only a single asymmetrical gill, no append- 
ages to the side of the foot or on the mantle are developed, and the shell 
is patelliform, unfissured, unsinuated, and entirely external. The spe- 
cies have been found at the depth of over 100 fathoms east of the New 
England coast, and in deeper water in the Caribbean Sea. 

A new deep-sea family of Fissurelloid Bhipidoglossates. 

The family Addisoniidae has been constituted for the reception of a 
remarkable limpet-like Gastropod found about 75 miles south and west 
from Martha's Vineyard, at a depth of from 96 to 130 fathoms. The 
mollusk belongs to the order of Rhipidoglossa, but has a very peculiar 
dentition, viz, 1 (1 + 2 + 2) I (2 + 2 -f 1) 1 — the single uncini being flat 
and scale-like. The parts are very asymmetrical, and there is an enor- 
mously developed lateral series of separately inserted gill-laminae, like 
those of the Patellidae, but no filamentary appendage of any kind. The 
shell is asymmetrical and porcellanous. The type is interesting as being 
a generalized — or what would have been called by Agassiz a " syn- 
thetic" — form. The species has been named Addisonia paradoxa. 

The Pseudomarginellw. 

In the annual report of the Smithsonian Institution ior the year 1880, 
a notice of a j)reliminary article by Dr. Justus Carriere on Marginella 
glabella and Pseudomarginella was given. Dr. Carriere claimed to have 
found in shells having the aspect of ^^ Marginella glabella'''' animals 
exhibiting three very different types of dentition. It was then supposed 
by the reporter that the statement that the shells associated with the 



598 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 



several animals would be regarded by a concbologist as Marginella 
glabella was to some Extent figurative aud intended to convey an idea 
of a similarity wbicb stronglj'^ contrasted witb tbe dissimilarity of the 
animals. During the past year a full monograiih of the several forms 
has been published by Dr. Carriere. It now apj)ears that the shells 
are actually uudistinguishable specifically from each other, and unless 
special attention was called to them, a concbologist would unhesitat- 
ingly consider them to be of the same species. Let it be remembered 
that the shell of ^'•Marginella glahelW is very characteristic in form as 
well as color, and " the difficulty of believing that such a species of 
shell may be developed by animals of three different families of mol- 
lusks may be understood. It will be much more credible that Dr. 
Carriere has been imposed upon, and that the animals of other shells 
have been skillfully transferred into emptied shells of Marginella gla- 
bella than to believe that such an anomaly as has been alleged should 
occur in nature. Dr. Carriere's good faith cannot be impugned, but 
there is too much reason to fear that he has been made the victim of a 
hoax or perhaps a deliberate fraud. Dr. Carriere has well summarized 
the alleged facts in a tabular foriu, which is herewith literally translated. 
The data j)urport to be the result of examination of eleven specimens, 
six of which had a marginelloid animal and the others operculigerous 
ones. 



Animal. 


Shell. 


Foot. 


Operculum. 


Tentacles. 


Marginella glabella 

Paeudomarginella lepto- 
pus. 

Pseudomarginella platy- 
pns. 


Marginella 
glabella. 

Marginella 
glabella. 

Marginella 
glabella. 


Broad and flat, nar- 
rowed backwards, 
red. 

Narrow and high, uni- 
formly wide, color- 
less, on the side 
black spots. 

Broad and flat, uni- 
formly wide, color- 
less. 


Wanting 

Unguiculate, like 
that of Fusus. 

Lamellar, likethat 
of Purpura. 


Long, attenuated. 
Short, broad. 

Short, cylindrieaL 



( Table — continued. ) 



Animal. 


Kadula. . 


Foot gland. 


Family. 




A single median, broad, and 
multidentate tooth. 


Large in compari- 
son with the root. 


Marginellacea. 

Buccinacea (prob- 
ably). 

Pnrp'uracea (prob- 
ably). 


Pseudomarginella leptopus . . 
Pseudomarginella platypus.. 


the rachidian. 
Lateral teeth unguiculate, 
much narrower than the 
rachidian. 


Very small 



It thus appears that (1) the same species of shell (using the word 
"species" in a literal sense) is repeated in the several types, and that (2) 
the several animals, exclusive of the shells, are strictly related to the 
numerous representatives of three widely differentiated families, and 
would be unhesitatingly referred to such families were it not for the 
shells. We are then called upon to decide which of two alternatives is 



ZOOLOGY. 599 

the more probable, (1) that the same species of shell is developed by three 
family types which otherwise have the hard and so;tt parts duly co- 
ordinated, or (2) that the animals have been dissociated from their own 
shells, and in some way or other been tlirust into shells of Marginella 
glabella. If the alleged facts of Dr. Carri^re were established, no cer- 
tainty could be enjoyed in either morphology or palfeontology. It is 
noteworthy, finally, that there is no co-ordination between the opercula 
or animals of the pseudomarginellee and the shells. 

CEPHALOPODS. 

General. 

Blake (J. F.) A Monograph of the British Fossil Cephalopoda. Part I. Introduc- 
tion and Silurian Species. With 31 pi. London, Van Voorst, 1882. (4'^. 244 pp.) 

Brock (J.) Zur Anatomic nnd Systematik der Cephalopoden. Mit 4 Taf. Zeitsclir_ 
f. wiss. Zool., V. 36, pp. 543-610. 

Fischer (Paul). Sur la classification des C^phalapodes. .Jonrn. de conchyliol., v. 30, 
pp. 55-57. 

Maurice (Charles). Expos^. des recherches de M. W. Branco sur I'embryog^nie et les 
affinit^s des c^phalopodes fossiles. 2 partie. Lille. Ann. Soc. G^ol. du Nord, 
V. 9,pp. 104-125. 

Steenstrup (Japetus). Notte teuthologicse. Oversigt k. Danske Videusk. Selsk. 
Forhandl., 1882, pp. 143-168. 

Digestion. 

Borquelot (Em.) Recherches exp^riraentales suar Paction des sacs digestifs des Ceph- 
alopodes sur les matiferes amyloc^es et sucr^es. Archiv. Zool. Experiment., v. 10, 
pp. 385-422. 

Ink-bag. 

Girod(P. ) Recherches sur la poche du noir des c^phalopodes des c6tes de France 
Av6c 5 pi. Archiv. Zool. Exp6rim., 1. 10, pp. 1-100; Abstr. in Journ. R. Microsc. 
Soc. London (2), V. 2, pp. 487-489. 

The major groups of Cephalopods. 

The Cephalopods are of peculiar interest on account of the intense 
morphological specialization of the members, their range in time and 
space, and the geological history of the group. Within a short period 
much has been contributed to a better understanding of the class by 
Messrs. A. Hyatt, Munier-Chalmas, Broch, Paul Fischer, and especially 
A. E. Verrill. The taxonomic rank of the Cephalopods as a class may 
be considered to be established and undisputed, and equally certain is 
it that all the living forms are perfectly segregable into two primary sec- 
tions of the value of orders at least. These groups were first correctly 
defined and named Tetrabranchiata and Dibranchiata by Professor 
Owen in 1838, but were earlier recognized and denominated Tentaculi- 
f^res and Ac6tabuliferes by Ferussac and d'Orbigny in 1834. But there 
are numerous extinct Cephalopods as to whose affinities there are still 
some doubts. For a long time they were supposed to be closely related 
to the Nautilids, and consequently to be Tetrabranchiates ; such are 
the Ammonites and kindred forms. But Professor Agassiz nearlv twenty 



600 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

years ago urged that they were ordinally distinct from both the Tetra- 
branchiates and Dibrauchiates, and distinguished them as the order of 
Aramonoids, and was followed therein by ProSessor Ilyatt, and M. 
Munier-ChalraaSjin 1874, even considered them to be nearer the Dibran- 
chiates than to the Tetrabranchiates. Eecently M, Fischer has acceded 
to the view that they represent an order ("Ammonea "). As to the fur- 
ther subdivision of the class, the Dibrauchiates are with one accord 
divided into two groups (generally called suborders) distinguished by 
the development or want of two unusually elongated tentacular arms 
inside the circle of eight sessile arms common to all the order. Those 
forms with tentacular arms (Decaceres or Decapods) have an elougated 
body, with lateral fins, aud an internal "shell" or "gladius"; those with- 
out the corresponding arms have a roundish sacciform body and are 
destitute of an internal shell, and are known as Octopods. 

The families of Amnionoids. 

The "order Ammonea" or Ammonoids is primarily subdivided by 
Fischer into (1) the Retrosii^honata, in which the partitions are infundi- 
bulate backwards around the siphon, and (2) the Prosiphonata, whereof 
the perisi phonal infundibulatiou is advanced forwards. The Prosipho- 
nata are by far the most numerous, and were mostly formerly confounded 
under the generic name Ammonites; they represent, however, a number 
of families which have been segregated into two major groups, (a) the 
Aptychidea, which have an "aptychus" composed of two calcareous 
pieces free or consolidated, and (b) the Anaptychidea, which are desti- 
tute of an aptychus, or at least of a calcareous one. The families ad- 
mitted are the following : 

A. Eetrosiphonata {Goniatitidcc). 

B. Prosiphonata a. Anaptychidea. Section 1. Latisellata. — {Arces- 
tidce, TropitidcCj Ceratitidcc, Clydonitidce). Section 2. Augustisellata. — 
{Pinacoceratidce, AmaUheidce, Amnionitidce, Lytoceratidce). h. Aptychi- 
dea [Ilarpoceratidw, Steplianoceratidce). 

Some American palaeontologists, especially Professor Hyatt and the 
late Professor Agassiz, have admitted still more numerous families, and 
for other reasons. 

Families of Tetrabranchiates. 

M. Fischer has admitted only three families of Tetrabranchiates in 
his recent classification of the Cephalopods — the prosiphonate Notho- 
ceratids and the retrosiphonate Nautilids and Ascoceratids. The Nau- 
tilids include all these forms with the partitions perpendicular to the 
axis of the shell, and the Ascoceratids, those whose partitions are very 
oblique and become even subparallel to the axis. In fine, his arrange 
ment is presented in the following manner : 

A. Prosiphonata [J^otlioceratidan). 

B. Eetrosiphonata [I^'autiUdw, Ascoceratidw). 



ZOOLOGY. 601 

It will be thus seen that the growth of the shell, whether in a spiral 
or other curve or even straight, is not only subordinated to other char- 
acters (and undoubtedly with propriety), but is ignored as a family 
character. 

The families of Decacerous Dibranchiates. 

The suborder of Decacerous or Decapod Cephalopods has been gen- 
erally differentiated into two primary groups — (1) the " Oigopsidae," re- 
puted to have the "eyes naked in front, furnished with free lids, with or 
without an anterior sinus ; pupils circular," and (2) the " Myopsidte," 
contradistinguished by "eyes covered by transparent skin, sometimes 
with a thickened fold, forming a lower lid, pupils crescent-shaped." 
It has been doubted, however, whether undue value has not been at- 
tached to such distinctions, although their importance, to a greater or 
less extent, has been admitted. During the past year several modifica- 
tions have been proposed. 

Mr. Tryou divided the Decaceres into {a) Decapoda chondrophora 
and (b) Decapoda calcifera. 

Professor Steeustrup adopts the groujis Oigopsidae and Myopsidae, 
and attaches importance next to the particular arm of the male which 
is hectocotylized. He recognizes two series of Myopsids, which he calls 
"families," viz, (1) the "family of Kossia-Sepiola=Sepiolini," of which 
an arm of the first part is hectocotylized, and (2) the " family of Sepio- 
Loligini," whereof the arm of the fourth pair is hectocotylized ; the lat- 
ter is subdivided into the groups (a) Loliginei, {b) Eusepii, (c) Sepiadarii, 
and {d) Idiosepii. 

Dr. Fischer attaches primary importance to the nature of the internal 
dorsal support or skeleton dividing the suborder into (1) Chondrophora, 
(2) Sepiophora, and (3) Phragmophora. The Chondrophora are subdi- 
vided into the "sections" Oigopsidfe and Myopsidae. 

Professor Verrill admits the groups of d'Orbigny, but adds that they 
are, "perhaps, more convenient than natural," and he subdivides the(l) 
Oigopsidae into two superfamilies, the Teuthidea and Taonidea, and the 
(2) Myopsidae into two also, the Sepidea and the Sepiolidea, but sug- 
gests that the Spirulidae (provisionally referred to the Sepidea) "might, 
perhaps, be best placed with several fossil forms in a division of which 
it is the sole surviving genus." 

The extent to which the several characters referred to coincide or 
traverse each other may be appreciated from the diagnoses of the sev- 
eral families, which have been chiefly condensed from Professor Verrill's 
catalogue, etc. 

A, Teuthidoidea. — Decaceres with eyes naked in front, with free 
lids, and not protuberant ; with a subterminal valve to siphon, and with 
the mantle attached to the siphon by free connective cartilages. 

1. Onychofcuthids.—Tenthidoid Decaceres with free arms, with lachry- 
mal sinuses: si]>bon valviferous, well developed nuchal crests, and ten- 



602 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

tacular arms clavigerous and armed with horny claws or hooks, and 
with "a cluster of small, smooth-rimmed suckers" about the tips. 

2. Ommasirephids. — Teuthidoid Decaceres with free arms, with lach- 
rymal sinuses, valviferous siphon, nuchal crests, and clavigerous clawless 
tentacular arms " having four rows of suckers " about the middle of 
the " club." 

3. Mastigoteuthids. — Teuthidoid Decaceres with free arms, without 
lachrymal sinuses, with a valviferous siphon, without auditory crests, 
and with tapering tentacular arms " covered with a multitude of minute 
suckers, in many rows," towards the ends. 

4. CMroteutliids. — Teuthidoid Decaceres with free arms, with lachry- 
mal sinuses, with a small siphon destitute of valve or dorsal bridle, with- 
out nuchal or auditory crests, with very elongated clavigerous arms, 
tipped •' with a spoon-shaped organ, opening backward " and " with 
rows of singular ^mall suckers, having a swollen bulb on the long pedi- 
cel" on the "club," buccal membrane seven-angled, and with six buc- 
cal aquiferous openings. 

5. JSistioteuthids. — Teuthidoid Decaceres with the six upper arms 
connected by a very extensive web, without lachrymal sinuses, a siphon 
without valve or dorsal bridle, without nuchal crests, long clavigerous 
tentacular arms "bearing large central, and small marginal suckers 
and tubercles," buccal membrane " with six smooth lobes," and with 
four buccal aquiferous openings. 

B. Taonoidea. — Decaceres with eyes naked and free-lidded, and very 
prominent, without a true subterminal valve to siphon, and with the 
mantle united to the base of the siphon as well as the back of neck by 
three muscular commissures. 

6. Desmoteuthids. — Taonoid Decaceres with the body much elon- 
gated, the siphon " with three peculiar special thickenings, or raised 
processes, in its basal portion." 

Several other families of Myoi^sid Decaceres are found outside the 
limits of Professor Verrill's field of investigation, but their place in the 
system has not been determined as exactly as is desirable. Those 
which have received names are the Loligopsidse, Cranchiidae, and 
Thysanoteuthidse. 

C. Sepioidea. — Decaceres with eyes covered by transparent skin and 
lidless, arms of the fourth pair hectocotylized, and with an internal flat- 
tened calcareous gladius (sepiostaire or cuttle-fish bone). 

7. Sepiids. — The only known sepioid decaceres, and which furnish 
the "cuttle-fish bone" of commerce. 

D. LoLiGiNOiDEA. — Decaccrcs with eyes covered by transparent ex- 
tension of the cephalic integument and lidless, arms of the fourth pair 
hectocotylized, and with an internal corneous gladius. 

8. Loliginids. — The only known American family. 

E. SpiRiJLorDEA or PhragtMOPHGRA. — Decaceres with eyes covered 



ZOOLOGY. 603 

by transpareut skiu and lidless, arms of the fourth pair hectocotylized, 
and with an internal cbambel'ed shell or phragmacone. 

This superfamily includes only one living family, but the extinct 
Belemnitids, Belopterids, and Belosejnids have been associated with it 
as constituents of a natural superfamily group. 

9. SpiruUds. — Spiruloid Decaceres with the internal shell or phrag- 
macone, an elongated chambered cone, wound in a loose coil of several 
whorls. 

This family is only represented, so far as known in the existing fauna, 
by the genus Spirula, whose shell is so well known to all collectors, but 
Professor Steenstrup has associated in the same family with it a genus 
named Idiosepius. Idiosepius is destitute of a shell, but has a tendinous 
support which is regarded as the homologue of the shell, as well as the 
gladius of Loligo. 

F. Sepiololdea. — Decaceres with eyes covered by a transparent skin, 
but with false eyelids more or less free, arms of the first pair hectocotyl- 
ized, and with the gladius corneous and rudimentary, or absent. 

10. Sepiolids. — The only known sepioloid decaceres. 

The families of Octopod Dibranchiates. 

The octopods in late years have been generally segregated into two 
principal groups, (1) the pelagic, including the Argonautids and Philo- 
♦ nexids, and (2) the littoral, embracing the Octopodids and Cirrhoteuthids. 
But M. Fischer has proposed to difi'erentiate them into two groups, dis- 
tinguished by the development of one or more rows of suckers, the 
"Cirrhoteuthidse" and "Eledonidse" having one row("monocotylea"), 
and the Octopodidse, Tremoctopodidte (Fhilonexids), and Argonautidse 
having two or three (" poly coty lea"). Professor Verrill has made known 
a "new" family (Alloposidae), and admits the following: 

Argonautids. — Octopods with an ovoid fiuless body, the two upper- 
most arms (in female) expanded terminally into broad flattish vela- 
menta which secrete a papery spiral single-chambered involute nautili- 
form shell. 

The family is specialized by the development of a shell, which serves 
as an ovicapsule in the female. The male is very much smaller. 

Fhilonexids or Tremoctopodids. — Octopods with ovoid finless body, 
tapering arms moderately connected by membrane, and "edge of man- 
tle united to the base of the siphon laterally by a button -like cartilage 
fitting in a corresponding pit on the inner surface of the mantle." 

Alloposids. — Octopods with ovoid finless body, tapering arms con- 
nected by a moderate web, and mantle "united directly to the head, not 
only by a large dorsal commissure, but also by a median ventral and 
cwo lateral longitudinal commissures, which run from its inner surfacfe 
to the basal parts of the siphon." 

This family has been constituted by Professor Verrill for a single 
species [Alloposus mollis) discovered by Lieutenant Tanner, under the 



604 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

auspices of the United States Fish Commission, in deep water (225 to 
715 fathoms), in several places near the eJtstern coast. 

Octopodids. — Octopods with an oval finless body, tapering arms little 
connected by membrane, and " mantle united to the head by a broad 
dorsal commissure," and without complex connection with the siphon. 

The family is again subdivided by M. Fischer into two, (1) theOctopo- 
didse with two or more rows of suckers, and (2) the Eledonidte with a 
single row of suckers. The common littoral cuttle-fishes are representa- 
tive of the family. 

Cirrhoteuthids. — Octopods with a rather long body, provided with 
short lateral fins (one on each side), supported by internal cartilages, 
and " arms united nearly to the tips by a broad, umbrella-shaped mem- 
brane or web." 

The umbrella-shaped anterior end is the most obvious characteristic. 

It is always an arm of the third pair — generally the right, but some- 
times the left — that becomes hectocotylized in the male, the hectocotyl- 
ization varying in extent from the entire arm to the tip only. 

Gigantic Cuttle-fishes. 

In the last account of progress in zoology reference is made to Pro- 
fessor Verrill's studies of the gigantic cuttle-fishes, and it was stated 
that two specimens of Architeuthis, the genus including the giants of 
the class, had been found 52 feet long. But huge representatives of the* 
class have been found elsewhere than the North Atlantic Ocean, and 
have been found to differ materially from the type of the genus Archi- 
teuthis, although apparently not as much as has been supposed. 

Professor Verrill has reviewed the conclusions formulated by Pro- 
fessor Owen, in his " Descriptions of some new and rare Oephalopods." 
The Enoploteuthis Gookii of Owen is the Sepia unguiculata of Molina 
(1810), and Enoploteuthis molince of D'Orbigny (1845-'48), and '' it is not 
improbable " that it is also specifically identical with the Enoploteuthis 
Hartingii of Verrill (1880). The Plectoteuthis grandis of Owen is un- 
questionably an Architeuthis, and the Ommastrephes ensifer is a Stheno- 
teuthis, and probably the same as the 8. pteropus of Bermuda. (A. J. 
S. (3), V. 23, pp. 72-75.) 

The host of giant cephalopods has also been added to from New Zea- 
land. Mr. T. W. Kirk has described two from that region under the 
names Architeuthis Verrilli and Steenstrupia StocMi. No generic differ- 
ences have been signalized between the two, and Professor Verrill 
would refer the so-called Steenstrupia to Architeuthis '' without much 
hesitation, though the tentacular clubs, if known, might show some differ- 
ences." The species, however, " bear more resemblance to the small 
squids, Ommastrephes and Loligo, than do the other large species hith- 
erto discovered." The A. Verrilli had a length for head and body of 
9 feet 1 inch, and the tentacular arms were 25 feet long. The A. Stobkii 



ZOOLOGY 605 

was correspondingly 11 feet 1 inch long, but the arms were shorter than 

in the A. Verrilli. (Trans. New Zealand Inst., v. 14 ; A. J. S. (3), v. 

24, p. 477.) 

X. PROTOCHORDATES. 

TUNIC ATES. 
Genei'al. 

Delia Valle (A.)- Nuove contribuzioni alia Storia naturale delle Ascidie coinposte 

del goltb di Napoli. Con 10 tav. Atti R. Accad. Lincei, (3,) Mem. CI. Fis., t. 

10, pp. 431-498. 
McMurrich (J. Playfair). On the origin of the so-called ''Test-cells" in the Ascidian 

ovum. With 1 pi. Studies from the Biolog. Laborat. Johns Hopkins Univers., 

V. 2, pp. 147-156. 
Seeliger (Osw.). Znr Entwicklungsgeschichte der Ascidien. Eibildung und Knos 

pung von Clavelina lepadiformis. Mit 3 Taf. Sitzgsber. kais. Acad.Wien, math- 

nat. CI., 1. Abth., 85. Bd., pp. 361-413. 

Larvalia. 

Lankester (E. Ray). The Vertebration of the Tail of Appendicularice. Quart. Journ. 
Microsc. Sc, v. 22, pp. 387-390. 

TcBnioiran.cMatea. 

Brooks (W. K.). On the development of the ova in Salpa. Withl pi. Stud. Biolog. 

Laborat. Johns Hopkins Univers., v. 2, pp. 301-313. 
Grobben (Carl). Doliolum und sein Generationswechsel, nebst Bemerkungen liber 

den Generationswechsel der Acalephen, Cestoden und Ti'ematoden. Mit 5 Taf. 

Arbeit. Zoolog. lustit. Wien., 4. Bd., pp. 201-298. 

SaecoirancMates. 
\ 
Traustedt (M. P. A.). Vestiudiske Ascidite simj)lices. 1. Afd. {Phullimda;)t\\\\geva.e,A 
indledende Bemserkningerom Skjserheden hos Ascidiaesimplices i Almendelighed. 
(Med2tavl.) Vid. Meddel. Nat. Foren. Kjobenh., 1881, pp. 257-288. 

The tail of SynaHcidian larva. 

A new Synascidian generic type — Disdaplia — has been made known 
by A. Delia Valle, and the larva described. Inasmuch as one of the 
most cogent arguments in favor of the relation of the Ascidians to the 
Protovertebrates is based on the development of a vertebrated tail 
in the early stage, what Delia Valle has to say with reference to that 
of Disdaplia is of general interest. The tail presents " an envelope 
of cellulose, with amoeboid nuclei, a membrane continuous with the 
ectoderm, which is formed of large, flattened epithelial cells, a contrac- 
tile layer of fusiform cells which are transversely striated, and tbe axis 
of the tail, which is more transparent than the rest, and is occupied 
by the hyaline cylinder, which is, according to some, a solid cartilagi- 
nous notochord. The author, however, like some other writers, finds 
that this axial structure is a hollow tube, the wall of which is continu- 
ous with that of the peritoneal sac." (J. R. M. S., (2,) v. 2, p. 768, from 
Arch. Ital. de Biol., 1882, t. 1, pp. 193-203.) 

Cycles of Tunicates. 

The cycles of development of various types of Tunicates hats been 
presented in a convenient tabular synopsis by Dr. Carl Grobben, in 



606 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 



which "A " represents a sexual generation, " B " an asexual one, " M " 
the median, and "L" the lateral buds: 



Synascidiaa. 


Pyrosoma. 


Salpa. 


Doliolnin. 


AB 


AB 


A 


A 


/ X 
B AB 


/ ^ 

B AB 


B 


B 


/ / \ 

AB B AB 


/ / \ 

AB B AB 

■ 


A 


li]. M 
A 



XI. VERTEBRATES. 



General. 



Wiedersheim (R.). Lelirbuch der vergleichendeu Anatomie der Wirbelthiere auf 
Grundlage der Eutwicklungsgescliichte bearbeitet. 1. Th. Jena, G. Fischer, 
1882. (Bvo, xii, 476 pp. M. 12.-) 

Fauvas. 

Mela (A. J.). Vertebrata Fennica, sive Fauna animalium vertebratorum regionis 
Feunicaaj naturalis. Suomen Luurankoiset, eli Liionnontietoellisen Suomen 
Luuraukois-Eliiinuisto. Helsingissji (Helsingfors), Holm, 1882. (8vo, xi, 386 pp. 
10 pi. 

Teeth. 

Baume (Rob.). Odoutologische Forschungen. 1. Th. Versucb einer Entwickelungs- 
geschichte des Gebisses. Mit 97 Holzschn. 1882 (8vo, vii, 307 pp., M. 13.) ; 2. Th. 
Die Defecte der harten Zahnsubstanzen. Mit 55 Holzschn. Leipzig, A. Felix, 

1882. (Bvo. M. 8.) 

Nervous sijstem. 

Stilling (J.). Untersuchungen uber den Bau der optischen Centralorgane. 1. Theil. 
Chiasma und Tractus opticus. Mit 10 lith. Taf. Kassel und Berlin, Th. Fischer, 
1882. (4to., vii, 87 pp., 10 Bl. Tafelerkl. M. 24.) 

FISH-LIKE VERTEBARTES. 

Nervous sijstem. 

Cattie (J. Th.^. Recherches sur la glande pin6ale (Epiphysis cerebri) des Plagio- 
stouies, des Ganoides et des T61do,steeu8. Avec 3 pi. Archiv. de Biolog., t. 3, pp. 
101-194. 

Electric organs. 

Du Bois Reymoud (Emil). Vorliiufiger Bericht iiber die von Prof Gustav Fritsch in 
Aegypteu augestellten uenen Untersuchungen an electrischen Fischen. Mona- 
tsber. k. Akad. Wiss., Berlin, 1881, pp. 1149-1164, 1882. 

Eye. 

Berger (E. ). Beitrtige zur Anatomie des Sehorgans der Fische. Mit 2 Taf. Morphol, 
Jahrb., 8. Bd., pp. 97-168. 



ZOOLOGY. 607 

Faunas. 

{North America.) 

Bean (Tarletou H. ). Notes on Fishes collected by Capt. Chas. Bendire, in Washington 
Territory and Oregon, May to October, 1881. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 5, pp. 89-93. 

Jordan (David S.) and Charles H. Gilbert. Catalogue of the Fishes collected by Mr. 
John Xautus, at Cape San Lucas, which are in the U. S. National Museum, with 
descriptions of eight new species. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 5, pp. 353-1571. 

(Jsia.) 

Karoli (Janos). Prodromus Piscium Asise orientalis a domino Joa. Xantus annis 
■ 1868-70 collectorum. Term^sz Fuzetek, v. 5, pp. 147-187. 
Note. — A nominal list of 625 species. 

(Europe.) 

Day (Francis). The Fishes of Great Britain and Ireland. Part 4-5. London, Wil- 
liams & Norgate, 1882. 8vo. v. 1, pp. 241-240, pi. 69-93; v. 2, pp. 1-96, pi. 94-106. 

Fatio (V.). Faune des Vert6br6s de la Suisse. Vol. iv. Histoire Naturelle des Poissons. 
l.partie. Geneve et-BUle, 1882. (8vo. 786 pp., 5 pi.) 

(Africa.) 

Guimaraes (Antonio Eob. Pereira). Lista dos Peixes da Maderia, Acores e dos pos- 
sessoes portuguezas d' Africa, que existem no museu de Lisboa. Supplemeuto. 
Jorn. Sc. Math., Phys. e Nat. Acad. Sc. Lisb., v. viii, pp. 30-39. 

Rochebruue (A. T. de). Faune de S6n6gambie. Poissons. Act. Soc. Linn. Bordeaux, t. 
vi. pp. 37-180, pi. 1-G. 

(Australia.) 

Macleay (William). Descriptive catalogue of the Fishes of Australia. Proc. Linn, 

Soc. N. S. Wales (Sydney). Part 3, v. 6, pp. 1-138, pi. 1-2 (Sp. 544-801) ; Part 4, 

pp. 202-387 (Sp. 802-1133). 
. Contribution to a knowledge of the Fishes of New Guinea. Proc. Linn. 

Soc. N. S. Wales, v. 7, pp. 224-250 (Sp. 1-120) ; pp. 351-366 (Sp. 121-196) ; pp. 

585-598 (Sp. 197-274). 

Fossil fishes. 

Kramberger-Gorjanovic (Drag.), Die jungtertiare Fischfauna Croatiens. 1. Theil. 
Beitr. z. Paliiontol. Osterr.-Ungarns von Mojsisovics und Neumayr, 2. Bd., 3. 
Hft., pp. 86-88; 2. Theil. Ibid., 4. Hft., pp. 89-135. 

Australian fishes. 

A signal service has been clone for ichthyologists by Mr. William 
^acleay, in his catalogue of Australian fishes. It appears therefrom 
that 1,133 nominal species (exclusive of many doubtless overlooked by 
him) are found in the waters that surround Australia and the neigh- 
boring islands, or which traverse its interior. This compares not un- 
favorably with the fish-faunas of other regions, and is not much inferior 
to those of the United States and the higher north, wherein about 
1,500 species have been discovered. The proportions between the fresh- 
water and marine forms are very different, however, for the two hemi- 
spheres. The Korth American streams and lakes swarm with species, 



608 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1802. 

aud contribute well nigh 40 per cent, of the total, while Australia is 
exceptionally poor, and has a very small percentage of fresh- water fishes. 
Even the few fluviatile forms are ill understood, but it is not at all likely 
that any have intimate relations with types of the northern hemisphere, 
although, several genera have been associated in a very heterogeneous 
group (" Grystina"), of which the Black Bass of America has been taken 
as a type. Another element that must be considered in a comparison 
of the respective faunas is the number of ill-defined and doubtful species 
that have been introduced into the southern fauna, and which Mr. Mac- 
leay has evidently been unable to examine and refer to their proijer 
categories. But, making all such allowances, the marine fish-faunas of 
Australia are very rich, aud the number of species surpass those of the 
North American marine regions. It is lamentable that many genera 
will have to carry, as long as the present rules of nomenclature i)revail, 
names commencing with "Neo," an anachronism that neophytes in 
science aud nomenclature might be expected to be guilty of, but which 
good naturalists have also shared, so misleading is a bad example. 

The fresh-water types of Australia are more numerous than have been 
supposed. As recently as 1880, Dr. Giinther only admitted 30 species, 
including therein two "brackish- water" forms, and ouly three peculiar 
generic types — CeratodvSy Nannoperca, and Macquaria. Mr. Macleay 
greatly increases the list. They are named and arranged by him as 
follows : 

Fercidce. — Lates (5 of 8 sp.), Brevipcrca (1 sp.), Bostockia (1 sp.), ^de- 
lia (2 sp.), Acanthoperca (1 sp.), Nannoperca (2 sp.), GulUveria (2 sp.), 
Oligorus (2 sp.), Gtenolates (properly PlectropUtes, 3 sp.), Murrayia (4 
S^.),Iiiverina (1 sp.), Dulcs (i. e., KuhUa or Moronopsh, 1 sp.), Macquaria 
(1 sp.), Therapon (10 of 16 sp.). 

Trachinidw. — Aphritis (1 sp.). 

Oohiidw. — Gobius (several sp.), Eleotris (several sp.), Arktwus (4 sp.). 

Blenniidw. — Blennius (several sp.), Gristiceps (1 of 16 sp.). 

Atherinida'. — Atherinichthys (2 of 7 sp.), Wematocentris (i. e., Melano- 
twuia, 1 sp.), Ncoaiherina (1 sp.). 

Mugilidw. — Mvgil (several sp.), Agonostoma (1 of 2 sp.). 

OpMocepha.Udw. — OpMocepJialvs (1 sp. ??). 

Gadopsidw. — Gadopsis (1 sp.). 

'PleuronectidcB. — Arnoglossus (L sj).), RJiomhosolea (1 of 2 sp.), iSynap- 
tura (1 sp.). 

Siluridw. — Flotosus (3 sp.), Copidoglanis (1 of 4 sp.), Neosilurus (1 sp.), 
Cainosilurus (1 sp.), Eumeda (1 sp.), Arius (1 of 6, sp.). 

Saplochiionidw. — Froiotroctes (1 sp.). 

Salmonidw. — Retropinna (1 sp.). 

Galaxidce. — Galaxias (17 sp.). 

Gyprinidw. — Leuciscus ("?? 1 sp."). 

Osteoglossidce. — Osteoglossum (1 sp.). 



ZOOLOGY. 609 

Clupeidw. — Chatoessus (2 sp.), Clupea (several sp.), Brishania (1 sp.), 
Megalops (1 sp.). 
MurcenidcB. — Anguilla (2 sp.). 

'■ . — Ceratodus (2 sp.). 

. — Onipax (1 sp.). 

Petromyzontidce. — Oeotria (3 sp.) ; Tarra (1 sp.). 

The most noteworthy facts shown by this list are (1) the paucity of 
specialized fresh-water types, and (2) the affinity of the majority of the 
forms to marine types. The only known special fresh-water families 
are five — the Gadopsids, the Haplochitonids, the Galaxiids, the Osteo- 
glossids, and the Ceratodontids — and each of these is represented by 
only one or two species, except the Galaxiids, of which 17 have been 
found. One Galaxiid, at least, occurs in the high mountainous streams. 
The affinities of most of the peculiar genera are quite uncertain. It is, 
however, almost certain that none of the species belong to the same 
families as the JSTorthern Perches (Percids) and Black Bass (Grystina or 
Ceutrarchids). Although some of the forms enumerated may be re- 
garded as anadromous or simply excursionists from the sea, many, al- 
though very closely related to sea-fishes, have evidently become true 
fresh-water forms. For example, in a collection later obtained by Mr. 
Macleay from "■ the head-waters of Palmer Eiver, cut off by numerous 
falls from the lower part of the river," were species of Therapon, Ele- 
otris, Aristceus, Synaptura, Weosilurus, and Chatoessus. These are there- 
fore claimed to be " fresh-water fishes in the strictest sense of the term." 
(Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales, v. 7, p. 69 ; see also v. 3, pp. 15, 41, 140.) 

Lest it may be deemed that there is an incongruity between the state- 
ment that there are only five fresh-water family types of Australian 
fishes and the family types indicated, it will be pertinent to add that 
the so-called Cyprinidae are evidently not members of that family, and 
" Ompax^^ is only known from a figure drawn from memory by a person 
without any knowledge of ichthyology. 

CLASS OF LEPTOCABDIANS. 

Kohon (Jos. Vict.). Untersuchungen iiber Amphioxus lanceolatus. Ein Beitrag zur 
vergleichenden Anatomie der Wirbelthiere. Denkschr. d. matli.-nat. CI. Akad. 
Wien, 45. Bd. (64 pp.) 

CLASS OF MYZONTS. 

Dohrn (Anton). Studien zur Urgeschichte des WirbeltMerkorpers. III. Die Enste- 

hung der Hypophysis bei Petromyzon Planeri. Mittheil. Zool. Station zu Nea- 

pel, 4. Bd., pp. 172-189, pi. 18. 
. Die Entstehung der Hypophysis bei Petromyzon Planeri. Zool. Anz., 5. 

Jahrg., pp. 587-588. (Nature, v. 27, p. 91.) 
Rohon (Jos. Vict.). Ueber den Ursprung des Nervus acusticus bei Petromyzonten, 

Mit. 2Taf. Sitzgsber. Wien. Akad., Math.-nat CI., 1. Abth. 85. Bd., pp. 245-267. 

Development of the pituitary body of the Lampreys, 

The pituitary body or hypophysis, it has been claimed by Dr. W. 
B. Scott, originates in a very peculiar manner in the Lamprey; but 
H. Mis. 26 39 



610 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

SO anomalous would he the origin alleged, tlie statement has been 
regarded with skepticism. Prof. Anton Dohrn has recently studied 
the subject, and he thinks "the question is solved" by him, but in a 
way different from what either Balfour or Scott supposed. " The hy- 
pophysis arises rather as an Independent depression of the ectoderm 
between the depressions for the nose and the mouth. Its connection 
with the nasal depression is only secondary, and is caused by the strong 
and early development of the upper lip. It has no connection with the 
mouth depression, because the upper lip develops between the mouth 
depression and the hypophysis." (Nature, Nov. 23, 1882.) 

CLASS OF SELACHIANS. 

General. 

Hasse (C). Das natiirliclie System der Elasmobrancbier auf Grundlage des Baues 
und der Entwicklung ilirer Wirbelsaule. Unter Mitwirkung der Herren G. Born, 
H. Strasser uud Ph. Stohr. Besonderer Theil. 2.-3. Lief. Mit 28 Taf. Jena, G. 
Fisclier, 1882 (4to). 

Koster (W.) and C. K. Hoflfman. Rapport over eene Verhandeliug van den Heer Dr. 
J. W. Van Wijhe, getiteld : " Ueber die Mesodermsegmente und die Entwick- 
lung der Nerven des Selacbierkopfes." Versl. en Mededeel. K. Akad. Amster- 
dam, 18. D. pp. 71-85, 

Eaice. 

DuBois Reymond (E.). On a new principle affecting tbe systematic distribution of 

the family of the Torpedinidce. Nature, v. 26, p. 492. 
Weyl (Th.), Die Siiulenzahl im elektrischen Organ von Torpedo oculata. Centra'lbl. 
V. d. med. Wiss., 1882, No. 16. 

Electric organ of the Torpedos. 

The number of columns in the battery of the Torpedo fishes is of 
specific value, according to Prof. Du Bois Keymond. The eastern Ameri- 
can species [Torpedo occidentalis) has a very large number, and by this 
character has been claimed as a British fish. Professor Babuchin, of 
Moscow, has demonstrated that the electric organs are developed by the 
metamorphosis of striated muscle, and that the columns do not increase 
in number with age, but by the growth of the individual columns. 

CLASS OF FISHES PROPER. 

Osseous system. 

Grassi (B.). Beitrage zur niiheren Kenntniss der Entwicklung der Wirbelsaule der 
Teleostier. (Auszug.) Morphol. Jahrb., 8. Bd., pp. 457-473. 

Kostler (M.). Ueber Knochenverdickungen am Skelette von Knochenfischen. Mit 1 
Taf. Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., 37. Bd., pp. 429-456. 

Rautenfeld (E. von). Morphologische Untersuchungen iiber das Skelet der hinteren 
Gliedmassen von Ganoiden und Teleostiern. Mit 2 Taf., u. 13 in den Text gedruck- 
ten Figuren, Inaug. Diss. Dorpat, 1882. (8vo., 47 pp., M. 150.) 

Stohr (Phil.) Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Kopfskelets der Teleostier. Mitl 
Taf. Festschr. z Feier d. 300. jahr. Bestehens d. Jul. Max. Universitiit Wiir*- 
burg, 1882. 



ZOOLOGY. 611 

Visceral skeleton. 

Wijhe (J. W. von). Ueber das Visceralskelet und die Nerven des Kopfes der Ganoiden 
und von Ceratodus. Mit 2 Taf. Niederliind. Arch. f. Zool., 5. Bd., pp. 207-320. 

Nervous system. 

Rabl-Euckhard (C). Zur Deutung und Entwicklung des Gehirns der Knochenfisclie. 
Mit 2 Taf. Arch. f. Anat. und Entwicklgsgesch., 1882, pp. 111-137. 

Eye. 

Zelinka (Carl). Die Nerven der Cornea der Knochenfische und ihre Endigung im 
Epithel. Mit 2 Taf. Arch. f. mikroskop. Anat., 21. Bd., pp. 202-239. 

Vascular system. 

Kasem-Beck und J. Dogiel. Beitrag zur Kenntnis der Struktur und der Funktion 

des Herzens der Knochenfische. Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., 37. Bd., pp. 247-262, pi. 

15, 16. 

Kidneys. 

Emery (Carlo), ifitudes sur le d6veloppement et la morphologic du rein des poissons 

osseux. Avec 1 pi. Arch. ital. biol., t. 2, pp. 135-145. 
Balfour (F. M.). On the nature of the organ in adult Teleosteans and Ganoids, which 

is usually regarded as the Head, Kidney, or Pronephros. Quart. Journ. Mic. Sc, 

n. 8, V. 22, pp. 12-16, Jan., 1882. 

Eml>ryology. 

Agassiz (Alexander). On the young stages of Osseous Fishes. Part III. With 20 
pi. Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sc, v. 17, pp. 271-303. 

Gensch (Hugo). Das secundiire Entoderm und die Blutbildung beim Ei der Knochen- 
fische. Mit 2 Holzschn.-Taf. Inaug.-Diss. Konigsberg, Beyer in Comm., 1882 
(8vo., 29 pp. M. 1). 

Hoifmann (C. K.). Zur Ontogenie der Knochenfische. Foi-tsetzung. Mit 4 Taf. 
Natuurkund. Verhandl. Akad. Amsterdam, D. 23. (60 pp.) 

Hyhridity. 

Leuckart (Rudolf). Ueber Bastardfische. Berlin, NicolaischeVerlags-Buchhd., 1882. 
(8vo., 9 pp. M. 50.) 

FisTi ■poisons. 

Thomson (Carl). Untersuchungen eines aus West-Africa stammenden Fischgiftes. 
Inaug. Diss. Dorpat (Karow), 1882. (8vo., 39 pp. M. 1.) 

Special orders. 
Dipnoi. 

Beauregard (H.). Enc6phale et nerfs crS.niens du Ceratodus. Avec 1 pi. Journ. do 
I'Anat. et de la Physiol, par Robin et Pouchet, 17. Ann., pp. 230-242. 

Haswell (William A.). On the structure of the Paired Fins of Ceratodus, with re- 
marks on the general theory of the vertebrate limb. With 1 pi. Proc. Linn. Soc. 
N. S. Wales, v. 7, pp. 2-12. 

(Rhomhoganoidei.) 

Balfour (F. M.) and W. N. Parker. On the Structure and Development of Xepi<?o«feM.<'. 

Proc. R. Soc. London, v. 33, pp. 112-119. 
Parker (W. K.). On the development of the skull in Lepidosteus ossous. Proc. 

R. Soc. London, v. 33, pp. 107-112. 



612 SCIENTIFIC EECOKD FOR 1882. 

{Apodes.) 

Goode (G. Brown). Notes on the life-history of the Eel, chiefly derived from a etndy 

of recent European authorities. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., v. 4, pp. 71-124. 
Hermes (O.). On the mature sexual organs of the Conger-eel (Conger vulgaris), with 

some observations on the male of the common eel {Anguilla vulgaris Flem.). Bull. 

U. S. Fish Comm., v. 4, pp. 126-130. 
Pauly (Aug. ). Beitrag zur Anatomic der Schwimmblase des Aals {Anguilla fluviatilia 

Fl.). Dissert, (pro venia leg.). Miinchen, 1882, (8°, 22 pp.). 
Weyenbergh (H.) Morphologische Aanteekeningen over de Proest-alen of Sym- 

branchidse. Met 1 pi. Periodico Zoolog., t. 3, pp. 278-308. 

(Eventognathi.) 

Noll (F. C). Ein achtunddreissigjahriger Karpfen. Zool. Garten, 23. Jahrg., pp. 
225-234. 

(Haplomi.) 

Hermann (Otto). Umbra canina. Mit 1 Taf. Term^sz. Fiizetek, 5. Bd., p. 275. 
Kiiroli (J.). Umbra canina Mars. Term^sz. Fiizet^k, 5. Bd., pp. 274-275. 
Walther (Johann). Die Entwicklung der Deckknochen am Kopfskelet des Hechtes 
(Esox lucius). Mit 2 Taf. Jena. Zeitschr. f. Naturwiss., 16. Bd., pp. 59-87. 

{HemibrancMi.) 

Ryder (J. A.). Notes on the development, spinning habits, and structure of the four- 
spined Stickleback, Apeltes quadracus. Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., v. 4, pp. 24-29. 

{Jugularea. ) 

Emery (Carlo). Contribuzioni all' Ittiolgia. [HI. Aggiunte alia sinonimia e alia 
storia naturale dei Fierasfer ; IV. Sulle cordizioni di vita di giovani individui del 
Tetragonurus Cuvieri.] Mittheil. zool. Station Neapel, 3. Bd., pp. 281-283. 

Parker (T. Jeffery). Connection of the air-bladder with the auditory organs in the 
Red Cod (Lotella bacchus). New Zeal. Journ. of Sc, v. 1, pp. 185-186. 

The Mdney of fishes. 

The Ganoid and Teleost — that is, all true fishes — have in their larval 
stage " two very distinct excretory organs, viz, a pronephros or head- 
kidney, and a mesonephros or Wolffian body, which are usually sepa- 
rated from each other by a more or less considerable interval." It has 
been contended that the pronephros is especially, and sometimes, even, 
as in LopMus, exclusively developed as the kidney in fishes ; but prior 
to the discovery of the development of the pronephros, as well as 
mesonephros, "it was a matter of no very great importance to know 
whether the anterior part of the so-called kidney was a true excretory 
organ. In the present state of our knowledge the question is, however, 
one of considerable interest." Professor Balfour, consequently, investi- 
gated the morphology of the organ in several types of fishes — the Stur- 
geon, Bony Gar, Smelt, Pike, Eel, and Angler. He was led to the con- 
clusion that the pronephros becomes atrophied, and probably never 
persists in either the Ganoids or Teleosts, but "is always a purely 
larval organ, which never constitutes an active -pavt of the excretory 



ZOOLOGY. 613 

system in the adult state." This conclusion, it is held, adds " proba- 
bility to the view of Gegenbaur that the pronephros is the primitive 
excretory gland of the Chordata {i. e., the Vertebrates and Tunicates); 
and that the mesonephros or Wolffian body, by which it is replaced in 
existing Ichthyopsida, is phylogenetically a more recent organ." 

Ecliiodon and Tetrogonurus commensal fishes. 

Professor Emery, as new " Contributions to Ichthyology," has recorded 
the fact that the Ecliiodon dentatus (or Fierasfer deniatus) forces itself 
upon Holothurians as a guest, like the typical Fierasfer. A small speci- 
men of the species was found in a Holutlmria nehulosa at Kaples in the 
summer of 1881. 

Professor Emery also found three young specimens of Tetragonurus 
cuvieri in the respiratory cavity of a large Salpa caught in the Gulf of 
Naples in the spring of 1880. It has been stated that young Tetrogo- 
nuri also associate with Medusae. (See Giinther's Introduction to the 
Study of Fishes, p. 501.) 

The electrical organ of the Electric Eel. 

The electrical organ of the South American Electric Eel — Electro- 
phorus (or Gymnotus) electriciis — has been studied by Dr. G. Fritsch, and 
his results are described in the great work of Sachs and DuBois Eey- 
mond on that fish. That the electric organ is developed from striated 
muscle is evident, inter alias, from the fact that a common fascia sur- 
rounds the organ and inferior lateral muscles ; the electric organ, in 
fact, is the modified superior muscle. It is also noteworthy that there 
is a remarkable variation in the number of electrical columns, a range 
between 50 and 100 occurring. The Electric Eel thus contrasts markedly 
with the Torpedo, in which the number of columns is constant for the 
species. (J. E. M. S. (2), v. 2, p. 602.) 

Determining cause of the coastward movement of the Herring. 

The movements of the Herring coastward, concerning which there has 
been so much speculation, is believed by O. J. Broch to result from the 
assemblage of the small animals on which it feeds in the summer and 
autumn. These animalcules live in immense numbers at or near the 
surface, and their distribution is supposed to be regulated chiefly by 
the predominant winds and currents. The course of the Herring toward 
the coast in the spawning season will therefore depend on the locality 
of the last feeding grounds. 

Mortality among the Tilefish. 

The remarkable history of the Tile-fish closes, for the present, with 
an extraordinary climax. This fish, the Lopholatilus chamwleontice'ps^ 
a species sometimes attaining a weight of 50 pounds, or even more, 



614 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1882. 

remained unknown till obtained tlirougli the intervention of the United 
States Fish Commission in 1879. It was then found in great numbers at a 
depth of about 75 to 150 fathoms, and as it was so large and also savory, 
promised to become a species of considerable economical importance. 
But in 1882 a great mortality among fishes occurred in March, in the 
North Atlantic, chiefly on the borders of the Gulf Stream and southwest 
of St. George's Bank, extending at least from latitude 37° to 40°, and 
longitude 71° to 73° 10'. Numerous accounts of the phenomenon have 
appeared in the newspapers ; but there is a deficiency of exact recorded 
data. It has been stated that a number of different kinds of fishes were 
affected, but from the imperfect indications it is at least probable that the 
Tile-fish was the principal sufferer. The fishes were seen floating upon 
the surface of the water, and various vessels sailed through miles and 
miles of them — in some places " fully fifty dead fish" occurring in an area 
equal to the cabin space of a vessel. Of course many hypotheses have 
been broached to account for the fatality, but they all lack foundation 
or require verification. The United States Commissioner of Fish and 
Fisheries has suggested that " it is possible, their appearance being 
almost concurrent with, or but slightly subsequent to, the great storm 
off" George's Bank," that this may have been in some way the cause of 
the mortality. In order to ascertain the effect of this mortality in the 
haunts of the Tile-fish, special search was made where it was formerly 
so abundant, but not a single specimen was obtained. 

AMPHIBIANS. 

General. 

Peters (W.). Ampliibien von Mossambique. Naturwissebschaftliclie Raise nach Mos- 
sambique, 1842-48, etc. Zoologie, III, Berlin, 1882. (fol, Mit 28 color, and 5 
schwarz. Taf. M. 80.) 

Gradientia or TJrodela. 

Boulenger (George Albert). Catalogue of tbe Batrachia Gradientia s. Caudata and 
Batrachia Apoda in the collection of the British Museum. 2d ed. London, 18B2. 
(8vo, viii, 127 pp., 9 pi.) 

Gasco (F.). Les amours des Axolotls. Bull. Soc. Zool. France, 6. ann., pp. 151-162. 

Parker (W. K.). On the Structure and Development of the Skull in the Urodeles. 
With 6 pi. Trans. Zool. Soc. London, v. xi, pp. 171-214. 

Salientia or Anura. 

Boulenger (George Albert). Catalogue of the Batrachia Salientia s. Ecaudata in the 
collection of the British Museum, 2d ed. London. 1882, (8vo, xvi, 503 pp., 30 
pi.— £ 110s.) 

Peters (W.). Ueber Batrachier, insbesondere fiber die so eben veroflfentlichte zweito 
Auflage des Catalogs der Batrachia salientia s. ecaudata des British Museum von 
Herrn G. A. Boulenger. Sitzgsber. Ges. nat. Fr, Berlin, 1882, pp. 60-62. 

Tung (fimile). De I'influence des milieux physico-chiiniques sur les Stres vivants: 
influence des diff^rentes especes d'aliments sur le d^veloppement de la grenouille 
(Rana esculenta). Arch. sc. phys. et nat., Geneve (3), t. 7, pp. 225-261. 



ZOOLOGY. 



Ifumher of Amphibians. 



615. 



The last enumeration of the Amphibians by Mr. Boulenger shows that 
nearly a thousand species are known. Nine hundred and thirty-three 
species ''are described" in the catalogues of the Batrachia salientia^ 
gradientia, and apoda of the British Museum. The progress of our ac- 
quaintance since the commencement of the century with the Amphib- 
ians, so far as numbers at least are concerned, may be seen from the 
following tabular synopsis: 



Amphibians. 


Daudin. 
1802-'3. 


D. &B. 

1842-'54. 


B. M. 

1850-'58. 


Boul. 

1882. 




4 

16 

75 


8* 

58t 

164t 


9t 
63+ 

283§ 


32 




101 




ftnn 








95 


230 


■355 


933 



*Dam6ril&Bibron, 1842. tDum6ril <t Bibron, t. 9, 1854. :t Gray, 1850. § Gunthf r, 1858. 

The Apodal Amphibians. 

The known apodal Amphibians do not exhibit sufficient differences 
among themselves to necessitate subdivisions of more than generic im- 
portance, and all have been retained in one family — the Coeciliids. Some, 
however, have " cycloid imbricated scales imbedded in the skin," and 
others are naked ; some again have " eyes distinct or concealed under 
the skiu," and in others the eyes are " below the cranial bones." Tenta- 
cles are developed between the nostrils and eyes, or below them, and 
their modifications of structure have afforded the means of defining a 
number of genera. Mr. Boulenger has admitted 11 genera, and recog- 
nizes 32 species ; South America has 21 species, Africa 5, and India 5. 

Families of Urodele Amphibians. 

The families of Gradient or Urodele Amphibians admitted by Mr. 
Boulenger are much more comprehensive than those generally adoj)ted 
by naturalists in the United States, who have accepted those established 
by Professor Cope. Only four are admitted, Salamaudridoe (with four 
subfamilies), Amphiumidse, Proteidse, and Sirenidse, and the charac- 
ters employed to differentiate two of them at least appear to contrast 
strangely with those which are subordinated to them; thus, the Sala- 
mandrids and Amphiumids are only differentiated because the former 
have "eyelids developed" and the latter "no eyelids." The relations 
the Boulengerian families bear to the Copean may be seen from the fol- 
lowing exhibit: 

I. Caducibranchiata Cope, = (Salamandridse + Amphiumida' B.) 
Gradients with "no gills in the perfect state, maxillaries present, both, 
jaws toothed". (B.) 

1 a. Salamandrids =8si\am.andvidsd Salamandrince pt. B. Caducir 



616 SCIENTIFIC KECOED FOR 1882. 

branchiates with " palatine teeth in two longitudinal series diverging 
behind, inserted on the inner margin of two palatine processes, which 
are much prolonged posteriorly; parasphenoid toothless; vertebrae 
opisthocoelian" (B), and with "no postfronto-squamosal arch or liga- 
ment". (0.) 

1 a. Pleurodelidids = SalamandridsB Salamandrinse pt. B. Caduci- 
brauchiates with " palatine teeth in two longitudinal series diverging 
behind, inserted on the inner margin of two palatine processes, which are 
much prolonged posteriorly; parasphenoid toothless" (B.), and "with a 
postfrontal arch, sometimes ligamentous". (C.) 

1 b. Amhlystomids=8alama,ndTidsd Amblystomatinse pt. B. Caduci- 
branchiates with " series of palatine teeth transverse or posteriorly con- 
verging, inserted on the hinder margin or posterior portion of the 
vomers; parasphenoid toothless; vertebrae amphiccelian" (B.), and with 
"palatines not prolonged over parasphenoid, bearing teeth on the pos- 
terior ]3ortion". (C.) 

1 b. Hynobiids — Salamandridae Amblystomatiuae pt. B. Caduci- 
branchiates with "series of iDalatine teeth transverse or posteriorly con- 
verging, inserted ou the hinder margin or posterior portion of the 
'vomers; parasphenoid toothless; vertebrae amphiccelian" (B.), and with 
"palatines in contact prolonged over parasphenoid, bearing teeth on 
posterior external margin". (C.) 

1 c. Plethodontids = Salamandridae Plethodontiuae B. Caducibran- 
chiates, with " series of palatine teeth transverse on posterior portion 
of vomers; dentigerous plates on parasphenoid; vertebrae amphiccelian." 
(B.) 

1 d. DesmognatMds=Sal2imBiidTid3d Desmognathinae pt. B. Caduci- 
branchiates with " series of palatine teeth transverse, on posterior por- 
tion of vomers ; dentigerous i^lates on parasphenoid; vertebrae opistho- 
coelian" (B.); with the parasphenoid teeth in two elongate patches, and 
with the tongue free laterally and behind. 

1^. T/iom(fe=Salamandridae Desmognathinae pt.B. Caducibranchi- 
ates, with " series of palatine teeth transverse, on posterior portion of 
vomers ; dentigerous plates on parasphenoid ; vertebrae opisthocoelian " 
(B.) ; with the parasphenoid teeth in a single patch and with the tongue 
free all around and attached only by a central pedicel. 

2. Protonopsids =Am])hmmidiS) pt. B. Caducibranchiates without 
eyelids, with teeth on anterior margin of palatine bones ; no dentigerous 
plates on parasphenoid; vertebrae amphiccelian; "no anterior axial 
cranial bone;" parietals and prefrontals prolonged, meeting and embrac- 
ing frontals; wall of vestibule membranous internally; j^remaxillaries 
separated; occipital condyles sessile; and with weli-develoj)ed limbs. 

2. AmpJiiumids= Am])b.iumid8d pt. B. Caducibranchiates without 
eyelids, with teeth on the outer anterior margin of palatines, no dentig- 
erous plates on j)arasphenoid ; vertebrae amphiccelian ; " an axial cranial 
bone C? vomer) in front of orbitosphenoids, and one forming palatal sur- 



ZOOLOGY. 617 

face in front of palatines;" parietal prolonged laterally, not reaching 
prefrontals; vestibule wall osseous internally; premaxillaries consoli- 
dated; occipital condyles on cylindrical pedestal, and with rudimentary 
limbs. 

II. Peotetda Miiller, Cope. Gradients with "external gills persis- 
tent throughout life, maxillaries absent, intermaxillaries and mandible 
toothed;" palatine and pterygoid bones developed, and orbito-sphenoid 
elongate and not entering into palate (C). 

3. Proteins, The only existing family with two genera — Proteus and 
Necfurus. 

III. Teachystomata Miiller, Cope. Gradients with " external gills 
Ijersistent throughout life; maxillaries absent; intermaxillaries and 
mandible toothless ;" palatines and pterygoids undeveloped, and orbito- 
sphenoids large, anterior and forming part of palate (C). 

4. Sirenids. The only family with two American genera — Siren and 
Pseudobranehus. 

The transformation of the Mexican Axolotl. 

It has long been recognized that the Mexican Axolotl represented 
exactly the larval condition of the North American Amblystomse, bufr 
as the Amblystoma form had not been obtained in Mexico, it has been 
suggested that the Axolotl of that country might never attain the com- 
plete condition, and that in fact, in its native state, it might exemplify 
a condition of arrested development perpetuated by its power to propa- 
gate in an immature stage. A Mexican naturalist has, however, dis- 
covered that the Amblystoma form is found and well known around the 
lakes in which the Axolotl occurs, and that it is even known to the 
people by a name of Aztec origin meaning land Axolotl. The fully 
developed form has been found about the lakes Santa Isabel, Xochi- 
milco, Chalco, and Zumpango, the last of which is about sixteen leagues 
north of the city of Mexico. Mr. Velasco has recorded his observations 
in the Mexican periodical called "La Xaturaleza," and an abstract is 
given in the American Naturalist (v. 16, xvi, p. 913). 

Families of Anurans. 

The arrangement of this order was in inextricable confusion till the 
key was found by Professor Cope, in 1865, in sternal characters. To 
the i^rincipal of these characters — the manner of connection at the mid- 
dle — Mr. Boulenger attaches even greater importance than Professor 
Cope. The order has been primarily divided into two suborders, the 
Phaneroglossa and the Aglossa, and the former are differentiated into 
" sections," the Firmisternia and the Arcifera, the former including the 
"suborders" Eaniformia, Firmisternia, and Gastrechmia of Cope, and 
the latter his suborders Bufoniformia and Arcifera. Mr. Boulenger's 
arrangement, so far, appears to be very natural ; but he has paid no 
further attention to sternal or other anatomical characters to distinguish 



618 SCIENTIFIC RECOED FOR 1882. 

the families, although he uses them for minor groups. As Professor 
Cope's views have been generally accepted in the United States, the fol- 
lowing summary of Mr. Boulenger's views, compared with Professor 
Cope's, may be of interest, Mr. Boulenger's families being indicated by 
Eoman figures, and those adopted in conformity with Professor Cope's 
views being distinguished by the numbers in parentheses, and the de- 
scriptive portions also in parentheses : 

Suborder I. Phaneeoglossa. — Salients with the eustachian tubes 
separated, and with a tongue. 

Section A. Fiemisternia. — Phaneroglossates with "coracoids firmly 
united by a simple epicoracoid cartilage ; precoracoids, if present, rest- 
ing with their distal extremity upon the coracoids, or connected with 
the latter by the epicoracoid cartilage." 

I (1). Banids. — Firmisteruials with premaxillary and maxillary teeth, 
with subcylindrical sacral diapophyses, with precoracoids, and with an 
" omosternum." 

This is by far the most extensive of the Anurans, comprising, accord- 
ing to Mr. Boulenger, and including the doubtful ones, 286 species. 
It is represented in North America, Eurasia, ludia, Africa, South 
America, and Australia. 

(2). Colostethids. — Firmisteruials with premaxillary and maxillary 
teeth, with subcylindrical diapophyses, and with precoracoids, but 
without an " omosternum." 

Only one species has been referred to this family — the Colostethus 
latinasus of Colombia. 

II. Dendrobatids. — Firmisteruials without teeth, with subcylindrical 
sacral diapophyses, and with precoracoids. 

Seven species of Dendrohates from South America, 3 of Mantella from 
Madagascar, and (doubtfully) 1 of Stumpffia, also from Madagascar, 
have been placed in this family. 

Ill (1). Phryniscids (Engystomatidse, § I, Boulenger). — Firmisterui- 
als without teeth iu upper jaw, with dilated sacral diapophyses, with 
precoracoids, and the coracoids nearly parallel with the precoracoids. 

Twenty-five species of this section have been recognized by Mr. 
Boulenger, some of which are Oriental, but most are South American. 
(2). Engystomids (Engystomatidte, § II, Boulenger). — Firmisteruials 
without teeth in upper jaw, with dilated sacral diapophyses, and with- 
out precoracoids. 

Twenty-three species are attributed to the genera constituting this 
family by Mr. Boulenger ; the typical are South America, but most in- 
habit the oriental region. 

(3). Brevicepitids (Engystomatldae, § III, Boulenger). — Firmister- 
uials without upper jaw teeth, with dilated sacral diapophyses, with 
precoracoids ; the coracoids directed moderately backwards and much 
dilated forwards on the epicoracoid cartilage. 



ZOOLOGY. 619 

Four African species of the type are known. 

(4). Hemisids (Engystomatidae, § lY, Boulenger).— Eirmisternials 
without teeth in upper jaw, with dilated sacral diapophyses, with pre- 
coracoids, with the coracoids directed very obliquely backwards aud 
little dilated toward the epicoracoid cartilage, and with the " supra- 
scapula" connected by ligament with the "prootic." 

Only one species of this group, inhabiting South Africa, is known. 

IV (1). Dyscophids. — Firmisternials with teeth in upper jaw, with 
dilated sacral diapophyses (with precoracoids "resting upon cora- 
coids," and with a cartilaginous omosternunj aud "a very large an- 
chor-shaped cartilaginous sternum "). 

Two Madagascarene species answer to this definition, but three others 
have been associated with them, which, if Professor Cope's views are 
accepted, will require to be differentiated as peculiar family types. 

(2). Galkiellids. — Firmisternials with teeth in upper jaw, with 
dilated sacral diapophyses (with precoracoids "resting upon cora- 
coids," without an omosternum and with a small cartilaginous ster- 
num). 

One species is known — the Calluella guttulata of India, 

(3). Cophijlids. — Firmisternials with teeth in upper jaw, with dilated 
sacral diapophyses (and without precoracoids). 

The Cophylce of Madagascar (two species) are the only known repre- 
sentatives. 

Section B. Arcifera. — Phaneroglossates with "coracoids and pre- 
coracoids connected by an arched cartilage (the epicoracoid), that of 
the one side overlapping that of the other." 

V (1). Cystignathids. — Arcifers with toothed upper jaw, and sub- 
cylindric (or little dilated) sacral diapophyses. 

This is a large family, including "arboreal, aquatic, terrestrial, and 
burrowing types," and numerously represented in South America and 
Australia; 173 species are enumerated by Mr. Boulenger, although 
some are doubtful. 

VI (1). Dendrophryniscids.— Arcifers without maxillary teeth, with 
subcylindric sacral diapophyses. 

Three South American species are alone known. The family has 
been named Batrachophrynidae by Professor Cope. 

VII (1). Bufonids. — Arcifers without maxillary teeth, with dilated 
sacral vertebrae (and a broad flat tongue, free behind). 

This family is only equalled in its distribution by the Eanids, and 
103 species (including a dozen doubtful ones) have been referred to the 
family by Mr. Boulenger. 

(2). Rhinophrynids. — Arcifers without maxillary teeth, with dilated 
sacral vertebrae (and with an elongate subtriangulai tongue, free in 
front). 

This family has been proposed for a Mexican Anuran [RUnophrynm 
dorsalis), and was contrasted with all the other Anurans on account of its 



620 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882, 

anteriorly free tongue by Dr. Giinther, all the other Phaueroglossates 
being " opisthoglossate " or with the ''tongue adherent in front, more 
or less free behind." 

YIII (1). Hylids. — Arcifers with maxillary teeth, dilated sacral dia- 
pophyses, and claw-shaped terminal phalanges. 

This family is one of the largest and most widely distributed of the 
Anurans and includes, according to Boulenger, about 180 more or less 
well known species; these are grouped by that author under ten genera, 
but many others have been proposed by various authors. 

IX (1). Pelohatids (or Scaphiopodids). — Arcifers with maxillary teeth, 
dilated sacral diapophyses (the coccyx connate with the sacrum, and 
with procoelian vertebrae). 

Seven species of Scaphiopiis and two of Pelobates represent this fam- 
ily, the former in North America and the latter in Europe. 

(2). Pelodytids. — Arcifers with maxillary teeth, dilated sacral diapo- 
physes (the coccyx articulating with one or two condyles of sacral ver- 
tebrae, and with procoelian vertebrae.) 

Two species — Pelodytes punctatus of Southern Europe and Batrachop- 
sis melanopyga of New Guinea — have two sacral condyles, and two others, 
of the oriental genus LeptohracMum, have only one. Xenophrys having 
procoelian vertebrae, according to Boulenger, would also belong here, al- 
though it was associated by Cope with Asterophrydids. 

(3). Asterophrydids. — Arcifers with maxillary teeth, dilated sacral 
diapophyses (the coccyx connected with one or two condyles or sacral 
vertebrae, and with opisthoccelian vertebrae). 

Four genera are referred to this family by Professor Cope, but, ac- 
cording to Mr. Boulenger, only two of them — the Eastern Megalophrys 
and Papuan Asteroplirys — have its essential characters, i. e., the opis- 
thoccelian vertebrae. Gryptotis is associated with Cystignathids and 
Xenophrys with Pelodytids. 

X (1). Discoglossids. — Arcifers with maxillary teeth, dilated sacral 
diapophyses, precoracoids and coracoid slightly divergent and gen- 
erally tapering, and with the "sternum" emitting two divergent pro- 
cesses. 

This well-marked family has four European species and a fifth pecu- 
liar form {Liopelma Sochstetteri) in New Zealand — a remarkable distri- 
bution. 

XI (1). Amphignathodontids. — Arcifers with maxillary as well as sim- 
ilar mandibular teeth, dilated sacral diapophyses, and without an omo- 
sternum. The Amphignathodon €ruentheri, recently described by Mr. 
Boulenger, from Ecuador, is the sole known species of this family. 

XII (1). Hemiphraciids, — Arcifers with maxillary as well as pecu- 
liar mandibular teeth, subcylindrical sacral diapophyses, coracoids and 
precoracoids parallel, an omosternum, and (in Hemiphractiis at least) 
opisthoccelian vertebrae, and the coccyx attached to two condyles. 

Three tropical American genera, with eight species, have been re- 



ZOOLOGY. 621 

ferred to this family, but one {Amphodus Wurcheri) may require to be 
differentiated from it. 

The Discoglossids differ so much from the other Arcifers that the exi- 
gencies of economy in diagnosis, as well as scientific taxonomy, ajjpear 
to demand its isolation in a peculiar superfamily, contrasting with 
another containing all the other representatives of the arciferous sec- 
tion, viz: 

Bufonoidea. — Arciferous Phaneroglossates without ribs, and with 
their tadpoles provided with a spiraculum situated on the left side. 

Discoglossoidea. — Arciferous Phaneroglossates with short ribs and 
their tadpoles distinguished by a "spiraculum situated mesially on the 
thoracic region." 

Suborder II. Aglossa. — Salients with the Eustachian tubes united 
into a single ostium pharyngium and without a tongue. 

XIII (=1). Dactylethrids. — Aglossates with maxillary teeth (with di- 
lated sacral diapophyses, and with " coracoids and precoracoids sub- 
equal, strongly divergent, connected by a double, not overlapping, car- 
tilage"). 

This family (which should by rights be called Xenopodids) is com- 
posed by three species of Xenopus, found in Tropical Africa. 

XIV (=1). Fipids. — Aglossates without teeth (with dilated sacral dia- 
pophyses, and with " coracoids and precoracoids strongly divergent, 
former much dilated, connected by a broad, double, not overlapping, 
cartilage"). 

The Surinam Toad, Pipa americantti is the only known species of this 
family. 

REPTILES. 

General. 

Cope (E. D.). Eeptiles of the American Eocene. Amer. Naturalist, v. 16, pp. 979-993. 
HoflEman (C. K.). Eeptilia. (Bronn'a Klassen und Ordnungen Thierreichs.) 35, 
Lief. Leipzig und Heidelberg, 1882. (8vo. M. 1. 50.) 

Special orders. 

(Crocodilians.) 

Chaffanjon (J. ). Observations sur 1' Alligator mississippiensis. Ann. See. Linn. Lyon, 

t. 28. (8vo., 16 pp., 1 pi.) 
Van Beneden (Edouard). Eecherclies sur I'oreille moyenne des Crocodiliens, et ees 

communications multiples avec le pharynx. Avec 3 pi. Archiv. de Biolog.,t, 3, 

pp. 497-560. 

{Lacertilians:) 

Fischer (J. G.). Anatomische Notizen iiber Heloderma horridum Wiegm. Mit 1 Taf. 

Verhandl. Ver. f. naturw. Unterhalt. Hamburg, 5. Bd. 
Fischer (Joh. von). Das Chamaleon (Chamseleo vulgaris), sein Fang und Versandt 

seine Haltung und seine Fortpflanzung in der Gefangenschaft. Zoolog. Garten, 

23. Jahrg., pp. 4-13, 39-48, etc. 



622 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Shufeldt (R. W.)- Remarks upon the Osteology of Opheosaurua ventralis, Proc. U. 

S. Nat. Mus., V. 4, pp. 392-400. 
Straucli (A. ). BeiuerkuDgen iiber die Eidechsenfamilie der Amphisbaenideu. Mfilang. 

Biolog., t. 11, pp. 355-479. 

( Ophidians. ) 

Forbes (W. A.). Observations on the Incubation of the Indian Python (Python molu- 
rus). Report 51 Meet. Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sc, p. 723-724. 

(CJielonians.) 

True (Fred. W.). On the North American Land Tori;oises of the genus Xerobatea, 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., v. 4, p. 434-449. 

{Dinosaur ians.) 

Marsh (O. C). Principal characters of American Jurassic Dinosaurs. — Part V. Classi- 
fication of the Dinosauria. Amer. Journal Sc. (3), v. 23, pp. 81-86. 

Reptiles of the American Eocene. 

The Cretaceous was pre-eminently the age of Eeptiles, and with 
that period died out many strange types of the class. In the Tertiary 
age the reptiles were developed under the same grand orders as those 
of the present, but under some peculiar families and many peculiar 
genera. Those of the Eocene of North America have been reviewed 
by Professor Cope, and no less than 91 species are recognized, and are 
segregated under four orders — the Crocodilians with 18 species, the 
Tortoises with 42, the Lacertilians with 25, and the Ophidians with 6. 
The ratios between the several types will thus be seen to be very dif- 
ferent from those exhibited by any existing fauna, but the discrepancy 
is, doubtless, to some extent due to our imperfect knowledge; never- 
theless, the real ratios were probably not very different from those al- 
ready furnished by palaeontology. 

Professor Cope well remarks that " the Eocene reptiles were not a 
new creation nor a new evolution, but a remnant of the types that had 
co-existed with the monarchs of life during previous ages. We must 
except from this statement the serpents, which first appear in numbers 
at this time, only one Cretaceous species having been found by Dr. 
Sauvage in France. The crocodiles, tortoises, and lacertilians represent 
orders already abundant in the Mesozoic faunae. Their decadence in 
Central North America did not commence until the Miocene period, 
when the crocodiles and nearly all the tortoises disappeared." 

The Crocodilians, according to Cope, were represented by only 2 
genera, both of the family Orocodilidae, Crocodilvs, with 16 species, 
and Flerodon, with 2. " The Eocene species of true crocodiles differ 
much in size and characters, ranging from the G. heterodon, which is 
not larger than an Iguana, to the G. antiquus and G. clavis, which rival 
the existing species of the East Indies." 

The tortoises of the Eocene are of unusual interest. Eight families 



ZOOLOGY. 623 

of the order are represented — the Spliargidids ; tlie Cbeloniids, or true 
sea-turtles; the extinct Propleurids, turtles to some extent intermediate 
between the sea and snapping turtles; the Ohelydrids, or snappers; the 
Trionychids, or soft turtles ; the extinct Baenids; the Emydids, now 
so abundant in species ; and the Testitudinids, or land tortoises. 

TJie Dinosaur ians. 

Most interesting are the extinct reptiles named Dinosaurians, for 
various reasons. Many of them were of gigantic size, in certain re- 
spects they exhibited a considerable degree of specialization, they were 
also manifested under a variety of modifications, and they either repre- 
sented the general stock from which the birds originated or were but 
little removed from that stock. In other words, could we trace the 
line of the birds backward to their primitive ancestors the naturalist 
would recognize in the ancestral form a member of the class of reptiles, 
and in that class he would refer it either to the group of Dinosau- 
rians, or, as is more likely, to a peculiar earlier one, from which may 
have originated both types. The richness of the Dinosaurian group in 
species, in genera, and in families, as well as still more comprehensive 
groups, had been gradually revealed by different palaeontologists, and 
at length in accelerated ratio, till now Professor Marsh has brought into 
prominence the variety in structure manifested in a new arrangement of 
the group. He even considers that the Dinosaurians constitute a di- 
vision of reptiles of superordinal importance, and calls it a " subclass"; 
the group is divided into five primary sections, and those are denomi- 
nated ''orders." The characters given to the several subdivisions, 
"orders," and "families" are herein condensed from Professor Marsh's 
diagnoses and contrasted with each other. Whether the groups are of 
the value claimed by Professor Marsh may be an open question, and the 
herpetologist must judge for himself what value he would assign to the 
modifications employed in the diagnoses. 

I. Saukopoda. Dinosaurians with plantigrade (ungulate) feet, front 
and hind pentadactyle ; fore and hind limbs nearly equal, and without 
a postpubis ; Atlantosauridce and Morosauridw. 

II. Stegosauria. Dinosaurians with plantigrade (ungulate) feet, 
fore and hind pentadactyle ; fore limbs very small and locomotion mainly 
effected by hind ones ; and with a postpubis ; Stegosauridce, Scelidosau- 
ridcB. 

III. Ornithopoda. Dinosaurians with digitigrade feet, the fore pen- 
tadactyle, the hind tridactyle, fore limbs small, "limb bones hollow," 
and with a postpubis ; Comptonotidce, Iguaiwdontidce, and Hadrosauridce. 

IV. Theropoda. Dinosaurians with digitigrade (unguiculate) feet, 
the fore pentadactyle, the hind variable (pentadactyle, tetradactyle, or 
tridactyle), the "fore limbs very small, limb-bones hollow," and post- 
pubis (?). Megalosauridce, Zanclodontidce, Amphisauridcc^ Labrosauridce. 

V. CcELURiA. (Xot characterized.) Gceluridce. 



624 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1882. 

YI. CoMPSOGNATHA. (Not characterized.) CompsognatMdce. 

VII. Hallopoda. Dinosaurians witli digitigrade (uuguiculate) feet, 
the fore (not described), thehiud tridactyle, the " fore limbs very small," 
and with the metatarsals greatly elongated, the calcareum much pro- 
duced backwards, the vertebrae biconcave, and the vertebrae as well as 
limb-bones hollow. Hallopodidce. 

Five orders and fourteen families, it will be hence seen, are admitted 
by Professor Marsh. 

The fourteen families admitted are distinguishable as follows : 

I (1). Atlantosaurids. Sauropods with ischia directed downwards and 
meeting at median line at their extremities. 

(2). Morosaurids. Sauropods with ischia directed backwards and 
meeting along median line by their sides. 

II (1). Stegosaurids. Stegosaurians with astragalus co-ossified with 
tibia, and very short metatarsals. 

(2). Scelidosaurids. Stegosaurians with astragalus distinct from 
tibia and elongated metatarsals (with four functional digits in pes). 

III (1). Comptonotids. Ornithoijods without clavicles, and with a com- 
plete postpubis. 

(2). Iguanodontids. Ornithopods with clavicles, and with an incom- 
plete postpubis. 

(3). Hadrosaurids. Ornithopods with "teeth in several rows, form- 
ing, with use, a tessellated grinding surface." (Clavicles and post-pubis 
not described.) 

IV (1). Megalosaurids. Theropods with biconcave vertebrae, pubes 
slender and united distally, and tetradactyle pes. 

(2). Zanclodontids. Theropods with biconcave vertebrae, pubes broad, 
elongate plates, with anterior margins united, and pentadactyle pes. 

(3). AmpMsaurids. Theropods with biconcave vertebrae, pubes rod- 
like, and tridactyle pes. 

(4). Labrosaurids. Theropods with strongly opisthocoehan and cav- 
ernous anterior vertebrae. 

V. Goelurids. Dinosaurians with anterior (of cervical) vertebrae opis- 
thocoelian and rest biconcave ; very long and slender metatarsals, and 
" bones of skeleton pneumatic or hollow." 

VI. Compsognathids, Dinosaurians with anterior vertebrae opistho- 
coelian, and others not described, and tridactyle fore as well as hind 
feet, and ischia with long symphysis on median line. 

VII. Hallopodids. 

The Wings of Pterodactyles. 

Prof. O. G. Marsh has given a large plate and woodcuts illustrating a 
Pterodactyle, named by him Bhamphorhynchus phyllurus, found in 1873 
"near Eichstadt, Bavaria, in the same lithographic slates that have 
yielded Arcliceopteryx, Compsognathus, and so many other Jurassic fossils 
known to fame." The wing membranes are well preserved and prove 



ZOOLOGY. 625 

that they were quite simihir to those of the bats — smooth and contrac- 
tile into folds. The tail of the type in question, at least at and near its 
extremity, " supported a vertical membrane developed above as well as 
below, and having a rhomboid or leaf-like outline." 

Professor Marsh has also discussed the homologies of the wing or 
manus bones of the Pterodactyles, and reached the conclusions that 
" there are five digits in the hand of Pterodactyles, although not the five 
often given in restorations. The first digit, the elements of which have 
been considered, undoubtedly supported a membrane in front of the 
arm. The second, third, and fourth are small, and armed with claws. 
The large wing finger is the fifth, corresponding to the little finger in- 
the human hand." (A.. J. S., (3,) v. 23, pp. 251-256.) 

A poisonous Lizard. 

A large lizard of an orange and black color with a skin tuberculated 
or covered with scales, simulating the heads of nails, and hence called 
Helodenna, is a common inhabitant of Arizona. It is dreaded by the 
inhabitants of the Territory and deemed by them to be poisonous. The 
allegations to that effect, however, have been doubted by naturalists, 
because none of the lizards had been acknowledged to be venomous. 
Reloderma differs from other lizards, however, in having grooved teeth 
and the efferent ducts of the salivary glands discharging at the bases of 
the grooves. The best-informed heri^etologists have therefore acknowl- 
edged the possibility, if not probability, of the truth of the popular be- 
lief, and Professor Cope years ago named the Arizonian Heloderma, H. 
suspectum, with reference to the bad reputation of the animal. Eecent 
experiments and the personal experience of Dr. E. W. Shufeldt have 
demonstrated the correctness of the belief as to the poisonous character 
of the lizard, and we have now the certainty that the representatives of 
one type of lizard — the family of Helodermids with one genus and two 
species — are venomous. Dr. Shufeldt has recorded the effects of a bite, 
which was immediately attended with violent inflammation, in the 
American Naturalist for November, J 882 (v. 16, pp. 907,908). 



General. 

Gobin(A.). Traits des oiseaux de basee-cour, d'agr^raent et de produit. 2 6d. Paris, 
Plon & Cie., 1882. (ISmo., viii. 447 p., 93 fig. Frcs. 3. 50.) 

Journals. 

Bulletin of the Niattall Ornithological Club. Vol. 7. Cambridge, Mass., 1882. (8vo.) 
Ibis (The), a Quarterly Journal of Ornithology. Edited by O. Salvin and Ph. L. 

Sclater. 4 series, vol. 6. London, J. Van Voorst, 1882. (8vo.) 
Journal fiir Ornithologie. Deutsches Centralorgan fiir die gesammten Omithologie. 

Herausgegebenvon J. Cabanis. 30. Jahrg. (4 Folge, 10. Bd.) Leipzig, Kittler, 

1882. (8vo.) 

H. Mis. 26 40 



626 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Anatomij. 

Forbes (William A. ). On the variations from the normal structure of the foot in birds. 
Ibis (4), V. 6, pp. 386-390. 

Lucas (Frederic A.). Notes on the Os prominens. With figs. Bull. Nutt. Ornithol. 
Club. V. 7, pp. 86-89. 

Nathusius-Kouigsborn (W.). Untersuchungen von Eischalen, namentlich von Opis- 
thoconms turnix und der sogenannten Ueberziige bei den Steganopoden und ande- 
ren Eiern, nebst Bemerkungen iiber die syetematische Bedeutung dieser Struc- 
turen. Mit 10 Abbild. Journ. f. Ornithol., 30. Jahrg., pp. 255-315. 

Physiology. 

"Seebohm (Henry). On the interbreeding of birds. Ibis (4), v. 6, pp. 546-549. 

Faunas. 

(North America.) 

Coues. The Check list of North American Birds. Second edition, revised to date, 
and entirely rewritten, under direction of the author, with a Dictionary of the 
Etymology, Orthography, and Orthoepy of the Scientific names, the Concordance 
of previous Lists, and a Catalogue of his Ornithological Publications. Boston, 
Estes & Lauriat, 1882, 1 vol., imp. 8vo, pp. 165. 

Gentry (Thomas G.). Illustration of Nests and Eggs of Birds of the United States. 
Philadelphia, Wagenseller, 1880-'82. (4to. Completed in 5 parts, 300 pp., 54 chro- 
mo-lith. pi. and 1 portr. $25.) 

Maynard (C. T.). Birds of Eastern North AmBrica. With original description of all 
the species which occur east of the Mississippi River, with 32 col. lith. pi. Bos- 
ton, Mass, 1882. (4to.) 

Nehrling (H.). Beitriige sur Oruis des nordlichen Illinois. (Fortsetzung.) Journ. 
f. Ornitholog., 29. Jahrg., p. 405-416. 

List of Birds observed at Hoxaston, Harris Co., Texas, and in the counties 

Montgomeity, Galveston, and Fort Bend. Bull. Nutt. Ornithol. Club, v. 7, p. 166- 
175. 

Eidgway (Robert). List of Additions to the Catalogue of North American Birds. 
Bull. Nuttall Ornithol. Club, v. vii, p. 257-258. 

{Europe. ) 

Montagu (Col.). A Dictionary of British Birds: being a Reprint of Montagu's Or- 
nithological Dictionary, together with the additional species described by Selby 
Yarrell in all three editions, and in Natural History journals. Compiled and 
edited by Edw. Newman. London, Sonnenschein, 1882. (8°, 306 p., la. 6d.) 

Seebohm (Henry). A History of British Birds, with colored illustrations of ttieir eggs. 
Parti. London, Porter. 1882. (8vo.) 

(Asia.) 

Salvadori (Tommaso). Prodromus Ornithologiis Papuasise et Molticcorum. XIII. 
Natatores. XIV. Struthiones. XV. Additamenta. Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat. 
Genova, v. 18, p. 400-430. 

(Africa.) 

Barboza duBocage (J. V.). Ares dos possessoes jiortuguesas d'Africa occidental. 22. 
Lista. Jorn. Sc. Math. Phys. Nat. Lisboa, 1882, pp. 291-298. 



ZOOLOGY. 627 

{Australia.) 

Duller (W. L.). Manual of the Birds of New Zealand, with woodcuts and 37 pi. Well- 
ington, N. Z., 1882, (8vo., 119 pp., M 14.) 

Fossil birds. 

Lemoine ( V. ). Recherches sur les Oiseaux fossiles des terrains tertiaires inf^rieurs dea 
environs de Reims. 2. Partie. Reims, impr. Matol-Braine, 1882. (8vo., p. 71-170, 
pi. 6-11.) 

Special groups, 

(Tubinares.) 

Forbes (W. A.). Report on the Anatomy of the Petrels (Tubinares) collected during the 
voyage of H. M. S. Challenger. With 7 pi. 

(GallincB.) 

Oustalet (E.). Description du Beinhardius ocellatus, Gallinac6 voisin des Argus. Ann. 
Scienc. nat. (6), Zool., t. 13, Art. No. 12. (8 pp.) 

(PsittaH.) 

Reichenow (Ant.). Conspectus Psittacorum. Systematische Uebersicht aller bekann- 
ten Papageienarten. (Schluss). Journ. f. Ornitholog., 29. Jahrg., p. 337-398. 

(Pici.) 

Elliot (D. G.). A Monograph of the Bucerotidfe, or family of the Hombills. Part 10 

[concluding the work]. London, 1882. (fol.). 
Sclater (P. L. ). A Monograph of the Jacamars and Putt-Birds, or Families Galbulidae 

and Bucconidas. London, Dulau & Co., 1882. (4to. Completed.) 
Steams (Robert E. S.). The Acorn-storing habit of the California Woodpecker 

IMelnnerpesformicivortts^. Amer. Naturalist, v. 16, p. 353-357. 

(Passeres.) 

Forbes (W. A.). Contributions to the Anatomy of Passerine Birds. Part 5. On the 
Structure of the Genus Orthonyx. Proc. Zool. Soc. London. 1882, p. 544-546. 
Ibid., Part 6. On Xenicus and Acanthisitta as types of a new family {Xenicidoe) 
of Mesomyodian Passeres from New Zealand. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, p. 
561-571. 

Shufeklt (R. W.). Notes upon the Osteology of Cinclus mexicanus. Bull. Nuttall 
Ornithel. Club. V. 7, p. 213-221. 

Variations of tJie Toes in Birds. 

The variations from tlie normal structure of the foot in birds were 
examined by the lamented Forbes shortly before his deatli, and are no- 
ticed in an article published in the " Ibis" for July (1882). 

Most birds, as is well known, have four toes, of which generally" three 
are directed forwards and one backwards in the non-zygodactylous 
types. But one or other of the toes is liable to suppression, and the 
one thus atrophied is by no means always the same; (1) generally it is 
the hind toe or hallux, but (2) in certain kingfishers {Ceyx alci/one) 



628 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1882. 

it is the second digit, and ciiriouslj^ enough (3) in one form — the Pas- 
serine genus Cholornis — the fourth toe is aborted. 

The customary number of phalanges is "2, 3, 4, 5, in the respect- 
ive digits, counting from within outwards," but this type is deviated 
from in a number of instances, (1) Certain members of a family whose 
representatives generally develop the normal structure may deviate 
therefrom, as do the genera Cypselus and Fanyptila among the Swifts 
or Cypselids, which have 2, 3, 3, 3 phalanges. (2) The Pteroclids 
and typical Caprimulgids develop only 2, 3, 4, 4, phalanges, " the 
fourth digit being one short of the normal number of phalanges" ; and 
(3) in the Procellariids, " the number of joints in the hallux is reduced 
to one," the digital formula being 1, 3, 4, 5, except in Pelecanoides, 
where the hallux is "quite absent." 

Interbreeding of Birds. 

Mr. Henry Seebohm thought that "the inter-breeding of birds sup- 
posed to be specifically distinct is a subject which has been much neg- 
lected by ornithologists," and has called attention to certain facts or 
alleged facts bearing on the subject. "Two forms which are appa- 
rently very distinct, as Corvus corone and 0. comix or Carduelis major 
and C. caniceps, are nevertheless found to be only sub-specifically dis- 
tinct — a complete series of exami)les from one extreme form to the 
other in each case being obtainable. They are produced by interbreed- 
ing with each other as well as with the intermediate forms. The 
Shrikes {Lanius) and Dippers {Cinclus) offer other illustrations, as do 
likewise the Nuthatches (Sitta). "The case of the Grows and the 
Goldfinches, where the extreme forms interbreed, is exceptional ; but 
the cases where the individuals of each valley interbreed with their im- 
mediate neighbors, and where the range is great enough to make the 
sum of a series of small differences show a large difference in the ex- 
tremes, is by no means uncommon." 

For the details respecting the species enumerated reference must be 
had to Mr. Seebohm's article in the " Ibis" (4 s., v. 6, pp. 546-550). The 
facts he brings forward are susceptible of another explanation, but the 
subject discussed is of sufQcient interest to demand attention. 

New North American Birds. 

A number of new forms of birds, previously unknown to the North 
American fauna, were added thereto during 1882. Most of these are 
the results of Mr. Eidgway's investigations, and have been described as 
"subspecies" of species in the "Proceedings of the Dnited States 
National Museum," v. 4, pp. 374-379 ; and v. 5, pp. 9-15, 114, 344. The 
additions by Mr. Eidgway and others are as follows, the numbers ap- 
pended indicating the position in his catalogue : 

1. Hylocichla fuscescens salicola E.—Eocky Mountains {2a). 



ZOOLOGY. 629 

2. Hylocichla alicise Bicknelli R. — Catskill Mountains, N. Y. (3a). 

3. Motacilla ocularis (Swinboe). A straggler to La Paz., Cal., from 
Eastern Asia (69*). 

4. Chaintea fasciata Henshawi R. — Cal. (35a). 

5. Lopbophanes inornatus griseus E. — Middle Province U. S. (38a)» 

6. Certbia familiaris montana R. — Middle Province U. S. (55&). 

7. Certbia familiaris occidentalis. — Pacific U. S. (55c). 

8. Catberpes mexicanus punctulatus R. — Cal. (596). 

9. Dendroeca Yielloti Bryan ti R.— La Paz, L. Cal. (93*). 

10. Geotblypis Beldingi R.— L. Cal. (122*). 

11. Vireo Huttoni Stepbensi Brewster. — Arizona and N. Mex. (144a). 

12. Spizella monticola ocbracea Brewster. — Wasbington Terr. (210a). 

13. Pencaea ruficeps eremoeca Brown. — Texas (230&). 

14. Perisoreus canadensis nigricapillus R. — Labrador (297c). 

15. Oruitliium imberbe Ridgwayi Brewster. — Arizona (331a). 

16. Scops' asio Bendirei Brewster. — Cal. (402e). 

17. Lagopus mutus Reinbardti (Brebm) Turner. — Alaska, Greenland 
(475a). 

18. Lagopus mutus atkbensis. Turner. — Atkba Island (475&). 

19. Ardea Wardi R.— W. Florida (486*). 

20. Rallus Beldingi R.— Gulf of Cal. (569*). 

2L Diomedea melanopbrys (Temm.) R.— Off coast of Cal. (701*). 

MAMMALS. 

General. 

Bizzozero (G.). Sur un nouvel €l^meiit morphologique du sang chez lea Mammif6rea 

Arch. Ital. Biol., t. 1, pp. 1-4; pp. 274-278. 
Gr61iaiit, et E. Qiiinquand. Mesure du volume de saug contenu dans I'organisme d'un 

Mammiffere vivant. Compt. rend. Acad. Sc, Paris, t. 94, pp. 1450-1453. 
Kolliker (Albert). Embryologie oa Trait6 complet du d^veloppement de I'homme et 

des auimaux sup^rieurs. Trad, par A. Schneider. Avec preface de H. de La- 

caze-Duthiers. Paris, C. Reinwald, 1882. (8vo., 1059, xviii pp., 606 grav.,25 Frs.) 
Lehoucq(H.). De I'os central du carpe chez les Mammifferes. Bull. Acad. Sc. Bel- 

gique, (3,) t. 4, pp. 220-230. 
Renson (Geo.). De la Spermatog^n^se chez les Mammif feres. Avec 2 pi. Archives 

de Biolog., t. 3, pp. 291-334. 
Sehlen (D. von). Beitrag zur Frage nach der Mikropyle des Sailgethiereies. Mit 1 

Taf. Arch. f. Anat. u. Phys., Anat. Abth., 1882, pp. 33-51. 

Fossil Mammals. 

Van Beneden (P. J.). Description des Ossemens fossiles des environs d'Anvers. 3. 

Partie. C^tac^s Genres: Megaptera, Balcenoptera Buriinopsis Erpetocetus. Brux- 

elles, F. Hayez, 1882. (Ann. Mus. R. d'Hist. Nat., S6rie Pal^ontol., t. 7. -90 pp., 

avec un Atlas de 70 pi. in-plano. 
Filhol (H. ). M6moires sur quelques Mammiftres fossiles des phosphorites du Quercy. 

Toulouse, 1882. (4to.) 
. Notes sur quelques Mammifferes fossiles de I'^poque miocfene. Arch. 

Mus. d'Hist. Nat. Lyon, t. 3. (103 pp., 5 pi.) 



630 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Special groups. 
{Monotr ernes.) 

Dubois (Alpli.)- Remarques sur V Acanthoglossus Bi'uynii. Avec 2 pi. Bull. Soc. 
Zool. France, 6. ann., 1881, pp. 266-270. 

Laukester (E. Ray). On the Valves of the Heart of (h-niniorhyncliua paradoxus com- 
pared with those of Man and the Rabbit, with some Observations on the Fossa 
Ovalis. With 4 pi. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1882, pp. 549-559. 

{Marsupials.) 

Cattaneo (Giacom.). Sugli organi riproduttori femminili dell' Halmaturus Ben- 

nettii Gould. Con 1 tav. Atti Soc. Ital. Sc. Nat., v. 24. 
Chapman (Henry C). On a Foetal Kangaroo and its Membranes. With 1 pi. 

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Philad., 1881, pp. 468-471. 
Lister (J. J.) and J. J. Fletcher. On the condition of the median portion of the 

Vaginal Axiparatus in the Macropodidaj. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1881, pp. 

976-996. 

(Edentates.) , 

Flower (W. H.). On the Mutual Affinities of the Animals composing the Order of 
Edentata. Proc. Zool. Soc. Loudon, 1882, pp. 358-367. 

{Rodents.) 

Jentink (F. A.). Revision of the Muridse in the Leyden Museum. Notes Leyden 

Museum, v. 4, pp. 193-209. 
Thomas (Oldfield). On two new Muridse from Tasmania. Ann. & Mag. Nat, 

Hist., (5,) V. 9, pp. 413-416. 

{Insectivores.) 

Ganser (Sigh.). Vergleicheud-anatomische Studien uber das Gehirn des Maul- 
wurfs. Mit. 5 Taf. Morpholog. Jahrb., 7. Bd., pp. 591-725. 

Kober (J.) Studien Uber Talpa europea. Mit 2 Taf. Verhandl. naturf. Ges. 
Basel, 7. Th., pp. 62-119. 

{Chiropters.) 

Leche (W.). Upon the Milk Dentition and Homologies of the Teeth of the Cheirop- 
tera. Amer. Naturalist, v. 16, p. 109. 

Robin (H. A.). Recherches anatomiques sur les Mammifferes de I'ordre des Chirop- 
tferes. Avec 8 pi. Ann. Sc. Nat., (6,) Zool., t. 12, Art. No. 2. (180 pp.) 

. Sur les enveloppes fcetales des Chiropt^res de la famille des Phyllos- 

tomides. Compt. rend. Ac. Sc, Paris, t. 95, pp. 1377-1379. 

{Taxeopods.) 

Cope (E. D.). On the Taxeopoda, a New Order of Mammalia. Amer. Naturalist, v. 

16, pp. 522-523. 

( Cordylarthrans.) 

Cope (E. D.). On the Cordylarthra. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Philad., 1882, pp. 95-97. 
Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist., (5,) v. 10, pp. 76-79. . 

{Pi'ohoscidians.) 

Owen (Richard). Descriptions of Portions of a Tusk of an Australian Proboscidian 
Mammal {Notelephas australis). Nature, v. 25, p. 571. (From Proc. R. Soc. Lon- 
don.) 



ZOOLOGY. 631 

( Perissodacty les. ) 

Stillman (J. D. B.). The Horse in Motion, as shown in a Series of Views by Instan- 
taneous Photography, with a Study on Animal Mechanics, with a Preface by 
Leland Stanford. Boston, 18S2, (4to.) 

(Artiodactyles. ) 

Eiitimeyer (L.). Beitriige zu der Geschichte der Hirschfamilie. I. Schadelbau. Ver- 

handl. naturforsch. Ges. Basel, 7. Th., pp. 3-61. 
. Beitriige zu eiuer natiirlichen Geschichte der Hirsche. II. Abhandl. 

Schweiz. Palaeontol. Ges., 8. Bd. 
Sigel (W. L.). Das Nilpferd des zoologischen Gartens zu Hamburg. Mit 3 Abild. 

Zoolog. Garten, 1882, pp. 129-140. 
Thomas (Ph.). Eecherches sur les Bovid^s fossiles de I'Alg^rie. Avec 2 pi. Bull. 

Soc. Zoo]., France, 6 ann., pp. 92-136. 

(Carnivores.) 

Mivart (St. George). On the Classification and Distribution of the ^Eluroidea. 

Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1882, pp. 135-208. 
Wilder (Burt G.). The Brain of the Cat, Felis domestica. 1. Preliminary Account of 

the Gross Anatomy. With 4 pi. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, v. 19, pj). 524-562. 

(Primates.) 

Placzek (B.). Die Affeu bei den Hebraern und andem Volkem des Alterthums. Koa- 
mos, (11. Bd.), pp. 190-117. 

Preglacial Mammals of England. 

In the English counties of Norfolk and Suffolk, along the sea-shore, 
are exposures of a fossiliferous belt of comparatively recent geological 
age, designated as the "forest-bed series," which has been quite a fa- 
vorite subject for study among British geologists. It represents the 
"last stage" in England, previous to the glacial period, and is there- 
fore of peculiar interest on account of the evidence which its several 
beds yield of the nature of the preglacial animal life of Britain. A 
recent monograph of its vertebrate remains has been published by Mr. 
E. T. Newton, the assistant naturalist of the survey, which throws much 
additional light on the fauna of the period. Although the molar teeth 
of elephants are generally the most numerous as well as the most con- 
spicuous objects in all collections of forest-bed remains, and were 
among the earliest remains of mammals recorded from these deposits, 
the assiduous search of many trained observers has now unearthed 
fragments of the skeletons of "79" species, "of which 40 have been 
made known by the researches of the Geological Survey." In this 
number, however, are included several doubtfully determined forms. 
Such as they are — certain and doubtful — they represent 52 species of 
mammals (including 2 pinnipeds and 4 cetaceans), 2 species of birds 
(besides undeterminable forms), 2 reptiles, 4 amphibians, and 19 (or 
20) fishes. The mammals alone are of sufficient general interest to 



€32 SCIENTIFIC KECOED FOR 1882. 

justify specification. From their remains it appears tliat in the age 
which is only separated from our own by the intervention of the gla- 
cial epoch, a fauna rich in large quadrupeds of types now confined 
to the tropics coexisted with many species s'ill living in Britain. 
Coeval with carnivores, insectivores, and rodents that now characterize 
the northern fauna, were two species of horses {Equus cahallus fossilis 
and Equus Stenonis), two species of rhinoceros {R. etrtiscus and B. mega- 
rhinus), a hippopotamus {H. major), very like, and possibly identical with, 
the living one of Africa; and no less than three species of elephants 
{E.antiquus, E. ineridionalis, and E. primigcnius). These special forms 
have all become extinct, although allied ones are living in tropical or 
subtropical countries. The ruminants of that period were also numer- 
ous, as many as 13 species of deer having been identified with more or 
less reason. With them were associated a species of ox {Boft primige- 
nius%) and a peculiar kind of sheep, apparently related to "the Sardin- 
ian sheep {Caprovis musimon),''^ which has been called Caprovis Savinii. 
The beaver still living in Europe then also lived, but with it existed a 
much larger form, distinguished by a i^eculiar dentition [Trogontherium 
Cuvieri). It might naturally be supposed that where so many large 
herbivorous animals were found, carnivorous species would abound, but 
unquestionable remains of only three large species have been discov- 
ered — a j)eculiar saber-toothed tiger-cat {Machwrodus), and two bears — 
the gigantic cave-bear ( JJrsus spelceus), and one that has been identified 
(with questionable correctness) with the grizzly of the United States 
( Cfrsus ferox fossilis). Ambiguous remains of a felid which may have 
belonged to Machwrodus or some other form have been found; but besides 
these, so far as known, were only a couple of canine animals (possibly 
the wolf, Canis lupus, and the fox, Vulpes), the mart^^n {Maries sylva- 
tica), and, remarkable as coexisting with the tropical types enumerated, 
the glutton {Gulo luscus). Another form, noteworthy on account of its 
present distribution, whose remains occur in the upper fresh-water 
bed of the "forest series," is the Myogale moschata — a shrew-like mole, 
which is now confined to Eussia, between the Don and the Volga. 

Such were the forms that lived in Britain at a late geological epoch, 
and when specialized man undoubtedly existed in a savage or "wild" 
state, in his natal country at least. The climate must then have been 
still warm and humid, and the vegetation rank and luxurious. But 
a violent contrast was to supervene. The Pliocene epoch was closing, 
and a period remarkable for its cold and accompanying phenomena — 
the glacial period, or age of ice — in time succeeded. Many of the large 
forms that lived in the Pliocene died out; some retreated and survived 
farther south ; and when at last modern Britain appeared with its 
present conditions, a comparatively scanty fauna and mostly small 
forms were its only heritage and final occupants. (Gill, in The Critic 
for February 10, 1883.) . 



ANTHROPOLOGY- 



Bj Otis T. Mason. 



INTRODUCTION. 

There is no better way to mark the progress of a science than to note 
the gradual change of meaning which its terminology undergoes, be- 
coming more and more definite. Somewhere Paul Broca lays down the 
following rule for the nomenclature of anthropology : " Que chaque chose 
ait un nom, qn'elle n'en ait qu'un seul, et que ce nom ne d^signe qu'une 
seule chose. Pour cela il snfiQra le plus souvent de restreindre a un 
sens d6termin6 les termes d6jf\ usit^s. Ce ne sera qu'exceptionelleraent 
que j'aurai nn terme nouveau ^ proposer." The scientific study of man 
should include every investigation which can be conducted according 
to the rules of procedure in force among the more exact sciences, reach- 
ing backward to the remotest cosmic event which was in any manner 
connected with his origin, and forward as long as his hopes and fears 
lead him to protend his existence, just so far as the phenomena can be 
subjected to repeated and accurate observation, and their results can 
be tabulated, and expressed in terms of reasonable constancy. The 
beginning of anthropology, therefore, is concerned with the origin of 
man, its special work is with the actual life of humanity on the globe, 
including human beliefs and conduct with reference to the spirit world. 
The work accomplished during the year will be considered in the order 
of the artificial scheme employed in the last summary, as follows : 
I. — Anthroi>ogeny. 
II. — Archaeology. 
III. — Biology of man. 
IV. — Psychology. 
V. — Ethnology. 
VI. — Glossology. 
VII. — Comparative technology. 
VIII. — Sociology. 
IX. — Pneumatology. 

X. — Hexiology. 
XI. — Instrumentalities. 

633 



634 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 



I. — ANTHROPOGENY. 



As previously defined in these summaries, authropogeny includes all 
investigations concerning the time, place, causes, and manner of man's 
appearance, together with his physical, intellectual, technical, social, 
moral, and religious status at his advent. 

Says M. Issaurat, in reviewing Hovelacque's "Les Debuts de I'Hu- 
manite," primitive man has left traces of his existence that give us 
some idea of his structure, his industry, and his manners. Further- 
more, we meet now living on the globe the witnesses of prehistoric 
races in the lower types of men. The comparison of the characteristics 
of these lower types leads to interesting conclusions. It confirms, ac- 
cording to M. Hovelacque, the polygenisni of Broca and Topinard, to 
wit, that the distinguishing features of certain races have values such 
as are made the bases of species in natural history. There were, there- 
fore, many species of anthropoid precursors of man. M. Hovelacque 
also draws from modern savages some conclusions concerning the intel- 
lectual, social, and moral status of primitive man. {Rev. (TAnthrojp.^ 
XV, p. 521.) 

Mr. Grant Allen, criticising the arguments of Dr. Mitchell and Mr. 
Dawkins respecting the bearing of archaeological facts upon the evolu- 
tion of man, thus formulates his conclusions: 1. The cave-men were 
not only true men, but men of a comparatively high type. 3. But the 
river-drift men, who preceded them, were men of a lower social organi- 
zation, and probably of a lower physical organization as well. 3. The 
earliest human remains which we possess, though on the whole decidedly 
human, are yet in some respects of a type more brute-like than that of 
any existing savages. 4. They specially recall the most striking traits 
of the larger anthropoid apes. 5. There is no reason to suppose that 
these remains are those of the earliest men who inhabited the earth. G. 
There is good reason for believing that before the evolution of man in 
his present specific type, a man-like animal, belonging to the same 
genus, but less highly differentiated, lived in Europe. 7. From this 
man-like animal the existing human species is descended. 8. Analogy 
would lead us to suppose that the line of descent which culminates in 
man first diverged from the line of descent which culminates in the 
gorilla and the chimpanzee about the later Eocene or early Miocene, 
period. The fallacy which underlies so much of our current reasoning 
on primitive man is the tacit assumption that man is a single modern 
species, not a Tertiary genus with only one species surviving. The 
more we examine the structure of man and of the anthropoid apes, the 
more does it become clear that the differences between them are merely 
those of a genus or family, rather than distinctive of a sei)arate order, 
or even a separate sub-order. It is pretty generally acknowledged that 
the divergence between man and the anthropoids is greater than can 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 635 

be accounted for by the immediate descent of the living form from a 
common ancestor in the last preceding geological age. Therefore, there 
must have been a man-like animal, or a series of manlike animals, in 
later, if not in earlier. Tertiary times. (Grant Allen, in Fortnightly Bev.y 
Sept., p. 308.) 

Another road of approach to the origin and genetic relations of man 
is through anomalies, criminals, and the defective class. If a certain 
anomaly occurs in savages, criminals, and delinquents, quite frequently, 
which is rare in higher races and normal in higher mammals, this is- 
looked upon as the gradual elimination of a useless or pernicious struc- 
ture. If, on the other hand, the process is reversed, and the anomalies 
of the anthropoids become more persistent with the elevation of man, it 
is regarded as the survival of a beneficial structure. This subject has 
engaged the attention of many distinguished anthropologists who are 
striving to come nearer to the true relationships of our species, — notably of 
M.Anoutchine, in a discussion entitled " Sur quelques anomalies du crane 
humain et de leur frequence dans les races." (Published in the Trans- 
actions of the Soc. d. Amis d. Sc. nat., de VAnihrop., etc., de MoscoUy 
xxYiii, pt. 3; and reviewed in Rev. d'Anthrop.^ V, p. 357, by C. de Merej- 
kowski.) 

Upon the subject of assassins in relation to primitive man the labors 
of Prof. P. Heger and J. Dalemagne upon the craniological charac- 
teristics of a number of assassins executed in Belgium should be con- 
sulted. The conclusions to which the authors arrive agree with those 
of M. Lombroso and M. Bordier, that the parietooccipital biain predom- 
inates in assassins. But, according to the Belgians, criminals do not 
constitute even a variety of the species. The craniological characters of 
assassins depend chiefly upon the type or race to which they belong. 
It is impossible to apply to them all any theory whatever. On the other 
hand, craniology enables us to classify them according to the capability 
of amelioration, in the same way that Pinel divides the defectives. 
{Ann. de VTJniv. de Bruxelles, 1881 ; Rev. d\±nthrop., v, p. 530.) 

11. — ARCHEOLOGY. 

There is no other department of anthroiwlogy whose genuine improve- 
ment can be marked so palpably as archaeology. The scientific treat- 
ment of the subject is not very old; indeed, the tendency to form- 
ulate a very large conclusion from a very small premise is still too 
common. 

Every country with any claim to ci\ilization boasts of its archaeo- 
logical sites and active research. Therefore, a very lucrative trade has 
sprung up in aboriginal relics, and the frauds perpetrated are already 
an embarrassing factor in the problems of ancient history. 

A glance over the bibliography for the year shows that the tendency 
has been rather to research than to siieculation. Explorations of the most 



636 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

thorongli nature have been prosecuted by the Archaeological Institute 
of America among the pueblos of Mexico and the antiquities of Assos; 
by the Peabody Museum among the works of the Mound-Builders; by 
the American Antiquarian Society in the early history of our white 
settlements; by the Smithsonian Institution, and especially by the 
Bureau of Ethnology, not only among the pueblos, but also among 
the mounds. It would be impossible to mention all the thorough 
work in progress by local societies and individuals in all the States 
where antiquities exist. 

The startling find of the year was the "Carson Footprints," at first 
claimexl to have been left "on the sands of time" by a giant with a 
foot 18 inches long. Prof. Joseph Le Conte thus describes them: "The 
nearly horizontal strata in which they occur consist of beds of sandstone 
with thin layers of fine shale. The track layer, which is one of these 
latter, has been uncovered for nearly two acres, and forms the floor of 
the prison yard, while the stones removed have been used to build the 
prison. From the fossils discovered, the deposit seems to be the equus 
beds, by some put in the Upper Pliocene; by others, in the lowest Qua- 
ternary. It is i^robably a transition between the two. The whole sur- 
face of the shale exposed is covered with tracks of many kinds, but the 
mud was so soft that the nature of many of them can only be guessed; 
the most interesting are those of the mammoth and the problematical 
so-called human tracks. The 'human' tracks occur in several regular 
alternating series of 15 to 20. In size they are 18 to 20 inches long and 
8 inches wide. In shape they are, many of them, far more curved than 
the human track, especially in soft mud. The stride is 2^ to 3 feet, and 
«ven more. But the most remarkable thing about them, on the human 
theory, is the straddle, amonnting to 18 and even 19 inches - - - . 
After careful examination for several days, the conclusion reached was 
that the tracks were probably made by a large plantigrade quadruped, 
most like a gigantic ground-sloth, such as the Mylodon of the Quater- 
nary, or the Morotherium of the Upper Pliocene of Nevada." Similar 
views have been expressed by Professor Marsh and G. K. Gilbert. 
{Nature, May 31, 1883.) 

The Archaeological Institute of America published during the year 
the first volume of its classical series relative to investigations in Assos, 
in 1881, a neat volume of 215 pages, with illustrations and maps. It 
also issued the third annual report, which gives us, in addition to the 
usual balance sheet and list of members, the report of a special com- 
mittee upon the plan of operations of the institute and the work of Mr. 
Bandelier in Mexico. The last-named gentleman has studied the con- 
struction, the function, and the builders of the pyramid of Cholula. 
He regards the structui e as mnde of huge walls of adobe, forming 
immense communal buildings, like those at Pecos and other places in 
New Mexico, in size approaching those of Uxmal or Palenque, and 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 637 

built around a vast court, in the center of which stood a great worship 
mound. The builders were the Toltecs, identified with the Mayas. 

The fifteenth annual report of the Peabody Museum is chiefly occu- 
pied with an exhaustive paper by Professor Putnam on American abo- 
riginal copperr working. Preceding the minute description of the ob- 
jects severally, the author makes some judicious observations upon 
copper manufacture which are worth repeating. " In America, outside 
of Mexico, before the coming of Europeans, there is no evidence, as yet^ 
that copper was used otherwise than as a substance which could be ham- 
mered and cut into many desired shapes. In Mexico, Central America, 
Peru, and Chili, there is no doubt that copper was both cast and ham- 
mered, and by some nations was also mixed with tin or with gold, and 
cast in molds; but the difficulty of melting and casting unalloyed copper 
is far too great to be easily overcome." 

Dr. Charles Eau presented at the American Association a paper uj)ou 
a stone grave in Illinois containing the skeleton of a Eackapoo Indian, 
thereby showing the connection of such interment with our modern 
Indians. The other contributions of Dr. Ran will be found mentioned 
in the report of Professor Baird, as well as the account of the work of 
the Bureau of Ethnology, and of the other special collaborators of the 
Smithsonian Institution. 

The Museo nacional de Mexico has continued the publication of the 
Anales, containing papers mentioned in the Bibliography under the 
titles Barcena, Chavero, Mendoza, Sanchez, Orozco y Berra, and Icaz- 
balceta. 

Dr. Daniel G. Brinton contributes to the first number of the Ameri- 
can Antiquarian for the current year a paper on the probable nation- 
ality of the Mound-Builders, in which the following language occurs: 
" It would appear that the only resident Indians at the time of the dis- 
covery who showed any evidence of mound-building comparable to that 
found in the Ohio Yalley were the Chahta-Muskokee. I believe that 
the evidence is sufficient to justify us in accepting this race as the con- 
structors of all those extensive mounds, terraces, platforms, artificial 
lakes, and circumvallations which are scattered over the Gulf States, 
Georgia, and Florida." 

Especial mention should be made of the gorgeous work of Reiss and 
Stiibel upon the necropolis of Ancon, in Peru; of Marquis de NadaiUac's 
volume entitled "L'Am6rique pr^historique ; " and of M. de Mortillet's 
" Pr6historique antiquity de I'homme." The last-named work is the ma- 
turest fruit of a life devoted to archaeology. Some very great improve- 
ments in the treatment of the subject are introduced, among them the 
attachment of the author's name to each remarkable discovery. The 



€38 



SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 



following table exhibits M. Mortillet's scheme of archaeological se- 
quence : 



Upper Secondary. 




India; silicified forests, with cnttings (Marchesetti). 


Inferior Tertiary. 


Soissonien 

Londonien 


Lignite of ilontaign, boule en Craie (Melleville). 


Eocene. 


Baitonien 


Siderolite of D616mont; human skeleton (Quiquerez). 






Oligooene | 




Fontainbliau sandstone ; petrified man over his horse. 
Limestone of Ceauce, Thenay ; flaked and broken flint 
(Bonrseois). 


Aquitanien 


Middle Tertiary. 
Miocene. 


r 

Mayencien ~ 


Gravels of Orleans ; marked bones (Nouel). 

Fre?h-water formation of Gannat ; gashed bones (Pomel). 

Fresh-water chalk o<'Billy; gashed'bones (Laussedal). 

Sansan hill; broken bones (Gairigou). 

Marl of Anjou, Pouance ; incised bones (Delannay, Toar- 

nouee). 
ilarlof Aujou, Chavagne-les-Eaux ; incised bones (Farge). 




Helvetien < 


Miocene of Dardanelles ; chipped flint, scratched bones 

(Calvert). 
Molasse of Central France; hnman skeleton (Gaixigou). 




Tortonien < 


Fossiliferoaa diggings of Pikermi ; broken bones (Do 

Dutker). 
Trachytic conglomerate of Cantel ; chipped flint (Tardy, 

Eames). 






Miocene and Pliocene deposits of Portugal ; chipped flint 




(Eibeiro). 


Tipper Tertiary. 
Pliocene. 


f 
Astlen ■ 


Depesits of San Valentino ; wrought bone (Ferretti). 
Ossiferous diggings of Val d'Aruo ; scratched bone (Des- 

noyers). 
Strata o^ San Giovanni ; scratched bone (Ramorino). 
Deposits of baltenotns at Monte-Ax)erto ; scratched bones 

(Capellini). 
Blue marl of Savone ; human bones (Issel). 
Piedmont; pierced scapula of mastodon (Gastaldi). 
Ked crag of Suffolk ; pierced sharks' teeth (Charlesworth). 




Saint Prestien . . < 


AUnvinm of California ; implements (Blake), skull (Whit- 
ney). 

Autry-Issard ; silicified wood cut (Chamaux). 

Saint Prest. ; scratched bones (Desnoyers), chipped flint 
(Bourgeoia). 


r 


Chell6en 


Alluvium ; human bones and objects of industry. 

Do. 
Grottoes ; human bones and objects of industry. 

Do. 


Qnatemaay J 


Monst6ricn 

Solutr6en 

Magdalenien 



III. — BIOLOGY OF MAN. 

Investigations of this class include human structure, or anatomy; 
diseases, or pathology ; questions of size, form and weight, color, and 
texture of parts, or anthropometry; the progress of life in the indi- 
vidual, or ontogeny; and the life history of the species, or phylogeny. 
This subject is of vast proportions. Already biological societies multi- 
ply, in which the human subject receives its share of attention as the 
head of the animal kingdom. In the Index Medicos, before mentioned, 
a monthly catalogue of works on human and general biology is given. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



639 



Although every portion of the body must yield results of great im- 
portance, and new structures are brought within the scope of study each 
year, the skull and brain are still the parts upon which the most labor 
is bestowed. As an example of the minuteness with which measure- 
ments are prosecuted, tables are appended exhibiting the last results of 
Broca's labors before he i^rematurely laid down the scalpel. The sub- 
ject has received an elaborate treatment at the hands of his pupil. Dr. 
L. Manouvrier, in the Bulletin of the Zoological Society of France^ for 
1882 ; as well as among German anthropologists. 

Paul Broca's tailes of hrain-iceight, in grams. 



15-20. 
20-25. 
25-30. 
30-35. 
35-40. 
40-45. 
45-50. 
50-55. 
55-60. 
60-65. 
65-70. 
70-75. 
75^0. 
80-«5. 
85-90. 
90-95. 



15-20. 
20-25. 
25-30. 
30-35. 
35-40. 
40-45. 
45-50. 
50-55. 
55-00. 
60-65. 
65-70. 
70-75. 
75-80. 
80-85. 
85-90. 
90-95. 



Bicfetre Hospital 



No. 



Mean age. 



19 

22.6 

28 

SS. 5 

38 

42.6 

40.3 

54 

57.6 

63.1 

68.3 

73.5 

77 

82.1 

88.2 

91 



Mean 
height. 



28 

31 

37 

44 

46.5 

54 

59.6 

62.5 

68.4 

72.4 

78.4 

82.3 

88.3 

92.5 



1.63 
1.68 



1.73 
1.69 
1.67 
1.65 
1.68 
1.65 
1.65 
1.63 
1.63 
1.65 
1.62 
1.60 
1.60 



1.53 
1.57 
1.51 
1.56 
1.60 
1.56 
1.56 
1.63 
1.54 
1.59 
1.55 
1.55 
1.51 
1.48 



Weight. 



1,475 
1,339 
1,547 
1,370 
1, 316. 6 
1, 312. 6 
1,220 
1, 438. 5 
1,315 
1,295.7 
1, 240. 1 
1, 219. 7 
1,213.9 
1,208 
1, 273. 7 
1,300 



1,248 
1,212 
1,045 
1,153 
1, 220. 5 
1,039 
1,112.5 
1,148 5 
1, 156. 4 
1, 118. 3 
1, 108. 5 
1, 087. 3 
1, 087. 7 
1,090 



San Antoine et Pitie. 



No. 



Mean age £-, 



18.1 

23.5 

28.3 

33 

38 

42.6 

48.2 

53.5 

57.5 

63.6 

67.7 

73.4 

77.6 

83 



17.5 

24 

28.4 

33 

37.7 

42.4 

49.5 

52.6 

57.8 

62 

67.8 

73.2 

77.5 

83.3 



1.65 
1.70 
1.79 
1.70 
1.67 
1.67 
1.65 
1.69 
1.67 
1.08 
1.70 
1.69 
1.66 
1.68 



1.49 
1.62 
1.56 
1.58 
1.58 
1.59 
1.58 
1.56 
1.58 
1. J!9 
1.55 
1. 55 
1.59 
1.54 



Weight. 



1,359 
1,365 
1, 414. 5 
1,421.4 
1,411.4 
1, 340. 6 

1, aoo. 4 

1,341.8 
1,313.4 
1, 329 1 
1,311.1 
1,291.8 
1,245.5 
1,430 



1,251 

1,258 
1, 192. 1 
1,269 
1, 162. 5 
1, 247. 8 
1,188.5 
1,140.6 
1, 217. 1 
1,251 
1,136.8 
1,095.3 
1, 147. 7 
1,038 



The mean brain- weight of all is about 1,325 grams for the males, and 
1,142 for the females. The medium heightfor all is 1'".42 to I'^.SS. Other 
tables are given in Broca's paper, in which age and sex are the criteria 
in decades, also height and sex, sex and decades, weight and age, etc. 
{Eev. d^Anllirop., v, pp. 7, 9.) 

The slowness with which crania well authenticated are collected makes 
it vory desirable, if possible, to ol^tain measures ujjon the living subject 
which can be reduced to the index of the skeleton. Efibrts in this 
direction have been made by Bicetre, Stieda, Topinard, Virchow, Mik- 



640 



SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1882. 



lucho-Maklay, Weisbach, and others, and notably by Broca, whose table 
of craniometry compared with cephalometry is given below : 





Antero-posterior diameter. 


Transverse diameter. 


Cephalic index. 


Sex. 


Skull. 


Living. 


Excess. 


Skull. 


Living. 


Excess. 


Skulli 


Living. 


Excess. 


Male 


Mm. 
200 
175 
171 
177 
172 
176 
175 
180 
174 
185 
174 
174 
172 
174 
1S5 
168 
165 
170 
180 


Mm. 
201 
176 
179 
185 
178 
183 
187 
187 
182 
192 
181 
178 
178 
180 
192 
176 
172 
178 
185 


Mm. 
1 
1 
8 
8 
6 
7 
2 
7 
8 
7 
7 
4 
6 
6 
7 
8 
7 

8 ■ 
5 


Mm. 
148 
136 
151 
156 
148 
151 
156 
148 
137 
148 
138 
144 
146 
144 
136 
142 
141 
134 
148 


Mm. 
150 
140 
156 
1G2 
153 
160 
164 
154 
142 
156 
146.5 
148 
152 
150 
145 
146 
148 
142 
149 


Mm. 
2 
4 
5 
6 
5 
9 
8 
6 
5 
8 

8.5 
4 
6 
6 
9 
4 
7 
8 
1 


Mm. 
74.00 
77.71 
88.30 
88.13 
86.04 
85.79 
89.14 
82.22 
78.73 
80.00 
79.31 
82.76 
84.88 
82.76 
73.51 
84.52 
85.45 
78.82 
82.22 


Mm. 

74.62 
79.54 
87.15 
87.56 
85.95 
87.43 
87.70 
82.35 
78.02 
79.16 
81.00 
83.14 
85.39 
83.33 
75.52 
82.95 
86.04 
79.77 
80.54 


Mm. 

+ .62 


Do 


+1.87 


Do 


—1.15 


Do 


— .57 


Do 


+ 1.91 


Do 


+1.64 


Do 


— L44 


Do 


— .13 


Do 


— .71 


Do 


— .84 


Do 


+1.69 




+ .38 


Do 


+ .51 


Do 


+ .57 


Do 


+2.01 


Do 


—1.57 


Do 


+1.59 


Do 


+ .85 


Do 


—1.68 






Average .. 


176.1 


182.6 


6.5 


144.8 


150.7 


5.9 


82.22 


82.53 


+ .31 



It will be observed that individual differences are very large ; but in 
the measurement of a large number of living subjects the mean will be 
found by deducting therefrom the average excesses. 

Brood's measurements of cranial capacity. 



Nationality, &o. 



Chipped flint age : Grenelle & Bellancourt.. 

Solutre 

Polished stone age: L'Homme Mort 

Vaureal 

Various 

Grottes de Baye 

Gauls 



Merovingians: Chelles, 1st series , 

Chelles, 2d series 

Champlien, 3d series .. 

Parisians: City, Xllth cent 

West.XIXth cent 

Pariseux, Kymri region , 

Hollanders 

Savoyards of Annecy : 1st series 

2d series 

Total of the two series 

Auvergnats of St. Nectaire 

Croats of the military border, Austria., 

Bas Bretons 

Bretons Gallots 

French Basques 

Spanish Basques 

Corses. 



67 

77 

9 

22 

9 

7 

16 

42 

9 

32 

38 

31 

30 

15 

15 

21 

12 

9 

4 

Turkestan 4 

Chinese 16 

Javanese ' 18 

Polynesians 21 

Eskimos 9 

Pariahs of Alipoor, Calcutta 7 



Araba., 

Egyptians: IVth dynasty 

Xlth dynasty 

XVinth dynasty . 



Lapts. 



,552 
,564 
606 
,533 
,.576 
,534 
,592 
,596 
,521 
,524 
,531 
,559 
,539 
,530 
,530 
,554 
,538 
,609 
,423 
,564 
,599 
,544 
,584 
,552 
,474 
,532 
,443 
,464 
,558 
,637 
,518 
,590 
,.500 
,5:35 
,336 



c.c. 

1,390 

1,395 

1,507 

1,517 

1,426 

1,407 

1,457 

1,374 

1,395 

1,318 

1,320 

1,337 

1,355 

1,390 

1,426 

1,391 

1,417 

1,445 

1,480 

1,366 

1,426 

1,298 

1,395 

1,367 

1,322 

1,397 

1,328 

1,323 

1,695 

1,352 

1,3.83 

1, 396 

1,381 

1,429 

1,114 



cc. 
162 
169 
99 
216 
150 
127 
135 
222 
126 
206 
211 
222 
184 
140 
104 
163 
121 
153 
—57 
198 
173 
246 
189 
185 
152 
135 
115 
141 

—137 
285 
135 
194 
119 
106 
222 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Broca^s measurements of cranial capacity — Continued. 



^41 



Nationality, &c. 


&> 

a 

3 
1? 


9) 

3 


a 

3 


a 


S 

s 

(0 


African Negroes : 1st series 

2d series 

3d series 

Kaffirs 


31 

10 

13 

7 

8 

10 

23 

5 

7 

10 


c. c. 

1,462 

1,423 

1,410 

1,512 

1,317 

1,329 

1,460 

1,406 

1,467 

1,347 


12 

7 

4 


C. C. 

1,267 
1,246 
1,237 


c. c. 
195 
177 
173 




5 
6 
23 
4 
3 
6 


1,253 
1,298 
1,330 
1,230 
1,279 
1,181 


64 


Nubians of Elephantine 


31 

130 




176 




188 




166 







(Bev. d'Anthrop,18S2, v, p. 398.) 



A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
E. 



List of measures and craniometric processes of Broca. 

-Sex. 
-Age. 
-Capacity, 

-Antero-posterior diameter, maximum. 
-Transverse diameter, maximum. 
100 E 



F. — Cephalic index, 



D 



G. 
H. 

I. 

J. 
K. 
L. 
M. 

N.— 



O.- 
P.- 

n.- 



Antero-posterior inial diameter. 
Difference D — G. 
Bi-temporal diameter. 
Bi-auricular diameter. 
Difference E — I. 

Frontal diameter, minimum, inferior. 
St«phanic diameter, superior. 
100 L 
E 

100 L 
M * 

Vertical or basilo-bregmatic diameter. 
Vertical maximum diameter. 

loop 



Frontal index, 
Frontal index, No. 2, 



-Vertical index. 



D 



S. — Transverso-vertical index, 



loop 

E 



T.— Naso-basilar line, (NB). 

U. — Length of basilar apophysis {Eb). 

v.— DiflFerence between T— U. {Nh.) 

X. — Anterior projection of the skull (Blumenbach). 

Y. — Posterior projection of the skull (Blumenbach). 

Z. — Total projection of the skull (Blumenbach). 

^ x> ■^ ■ A 100 X 
a. — Basilar mdex, . 

Z 

/3. — Foramen magnum, longitudinal. 
y. — Foramen magnum, width. 

$. — Foramen magnum, index, — -^ . 

e; — Basilar arc, T + 0. 

H. Mis. 26 41 



642 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

C. — Projection of occipital crest, upper occipital curve. 

77. — Projection of tlie inion, external occipital protuberance. 

&. — Asteric diameter, or occipital maximum. 

2. — Metopism, difierence between D and tbe antero-posterior metopic diameter. 

A''. — Sub-cerebral frontal curve, from root of the nose to the ophryon. 

B''. — Frontal cerebral curve, ophryon to the bregma. 

C''. — Total frontal curve, root of the nose to the bregma. 

D''. — Parietal curve, bregma to lambda. 

E'. — Upper occipital curve, lambda to inion. 

F''. — Cerebral occipital curve, inion to opisthion. 

C/. — Total occipital curve, lambda to opisthion. 

tl'. — Supra-auricular transverse curve. 

I\ — Sub-auricular transverse curve. 

K''. — Total transveise curve. 

L''. — Horizontal pre-auricular curve. 

M''. — Horizontal post-auricular curve. 

N''. — Total auricular curve. 

0\ — Midfrontal curve, C^ -f- D'' + E', root of nose to inion. 

„, -D ^. 100 c 
P^— Ratio, qT-- 

Q'. — Total cerebral curve, O' — A^ — Ophryon to inion. 

„, T, , . 100 B' 
R\ — Ratio, — ~ — . 

Q 
S''. — Fronto-sub-occipital curve, O'' -\- F', root of nose to opisthion. 
T^. — Vertical circumference, E + S'', total antero-posterior, including foramen magnum 

and naso-basilar line. 
U^. — Anterior or pre-auricular demi-circumference, C'' -f T''. 

V^-Ratio,l-OOU'. 

yf^. — Point of the fac« where the prolongation of the plane of the foramen magnum falls. 
X'. — First occipital angle, or angle of Daubenton. 
Y''. — Second occipital angle, or angle of Broca. 
Z^. — Basilar angle, or angle of Broca. 



I. — Biorbital external length. 
II. — Biorbital internal length. 
III. — Distance of the supra-orbital foramina. 
IV. — Distance of the sub-orbital foramina. 
V. — Bimaxillary minima. 
VI. — Bimaxillary maxima. 
VII. — Bimalar diameter. 
VIII. — Bijugal diameter. 
IX. — Bizygomatic width, maximum. 
X.— Orbital width. 
XI.— Orbital height. 
XII.— Orbital index. 
XIII.— Orbital depth. 
XIV. — Nasal bone, median length. 
XV. — Nasal bone, lateral length. 
XVI. — Nasal bone, upper width. 
XVII. — Nasal bone, minima width. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



643 



XVIII. — Nasal bonf, inferior width. 
XIX. — Interorbital width. 
XX. — ^Width of the anterior nostrils. 
XXI. — Height from the root to the anterior nasal spine, 
XXII. — Height from the anterior nasal spine to the alveolar pointa. 
XXIII. — Height from the I'oot of the nose to the alveolar point. 
XXIV. — Height from ophryon to alveolar point. 

XXV. — Height of the os malse. 
XXVI.— Orbito-alveolar height. 
XXVII. — Mastoido-supra auricular height. 
XXVIII. — Auriculo-jugal distance (oblique). 
XXIX. — Auriculo-orbital distance, right (oblique). 
XXX. — Auriculo-orbital distance, left (oblique). 
XXXI. — Depth of the zygomatic fosse. 
XXXII. — Palatine vault, total maxillo-palatiue length. 
XXXIII. — Palatine vault, anterior maxillary length. 
XXXIV. — Palatine vault, posterior width. 
XXIX V. — Palatine vault, Avidth to the level of the 1st molar. 
XXXVI. — Palatine vault, width to the level of the os Incisif. 
XXXVII. — Palatine vault, depth. 

XXXVIII. — Distance fromjthe posterior nasal spine or palatine to the basion. 
XXXIX. — Width of the alveolar arch inwards, and maximum. 
XL. — Width of the alveolar arch inwards and backwards. 
XLI. — Height of the posterior nares. 
100 XX 



XLII. — Nasal index, 
-Facial index, 



XLIII 

XLIV. — Palatine index 



XXI 
100 XXIV 
IX 
100 XXXIV. 



XXXIII 



{Bev. d'Anthrop., 1882, pp. 577-590.) 



Anthropometry is one of the youngest scions of anthropology, and it 
not only commends itself to advanced students, but is applicable to 
millions of subjects, and its processes are so easily understood that any 
intelligent person may use them. As a result of greater deflniteness in 
processes a more accurate nomenclature is demanded. An illustration 
of this is to be seen in the following classification of stature by Pro- 
fessor Zoja. 



Genera. 


Species. 


Vulgar terms. 


Meters. 






Phenomenal 


2.51 et supra. 






Giant... « 


2.26 to 2. 50 






2.01 to 2.25 






Approaching gigantic 


1.91 to 2.00 






Very tall 


1.81 to 1.90 






Tall 


1.71 to 1.80 








1.66 to 1.70 








1.65 








1.64 to 1.60 








1.59 to 1.50 








1.49 to 1.40 








1.39 to 1.25 








1.24 to 1.00 








0.99 to 0.75 








0. 74 et infra. 











644 SCIENTIFIC KECORD FOE 1882. 

It is not advised that this scheme be adopted without reservation, 
yet it does show a permanent advance in anthropometry. Further- 
more, it is drawn up for Italians, but this need not embarrass the stu- 
dent, since he will only need to fix his standard mesosoma and arrange 
above and below that according to the scale. 

IV. — PSYCHOLOGY. 

The most perjilexing of all the outstanding problems in anthropology 
is the explanation of the processes of feeling, thinking, and volition. 
On the one hand it is maintained that in course of time it will be 
shown that thought is a mode of material motion ; on the other, this 
incomprehensible phenomenon is remanded to the category of occult 
properties, like cohesion and gravitation, which will ever elude our 
grasp. However that may be, man will ever aim to think this unthink- 
able, to achieve this impossible, and to reach after this unattainable. 
In prosecuting researches with reference to the mind various avenues 
of approach have been followed. 

Out of the old phrenology has come the new, and several important 
works have appeared upon cerebral localization in its various aspects. 
The second part of H. C. Bastian's publication upon the brain as the 
organ of the mind was printed daring the current year. Furthermore 
a reference to the bibliography Avill reveal treatises uj)on brain-weight 
and mind, heredity and psychology, growth of intellect, pre-natal educa- 
tion, brain-functions, sensations and their translation into thought and 
feeling, the various aspects of mind growth from infancy to maturity, 
the accurate measurement of thought, or psychometry, the phenomena 
of insanity as opening the door upon primitive man, and the exhibition 
of intelligence in animals. 

Speaking of the equivalents of consciousness in nature beneath man, 
Professor Cope says : " The utterances of Professor du Bois Eeymond, 
at the recent celebration of the birthday of Leibnitz at Berlin, should 
have a clearing effect on the intellectual atmosphere of the evolutionists. 
'Consciousness,' says one, *isto the progress of evolution what the 
whistle is to the engine, that makes a good deal of noise but does none 
of the work.' Another says, ' If the will of man and the higher animals 
seems to be free in contrast with the fixed will of atoms, that is a delu- 
sion provoked by the contrast between the extremely comi>licated vol- 
untary movements of the former and the extremely simple voluntary 
movements of the latter.' One authority tells us that consciousness 
does nothing, and the other will have it that it doe« everything, rising- 
even to the autonomic dignity of a will for atoms. They agree in 
believing consciousness to be a form of force ; but they differ in that 
the first authority thinks it all dissipated, while the other holds it to be 
a link in a continuous chain of metamorphosis equivalent io every other 
link. As usual, truth lies between these extremes. Says du Bois Eey- 
mond, ' More temperate heads betrayed the weakness of their dialectics 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 645 

in that thej' could not grasp the difference between the view, which I 
opposed, that consciousness could be explained on a mechanical basis, 
and the view which I did not question, but supported with new argu- 
ments, that consciousness is bound to material antecedents.'" Professor 
Cope says, "• It will doubtless become possible to exhibit a parallel scale 
of relations between stimuli on the one hand and the degrees of con- 
sciousness on the other. Yet for all this it will be impossible to express 
self-knowledge in terms of force. An unprejudiced scrutiny of the na- 
ture of consciousness, no matter how limited that scrutiny necessarily 
is, shows that it is qualitatively comparable with nothing else." {Am. 
Naturalist, XVI, p. 224.) 

V. — ETHNOLOGY. 

Stanford's Compendium of Geography and Travel, for America, has 
an appendix upon the native tribes of both continents. The material 
wa« elaborated with considerable diligence by Mr. A. H, Keane, but 
the work is far from complete, and abounds in errors. The Bureau of 
Ethnology at Washington has had in preparation fgr several years a 
card catalogue naming and describing every tribe and band of aborig- 
ines ever known to have inhabited the North American continent. This 
is now kept in the oifice for reference and emendations, but it is designed 
to be published at no distant day. 

Much valuable information has been added to what was previously 
known of the range and subdivision of the Innuit by Mr. Ivan Petroff, 
special agent of the Tenth Census. Mr. Petroff's results and map will 
be published in the volumes of the Tenth Census and bj the Bureau of 
Ethnology. The author says : " In the course of my explorations, extend- 
ing over a period of several years, of all the coast from Bering Straits 
to the vicinity of Mount St. Elias, and of the river systems, I found the 
Innuit occupying the coast and interior wherever nature has thrown 
no obstacle in the way of free navigation in their kayaks. The tribes 
having their homes contiguous to the Innuit are the Chugach, of purelj^ 
Innuit extraction ; the Oreghalentze, of Innuit extraction, but now 
mixed with Thlinkit; and the Chilkhaat tribe of the Thlinkit family 
settled on Comptroller Bay and up the left bank of Copper Kiver. The 
skulls of Innuit have been found as far south as Santa Barbara islands, 
California, but these belonged to prisoners taken from sea-otter hunt- 
ing expi^ditions undertaken by English and American shippers who 
were furnished with Innuit hunters by the Russian authorities at Sitka. 
We have every reason to believe that formerly the Innuit occupied the 
coast as far as Icy Bay, but the constant pressure of the stronger Thlin- 
kit tribes has caused them to recede gradually to the locations occupied 
by them at the present day. The glaciers at Icy Bay have pi'oved an 
insurmountable obstacle, necessitating a sea voyage of two or three 
days before landing. The Thlinkit can accomplish this in his large dug- 
out provided with masts and sails. The Eussians kept back the Thlin- 



646 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

kits, but uow they are encroaching northward. Mr. Petroff opposes Mr. 
Ball's view of the origin of the Eskimo, and maintains that they moved 
southward after the invention of the kyak. {A)n. Xaiuralist^ xxi, 
pp. 567-575.) 

Our stock of knowledge gained respecting the South American tribes 
during the past year is exceedingly meager. Mr. Barney says respect- 
ing the natives of Colombia: "The state of Panama contains about 
30,000 square miles, one-third of which is uninhabitable; the residue at 
the conquest (1502-1520) contained about 000,000 inhabitants in various 
stages of culture, from dwellers in tree tops to a degree of civiliza- 
tion very much superior to that of Briton at the time of the Eoman 
conquest." The remainder of Mr. Barney's paper is devoted to the re- 
cital of the early history of these tribes, but as yet he has not told us a 
word about the modern Indians. {Am. Antiquarian^ IV, Xos. 3 and 4.) 

The Indians of the oriental province of Ecuador are divided into two 
great classes, "Indians" and "Infidels" {Ancas^ Infieles). The former 
all speak Quichua, eat salt, and are semi-Christianized, whereas the 
latter speak the iliany languages of their various tiibes, do not eat salt, 
and are not baptized. Among these are the Zaparos, Piojes or Santa 
Marias, Cotos, Tutapishcus, Anhishiris, Intillamas, Mequanas, Copa- 
lurcus, Tamburyacus, Pay aquas, Cauranos, Pucabarrancas, Lagarto- 
Cochas, and Tagsha-Curarais. Most of these, except the first five, are 
quite unknown, having been met with only on rare occasions by traders 
and travellers. Some of the names given above may refer to the same 
tribe. The "Indians" are the Quichua, semi-Christianized people, who 
formed that portion of the once great Inca nation annexed by the mar- 
riage of Huayna-Capac with the Scyri princess. Pacha. Mr. A. Simsou 
has given us a very minute descrii)tion of these Napo Indians. {J. An- 
throp. Inst, xii, pp. 21-27.) 

Mr. Gatschet has brought together and published notices by several 
authorities concerning white or light-colored Indians at the sources of 
the Amazonas, in the Cordilleras of South America. {Ausland, p. 887.) 

VI. — GLOSSOLOGY. 

Mr. Horatio Hale, the ethnologist of the Wilkes Expedition, read a 
paper before the American Association ui)()n Indian migrations as evi- 
denced by language. The fundamental proposition is, "The only satis- 
factory evidence of the affiliation or direct relationship of two commu- 
nities, apart from authentic historical records, is their speech." When 
the evidence of language has satisfied us of the relationship of two 
peoples, the next inquiry is, Which was the ancestral stock? Is the 
connection that of brotherhood derived from a common ancestry? 
Taking language as the guide, Mr. Hale seeks to track the wander- 
ings of the Huron-Iroquois stock, or, as he prefers, the Huron-Cherokee 
stock. The constant tradition of the Iroquois represents their ancestors 
as emigrants from the reciou nortli of the great lakes. To test this 



ANTUROPOLOGY. 647 

question by language we have to inquire which is older — nearer to the 
primitive speech — the Huron or the Iroquois. Though we know nothing 
of this speech, we can reconstruct it from its offspring, and the one 
which is most complete in form and phonology is likely to be nearest 
in structure and residence to the origiual speech, Mr. Hale examines 
with great minuteness the forms of words common to the various 
branches of this great stock, in order to show abbr^^viation and diff"er- 
•entiation as we proceed from the location of their supposed origin. 
{American Antiquarian, TV, Nos. 1 and 11.) 

A language entirelj" new to science has recently been redeemed from 
oblivion. It was spoken in two dialects on both sides of the Mississippi 
Eiver, between Katchez and Vicksburg, by the Taensa tribes mentioned 
hj the French explorers and colonists of the eighteenth century. The 
mauuscript of the Grammaire et Vocahidaire de la Langiie Taensa was pre- 
pared for the i^ress by MM. J. Parisat and Lucien Adam. Mr. Gatschet 
informs us that the language forms a stock by itself and is remarkable 
for its extensive power of compounding by prefixes, by a variety of 
reverential pronouns, and by other forms. The number of terms em- 
braced in the vocabulary is about 900. [Am. Antiquarian, iv, p. 238.) 

The sources of information upon North American philology are the 
Journal of Philology, published in Baltimore; the American Naturalist, 
published in Philadelphia; and the American Antiquarian, published 
in Chicago. The largest collection of manuscripts is in the Bureau of 
Ethnology at Washington, a report of which is given in the first part 
of this volume. 

The most elaborate linguistic production of the year in our country 
was the study of the Manuscript Troano, by Dr. Cyrus Thomas, with a 
historical introduction by Dr. Daniel G. Brinton. The Codex Tro or 
Troano was first published by the Abbe Brasseur (de Bourbourg). On 
his return from Yucatan, in 1864, he visited Madrid, and found this 
manuscript in the possession of Don Juan de Tro y Ortolano. It con- 
sists of 35 leaves of 70 pages, written on paper manufactured from the 
leaves of the maguey plant. Dr. Thomas briefly summarizes his con- 
clusions respecting the manuscript: 

1. The work was intended chiefly as a ritual or religious calendar. 
The day columns and numerals which form fully one-half of the written 
portion are dates, which run through a cycle of three hundred and twelve 
years, fixing the time when festivals should be held. 

2. The figures in the spaces are in some cases symbolical, in others 
pictographs, and, in quite a number, refer to religious ceremonies ; but 
in many instances they relate to the habits, customs, and occupations of 
the people. 

3. The work appertained to and was prepared for a people living in 
the interior of the country, away from the sea-shore. 

4. The people were peaceable, not addicted to war. 

5. The taking of life, ajiparently of a slave, is indicated in one place ; 



648 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

this is the only symbol which can be construed to indicate human sac- 
rifices. 

6. The cross in some of its forms was in use as a religious emblem. 

7. The movement of the figures is from right to left, and the plates 
should be taken in this way, at least by pairs; yet, as a general rule, the 
characters are in columns, to be read downward, columns following one 
another from left to right. When they are in lines they are to be read 
from left to right by lines from the top downward. 

8. There is no fixed rule for the arrangement of the parts of compound 
characters. 

9. That the characters, while phonetic, are not alphabetic, but sj'llabic. 

10. The work was probably written about the middle or latter half of 
the fourteenth century. 

11. The Ahau, or Katun was a period of 24 years, and the great cycle, 
of 312; the series commenced with a Cauac year. 

12. Brasseur was right in supposing it to have originated in Peteu. 
{Cont. to N. A. Ethnology, vol. V.) 

VII. — COMPARATIVE TECHNOLOGY. 

The transfer of General Pitt-Rivers' collection to the university of Ox- 
ford, during the current year, is an event which offers a fitting text on 
which to rest the chapter on technology. This study includes every form 
of human activity which demands a material upon which to operate 
and implements for its prosecution. With the growth of society there 
have been seasons of mutual helpfulness between the end to be attained 
and its instrumentalities, wherein the better social order has invented 
new tools; and, on the other hand, the improved invention has elevated 
society. General Pitt-Rivers began many years ago to gather from all 
parts of the world the implements of human warfare, arranging them, 
regardless of tribes and areas, upon a theory of evolution, elaboration, 
perfection. The same plan has been pursued in general and special col- 
lections, resulting in a better knowledge of the progress of invention. 
The motives operating in the works of men are two — the beautiful and 
the good, the one resulting in art, the other in handicraft. The two can 
hardly be separated except at their extremes, where the mere tool has no 
symmetry or beauty, and where the chef cfceuvre has no useful function. 
Both sorts have come over the same journey to their highest perfection. 
The few titles cited in the bibliography appended to this paper must not 
be looked upon as exhausting the subject. The enumeration of the titles 
of works devoted to the history of technique would far transcend the 
limits allowed to this entire paper. But, on the other hand, few writers 
upon the history of useful or ornamental art seem to realize that their 
subject has had an ontology and a phylogeny, that art itself has grown, 
and that its growth has been indissolubly connected with the history of 
humanity. Hence, most works on art or invention are not strictly an- 
thropological, although their statements are of great value to the com- 



ANTHROPOLOGY. C49 

paiative technologist. The arrangement of the National Musenm upon 
a technological, or anthropological basis is a work of the greatest mag- 
nitude. Indeed, by this anthropocentric scheme of a new order, all that 
is known or can be known may be groui)ed around man. 

In discussing the origin and unfolding of styles in architecture, writers 
innumerable have confined themselves to the historic period, and have 
found in the rudest edifices of history the starting point of subsequent 
constructions. The Eev. Stephen D. Peet has gone a step backward 
in this search, and from his familiarity with aboriginal and prehistoric 
architecture is able to carry the investigation nearer to its source. By 
analyzing the prehistoric works of America he hopes to discover what 
are the essential elements of the higher orders, and so to gain hints as 
to their origin. He maintains that the pyramid, the pier and lintel, and 
the arch, as well as the column, have served an important part in arch- 
itecture. The rudest predecessor of the true arch is to be seen at Ux- 
mal, in the Algonquin huts, and in the conical bee-hive huts of Scot- 
land. {Am. Antiquarian, IV, No. 4.) 

A very interesting example of the aid of borrowed art in civilization 
is given by Mr. Griffis in his work on Corea. " Between the years 29 
and 70, A. D., according to Japanese histories, an envoy from Shinra 
(Corea) arrived in Japan, and after an audience had with the Mikado, 
presented him with mirrors, swords, jade, and other works of skill and 
art. In this we have a hint of the origin of Japanese decorative art. 
It is evident from these gifts as well as from the reports of Chinese his- 
torians concerning the refined manners, the hereditary aristocracy, and 
the fortified strongholds of the Shinra people, that their grade of civili- 
zation was much higher than that of their northern neighbors. It was 
certainly superior to that of the Japanese, who were soon tempted to 
make descents upon the fertile lands, rich cities, and defenseless coasts 
of their visitors from the west." 

Mr. Theodor Baker is the author of a work published in Leipzig, en- 
titled ''Ueber die Musik der nordamerikanischen Wilden." After ex- 
amining forty-two songs and tunes obtained from at least twelve tribes, 
he finds that Indian melodies can be expressed by our musical scale 
and notes. Most of the tunes show an orderly movement, and the scales 
are few in number. The majority of the tunes follow the Lydian scale 
(c, d, e, f, g, a, b, c) and the Hypophrygian (g, a, b, c',d', e', f, g')j 
but in very few of them will be found all the seven notes of the diatonic 
scale. Every melody has the quint, or fifth, with its key-note ; one-half 
of them have the major third, or diatone, while the flat or minor third 
occurs in a few only ; the fourth and the sixth frequently occur, but the 
seventh note is infrequent. (Gatschet, in Am. Naturalist, xvir, p. 226.) 

VIII. — SOCIOLOGY. 

The catalogue of the Surgeon-General's library at "Washington is a 
classified index of all volumes, ]>amphlets, and discussions upon any 



GbO SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

part of anthropology which have found their way into that great col- 
lection. In the Index Medicus, under "biology" and " i)hysiology," will be 
found many references to sociological subjects, and in the volume of the 
Index-Catalogue, issued in 1882, many more under the words "circum- 
cision," "civilization" as related to medicine, "cosmetics," "cremation," 
^* crime," and "criminals." 

The practice of polyandry is known to have existed in many tribes of 
antiquity. Prof. John Avery has been collecting the evidences of its 
existence in modern times. It is in that part of India where the popula- 
tion is mostly non-Aryan and the influence of Hinduism is less prevalent, 
that polyandry is best illustrated. It is practiced by some of the lower 
agricultural castes among the Telugus, and by the Moplas and Nairs of 
Malabar, The most noteworthy instance found in India is among tbe 
rude tribe known as Todas. In case the husband of a female has 
brothers they may be admitted to a share in the wife on payment of 
their proportion of the dower. If they have snflficient means, they may 
also each purchase a wife in the manner described, and take the other 
brothers in as partners. Thus a group of brothers may in a i^erfectly 
lawful way have several wives in common. If a husband dies, care is 
taken that the widow shall not re-marry out of the family. {Am. Anti- 
quarian, IV, pp. 48-53.) 

One of the most thoughtful and philanthroT)ic publications during 
the year upon sociological subjects is a paper by Sir H. Bartle Frere, on 
the laws afl'ecting the relations between civilized and savage life, as 
bearing on the dealings of colonists with aborigines. Is it possible for 
an uncivilized race to continue to exist as uncivilized in the immediate 
neighborhood of a civilized race? After reviewing with great leuruiug 
the immigration of the Aryan races into India and their contact with 
the natives of the peninsula, the reservation plan of the Chaldseans, 
Assyrians, Babylonians, Medians, and Persians, the shepherd kings of the 
Egyptians, the early conquest of Greece, the conquests of Pome, and 
especially the sett'ements of English colonies in America, India, and 
Africa, the writer is led to the following conclusions: 

1. That it is possible for the civilized to overcome and destroy by 
war the uncivilized and savage race. 

2. That simple proximity has led to the extinction of the savage race. 

3. That the changes which have occurred in the native races conse- 
quent upon the proximity of European colonists are an advance in civil- 
ization and approximation to the types of European civilization. 

4. That the essentials to development are: 

a. Such a peace as the Romans and the English have insured to sub- 
ject races, as a consequence of civilized sovereignty, bringing with it — 

h. Protection for life and property, and practical equality before the 
law, leading to a substitution of individual property for tribal commun- 
age, involving the abolition of slavery, also private rights of making 
war and of carrying private arms. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 651 

c. Power of local legislation to secure educati ii in the arts of civil- 
ized life. 

d. Legislation should also be directed to place such restrictions on 
the sale of intoxicating substances as are needed to jirevent the ruining 
of health and the retarding the material welfare of the native com- 
munity. 

e. To secure all these objects an equitable form of civilized taxation 
is needed, sufficient to meet the expenses of administration. (J. Anthrop. 
Inst, XI, pp. 313-334.) 

Following up the extended investigations of Mr. Morgan upon the 
laws of consanguinity and affinity among the various peoples of the 
earth, so many have become interested in the subject that several 
attempts have been made to simplify the process of recording the results 
by means of graphic signs. Major Powell, of the Bureau of Ethnology 
at Washington, devised for his manual a series of charts on which, by 
figures representing males and females, aided by colors and connecting 
lines, the whole scheme of marriage and blood relationship could be 
indicated. During the past year, Mr. A. McFarlane has fallen upon an- 
other method. There are two fundamental relationships of the highest 
generality, namely, child and parent. These can be combined so as to 
exi)ress any of the complex relationships 5 thus, grandchild is child of 
child; grandparent is parent of parent; brother or sister is child of parent ; 
and consort is parent of child, and so on. I;^ow let c denote child, p 
parent, and juxtaposition equal of then cc will equal grandchild, cp, 
brother or sister, &c. Having classified the relationships in the various 
methods of which they are capable, Mr. McFarlane then introduces the 
notation for sex, in which m denotes male and / female, placed before 
the noun to which it relates, as mc mc, son of son, &c. Subsequently 
the scheme is enlarged so as to include all degrees of compound relation- 
ship recognized in the English laws of marriage and descent. {J. An- 
throp. Inst., xi[, pp. 45-63, with charts.) 

It is pretty well agreed that descent was first reckoned through 
females, and that where descent through males exists, traces of the 
former regulation are evident. How this change came about is un- 
known, but it has excited no little curiosity among anthropologists. 
Mr. Howitt and the Eev. Lorimer Fison have given much attention to 
this subject among the Australians and the Polynesians. They term 
the processes of transition "orderly movements" and "disorderly 
movements." By orderly movements is meant a gradual and peaceful 
change, resulting from the rise and growth of new ideas accepted by 
the whole community. Jiy disorderly movements is meant a rebellion 
against law, successfully maintained; or the enforced segregation of a 
part of the tribe, resulting in circumstances under which the old regu- 
lations can no longer be obeyed. The examination of the Australian 
system especially leads to the conclusion that the change from mother 
right to fiither right may have been brought about not only by orderly 



652 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

processes, but also by the violent action of impulses within the coiiium- 
nity itself. (J. Anthroj). Inst, xii, pp. 30-46.) 

As a preparation for the statistics of crime in the United States 
for the Tenth Census, Mr. Fred. H. Wines prepared a pami:)hlet entitled 
"The Nomenclature of Crime, or an analytical list of offenses against 
the statutes of the United States and the States of the Federal Union." 
In the letter of transmittal, Mr. Wines suggests some cautions about 
drawing conclusions concerning the criminality and morals of a State 
from the number of arrests or imprisonments, that being punishable in 
one State which is venial or differently treated in another. Before 
speculating upon criminality, therefore, it is necessary to find out what 
is considered to be crime. Nearly one thousand offenses are enumer- 
ated and classified. An alphabetic index at the end of the pamphlet 
enables one to find each crime and to study its relations. (F. H. Wines, 
111. State Bd. of Charities, Springfield, 111.) 

IX. — PNEUMATOLOGY. 

Dr. Daniel G. Brinton's American Hero-Myths is the most thorough 
work upon American Indian religion which has appeared during the year. 
Says the author: "What 1 think to be the essence of all religions 
is their sujjposed control over the destiny of the individual. At heart 
all i)rayers are for preservation, the burden of all litanies is a begging 
for life." " At the foundation of all myths lies the mental process of 
personification, which finds expression in the rhetorical figure of pros- 
opopoeia. Most of the American languages favor these forms of per- 
sonification. Other rhetorical figures, — paronyms, homonyms, otosis, 
polyonomy, and henotheism,have lent their aid in transforming what was 
once commonplace or purely ideal into a concrete myth. The natives 
of this continent had many myths, and among them there was one which 
was very prominent. It is that of a national hero, their mythical civ- 
ilizer and teacher of the tribe, who, at the same time, was often iden- 
tified with the supreme deity and creator of the world." Mr. Brinton's 
interpretation of these myths of Michabo, loskeha, Quetzalcoatl, Itza- 
mua, Kukulcan, and Viracocha is as follows : "The most important of all 
things to life is Light. This the primitive savage felt, and, personifying 
it, he made Light his chief god. The beginning of the day served, by 
analogy, for the beginning of the world. Light comes before the sun — 
brings it forth, creates it, as it were. Hence, the Light-God i» not the 
Sun-God, but his antecedent and creator." Out of this idea of dawn 
and darkness, light and knowledge. Dr. Brinton brings his theory of the 
creeds and cults of the North American aborigines. The same author 
has published "The names of the Gods in the Kiche myths, and The 
Chronicles of the Mayas," Vol. i. 

A very learned work on comparative religion is the volume of Hib- 
bert lectures, by Dr. A. Kuenen, entitled "National Religions and Uni- 
versal Religions." In 1874, by invitation of Dean Stanley, Prof. Max 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 653 

Miiller delivered a lecture on Missions, in Westminster Abbey. In this 
address religions were classified into non -missionary and missionary 
religions — the former including Judaism, Brahminism, and Zoroastri- 
anism, tbe latter Buddhism, Mohammedanism, and Christianity. Dr. 
Kuenen observes the subject from a somewhat different point of view; 
that is, he does not ask them what they aim to be, but what they are 
essentially. With respect to Judaism, therefore, he is led to a differ- 
ent result, which in its prophetic element presents the character of uni- 
versality. Mohammedanism, on the other hand, weighed in the Kuenen 
balance is found wanting. 

The Rev. J. Owen Dorsey, formerly missionary among the Omahas, 
has been engaged for two years past under the direction of the Bureau of 
Ethnology in collecting myths from the various Dakotau tribes among 
whom he has labored. In this work he is assisted by others in the sev- 
eral tribes on our reservations. The object of Major Powell in this is to 
gather a very large quantity of well-recorded myths, from which a true 
philosophy of American priscan religion may be deducted. Nothing 
exhibits more plainly the oneness of the human race than a comparison 
of myths. Turning to one of Mr. Dorsey's Iowa traditions we read : 
"Once upon a time there was a man whose family consisted of himself, 
his wife, and a daughter about twelve years old, and a son three years 
younger than the daughter. The father kills the mother, cooks her, and 
gives her to the children for venison. The children pursue him like a 
fate, are heli)ed in their travels by the ghost of their mother, until the 
tribe into which the father fled are brought to want." The incident of 
the naming of the animals is a very charming part of this story. This 
body of myths will appear in Major Powell's Contributions to North 
American Ethnology. {Am. Antiquarian, iv.) 

The visit of Mr. Frank Cushing to the East with a band of Zunis, 
in order to pay their respects to the great Ocean, or Father of Waters, 
was an event of no little importance in the history of mythology. Mr. 
Cushing has temporarily expatriated himself in order to become familiar 
with the Zunian social life. In this he has been most successful, having 
been initiated into their mysteries and sacred orders. His researches 
will form a part of the publications of the Bureau of Ethnology. 

X. — HEXIOLOGY. 

The amount of modifying influence which the conditions affecting the 
respiratory and digestive organs of man are capable of exerting within 
a given period of time is a subject of the utmost importance to the 
anthropologist. Closely related to this inquiry is that which discusses 
the unity or the plurality of human species. If the total force of the en- 
vironment has been sufiicient within the period of human existence to 
bring about those hereditable characteristics which mark off" the races 
of men, then we have no need of two or five or many origins. On the 
other hand, if the differentia of the races of men have the exalted value 



i;.54 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

of those upon which students of natural history are wont to found spe- 
cies — that is, if they were in existence before men were men, and were 
not brought about since — then polygenism is the true explanation of 
race difference. However that may be, the whole question depends 
upon the proper study of environment as to its influence upon living 
beings. 

Of course, we may study this subject from two points of view. If a 
balsam ap])le be allowed to grow in any bottle whatever, it will exactly 
fill the space. Kow, we may regard the bottle as shaping the apple or 
the apple as fitting the bottle. Likewise with life and its environ- 
ment. Professor Hseckel calls this housekeeping of organisms, cecol- 
ogy; Karl Semper, universal physiology; Mivart, hexicology. The 
terms ''biology," "physiology," " ergology," and even "psychology" 
have also entered into this scrutiny of organic beings in the presence of 
environment. They also show the points of view from which the stu- 
dent regards this complex relation. 

In a discussion upon the growth of children, Mr. George W. Peckham, 
of Milwaukee, takes up the relation of man to his surroundings. "The 
size of an organism is the result of inherited tendencies as modified by 
the two varying factors of waste and repair. To the sum of all the 
conditions which regulate the rate at which reintegration and disinte- 
gration take place the name 'environment' is ;!pplied. It occurs to me 
that by far the greater portion of an iu('.i\ idual's surroundings are de- 
termined for him by the degree of density of population in the locality 
in which he lives. That climate has any considerable effect in modify- 
ing growth, in the face of facts, seems quite improbable. Theoretically 
a low temperature ought to stunt men, since a large amount of energy 
would be expended in maintaining bodily heat. Taking a wide survey 
of the facts we find that the western Eskimo, the negroes of Guinea 
the Australians, the Patagonians, and the Kaffirs all have an average 
height of over 170 centimeters. In Europe the non-dependence of 
stature upon latitude is patent. The rate of growth is such that the 
boys are taller until the twelfth year and heavier until the thirteenth. 
Between thirteen and fifteen the girls are taller and heavier; after 
fifteen the boys exceed the girls in weight and stature. Children of 
l^ure American descent are taller than children of foreign-born pariButs, 
but are lighter than those of German parents. The height of American- 
born men is more modified by conditions accompanying density than 
by all other influences, race excepted ; urban life tending toward a de- 
crease of stature." {Sixth An. Bep. Wis. Bd. of Heallh ) 

XI.— INSTRUMENTALITIES. 

All sciences have their instruments of precision, which are but aids; 
to the perceptive faculties, the memory, and the reason. The anthro- 
pologist, for each division of his subject, has his implements, his graphic 
methods, and his symbols. It is very interesting to note how the per- 



i 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 655 

fecting of these has kept pace with the improvement of each subject of 
inquiry. Indeed, the great difference of opinion among the French and 
the German craniologists is not so much respecting the imjiortauce of 
certain parts as it is with reference to instrumentation. 

One of the most useful aids to progress is co-operation and division 
of labor. This is effected by societies and their publications. Indeed, 
it may be safely said that this subject is sufficiently appreciated, and 
the continuation of the present activity of harmoniously cooperating 
societies will bring together a mass of well-conducted observations of 
the highest importance. It is contemplated to organize an international 
bureau of anthropological bibliography. This will be a work of the 
highest usefulness, for which this and other summaries, the incomplete 
efforts of individuals, are only the preparation. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF ANTHROPOLOGY FOR 1882. 
I. — Antheopogeny. 

Allen, Grant. — Who was primitive man? Fortnightly, Sept.; Pop. Sc. Monthly, 

Nov. 
Bastian, C. — Des sensations et de I'intelligence chez les animanx. Rev. scientifique, 

Paris, 1881, ii, 60&-619. 
Cope, E. D. — The equivalents of consciousness. Am. Naturalist, March, 224-226. 
Daewin and Development. — See Catalogue of Surgeon-General's Library, sub vocas. 
Gegenbaxje, C. — Critical remarks on polj^dactyly as atavism.' [Morphol. Jahrb., vi, 

584.] J. Anat. Physiol., Lond., xvii, pp. 615-622. 
HovELACQUE, A. — Lesdebuts de I'humanit^. L'hommeprimitif contemporain. Paris, 

Doin. Bvo. 
Lacassagne, a. — Criminality in animals. Rev. scientifique, Paris, xxix, pp. 32-42; 

Pop. Sc. Month., Dec. 
MacDonald, Geoege. — A sketch of individual development. Brit. Quarterly Rev., 

Jan. 
Oenithophilos. — Philosophic ethnographique, comme quoi I'homme ne descend pas 

du singe, mais de I'oiseau. Paris. Bvo. 
Pettigeew, J. B. — On man's place in creation, his education and development from a 

science point of view. Brit. Med. J. , Lond. , ii, 925-927. 
Reid, H. a. — Man's zoogenetic lineage. Kansas City Rev., July. 
Vincent, E. — Persistence of the central bone in the human hand. Reviewed by H. E. 

Sauvage in connection with M. Cornevin's "ies ancetres du cheval." Rev. d'an- 

throp., s6r. 2, v, pp. 103-110. 
Wagnee, M. — De la formation des especes par la segregation. Rev. internat. d. sc 

biol., Paris, ix, pp. 9-32. 
Wilson, A. — Chapters on evolution: A popular history of Darwinism and allied theo- 
ries of development. N. Y. Bvo. 

II. — AECH.EOLOGY. 

Abbott, C. C. — Traces of a pre-Indian people. Pop. Sc. Month., Jan. 

Ayme, Louis, U. S. A. — Notes on Milta, Oaxaca, Mex., with plan and measurements of 

the ruins. Am. Antiquarian Soc. 
Ayees, W. O. — The ancient man of Calaveras. Am. Naturalist, Nov. 
Baldwin, Coenelius C- — Ancient burial cists in Northeastern Ohio. West. Res. & 

N. Ohio Hist. Soc., No. 56. 



656 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 18S2. 

Baeber, Edwix a. — Mouud pipes. Am. Naturalist, April. 

Baecena, Mariana. — Descripcion de un hueso labrado, de llama fosil, encontrado en 
los terrenos posterciarios de Tequixquiac, M6x. Anales de Mus. nac. de M6x., torn 
ii, Entr. 7. 

Beauregard, Ollivier. — Discovery of an ancient city of the Incas, near Salta, Argen- 
tine Republic. Upon the Indians of San Pedro de Laraos. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. , 
de Paris, vol. v, S(5r. 3, pp. 341-345. 

Bee, Th. — Nahuanuco. Bull. Soc. g6og., 7* s6t., iii, pp. 577-592. 

Bili-ings, Melvin O. — Ancient remains in Marion County, Kans. Kansas City Rev., 
August. 

BosE, P. N. — Notes on some earthen pots found in the alluvium at Mahesvara (Mahe- 
sar). 2 pi. J. R. As. Soc. Bengal, part i, p. 226. 

Beinton, D. G. — The probable nationality of the mound-builders. Am. Antiquarian^ 
vol. IV, No. 1. 

Case, Theo. S. — Human footprints in solid rock. 111. Kansas City Review, Dec. 

Chavero, Ed. — La piedra del sol, estudio arqueologico. An. d. Mus. nac. de Mex., 
ii, pp. 1-16; 107-126; 233-266; 291-310; 403-410. 1880-82. 

Chaenay, Desire. — The ruins of Central America. N. A. Review, pt. x, April; Pt. 
xi, July. 

Claeke, Joseph Thachee. — Report on the investigations at Assos, 1881, with an ap- 
pendix containing descriptions from Assos and Lesbos, and pai)ers by W. C. Lawton 
and J. S. Diller. 8vo. Flexible covers, pp. 215. 111. Published by the Arch- 
seological Institute of America. 

Collett, O. W. — Missouri archaeology. Kansas City Rev., June. 

Cueeiee, J. McNab. — Stone implements from Bomoseen and Castleton Valleys, Vt. 
A. A. A. S., Montreal. 

De Hass, Wills. — Monumental and art remains in the Lake regions of Ohio, Penn- 
sylvania, and New York. A. A. A. S., Montreal. 

DoNELLY, Ignatius. Atlantis: The antediluvian world. New York, Harper & Bro. 
Illustrated. 490 pp. Bvo. 

Douglas, A. E. — A find of ceremonial axes in a Florida mound. Am. Antiquarian, 
iv, pp. 100-109. A. A. A- S., Montreal. 

FiscHEE, Heine. — Bericht iiber eine Anzahl Steinsculpturen aus Costarica. [Abhandl. 
d. naturw.Vereins zu Bremen, Bd. vii.] Archiv f. Anthrop., xiv. No. 1. 

Ueber die mexikanschen Namen fiir Schmucksteine und metalle. Archiv f. 

Anthrop., xiv, No. 2. 

FiSKE, John. — The arrival of man in Europe. Atlantic Monthly, May. 

Flint, Dr. Earl. — Antiquities of Nicaragua. Origin of the Palenque builders. Am. 
Antiquarian, iv, p. 4. 

Geatacap, L. p. — Palaeoithic man in America. Am. Antiquarian, iv, p. 2-4. 

Haynes, H. AV. — Some indications of an early race of men in New England. Proc. 
Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., pp. 9. 

Some recent studies in pre-historic Archaeology. Intemat. Rev. , Sept. 

Hn.DEE, F. F. — Who were the mound-builders? Kansas City Rev., Sept. 

Hills, R. E. — A pilgrimage to Teotihuaean. Am. Naturalist, December. 

Homes, H. A. — Report of the commissioners on the correct arms of the State of New 
York. Albany: Weed & Parson. 

HoNEGGEE, J. .J. — Allgemeine Kulturgeschichte. I. Bd., Vorgeschichtlich. Zeit., Leip- 
zig: Weber, xxi, 406 pp. 8vo. 

Hoy, p. R. — ^Who made the native copper implements? A. A. A. S., Montreal. 
Who built the mounds? Id. 

James, Joseph E. — A prehistoric cemetery [at Madisonville, Ohio]. Pop. Sc. Mod., 
Feb., 1883. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. ' 657 

KOLLMANN. — Das Alter des Menschen in Amerika. Deutsche Rev., Berlin, vol. vii, p. 

127. 
Laceeda, J. B. DE. — Documents pour servir ^ I'histoire de I'homme fossUe du Br^sil. 

M6m. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 2«s6r., ii, pp. 517-542, fig. 
Lagneau, G. — De quelque pli^nomenes geologiques relates par I'histoire paraissant 

t^moigner de la haute antiquity de I'homme. French A. A. S. : Compt. Rend. , 1880, 

ix, 791-798. 
Lenooman, FEANgois. — The beginning of history. (Trans, by F. Brown.) New York: 

Charles Scribner's Sons, 620 pp. 12mo. 
Lykins, Wm. H. R. — On the mound builders' knowledge of metals. Kansas City Rev., 

Jan.^ 
MacLean, J. P. — Were the mound builders Indians ? Am. Antiquarian, iv, pp. . 

128-136. 
Madge, J. H. — Notes on some excavations made in tumuli near Copiapo, Chili, in June, 

1880. J. Anthrop. Inst. , vol. xi, No. iv. 
Maler, J. — An important find. Anales d. Mus. nac. de. M4x., iii, p. 1. 
MoEENO, FeanciscoP. — El origen del hombre Sud- Americano, razas y civilizaciones de 

este continente. Contribuciones al estudio de las colecciones del Museo antropol6gico 

y arqueol6gico. Buenos Aires: Pablo E. Coni, 1882. 
MOETILLET, Gabeiel DE. — Le pr6historique antiquite de I'homme. Bibliothdque des 

sciences contemporaines, Paris, 642 pp. 12mo. 
Mound builders in California, relics of a race of Kansas City Rev., September. 
MUNEOE, RoBEET. — Ancient Scottish lake dwellings, or crannogs. With a supplementary 

chapter on remains of lake dwellings in England. Edinburgh, 344 pp. 8vo. 
Nadalt>AIC, Maequis de. — L'Amerique pr^historique. Paris, viii, 588 pp., — 219 

HI. Bvo. 
Palaeolithic. — Archaeological explorations of the Missouri River. Kansas City Rev., Jan. 
Palmee, Edwaed. — Mexican caves with human remains. Am. Naturalist, April. 
Peet, Stephen D. — Ancient temple architecture ; The prehistoric architecture of 

America; A clue to the early stages of historic architecture in other lands; The 

origin of the architectural orders as shown by prehistoric work in America. These 

papers all appeared in the American Antiquarian and Oriental Journal, vol. iv. 

Primitive architecture in America, and the different stages and modes of life in 

the prehistoric age. Wisconsin Acad. Sc. , vol. v. 

The different animals represented by the effigy mounds in the State of Wiscon- 
sin. Wis. State Hist. Soc. , vol. ix. 

Phene, J. W. — On some hitherto unnoted affinities between ancient customs in America 

and on the other continents. A. A. A. S. , Montreal. 
Putkam, F. W. — The Maine shellheaps Rude pottery and implements of a prehistoric 

age. Address before the Maine Historical Society, December 23, 1882. Portland 

Advertiser, Dec. 23, 1882. 

Archaeological frauds. Science, vol. i. 

The Damariscotta shellheaps. Portland Advertiser, Feb. 7, 1883. 

Notice of sixty-eight Indian portraits, originals of plates in M'Kenney and Hall's 

' * Indian tribes of North America, ' ' presented to Peabody Museum. Science, vol. 1, 
No. 3, p. 83. 1883. 

Sketch of Lewis H. Morgan (prepared by request of council of Amer. Acad, of 

Arts and Sciences.) Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sc, May. 

XVth annual report of the Peabody Museum of American Archaeology and Eth- 
nology. Cambridge, Mass. 

The Madisonville 'cemetery. XVth An. Rep. Peabody Mus., p. 63, also Proc. 

Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. xxi, p. 216. 

An account of stone implements found at Marshfield, Mass. Boston Ev. Trans- 
scrip, Feb. 4, and Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., xxi, Feb. 
H. Mis. 26 42 



658 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Putnam, F. "W. — The contents of eighty-four stone graves at Brentwood, Tennessee. 
A. A. A. S., Montreal. 

Discoveiies of the remains of a log buOding belonging to the stone-grave period 

in Tennessee. Id. 

Account of three mounds explored in Ohio and Tennessee. Id. 

. On copper implements and ornaments from North America. Id. 

Notes on the copper objects from North and South America, contained in the 

collections of the Peabody Museum. XVth An. Rep. Peabody Mus., pp. 83-148, 
ill. See also Boston Transcript, Jan. 20. 

On conventionalism in ancient American art. Communication to the Am. Acad- 



emy of Arts and Sc. , Feb. 
Eau, Chakles. — Articles on anthropological subjects contributed to the annual reports 

of the Smithsonian Institution, from 1863-1877. Washington: Smithson. Inst., No. 

440, x-169 pp. 8vo. 
Observations on cupshaped and other lapidarian sculptures in the Old World and 

in America. In vol. v, Powell's contributions to North American ethnology, and 

separately. 

Indian stone graves. Am. Nat. , Feb. 

The Mount Pisgah (U. S. ) stone carvings. Nature, July 13, p. 243. 

Die Jadeitgegenstande des Nationals-Museum zu Washington. Archiv f. An- 

throp., XXV, No. 2. 

Review of ancient Scottish lake dwellings, or crannoys, &c. The Nation, Oct. 



26, p. 363. 

Eeid, H. a. — The prehistoric copper implement question. Kansas City Review, Feb. 

REisg^ W. , and A. Stubel. — The necropolis of Ancon in Peru. A series of illustrations 
of the civilization and industry of the empire of the Incas. Being the result of exca- 
vations made on the spot. With the aid of the General Administration of the Royal 
Museum of Berlin. Parts 5 and 6. Berlin: Asher & Co., 10 chromo-lith. , 110 
tables. Folio. 

Eeiss, W. — Ueber die Alterthiimer von Yucatan. Verhandl. Berliner Gesellsch. f. An- 
throp., 1882, pp. 260, 261. 

EoSNY, Leon de. — Essai sur le d^chiffrement de I'ecriture hi^ratique de I'Am^rique 
Centrale. Livraison 3. Paris : Maisonneuve. Folio. 

EUST, H. N. — A find of chipped-stone articles on the Pacific Coast. A. A. A. S., Mon- 
treal. 

Remarks on the Davenport tablet. Id. 

Salmon, Philippe. — Contributions aux Etudes de classification pal^o-ethnologique de 
I'dge des instruments bruts. Rev. d'Anthrop., v, pp. 413-459. 

San Francisco Cheonicle. — Relics of a race of mound builders in California. Kan- 
sas City Rev., Sept. 

Schmidt, Emil. — Stone pots from Sondrio, Northern Italy. In XVth An. Rep. Peabody 
Mus., p. 59. 

Smith, Worth ington G. — Palaeolithic implements of Northeast London. Nature, 
Jan. 18, 1883. 

Smucker, Isaac. — Mound builders' work near Newark, Ohio. Am. Antiquarian, iv. 

Smythe, Egbert. — Recent explorations in ancient Christian cemeteries. Am. Anti- 
quarian Society, Worcester, Mass. 

Snyder, J. F. — The stone age in Africa. Kansas City Rev., July. 

Who were the mound builders ? Kansas City Rev., March. 

Stearns, Robert E. — On certain aboriginal implements from Napa County, Cal. Am. 

Naturalist, March. 
Stieeup, M. — De I'antiquit^ de I'homme dajis la Grande Bretagne. French A. A. S. 

Compt. Rend., 1880, ix, pp. 811-818. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 659 

Thomas, Cyeus. — See under Glossology. 

Thuem, E. F. im. — On some stone implements from British Guiana. J. Anthrcp. Inst., 
vol. xi, p. 444. 

III. — Biology of Man. 

Allen, Harbison. — A system of human anatomy, including its medical and surgical 

relations. Sect. I. Histology. By E. O. Shakespeare. Sect. II. Bones and joints. 

Phila.: H. C. Lea's Son & Co., 241 pp., 42 pi. 4to. 
Allis, O. H. — Ambidexter. Ann. Anat. and Surgery, Brooklyn, N. Y,, v, p. 228. 
Bloxam, G. W. — Note on a Patagonian skull. J. Anthrop. Inst., xii, p. 28. 
BoiLEAU, J. P. H. — Brain weight and brain power. [Lancet.] Pop. Sc. Month., N". 

Y., xxii, p. 172. 
BUBT, W. J. — On the anatomical and physiological differences between the white and 

negro races, &c. St. Louis Cour. Med. , viii, pp. 416-423. 
Chudzinski, Th. — Contributions 4 I'etude des variations musculaires dans les races 

humaines. Rev. d'anthrop., v, pp. 280-308, 613-627. 
Churchill, J. & A. — Table I. Of the average weight of the human body and brain. 

London. Broadside folio. 
Color and color-blindness, craniology, craniometry, cranium, cretinism, deformities, and 

development. — See Cat. Surg. Gen'l's Library, "Washington, sub voces. 
Delaunay, G. — De l'egalit6 et de I'in^galite des individus. Eev. sclent., Paris, voL 

xxix, pp. 255-259. 
Discussion upon the relative weight of the brain. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 3 

ser., V, pp. 181-207. 
Flesch, Max. — Untersuchungen uber Verbrecher-Gehime. Anatomische und anthro- 

pologische Studien. I. Theil. Wiirzb. : A. Stuber, 112 pp. , 2 pi. 8vo. 
Frohlich, H. — Ueber den heutigen Stand der Brustmessungs-Frage. Aertzl. Int.-Bl., 

Miinchen, xxix, pp. 69-74. 
GlACOMiNi. — Varieties of cerebral convolutions in man. Arch. ital. de biol., Turin, i, 

pp. 231; 333. 
GoDET, R. — Les fonctions du cerveau. Bull. Soc. d. sc. nat. de Neuchdtel, xii, pp. 

277-686, 1 pi. 
Geubee, W. — Beobachtungen aus der menschlichen und vergleichenden Anatomie. 3. 

Hffc., Berlin. 4to. 
H ALDERMAN, D. — A brain weighing 61 ounces. Cincin. Lancet and CHnic, n. s., ix, 

p. 75. 
Hammond, W. A. — Hereditary tendency. J. Nerv. and Ment. Dis., N. Y., n. s., vii, 

695-711. 
Harrison, J. Park. — The projection of the nasal bones in man and the ape. Nature, 

Jan., 1883. 
Heger, p., and J. Dallemagne. — Etudes sur les caract^res craniologiques d'une s^rie 

d'assassins ex^cutds en Belgique. Bruxelles: H. Manceaux, 64 pp., 5 pi. 8vo. 
Heeriok, S. S. — Comparative vital movement of the white and colored races in the 

United States. Camb. : Riverside Press, 6 pp. 
His, W. — Anatomie menschlicher Embryonen. II. Lpzg. 8vo. 
Hunt, T. 8. — The domain of physiology; or, nature in thought and language. 2d ed., 

Boston. 12mo. 
Kate, H. Ten. — On the craniology of the Mongoloids. BerUn. 8vo. 
KoLLMANN, De. Basel. — Beitrage zu einer Kraniologie der europaischen Volker. 

Archiv f. Anthrop. Continued from vol. xiii. No. 2, in vol. xiv. No. 1, pp. 1-40. 
De Lanessan, J. L. — Des mouvements et de la sensibility chez les v^g^taux, d'apres 
les travaux r^cents. Rev. intemat. d. sc. biol., Paris, x, pp. 385; 510. Extr. from 
his " La Botanique." 



660 SCIENTIFIC EECORD FOR 1882. 

Manoltv^eiee, Leonce. — Eeclierches d'anatomie comparative et d'anatomie philoso- 
phique sur les caracteres du cr^ne et du cerveau. Paris: Meulan, 117 pp, 4to. 

Sur I'indice cubique du cr&ne. French A. A. S., Compt.-Eend., 1880, ix, 869-873. 

Martin, H. N., and A. W. Mo ale. — Handbook of vertebrate dissection. Part 2: How 
to dissect a bird. N. Y., 1882, 16mo. 

Manuel. — Du sens de la vue au point de v«e anthropologique. French A. A. S., Compt.- 
Eend., 1880, ix, pp. 798-805. 

Meeejkowsky, C. — Sur un nouveau caractere anthropologique [la morphologic du nez]. 
Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 3. s., v, pp. 293-304. 

Sur quelques cranes americains. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 3. s., v, pp. 

170-180. 

Mickle, W. J. — Cerebro-spinal localization, destructive lesions of encephalon; disease 

of the cord. J. Ment. Sc. , Lond. , u. s. , xxviii, pp. 65-68. 
Miklucho-Maclay, N. von. — Bericht iiber Mika-Operationen australischer Einge- 

borner. Ztschr. f. Ethn., Berlin, vol. xix, p. 26. 
Mills, C. K. — The brains of criminals, etc. Med. Bull., Philad., iv, pp. 57-60. 
MoLESCHOTT, J. — Untersuchungen zur Naturlehre des Menschen und der Thiere. 13. 

Bd., Hft 1. Giessen. 8vo. 
OsLEE, W. — On the brains of criminals; with a description of the brains of two mur- 
derers. Canada M. and S. Journal, Montreal, x, pp. 385-398, 2 pi. 
Paekee, W. K. — On the morphology of the mammalian skull. Brit. Med. Journal, 

pp. 262, 301, 337, 372, 419, 456. 
Passet. — Ueber einige Unterschiede des Grosshims nach dem Geschlecht. Arch. f. 

Anthrop., xiv, No. 1. 
Peteeson, O. V. — Relative weight of infants under one year of age. Upsala Lakaref. 

Forh., 1882-83, xxiii, 1-31. 
Physiological works published in 1831. J. Physiology, Lond., iii, Supplement, 1-75. 
POESCHE, Theodoe. — Blondheit und Albinismus. Arch. f. Anthrop., Bmschwg., xiv, 

pp. 143-150. 
POETEE, "W. — Direct mensuration of the chest. Med. Herald, Louisville, iv, pp. 345-348. 
Pozzi, Samuel. — Ethnic craniology, from MM. de Quatrefages and Hamy. Eev. scien- 

tifique, Dec. 16, 1882, and Jan. 13, 1883, with figures. 
Peentiss, D. W. — Hypnotism in animals. Am. Naturalist, Phila., xvi, pp. 715-727. 
QuATEEFAGES, A DE., and E. T. Hamy. Crania ethnica. Les cranes des races 

humaines d^crits et figurfe d'apres les collections du Museum d'historie naturelle 

de Paris, et les principales collections de la France et de I'Institut. Livr. 10-11 

(fin de I'ouvrage). Paris. 4to. 
Rawls, a. O. — The teeth of the races. South. Dental J., Atlanta, i, pp. 309 ; 397. 
EoTH, EUGEN. — Ein Beitrag zu den Merkmalen niederer Menschenrassen am Schadel. 

Arch. f. Anthrop., xiv. No. 1. 
Schmidt, E. — Ueber die Bestimmung der Schadelcapacitat. Arch. f. Anthrop., Baun- 

schweig, xiii, Supplement, pp. 53-79. 
ScHEVEKENDlCKE, E. — Untersuchungen an zehn Gehimen von Verbrechem und Selbst- 

mordem. Wiirzburg. 61 pp. 8vo. [Extr. d. Verhandl. d. phys.-med. Gesellsch. 

zu Wiirzburg. ] 
Stuaet, T. B. Andeeson. — The curved hair and curved follicle of the negro. J. 

Anat. and Physiol., x\i, pt. iii. 
ToPiNAED. Paul. — De I'indice c^phalique sur le crine et sur le vivant, d'apr^ Broca. 

Eev. d'anthrop., v, pp. 98-102. 

La mensuration de la capacity du cr^ne, d'apr^ les registres de Broca. Rev. 

d'anthrop., v, pp. 385-411. 

Les laboratoires et la cr^niologie. Rev. scient., Paris, xxix, p. 193. 

Le poids du cerveau d'apr^ les registres de Paul Broca. Rev. d'anthrop., v, 



pp. 1-30. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 661 

TopiNAED, Paul. — Liste des mesnres et procdd& craniom^triques de Paul Broca. Rer. 
d'Antlirop., v, pp. 577-590. 

Thoma, R. — UntersuchuBgen iiber die Grosse und das Gewicht der anatomischen 
Bestandtheile de menschlichen Korpers, in gesunden und im kranken Zustande. 
Leipzig : Vogel, 291 pp. 8vo. 

Wilson, Daniel. — Some physical characteristics of native tribes of Canada. Vice- 
presidential address before Section H, A. A. A. S., Montreal, Canada, Aug., Repr. 
Vol. xxxi. Proc. 

ZojA, G. — ^Alcune variety dei dentiumani. Pa via. 8vo. 6Repr. from Boll, scient., 1881, 
No. 3.] ^ 

IV. — Psychology. 

Bastian, H. C. — Das Gehim als Organ des Geistes. 2 Thle. Leipzig: Brockhaus, viii, 

388 pp. 8vo. 
Bkekley, H. J. — A contribution to cerebral localization. Med. News, Phila., xli,p. 

61. 
Blaisb, H. — Contribution k l'6tude des localisations c^rdbrales. Gaz. hebd. d. sc. m^d. 

de Montpel., iv, pp. 433; 471. 
Beyce, p. — A short study of some of the phenomena of mind. Tr. Med. Assoc. Ala., 

Montgomery, pp. 291-316. 
Bona, Meyee J.-^Himgewicht und Seelenbegabung. Deutsche Rev. , Berlin, vii, p. 395. 
BUCCOLA, G. — La dottrina dell' eredita e i fenomeni psicologici. 2a ed. Palermo, 

250 pp. 16mo. 

Studj di psicologia sperimentale, etc. Torino. 8vo. 

BUCKE, R. M. — The growth of the intellect. Am. J. Insanity, Utica, N. Y., xxxix, pp. 

36-54, 2 pi. 
Claek, F. C. — Prenatal education. Rep. Bd. of Health, R. I., 1881. Providence, iv, 

pp. 231-254. 
Du Bois, Reyuiond E. — Psychologic. Assoc, desm^d. militairesallemands. L'exercice. 

Rev. scient., Paris,* xxix, pp. 97-109. See also Pop. Sci. Monthly, Feb. 
ESTOEC, A. — Nouvelle contribution 5, I'^tude des localisations c4r6brales. Montpel. 

m6d., xlviii, pp. 489-497. 
EwALD. — Beitrage zur Lehre von den Gehim-Functionen. Deutsche med. "Wchnschr., 

Berlin, viii, p. 446. 
Exnee, S. — On cerebral localization. J. Physiol., Lond., 1880-82, iii, pp. 343-348. 

Zur Frage nach der Rindenlocalisation beim Menschen. Arch. f. d. ges. Physiol. , 

Bonn, xxvii, pp. 412-421. 

Feee, C. — Contribution a I'^tude de la topographic cranio-c4r6brale chez quelques singes. 

J. de I'anat., etc. Paris, xviii, pp. 545-563. 
Galiciee. — La sensation c^r^brale et ses consequences philosophiques. Marseille m^d. , 

xix, pp. 590-594. 
Galton, Feancis. — Photographic chronicles from childhood to age. Fortnightly, Jan. 
Gavoy, E. — Atlas d'anatomie topographique du cerveau et des localisations c^r^brales. 

Paris: O. Doin, 180 pp., 18 pi. Folio. 
Kronee, T. — Ueberdie Sinnesempfindungender Neugeborenen. Breslau. aerztl. Ztochr., 

iv, pp. 37-41. 
Manouveiee, L. — La question du poids de I'enc^phale et de ses rapports avec I'intel- 

ligence. Rev. scient., Paris, xxix, pp. 673-683. 
MoESE, D. A. — Cerebral localization ; temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Columbus, M. J., i, pp« 

11-13. 
Paei, a. G. — La psicologica scientifica. PI. 4 and 5. Psicometrie sull' uomo, bambino, 

fanciuUe e preistorico. Udine. 8vo. 



662 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

PozzT, Samuel. — Upon the sclerosis of the cerebral convolutions among the insane, &c. 

Bull. Soc. anthrop. de Paris, vol. v, sec. 3, p. 350. 
PeABODY, G. L. — Sarcoma of the cerebrum, illustrating the doctrine of localization. 

Arch. Med., N. Y., vii, p. 209. 
Peeyer, W. — Die Seele des Kindes. Beobachtungen iiber die geistige. Leipzig. 8vo. 
ElBOT, Th. — Diseases of the memory : an essay on positive psychology. International 

Scientific Series, vol. xliii. London: Regan, Paul & Co. [Nature, Dec. 21.] 

L'h^redit6 psychologique. 2® M. Paris: G. Bailliere & Cie., 422 pp. 8vo. 

Romanes, George J. — Animal intelligence. New York: D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. 

(Intemat. Sc. Series.) [> 
Slater, J. W. — Phrenology and animal psychology. J. Sc, Lond., 3. s., iv, pp. 16-23. 
SoziNSKEY, T. S. — Mental aspects of infantile vmfoldment. Med. & Surg. Reporter, 

Phila., xlvi, p. 309. 
WUNDT, G. — Problems in experimental psychology. UnsereZeit. [No date found.] 

v. — Ethnology. 

Amicis, Edmondo de. — Morocco and its people. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons. 
Bancroft, H. H. — History of the Pacific States of North America. Vol. I, Central Amer- 
ica. San Francisco: A. L. Bancroft & Co., 704 pp. 
Barclay, Edgard. — Mountain life in Algeria. London: K. Paul. 4to. 
Barney, E. G. — The native races of Colombia. Am. Antiquarian, iv, pp. 169-178, 

257-262. 
Bastian, a.— Die Haidas. Verhandl. Berliner Ges. f. Anthrop., pp. 278-298 (1882). 
Baxter, Sylvester. — An aboriginal pilgrimage. The Century, Aug. 
Beauregard, O. — En Asie; Kachmir et Tibet; 6tude d'ethnographie ancienne et mo- 

(Jerne. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop., Paris, 3® s6r., v, pp. 241-291. 
Beni, C. — Notizie sopra gli indigeni di Mexico. Arch, per I'antrop., Firenze, xii, pp. 

55-84. 
Bertillon, Alph. — Ethnographie modeme. Les races sauvages. Paris: Masson, 

viii, 312 pp., 115 m. 8vo. 
BiscHOFF. — Die Feuerlander in Europa. Bonn. 
Ueber die Geschlechts-Verhaltnisse der Feuerlander. Kgl. Akad. der Wiss. zu 

Miinchen, Feb. 11; also Hft. vi, p. 356. 
Bock, Carl. — The Head Hunters of Borneo: A narrative of travel up the Mahakkam 

and down the Barito; also journeyings in Sumatra. London: Samson, Lord & Co., 

30 colored plates, map, and other illustrations, 344 pp. gr. in Svo. 
BoNWiCK, J. — First twenty years of Australia. A history founded on official docu- 
ments. London. Svo. 
Borneo. Review of Parliament papers, Hatton, Carl Bock, and Burbridge. Edinburgh 

Rev., July. 
Brinton, D. G. — The Maya chronicles; the original text of the Pre-Columbian annals 

of Yucatan, with translation and notes. Philadelphia: H. C. Watts & Co. , 1 vol. Svo. 
Capello, H., and R. Ivens. — From Benguella to the territory of Yacca; description of 

a journey into Central and West Africa. London: Sampson, Low & Co., 2 vols. 

[Translated by Alfred Elwes, Ph. D.] 
Carillo y Ancona, Crescencio. Geografia Maya. Anales d. Mus. nac. de M6x., 

tom. ii, entr. 7. 
Carthage and Tunis. — Reviews of Smith, Meltzer, Playfair, Rae, de la Berge, and 

Brunialti. Edinburgh Rev., Jan. 
Cess AC, Leon de. — Renseignernents ethnographiques sur les Comanches, recueillis de la 

bouche d'un trappeur qui fut treize ans leur prisonnier. Rev. d'ethnog., Paris. 

pp. 94-118. 



. ANTHROPOLOGY. 663 

Christison, D. — The Gauchos of San Jorge, Cent. Uruguay. J. Anthrop. Inst., xi, 

pp. 34-52. 
COAN, Rev. F. — Life in Hawaii; an autobiographic sketch of mission life and letters 

(1835-1881). New York, viii, 340 pp. 12mo. 
COEEA, Ethnology of. Rev. scientifique, xxx, p. 561. 
CeoiXj J. E. DE LA. — Etude sur les Sakaies de Perak (presqu'ile de Malacca). Rev. 

d'ethnog., Paris, i, pp. 317-341. Also Poisoned arrows, pp. 331-334.) 
CusHiNG, Feank H. — My adventures in Zuiii. The Century, Dec. 

The Zuiii social, mythic, and religious systems. Pop. Sc. Month., June. 

The Nation of the Willows. [New Mexico.] Atlantic Month., Sept., Oct. 

Denikee, J. — Le peuple Tchouktche, d'apr^s les demiers renseignements. Kev. 
d'anthrop., v, pp. 309-325. Review of: 
Nordenskj old's ' ' Voyage of the Vega. ' ' 
Hovgaard's ' ' Tj uktj erne. ' ' 
■ Nordqvist's ' ' Zamietki o myeschnem pologenii, ' ' &c. 
Almqvist's ' ' Studien iiber Farbensinn, ' ' &c. 
Stein's "Die Tschuktschen, &c." 
DaU, "On the so-called Chukchi," &c. 
Angoustinovitch, "Trijoda," &c. 
Die Expedition der Bremer geogr. Gresellschaft, &c. 
With many references to older travelers and writers. 
DoLLiNGEB, J. VON. — The Jews in Europe. Pop. Sc. Month., July. 
Floyee, E. a. — Unexplored Baluchistan. A survey. London. 
FoNTPEETius, A. DE. — Les ^tats latins de I'Am^rique. Paris, 315 pp. 18mo. 
FoNTPEETius, F. DE. — Chine, Japon, Siam et Cambodge. Rev. Sc, xxix, p. 246. 
Feasee, John. — The aborigines of Australia, Maitland. Institution ethnographiqne, 

12 pp. 
FoEBES, L. — Les Utes de Colorado. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, v, p. 66. 
Feost, J. — The history of Mexico and its wars, from the Aztec Empire to the Cortez con- 
quest, the Spanish rule, the Mexican revolution, the Texas war, the war vdth the 
United States, and the Maxfmilian invasion, together with an account of Mexican 
commerce, agriculture, manufactures, exports, imports, duties, mines, cities, rail- 
roads, treaties, topography, population, and the social condition of the people. Also, 
embracing a directory of every city and post-office in Mexico. New Orleans. ; 8vo. 
Gatschet, Albeet S. — White Indians in South America. Ausland, pp. 887-89Q. 
Gaultiee de Claubey. — Upon the races inhabiting French Cochin China. Bull. Soc. 
d'anthrop. de Paris, iii, s6r. 3, p. 377. There are five principal races in French 
Cochin China enumerated. 
Gilliam, Prof. E. W.— The African in the United States. Pop. Sc. Month., Feb., 1883. 
Geiffis, WILLLA.M ELLIOT. — Corea : the hermit nation. New York : Charles Scribner's 

Sons, 400 pp. , maps and ill. 8vo. 
Halibueton, R. G. — Atlas and the Atlantes : 1. The Atlantes ; 2. The Guanches. 
Haemand, J. — Les races indo-chinoises. M6m. Soc. d'anthrop., Paris, 2* s6r., ii, pp. 

314-368. 
Higginson, T. W. — The first Americans. Harper's Mag., Aug. 
Hovel ACQUE, Abel. — Les races humaines. Paris : L. Cerf. 8vo. 
Jenkinson, T. B. — Amazulu : The Zulus, their past history, manners, customs, and 
language, with observations on the country and its production, climate, the Zulu 
war, and Zululand since the war. London, 214 pp. 8vo. 
Keane, a. H. — Asia (Edward Stanford's Compendiums of Geography and Travel, with 
an ethnological appendix by A. H. Keane). London, 732 pp. 12mo., maps and ill. 
Keeiltee G. — A curious Burmese tribe. Pop. Sc. Month., July. 
KoLL3iANN, J. — Les races humaines de 1' Europe et la composition des peuples. French 
A. A. S. Compt.-Rend., 1881, Paris, 1882, x, 742-751. 



664 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR. 1882. 

Laceeda, J. B. DE. — Craneos de Maraca, Guyana Brasil eiva, contribujogs para o estudio 
anthropologico das rajas iodigenas de Brasil. Arch. Mus. nac. do Rio Janeiro, iv, 
pp. 35-45. 

La WES, W. G. — New Guinea and its people. Pop. Se. Month., Jan. 

Lansdell, Heney. — Through Siberia. Boston : Houghton & Mifflin, 3d edition, ill., 
and maps, 811 pp. 8vo. 

Le Bon, G. — Sur la formation actnelle d'une race dans les monts Tatras. Eev. scient., 
Paris, xxix, pp. 338. 

Leland, Chaeles G. — The Gypsies. Boston : Houghton, Mifflin & Co., 1882. 

Le Plongeon, A. — ^Vestiges of the Mayas ; or, facts tending to prove that communica- 
tions and intimate relations must have existed in very remote times between the in- 
habitants of Maya and those of Asia and Africa. New York, 86 pp. 8vo. 

LuscHAN, F. VON. — Die physischen Eigenschaften der wichtigsten Menschenracen. 
Wien. Med. Wchnschr., xxxii, pp. 1153; 1188; 1217; 1244. 

Man, E. H. — On the aboriginal inhabitants of Andaman Islands. J. Anthrop. Inst., 
xii, pp. 69; 117. 

Maeinon y Tudo, S. — Fray Antonio Margil iiber die Lacandones, 1695. Ztschr. f. 
Ethnol., 1882, pp. 130-132. 

Metis Franco-Indian du nord-ouest de I'Am^rique. Rev. scientifique, xxx, p. 199. 

MtJLLEE, Fd. — Unter Tungusen und Jakutaten. Erlebnisse und Ergebnisse der Olen^k- 
Expeditionen der kaiserl.-russischen geographischen Gesellsch. in St. Petersburg, 
ill., Leipzig : Brockhaus, x, 336 pp. 8vo. 

MiLLEE, O. D. — Origin of the Egyptians, &c. Am. Antiquar., iv. No. 1. 

MONTANO. — Quelques jours chez les indigenes de la province de Malacca. Rev. 
d'ethnog., Paris, pp. 41-56. 

Peteoff, Ivan. — Alaska as it is. Intemat. Rev. , Feb. 

The limit of the Innuit tribes on the Alaska coast. Am. Naturalist, July. 

PiNAET, Alphonse. — Notices and vocabulary of the Guaymies Indians of Panama. 
Paris : E. Leroux, 73 pp. 4to. 

Poole, Capt. D. C, IT. S. A. — Among the Sioux in Dakota. Eighteen months' experi- 
ence as an Indian agent. New York : D. Van NdJstrand. 12mo. 

Quateefages, a. de. — Nouvelles Etudes sur la distribution g^ographique des Negritos 
et sur leur identification avec les pygmies asiatiques de Ctdsias et de Pline. Rev. 
d'ethnog., Paris, pp. 177-225. 

Rae, J. — On the conditions, &c., of some of the native tribes of the Hudson's Bay terri- 
tory. J. Soc. Arts, Lond., xxx, p. 483. 

Rawlinson, Canon Geoege. — History of Ancient Egypt. Boston: S. E. Cassino. 2 
vols. 8vo. 

Reclus, Elie. — The Andamans, or Mincopeis. Intemat. Rev., April. 

SlEGEE. — Zur Frage der craniologischen Racenmerkmale. Sitzungsb. d. phys.-med. 
Gesellsch. zu Wiirzb. 

EOEPSTOEFF, F. A. von. — Ueber die Bewohner der Niedbaun. Ztschr. f. Ethnologie, 
Berlin, pp. 51-68. 

ROWNEY, H. B. — The wild tribes of India. London : De la Rue & Co. 

SCHEEIBEE, Dr. A. — Life among the Battas of Sumatra. Pop. Sc. Month., Nov. 

Stieda, Ludwig. — Ein Beitrag zur Anthropologie der Juden. Archiv f. Anthrop., 
vol. xiv, No. 1. 

SiMSON, Alfeed. — Notes on the Napo Indians. J. Anthrop. Inst., vol. xii. No. 1. 

TOPINAED, P. — De lar^publique de I'Equateur. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop., Paris, v, p.lO. 

Valentini, Philip J. — The Olmecas and the Tultecas: A study in early Mexican 
ethnology and history. Translated from the German by Stephen Salisbury, jr. 
Am. Antiquarian Soc. 

ViECHOW, R. — Die Feuerliinder. Yerhandl. d. Berliner Ges. f Anthrop., p. 375. Also 
skull from Madison ville, Ohio, and one from Casabamba, Colombia. Id., p. 226. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 665 

Wake, C. Staniland. — The Papuans and Polynesians. J. Anthrop. Inst., xii, p. 197. 

WnxiAMS, G. W. — The history of the negro race in America from 1619-1881. New 
York. 8vo. 

Wilson, Daniel. — Some physical characteristics of the native tribes of Canada. Vice- 
president's address, A. A. A. S., Montreal. 

Wood, C. E. S. — Among the Thlinkits in Alaska. The Century, July. 

VI. — Glossology. 

Abbadie, A. d'. — Sur I'orthographie des mots Strangers. Bull. Soc. g^og., Paris, 7" 
s4r., iii, pp. 481-497. 

BiKKEES, A. J. W. — Malay, Acheenese, Franch, and English vocabulary. Alphabetic- 
ally arranged under each of the four languages. London, 364 pp. 8vo. 

BiSCHOFF. — Das Centralorgan des Sprachvermogens. Deutsche Rev., Berlin, vii, p. 121. 

Bkinton, Daniel G. — The Maya chronicles. No. 1. Library of Aboriginal American 
Literature. Philadelphia, 279 pp. 8vo. 

Campbell, John. — Proposed reading of the Davenport tablet. Am. Antiquarian, iv, 
pp. 145-153. 

Cheistaller, J. G. — A dictionary of the Asante and Fant6 language, called Tshi 
(Chee-Twi). London, Triibner, xxviii, 672 pp. Bvo. 

ChaeEncey, H. de. — Dessignes de numeration en Maya. Aim. con., 1881, broch. 8vo. 

Du syst^me de numeration chez les peuples de la famille Maya-Quich6. Lou- 
vain, broch. 8vo. 

Des expletives num^rales dans les dialects de la famille Maya-Quiche. Broch. 

8vo. 

Des couleurs considerees comme symboles des points de I'horizon chez les 



peuples du nouveau monde. Paris, 1877, broch. 8vo. 
CUST, ROBEET N. — The modern languages of Africa. Illustrated by a linguistic map 

preparedbyM. Ravenstein London, Triibner. cr. 8vo. See, also, J. Roy. As. Soc, 

xiv, pt. 2, April. 
Delbeuck, B. — Introduction to the study of language. London, Triibner, 156 pp. 

8vo. 
DoESEY, J. Owen. — On the comparative phonology of four Siouan languages. A. A. A. 

S., Montreal. 
DUPOET, T. H. — Outlines of a grammar of the Susu language (W. Afr.). London, 

28 pp. 12mo. 
Falb, Rudolf. — Das Land der Inca in seiner Bedeutung fiir die Urgeschichte der Sprache 

und Schrift. Leipzig: Weber, xxxvi, 455 pp. 8vo. 
Feanco, p. — Noticias de los indios del departmento de Veraqua y vocabularios de las 

lenguas Guaymi, Nortefio, Sabanero y Dorasque. San Francisco. 73 pp. 4to. 
Gabelentz, G. vondee, and A. B. Meyee. — Beitrage zur Kentniss der melanesischen, 

mikronesischen und papuanischen Sprachen. Leipzig. 8vo. 
Gatschet, Albeet S. — Indian languages of the Pacific States and Territories and of 

the Pueblos of New Mexico. Repr. from Mag. of American History, Apr. N. Y., 

A. S. Barnes & Co. 

Wortverzeichniss eines Viti-Dialectes. Ztschr. f Ethnol., Berlin, pp. 263-276. 

Volk and Sprache der Timucua. Ztscher. f. Ethnol., Berlin, 1881, pp. 189-200. 

Quelques noms geographiques du sud-est des Etats-Unis d'Amerique. Rev. de 

linguistique, Paris, pp. 293-299. 

Phonetics of the Kdyowe language. Amer. Antiquarian, pp. 280-285. 

Supplement linguistics, pp. 401-485 of Capt. G. M. Wheeler's vol. vii (reports) 



4°; appeared (with the volume) in 1882 only, though dated 1879. 
Geoffeoy, J. — De la connaissance et de la denomination des couleurs dans l'antiquit6. 
Paris. 8vo. [Repr. from Mem. Soc. d'anthrop.] 



666 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

Hale, Hoeatio. — Indian migrations as evidenced by language. A. A. A. S., Mon- 
treal. 

Inglis, J. — Dictionary of the Aneityumese language, also outlines of grammar, etc. 
London. 8vo. 

Jaschke, H. A. — A Tibetan-English dictionary. London: Triibner, xxiv, 672 pp. 8vo. 

Keapf, L. — Dictionary of the Swahil6 language. London. 

Lanxixg, C. M. — A grammar and vocabulary of the Blackfeet language. Fort Ben- 
ton, IMontana, 200 pp. 16mo. 

Malleey, G. — The gesture speech of man. Salem. 

Maxwell, W. E. — A manual of the Malay language. London: Triibner, viii, 182 
pp. 8vo. 

MuLLEE, Feed. — Grundriss der Sprachwissenschaft. Band. II. Wien: Holder. 8vo. 
1. Abth. — Die Sprachen der australischen, der hyperborieschen, und der amerika- 
nischen Rasse. 440 pp. 2. Abth. — Die Sprachen der attalayischen und der hoch- 
asiatischen (mongolischen) Rasse. 416 pp. 

Newman, F. W. — The Numidian language. Loudon: Triibner. 8vo. 

Platzmann, JuLros. — Glossar der feuerlandischen Sprache. Leipzig: B. G. Truebner, 
Ivi, 266 pp. 12mo. 

EOSNY, L. DE. — Les documents ^rits de I'antiquit^ am^ricaine. Compte-rendu d'une 
mission scientifique en Espagne et en Portugal. Paris, 100 pp. , ill. 4to. 

Eoujou, A. — Note sur la faculty de la parole chez les mammiferes. Rev. internat. d. 
•sc. biologiques, Paris, x, pp. 345-350. 

Smith, Mrs. E. A. — A few deductions from the dictionary of the Tuscarora dialect. 
A. A. A. S., Montreal. 

Thomas, Cyeus. — A study of the Manuscript Troano, with an introduction by D. G. 
Brinton, M. D. In Vol. V of Powell's Contributions to North American Ethnol- 
ogy. Washington: Gov't Print. Off., and separately, xxxviii, 237 pp., 9 pi., and 
101 figs. 4to. 

Williamson, A. W. — The Dakotan languages and their relations to other languages. 
Am. Antiquarian, iv, 110-128, and separate. Rock Island, 111. 

ZiEGLEE, F. — Practical key to the Canavese language, Mangalore. Basel: Missionar- 
buchh., vii, 91 pp. 8vo. 

VII. — COMPAEATIVE TECHNOLOGY. 

Angeltjcci, a. — Del materiale e degli strumenti per scrivere usati dagli antichi e spe- 

cialmenti dai Romani. ^Milano, iv, 192 pp. 16mo. 
Aecelin, a. — The beautiful and the ugly in anthropology. Rev. d. questions sc, 

Bnrxelles, Ap. , p. 20. 
Bakee, Theodoe. — Ueber die Musik dernordamerikanischenWilden. Leipzig: Breit- 

kopf & Haertel, 82 pp., 2 pi. 8vo. 
Bapst, G. — L'orfevrerie d'etain dans I'antiquit^. Rev. archiol., xliii, pp. 9-23, 226- 

237. 
Baebee, E. a. — Early European pipes found in the L^uited States. Am. Antiquar. 

iv, pp. 198-202. / 

Baumann, E. — Mecanica umana. Bologna. 8vo. 
Bayley, Sir E. Clive. — Art. I. On the genealogy* of modem numerals. Part II. 

Simplification of the ancient Indian numeration. J. Roy. As. Soc, xv, pp. 1-72, 

Jan., 1883. 
Boutkowsky, Alex. — Dictionnaire numismatique pour servir de guide aux amateurs, 

experts, et acheteurs des m^dailles romatnes imperiales et grecques coloniales, avec 

indication de leur degr^ de raret6 et de leur prLx actuel aux XIX™^ siecle, suivi 

d'une r6sum6 des ventes publiques de Paris et de Londres. [Fruit d'une travail de 

14ans.] Leipzig: T. O. Weitzel, 1-24 livr. 8vo. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 667 

Cazeneuve, p. — De I'alimentation chez les peuples sauvages et les peuples civilises; 

conference faite k la Faculty des sciences, le 26 f^vrier 1882. Lyon. 
Charencey, H. de. — Du syst^me de numeration chez les peuples de la famille Maya- 
Quiche. Paris. Svo. 
Chaveeo, Albeedo. — Lapiedra del sol. Anales d. Mus. nac. de Mexico, torn, ii, entr., 

7, Mexico: Escalante. [Continued through several numbers.] 
CoLLiJfOT, E. , and A. DE Beaumont. — Ornaments turcs, &c. Paris: Canson. folio series 

i-iv. 
Cope, E. D. — On archaesthetism. Am. Naturalist, June. 

CouTY. — Le curare, son origine, sa nature. Eev. scientifique, xxx, p. 587. [See also Cat- 
alogue of Surgeon-General's Office, Washington, mb voces.'] 
Deessee, Cheistophee. — Japanese arts. New York: Scribner & Welford. Svo. 
Feeguson, James. — History of architecture in all countries. New York: T. Y. Crowell 

& Co., 1,300 pp. Svo. 
Fletchee, Eobeet. — On prehistoric trephining and cranial amulets. Vol. V, Powell's 

Contributions to North American Ethnology, 32 pp. , 9 pi. , 2 figs. 4to. 
Gaebe, Richaed. — Die indischen Mineralien, ihre Nahmen xtnd die ihnen zugeschrie- 

benen Krafte. Leipzig: Hirzel, x, 104 pp. Svo. 
Geiffis, Wm. Elliot. — The Corean origin of Japanese art. The Century, Dec. [See 

also his work on Corea, published by Charles Scribner 's Sons, N. Y.] 
Peet, Stephen D. — Ancient temple architecture. Am. Antiquar., iv, pp. 89-100 ; 

208. 

. The origin of the architectural orders. Am. Antiquar. , iv, p. 4. 

Peekins, G. H. — Notice of a collection of Sioux weapons and articles of dress. A. A. 

A. S., Montreal. 
Shoet, John T. — Ohio : A sketch of industrial progress. Columbus : A. H. Smythe, 

1882. 
Smith, J. Moye. — Ancient Greek female costumes. New York, Scribner & Welford, 

112 plates, 30 ill., 1882. Svo. 
Whittlesey, Chaeles. — The cubit of the ancients. Am. Antiquar., vol. iv, No. 4. 

VIII. — SOCIOLOGY. 

Allen, Nathan. — The law of human increase. Pop. Sc. Montlj., Nov. 

AVEEY, John. — Polyandry in India and Thibet. Am. Antiquar., iv, p. 1. 

Be ACE, Chaeles Loeing. — Gesta Christi: A history of human progress under Christ- 
ianity. N. Y. Svo. 

Caveely, R. B. — Indian wars of New England. Boston, 500 pp. 12mo. 

Circumcision and civilization as related to medicine. [See Catalogue of Surgeon-Gen- 
eral's Library, Washington, sub voces. ] 

CoEEE. — La mdre et 1' enfant dans les races humaines. Rev. intemat. d. sc. biol., Paris, 
1882, ix, pp. 185; 377. 

Cosmetics. Cremation and criminals. [See catalogue of Surg. Gen'l's Library, Wash- 
ington, sub voces. 

Debieeee. — Constitution de la famille et de la societe dans le monde primitif Indo- 
Europ^en. Rev. intemat. d. sc. biologique, Paris, ix, p. 281. 

Doesey, J. Owen. — The kinship system and marriage laws of the Dhegiha. A. A. A. 
S., Montreal. 

DuGDALE, Richaed L. — Origin of crime in society, III. Atlantic Monthly, Feb. 

Eggleston, Edwaed. — The beginning of a nation. The Century, Nov. 

Ellis, Geoege E. — The Red Man and the White Man in North America, from its dis- 
covery to the present time. Boston : Little, Brown & Co., xv, 642 pp. Svo. 

Fletchee, Miss Alice C. — Home life among some of the Indian tribes. A. A. A. 
S., Montreal. 



668 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1682. 

Feeee, Sir H. Baetle. — On the laws affecting the relations between civilized and 

savage life, as bearing on the dealings of colonists with aborigines. J. Anthrop. 

Inst.,xi, pp. 313-352. 
On systems of land tenure among aboriginal tribes in South Africa. J. Anthrop. 

Inst., xii, pp., 258-272. 
Gilliam, E. W.— The African in the United States. Pop. Sc. Month., Feb., 1883. 
Halbeet, H. C. — Courtship and marriage among the Choctaws of Mississippi. Am, 

Naturalist, March. 
Hammond, W. A. — A problem for the sociologists. N. Am. Review, cxxxv, pp. 422-432. 
Haesha, William J. — Law for the Indians. N. A. Rev., March. 
HowiTT, A. W., and Loeimee Fison. — From mother-right to father-right. J. An- 
throp. Inst., xii, No. 1. 
Jheeing, H. von — Diekvinstliche Deformirung der Zanhne. Ztschr. f. Ethnol., Berlin, 

xiv, pp. 213-262. 
MacF AEL ANE, A. — Analysis of relationships of consanguinity and affinity. J. Anthrop. 

Inst., xii. No. 1. 
Magitot, E. — Recherches ethnographiques; le tatonage consid4r6 au point de vue de sa 

repartition g^ographique. French A. A. S., Compt. Rend., 1881, x, pp. 762-772. 
Maetin, Een. — Les fim^railles d'une imp^ratrice de Chiae. Rev. d'enog., Paris, 1, 

pp. 230-234. 
Maetin, W. A. P. — Traces of international law in ancient China. Intemat. Rev., Jan., 

1883. 
Mktchnikoff, Leon. — La statistique des sexes au Japon. Rev. de I'Extreme Orient, 

Paris. 
Otis, F. N. — Prehistoric syphilis; a tibia. Med. Rec, N. Y., xxi, p. 49. 
Powell, J. W. — Outlines of sociology. Saturday Lectures. "Washington : Judd & Det- 

weUer. 
Sewaed, Geoege F. — Mongolian immigration. N. A. Rev., June. 
Spencee, Heebeet. — Political institutions; being Part V of the Principles of sociology 

(conclusion of vol. ii. ) N. Y. , D. Appleton & Co. 8vo. 

Social forces in American life. Pop. Sc. Month. , Feb. , 1883. 

The Americans. Con temp. Rev., Jan., 1883. 

Tyloe, Edwaed B. — Notes on the Asiatic relations of Polynesian culture. J. An- 
throp. Inst., xi, p. 401. 

Waed, Lestee F. — Scientific basis of positive political economy. Intemat. Rev. , April, 
May. 

Wilson, Geoege S. — How shall the American savage be civilized ? Atlantic Monthly, 
Nov. 

Wilson, J. Dove. — The origin of government. Contemp. Rev., Sept., 1882. 

Wines, Feed. H. and Waltee B. — The nomenclature of crime, or an analytical list of 
offenses against the statutes of the United States and the States of the Federal Union. 
(Illinois State Board of Public Charities, Springfield, 111.) 

• IX. — Pneumatology. 

Abbott, Chaeles C. — Idols and idol worship of the Delaware Indians. Am. Natural- 
ist, Oct. 

Adams, W. H. D. — Curiosities of superstition, and some unrevealed religions. Lon- 
don, 330 pp. 8vo. 

Babu Saeat Chandee Dus. — Contributions on the religion, history, &c., of Tibet. J. 
As. Soc. Bengal, pp. 1-121, Part I. 

Baeth, a. — The religions of India. Tr. by E. H. Winfield. London: Triibner. 8vo. 

Basevi, Abeamo. — The philosophy of divination. Florence: Cellini. 8vo. 

Baxtee, Sylvestee. — The father of the Pueblos. Harper's Monthly, June. 



AXTHROPOLOGY. 669 

Beaukbgaed, O. — Sur une pratique superstitieuse des Indiens de la Pampa. Bull. 

Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris. 3. s. , v, p. 48. 
Bible myths and their parallels in other religions, &c. New York: J. W. Bouton, 

1vol., 600 pp., m. 8vo. 
Boodle, R. W.— Natural religion. Pop. Sc. Month., Feb., 1883. 

Bouche-Lecleecq, a. — Histoire de la divination dans I'antiquite. Paris, 406 pp. 8vo. 
Beinton", Daniel G. — American hero-myths, a study in the native religions of the 

western continent. Philad. : H. C. Watts & Co. 251 pp. 8vo. 

The books of Chilan Balam, the prophetic and historic records of the Mayas of 

Yucatan. Philadelphia, 19 pp. 8vo. 

The names of the gods in the Kiche myths. Central America. 

The chronicles of the Mayas. Vol. I. Library of aboriginal American litera- 



ture. 
BucKLAND, Miss A. W. — Surgery and superstition in neolithic times. J. Anthrop. 

Inst., Lond., xi, pp. 1-21. 
Cessac, L. de — Observations sur des fetiches de pierre sculpt^s en forme d'animaux, 

d^couverts a I'ile de San Nicolas, Cal. Rev. d'ethnog., Paris, pp. 1-30. 
David, P. Rhys — Origin and growth of religion. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons. 

263 pp. 8vo. 
DOKSEY, J. O. — The sister and brother, an Iowa tradition. Am. Antiquar., iv, No. 4. 
Faiths of the World. A concise history of the great religious systems of the world. 

London, 440 pp. 8vo. 
Gatschet, Albeet S. — Chief deities in American religions. A. A. A. S., Montreal. 
Haeles, C. de. — Du role des mythes dans la formation des religions antiques. Le Mu- 

s6on No. 1. Bruxeles, 1882. 
Halevy, J. — L'immortalit^ de I'dme chez les peuples s^mitiques. Rev. archil., xliv, 

pp. 44-53. 
Hathaway, Benjajon. — The league of the Iroquois, and other legends. From the 

Indian Muse. Chicago: S. C. Griggs & Co., 319 pp. 12mo. 
Hoffman, W. J. — The aboriginal medicine man. West. Lancet, San Fran., xi, p. 436. 
Keaey, C. F. — Outlines of primitive belief among the Indo-European races. London: 

Longmans & Co. , 550 pp. 8vo. 
Knoetz, Kael. — Aus dem Wigwam. Ui-alte und neue Marchen und Sagen der nord- 

amerikanischen Indianer wiedererzahlt. Leipzig. 
Mythologie und Civilisation der nordamerikanischen Indianer. Zwei Abhand- 

Ingen. Leipzig. Pamph. 76 pp. 8vo. 
KuENEN, A. — National religions and universal religions. (Hibbert lectnieus, 1882.) 

London, 350 pp. 8vo. 
LiLLiE, Aethue. — Buddha and early buddhism. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons. 
MacLean, J. P. — Jewish nature worship. The worship of the reciprocal principles of 

nature among the ancient Hebrews Cincinnati: R. Clarke & Co., 22 pp. 16mo. 
Mendoza, Gumesindo. — Mitos de los Nahoas. Anales d. Mus. nac. d. M^x., iii, p. 1. 
MtJLLEE, Prof Max. — Mythology among the Hottentots. XlXth Cent., Jan., 1883. 
MiLLEE, O. D. — The divinity of the hearth. Am. Antiquar., iv, pp. 179-186. 
Placzek, Dr. B. — Anthropoid mythology. Pop. Sc. Month., Sept. 
Ralston, W. R. S.— Puss in boots. XlXth Cent., Jan., 1883. 
Reitlle, a. — Histoire des religions. I. Les religions des peuples non-civilis&. 2 

vols. Paris, vii-412, 276 pp. 8vo. 
Robins, Elizabeth. — Evolution of magic. Atlantic Monthly, May. 
EocHAS, M. A. de. — Trials by fire and fire jugglers. Pop. Sc. Month., Sept. 
Sanchez, J. — Colossal statue of the goddess of water. Anales d. Mus. nac. d. M^z., 

iii, p. 1. 
ScHEUBE. — Le culte et la fete de Tours chez les Ainos, avec queques observations sur les 

danses de ce peuple. Rev. d'ethnog., Paris, 1, pp. 302-316. 



670 SCIENTIFIC RECOED FOR 1882. 

Shoetland, E. — Maori religion and mytlaology, illustrated by translations of ti'adi- 

tions, Karakia, &c. London, 110 pp. Bvo. 
Smith, Mrs. Eeminkie A. — Beliefs and superstitions of the Iroquois Indians. A. A. A. 

S., Montreal. 

Pagan Iroquois festivals. Id. 

Myths of the Iroquois. Am. Antiquar., iv., p. 1. 

SWYNNEKTON, Chas. — Folk tales from the upper Punjab. Proc. As. Soc, Bengal, p. 

106. 
Temple, R. C. — Some Hindu folk songs from the Punjab. J. R. As. Soc. Bengal, p. 

151, Part I. 
Thurm, E. F. im. — On the animism of the Indians of British Guiana. J. Anthrop. 

Inst., May, xi. No. iv. 
TiELE, C. P. — Comparative history of the Egyptian and Mesopatamian religions, &c. 

Translated by James Balling. Boston: Houghton & Mififlin, xx-230 pp. 8vo. 
Teowbeidge, T. C. — Mahommedanism and the Ottoman Turks. Reviews of Syed 

Ahmed Khan Bahador and other historians. Brit. Quart. , April. 
Whittlesey, Charles. — The cross and the crucifix. A. A. A. S., Montreal. Pub- 
lished in separate form. 
Yaeeow, H. C. — Some superstitions of the Sioux Indians. Am, Antiquar., iv, pp. 

136-144. 

X. — Hexiolog Y. 

Bensingee, N. — Ot cheto zavisit rost chelovicka. [On what the length of the body in 
man depends.] Med. Vestnik, St. Petersb., xxi, pp. 430; 346; 479; 525. 

BOEDIEE, A. — Les milieux et la transformisme. Rev. scientifique xxix p. 238. 

Bo WEES, Mrs. Vieginia K. — The bleaching of the Aryans. A. A. A. S., Montreal. 

Climate. — See Catalogue Surg. Genl's Library, Washington, sub voce. 

COEEE, Dr. A. — De I'acclimatement dans la race noire airicaine. Rev. d'anthrop., 
s6r. 2, V, p. 31. 

Dolley, Chaeles S. — Bacteria as beneficial and noxious agents. Rochester, N. Y., 
16 pp. 

Fayeee, J. — Destruction of life in India by wild animals. Nature, Jan., 1883., pp. 
268-270. 

Kingston, Wm. H. — Influence of climate in Canada upon Europeans. A. A. A. S., 
Montreal. 

Legoyt. — Les influences du climat sur la vie des hommes et des races. Rev. scienti- 
fique, xxix, p. 739. 

Peeeiee, E. — L'adaptation aux conditions d'existence. Rev. scient., Paris, xxx, pp. 
833-839. 

Peoctoe, R. a. — The influence of food on civilization. N. A. Rev., N. Y., pp. 547-563. 

Ratzel, F. — Anthropo-Geographie, oder Grundziige der Anwendung der Erdkunde auf 
die Geschichte. Stuttgart: Engelhom, xviii, 506 pp. 8vo. 

Zavattaei, E. — Di alcune cause che concovrono al deterioramente della specie umana. 
Tortona. 8vo. 

XI. — Insteumentalities. 

American Antiquarian Society. Proceedings 1880-'81. Worcester, 1882. 

The American Antiquarian and Oriental Journal. Vol. IV. 356 pp., 8vo. Chicago, 111. 

The Journal of the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. London: 

Triibner & Co. In 1882 were published vol. xi, 3 and 4, and vol. xii, 1 and 2. 
The American Journal of Philology. Edited by Basil L. Gildersleeve, Professor of 

Greek in the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore. Vol. ii, No. 4, Vol. iii, 1, 2, 3^ 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 671 

Die antxopologischen Safamlungen Deutschlands, enVerzeichniss des in Deutschland vor- 
handenen anthropologischen Materials nach Beschluss der deutschen anthropolo- 
gischen Gesellschaft zusammengestellt unter Leitung des Vorsitzenden der zu die- 
sem Zwecke emannten Commission. H. Schaffhausen. I. Bonn. II. Gottingen. 
III. Freiberg i. Br. IV. Konigsberg i. Pr. V. Berlin. 

Aeana, Diego Baeeos. — Notas para una bibiliografia de obras anonimas i seudo- 
nimas sobre la historia, la jeografia i la literatura de America. Santiago de Chile: 
Imprenta Nacional, 171 pp. 4to. 

Archaeological Institute of America. Boston: First Annual Eeport of the Committee on 
the American School of Classical Studies at Athens. 

Third Annual Report of the Executive Committee. Cambridge. 8vo. 

Publications. Classical series, No. 1. Boston. 8vo. [See Joseph Thacher 

Clarke, under Archseol. ] 

ABtor Library. The Thirty-Fourth Annual Eeport shows the nlimbers of readers, 
alcove readers, and accessions by classes, as archaeology, ethnology, mythology, etc. 

Atkinson, "W. H. — Three reports on nomenclature and terminology. Pp. 6, 12, 6. 5 
cents each. Noticed in Pop. Sc. Month., Oct. 

Banceoft, Htjbeet Howe. — History of the Pacific States of North America. Vol. I. 
Central America. Vol.1. 1501-1580. San Francisco: A. L. Bancroft & Co., 704 
pp. Svo. [Bibliography, pp. xxv-lxxii, nearly 2,000 titles. This work is the fruit 
of great labor and cost. ] 

Baumgaeten, Jhs. — Amerika: eine ethnbgraphische Rundreise durch den Kontinent 
und die Antillen. Charakterbilder, Sittenschilderungen, Scenen aus dem Volks- 
leben. Nach den besten und neuesten deutschen und auslandischen Quellen 
bearbeitet. Stuttgart: Rieger, viii, 456 pp. 8vo. 

Beetillon. — De la m^thode statistique dans I'anthropologie. Ann. de d^mog. inter- 
nat., Paris, vi, pp. 69-100. 

Le Mus6e d'ethnographie du Trocad^ro (La Nature), lOjuin et 2 sept. 1882. 

2 pi. 

BibUotheca (Americana), 1883. Robert Clarke & Co., Cincinnati^ 6,589 titles. 
BoEHMEE, Geoege H. — Historyof the Smithsonian exchanges. From the Smithsonian 

Report for 1881. Smithson. Inst., 1882. 
Bulletin trimestriel des antiquit^s africarnes, public par la Soci^t6 de g^ographe et 

d'arch^ologie de la Province d'Oran, 1 fasc, July, 1882. Mayenne. 
Cat, E. — Les grandes d^couvertes maritimes du 13. au 16. si^cle. Paris: Degorce Cadot. 

12mo. 
Cougr^ international d'anthropologie et d'arch^ologie historique, session de Lisbonne. 

Notes arch^ologiques sur le Portugal. Bull, de I'acad. d'arch^ol. de Belgique, 3 

s^r., pt. 2, xxiii. Anvers, 1882, 
Ceevatjx. — Voyage dans I'Am^rique du Sud. Rev. scientifique, xxx, p. 822. 
Delaunay, G. — De la m^thode en anthropologic. Bull. See. d'anthrop., Paris, 3 8., 
^ V, p. 55. 
Del Lupo, M. — Contribuzione agli studj di antropologia. Firenze. 8vo. [Riv. sc. in- 

dustr. di Firenze. ] 
Dbapeyeon,L. — En France et en Italic. Le Congres international de Venise. Paris: 

Delagrave, br. in 8vo. ; ext. Revue de G^g. 
E'cole d'anthropologie. Paris. 
Enc^phale. A periodical in Paris. [Not seen.] 
Fletchee, R. — Paul Broca and the French school of anthropology. Saturday Lectures. 

Washington, pp. 113-142. 
The French Association in 1882. Rochellc: 
Pruni^res, Dr. Trepanation pr^historique. , 

Carrct, Jules. Le goitrisme. 



672 SCIENTIFIC RECORD FOR 1882. 

The Frencli Association in 1882. 
Manouvrier, Dr. Sur la force des muscles fl^chisseurs des doits chez I'homme-et chez 

la femme, et sur le poids de l'enc6phale. 
Delaunay, Dr. (Jaeton. Sur la gaucherie. 

Bourgds, M. Essai de transformisme au point de vue spiritualiste. 
Manouvrier. Grandeur compart des diverses r(5gions du cr^e dans les deux sexes. 
Pruniferes, Dr. Bois rougds par les castors. 

Blessure des os par des filches en silex. 

Buchon, Dr. Presence prolong^e d' instruments en fer dans les os. 
Fuchs, Edward. Une station pr^historique au Cambodge. 
Leguay, M. Gravure des os par le silex. 
Gaff ABEL, P. — Les Americanistes. Eev. pol. et litt^raire, xxviii, p. 600, 1881. 
Galton, Feancis. — The anthropometric laboratory. Fortnightly, March. 
Globus. Illustrirte Zeitschrift fiir Lander- und Volkerkunde, mit besonderer Bervick- 
sichtigung der Anthropologie und Ethnologie. Begriindet von Karl Andree. In Ver- 
bindung mit Fachmannem herausgegeben von Dr. Richard Keipert. Erschiener ist: 
Erster biss einundvierzigster Band complet. Verlagvon FriedrichViewegund Sohn, 
Braunschweig. 
Haeeisse, Heney. — ^Vie de Jean et Sebastian Cabot. Paris: E. Leroux, Bibliographs, 

pp. 370-375. 
Index-Catalogue of the Library of the Surgeon-General's Office, United States Army. 
Authors and subjects. Vol. III. Cholecyanin-Dzondi. Washington: Government 
Printing Oifice, 1882. 1020 pp., 4to. [See svb voces: Circumcision, Civilization, 
Climate, Color, Color-Blindness, Cosmetics, Craniology, Craniometry, Cranium, Cre- 
mation, Cretinism, Crime and Criminals, Curare, Darwin, Deaf-mutes, Deformities, 
Demonology, Development.] 
Laboratoire d'anthropologie de I'Ecole des hautes Etudes, Paris. Lectures as follows: 
M. Topinard, upon anthropometry. 
M. Chudzinski, upon comparative anatomy. 
M. Manouvrier, upon craniometry. 

M. IIerv6, application of the microscope to anthropology. 
Letoueneatj, Ch. — Dictionnaire des sciences anthropologiques. Paris, 5® livraison. 
LiTTLEFlELD, Geoeqe E. — Catalogue of books and pamphlets relating to the American 

Indians, etc. Boston. 
Lubbock, Sir John. — Origin of civilization. New edition. Published by D. Appleton 

& Co., N. Y. . 

Mason, Otis T. — A scheme of anthropology. A. A. A. S., Montreal. 

What is anthropology? Saturday Lectures. Washington: Judd & Detweiler. 

Mello, Moeaes. — Revista da exposifao anthropologica braziliera. Rio de Janeiro: 

Poriheiro, 4 fasc, 1-16 ill. 
Mendoza, Gumesindo, and Jesus Sanchez. Catdlogo de las Colecciones historica y 
arqueologica del Museo nacional de Mexico. Anales d. Mus. nac. de M6x., tom. ii, 
entreg. 7. 
Miklukho-Maclay. — Results of hLs ethnographic researches published in J. Straits 

Branch, R. As. Soc, 1878 and 1879. [Nature, Dec. 7 and 12.] 
Moltett, J. N. — Dictionary of words used in art and archaeology. Boston: Houghton, 

Miflain & Co., 417 pp., 750 ill. 4to. 
MuEEAY, John O'Kane. — Catholic pioneers of America. New York: P. J. Kennedy, 

300 pp. 16mo. 
NoEDENSKJOLD, Baron A. E. — The voyage of the Vega round Asia and Europe. Lon- 
don: Macmillan & Co. [Important lor the tribes of northeastern Asia.] 
Neuva Reuvista de Buenos Aires. Dirijida por Vicento G. Quesada. 
Peabody Museum. XVth annual report. Cambridge, vol. iii. No. 2. [See Putnam, 
under Archaeology.] 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 673 

PiTT-RlVEKS, Maj. Gen. A. — Anniversary address to the Anthropological Institute of 

Great Britain and Ireland. J. Anthrop. Inst., xi. No. 4. 
Eevue d'anthropologie. — 11th year. Edited by Topinard, Paris. 
Revne d'ethnographie. — Under the direction of Dr. Hamy. The first volume appeared 

in bi-monthly parts in 1882. 
Powell, J. W. — Contributions to North American Ethnology. Vol. V. Washington: 

Grovernment Printing Office. Containing paper.s by Ran, Fletcher, and Thomas. 
Shea, J. G. — Early Franciscan missions in this country. Am. Catholic Quart. Rev., 

Jan. 
Soci^t^ Am^ricane de France. Paris, au bureau de 1' Institution ethnographique. The 

society has published Actes, Vols. I, II, and III, and Archives, series land II. The 

first president, Aubin, was elected in 1857. 
Soci^t^ d'ethnographie Actes de la. — Compte rendue des s&inces: Notices scientifiques 

discours, rapports et instructions; publi6e.s par les secretaires. VI, 3^ partie. Paris. 

8vo. 
Stieda, Dr. LUDWIG. — Die anthropologische Ausstellung in Moskau, 1879. Archiv f. 

Anthrop., xiv, pp. 258-325. [Excellent and exhaustive.] 

Der V. (russische) archiiologische Congress in Tiflis, 1881. Id., pp. 326-334. 

TOPINAED, Paul. — L'^querre c6phalom6trique. Rev. d'anthrop., v, pp. 260-265. 
Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washington, years 1, 2, and 3. Feb. 

10, 1879-Jan. 17, 1882. Washington: Judd & Detweiler, 142 pp. 8vo. 
Trubnek'S catalogue of dictionaries and grammars of the principal languages and dialects 

of the world. 2d ed. London: Triibner's, viii, 170 pp. 8vo. 
ViECHOW, Rudolf. — The Archaeological Congress in Tiflis, 1881. (Ztschr. f. Ethnol., 

Berlin, 1882, pp. 74-111.) 
Whittlesey, Chaeles. — List of the Whittlesey papers, a collection of all thepublica 

tions of Col. Charles Whittlesey. Published by the Western Reserve Hist. Soc. . 

Cleveland, Ohio. 

H. Mis. 26 43 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



THE GUATUSO INDIANS OF COSTA EICA. 

By Don Leon Fernandez, of San Jose C. B. * 

My expedition to the country of the Guatuso Indians resulted hap- 
pily. "We succeeded in penetrating to the very palenqnes (habitations) 
of the Indians, who fled to the forest on our approach, having aband- 
oned all their instruments, arms, provisions, and utensils. By follow- 
ing the tracks of the Indians we managed to visit several of their ^a?- 
enques, but it was not possible for us to surprise one of them. Notwith- 
standing the ferocity and courage with which the Guatusos have been 
credited, they made no attempt to resist or do us any harm, doubtless 
because of our numbers, and that they took us at first for huleros (rub- 
ber men), who are for them the creatures most abhorred, on account of 
the depredations which have been committed, children seized and taken 
to Nicaragua to be sold as slaves, men murdered, women violated, and 
other cruelties committed which are hardly credible in this age. 

After many excursions, during which we scoured the borders of the 
rivers Pataste and La Muerte, the principal affluents of the Eio Frio, 
both navigable, we encountered a party of Nicaragua huleros, who, 
practiced in the business, had surprised an Indian and had him tied up 
to a tree like a beast. After some information was obtained from them, 
through respect for SeQor I). B. A. Shiel, bishop of Costa Eica, who 
was at the head of the expedition, they offered the Indian for use as a 
guide in our excursions. 

Another party of our expedition succeeded, the same day that we 
met the huleros, in surprising another Indian who was secured after 
much difficulty and resistance. 

The two Indians were brought together in our camp, where we treated 
them in the best manner possible. Gi\ing them clothing and various 
presents, we made them understand, through the means of the inter- 
preter who accompanied us, that we were not huleros {chiuti) but brothers 
{tzaca), that we were going to do them all good and deliver them from 
the attacks of the huleros, and concluded by asking them to take us to 
the palenqiies [upola) where their families were, that we might give 
them the various objects which we showed, especially the knives and 

* Translation of a portion of a letter written by Don Leon Fernandez, on November 
24, 1882, to Dr. J. F. Bransford. -^. 



676 PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

axes, with which they seemed so much pleased. Tbey agreed to do so, 
and next day Ave set out in search of their palenques, they serving as 
guides. 

They trifled with us, intending, once away from the camp, to escape, 
and made us walk uselessly until 9 o'clock at night without having en- 
countered a single Indian or seen a palenque. Our return to camp, 
through the thick forest and the darkness of the night, we owed to the 
ability of a Tucurrique Indian who accompanied us. 

Convinced that we could do nothing through the two Guatuso In- 
dians, we resolved to send them overland to San Jose with a part of 
the expedition, while fourteen of us, taking advantage of the boat of 
the Jnderos, embarked at the mouth of the Pataste to descend the Eio 
Frio, then the San Juan, and to ascend the Eio San Carlos. It took us 
sixteen hours to descend the river to the village of San Carlos, on Lake 
Nicaragua, It is a splendid river, without a rapid, and the course of 
the current is barely perceptible, with sufficient depth for navigation 
by steamers for a long distance above the point of our embarkation. 
Bordered by level and most fertile lands, as proven by the luxuriant vege- 
tation, with abundance of fish and game, there truly may be enjoyed 
those savage tropical scenes which, uu fortunately, are disapi:)earing, and 
which are so keenly relished by those who, while aj^preciating the ad- 
vantages of civilization, love nature. 

]^othing of interest was observed in the descent of the San Juan and 
ascent of the San Carlos. 

The bishop had the two Guatuso Indians in his house for ^me time, 
with others that we had managed to rescue, found in Nicaragua, that 
had been seized and sold by the hnleros. In comijany with them he 
made a second expedition with brillimt results, as, this time, he man- 
aged to see the greater part of the Indians in their own habitations, to 
speak with them, and inspire them with confidence. On his return sev- 
eral of the Indians accompanied him as far as the Eio San Carlos, where 
has been established for them a depot of clothing and hardware. Par- 
ties of Indians have continued to come to this post to provide them- 
selves with hardware principally, and some have ventured as far as San 
Eamon, but they have not yet had the boldness to come to San Jose, for 
fear of the cold. 

Some soldiers that were afterwards sent to the territory of the In- 
dians to protect them against the incursions of the huleros were very 
well received. 

So it may be said that the conquest is made, and that the Eepublic 
has taken possession of a large and important tract of territory, which 
is called to a prosperous and not distant future, especially in view of 
the probability of the early opening of the Nicaragua canal. 

The lands occupied by the Guatusos are very extensive, level, fertile, 
and intersected by navigable rivers, with a slight incline from the 
right bank of the San Juan Eiver to the central Cordillera, which divides 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 677 

the waters of the Atlantic and Pacific. It has all imaginable climates 
between that of the fresh and bracing region of San Jos6 and the heat 
of the borders of Lake Nicaragua. 

The Guatusos cultivate largely the plantain, which is their princii^al 
article of food, maize, cacao, zuca (manioca), tobacco, sugar-cane, cotton, 
' agi (chile), &c. They make hammocks and nets of cabuya (agave). 
They are robust, agile, well formed, and of good character. They are 
pure Indians and not white, as has been claimed, although in some 
cases was noticed a trace of white or negro blood. Their number cannot 
yet be approximately calculated, but is not less than six hundred. 

I am now occupied in the study of their language, and hope to pub- 
lish my results in the third volume of the " Documentos?''* 



NOTE, BY J. F. BRANSFOED. 

Next after the Lacandones of Guatemala the Guatusos of Costa Kica 
have been the most mysterious Indians of Central America, and have 
furnished material for numberless extraordinary stories by travelers in 
that section. In finally settling the question of color, race, &c., Pen 
Leon Fernandez and the bishop of Costa Eica have done a service to 
science, but they have given a dreadful blow to future writers of enter- 
taining yarns about Costa Rica and Nicaragua. 

This tribe, spoken of as Guatusos or Pranzos, or Rio Frio Indians, in- 
habit the valley between the main Cordillera, that strikes the San Juan 
at Machuca, and the volcanic range, which, in northwest Costa Rica, is 
near the Pacific. The valley is drained by the Rio Frio, which enters 
Lake Nicaragua less than half a mile from the point where the San Juan 
leaves it. 

In looking up the literature on this subject, as well as on all questions 
concerning Central America, we turn naturally to Squier,t and are re- 
warded with a summary of what was known of these people up to 1858. 

According to Mr. Squier, the first allusion to the fierce warriors of the 
Rio Frio was in a report to the King of Spain about 1719, by Diego de 
la Haya, governor of Costa Rica. Afterwards there was a legend that 
they were descendants of Indians who withdrew from Esparza when it 
was destroyed by buccaneers in the latter part of the seventeenth cen- 
tury. In 1750 Padre Zepeda, a Franciscan of Guatemala, spent sev- 
eral months with tbe Guatusos, who treated him kindly. He claimed 
to have seen more than five hundred houses. In 1756 the guardian of 
the convent of Esparza reported the results of Zepeda's trip, and was 
instructed to follow up the discoveries. He started, but got lost. In 
1761 four men, spoken of as Sambos,f who were captured in the mount- 

* CoUeccion de Documentos para la Historia de Costa Rica, por Don Leou Fernandez. 
San Jos6, Costa Rica. 
t The State of Central America, by E. G. Squier. New York, 1858; page 405. 
t That they were really Sambos is of course hardly probable. 



678 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

ains, were taken to Esparza and confirmed the account of Louses, &c., 
given by Zepeda. They showed acquaintance with certain doctrines of 
the church, which they said had been taught them by a Padre Adam. 
This padre turned out to be a young man, who, after attending college 
at Leon, for some reason fled to the Eio Frio country, where he lived 
and died, not being permitted to return to his home. The cura of Es- 
parza and a missionary started for the mysterious valley, led by the 
Sambos, who abandoned them as soon as they were well into the forest. 
In 1778 the enthusiastic Fraile Lopez made his first attempt to enter 
the country, over Orosi, but failed. He next tried by boat up the river, 
but at the sight of the first raft of the Guatusos, his boatmen turned 
and paddled their best down stream, refusing to listen to his entreaties 
to be landed. In 1782 he made a third attempt by way of Tenorio, but, 
after wandering in the forest for seventy-five days, he came out on Lake 
Nicaragua. In 1783 Tristan, bishop of Nicaragua, accompanied by 
Lopez, made an expedition up the river. Lopez went ahead in a canoe, 
and was attacked. Some of his men jumped overboard, and the others 
dropped in the bottom of the boat. When the Guatusos saw the de- 
voted friar stailding with only a crucifix in his hand the shower of 
arrows ceased and he was allowed to land. His canoemen hastened to 
rejoin the bishop, and we hear no more of the heroic Lopez. 

Finally, Col. Trinidad Salazar, of Nicaragua, informed Mr. Squier 
that in 1849 he took two boats with soldiers up the Eio Frio. After 
traveling for several days he was attacked from ambush, was wounded, 
and his party repulsed. 

Our next authority, Froebel, who visited Central America after Mr. 
Squier, gives a version of Salazar's experience, in which all were killed 
except the colonel. He was informed that not only were no foreigners al- 
lowed by the Guatusos to enter their country, but members of their tribe 
who had been in captivity were killed when they returned. "They are 
said to be of fair complexion, a statement which has caused the apj^el- 
lation Indios Blancos, or Guatusos, the latter name being that of an ani- 
mal of reddish brown color, and intended to designate the color of their 
hair."* 

Froebel also gives the very romantic experience of a German youth 
with these Indians — the Pocahontas story adapted. 

Mr. Squier, writing again in 1860, says that the valley of the Rio Frio 
" is estimated to be at least 150 miles long by from 80 to 90 broad." " Of 
the Indians, called Guatusos, inhabiting this district, of whom nothing 
is positively known, the most extraordinary notions are entertained by 
the people of the adjacent states. They are reputed to be above the 
ordinary stature, with comparatively light complexion, and red hair; 
and tales are told of some of their women having been seen by hunters 

* Seven Years' Travel in Central America, by Julius Froebel. London, 1859; page 
24. See also his Aus America, Leipzig. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. t)79 

and others as fair and beautiful as the fairest Europeans."* While 
Mr. Squier gave no credit to such reports, he thought that in isolation 
their character, habits, language, religion, &c., had probably remained 
unchanged, and would reward the successful explorer. 

Vigne, writing in 1863,t simply states that according to hearsay there 
is a tribe of fair Indians, supposed to be descendants of Spaniards, two 
days' boating up the Eio Frio. 

That entertaining writer, Frederick Boyle, says : " Everything con- 
nected with this fierce race is enveloped in awful mystery, but it is 
curious that all accounts give them an origin far from their present 
seats. The story current in Costa Eica cannot fail to interest the Eng- 
lishman, even if he be not converted to a belief in its truth. When Sir 
Francis Drake retired to the Pacific shore after the sack of Esparza, 
say they, a large body of his men mutinied in mad hopes of holding that 
town against the Creole forces, and resting peaceably there. Drake left 
them to their fate. But when the Spanish army assembled and the muti- 
neers found themselves nearly surrounded, they hastily retired through 
the forest of Merivalles."| Their intention was to reach the Mosquito 
coast, but they were never heard of in that region, and many people 
believed that they stopped on the Eio Frio. 

Another story given to Boyle, to account for the color of the Guatu- 
sos, was that the Indians made a descent on Sjjanish settlements and 
carried off thousands of women. That story was rejected. Before his 
arrival in Nicaragua an American* filibuster and three Frenchmen had 
tried the river. After ascending for several days they rounded a sharp 
turn and came suddenly on an Indian who was standing on his raft 
spearing fish. Apparently not at all disconcerted he picked up his bow 
and drew an arrow to the head. Then for some reason dropped that arrow 
and took another, but before he could shoot he was fired on and killed. 
The white men not caring to encounter Indians of this resolute character 
turned back. They described him as looking like a Comanche. 

The naturalist Belt saw five Guatuso children in Nicaragua who had 
the common Indian features, though he thought they seemed unusually 
intelligent. He believed the name of the tribe had nothing to do with 
the color of their hair, but had been acquired as in other cases where 
the name of an animal is borne.§ 

Mr. William M. Gabb, who has given the best account of the Costa 
Eica Indians, 1 1 said he had seen several persons who had visited the 
vaUey of the Eio Frio, but their stories were too wildly extravagant to 
be entitled to repetition. General Guardin, President of Costa Eica, 

* Historical Magazine. Boston; vol.' IV, page 65. See also in Nouvelles Annales de 
Voyage, 1856, torn. CLI, pp. 6-12. 

t Travels in Mexico, South America, &c., by G. T. Vigne. London, 1863 ; vol. I, 
page 77. 

tA Bide Across a Continent, by Frederick Boyle. London, 1868; page sx of preface. 

$ The Naturalist in Nicaragua, by Thomas Belt. London, 1874 ; page 38. 

II American Philosophical Society Proceedings. Phila. ; vol. 14, page 483. 



680 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

told Mr. Gabb that the Guatusos encountered by him on a military expe- 
dition in their country, were ordinarily of the color of Indians, but there 
were some exceptions of comparatively white skins and brownish or 
reddish hair. Guardin said that when Esparza was sacked by English 
freebooters a number of the inhabitants, many of whom were white, 
took refuge in the mountains and were heard of never more. 

A Guatuso boy who lived for awhile at Alajulla was very sullen, and 
neither coaxing nor threats could induce him to answer questions in re- 
gard to the language of his people. 

Mr. Gabb said that lately the rubber men had ascended the river in 
their boats to a point within three days' walk of Las Cruces, on the 
Pacific side of the Cordillera, the once fearless warriors having tired of 
the game of bows and arrows against buckshot and bullets. 

The list of authors who have had something to say about these In- 
dians is quite extensive, but I will give extracts from only one more — 
the first to allude to white Indians on the Isthmus. Speaking of occa- 
sional specimens, Wafer says : "They are white and there are of them 
of both sexes ; yet there are but few of them in comparison of the copper 
colored, possibly but one to two or three hundred. They difler from the 
other Indians chiefly in respect of color." " Rather a milk-white, 
lighter than the color of any European, and much like that of a white 
horse." " Their bodies are beset all over with a fine short milk-white 
down." " Their eyebrows are milk-white also, and so is the hair of their 
heads, and very fine withal."* He reported them smaller and less strong 
than other Indians, and sluggish during the day, but skipping through 
the forest as fast by moonlight as others did by daylight. 

In late years the rubber hunters have ascended the river and roamed 
the country, robbing and shooting until the formerly courageous Guatusos 
seem utterly cowed. The writer of this note saw two in Nicaragua in 
1877. They were rather darker than the average Indian. One of them, 
a boy at Castillo Viejo, was decidedly intelligent, and from him were 
obtained a number of words of his mother tongue, a list of which was 
afterwards sent to Mr. Gabb. 

Don Leon Fernandez started on his expedition in April, 1882, and 
finally settled the question. And now we may look for an early and 
satisfactory account of babits, «&c., which have probably been preserved 
nearly as they were when Columbus made his discovery. 

Mr. Squier thought that as natives of Ometepe and Solentiname of 
Aztec stock, were taken as interpreters on the various expeditions from 
Nicaragua, the Guatusos would probably prove to be of kindred race; a 
belief which was strengthened by the fact that the cai)tured Sambos were 
understood by the Indians of Esparza, who, if not themselves Nahuatls^ 
had settlements of that people in their neighborhood. 

* A New Voyage and Description of the Isthmus of America, by Lionel Wafer. London, 
1699 ; page 134. 

During five winters spent in the interior of Central America, the writer of this note 
did not see an Albino among the Indians. 



I 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 681 

Torquemada, in giving- the traditions of the wanderings of the Cholu- 
tecos or Chorotegas in Central America, says that one party left the 
main body and reached the Atlantic. After following the coast of 
Nicaragua and Costa Rica, they turned back across country in search 
of the fresh water sea (Lake Nicaragua), of which they had heard so 
much.* Possibly this party left settlers in the region of the Rio Frio. 

However, light will soon be thrown on the subject by the study of their 
language now prosecuted by Seiior Fernandez.t 



ANCIENT REMAINS IN WHITE RIVER CANON. 
By R. T. Beon, M. D., of Camp Apache^ Arizona. 

Since writing the description of the ruins in White River Canon in 
1878, other discoveries have been made, an account of which follows. 

In the autumn of 1878, two burial-places were discovered, one near the 
ruins at the mouth of the caiion, about three miles down the stream from 
Camp J. A. Rucker. This cemetery consisted of one hundred or more 
tumuli of stones varying in height from one foot to three feet, and scat- 
tered irregularly along a small valley. 

Above the ruinsat Camp Rucker, about three-fourths of a mile, the sec- 
ond cemetery is to be seen on the left bank of White River. This burial- 
place is situated onablufi" about 60 feet above the bed of the stream. It 
was covered with a growth of pines, some of which are over 18 inches in 
diameter and many of them are growing out of the mounds. It was in 
this last-named cemetery that an excavation was made in the largest 
mound, supposed to contain the remains of some notable person. The 
length of the structure was about 15 feet, the breadth 8 or 10 feet, and 
the height 4 feet. It was formed of cobble-stones thrown together. Af- 
ter the stones were removed an excavation was made 4 feet deep into 
the soil. During the digging, at a depth of 18 inches, bits of broken 
pottery were found, but no bones. Growing out of this mound was a 
large pine tree, 4 feet in girth. In the immediate neighborhood of this 
mound the piles were larger than at other places. 

Two or three smaller mounds near the mouth of the caiion were ex- 
amined, and fragments of pottery were taken from each, but no bones 
or any relics. The cemetery in the caiiou seems to have belonged to 
the three settlements, as it is almost equidistant from each, about half a 
mile. The one in the valley at the mouth of the canon must also have 
belonged to the two or three settlements in its vicinity. 

The remains of buildings are' much more numerous than was indicated 
in my last annual communication. On careful search they were found 

" Monarquia Indiana, by Juan de Torquemada. Madrid, 1723 ; torn. 1, page 333. 

t Studentis interested in this and neighboring tribes will do well to consult Hubert 
H. Bancroft, Native Baces of the Pacific States, page 747, et seq.; Wagner & Scherzer, 
Cottta Rica, «fec., and especially Benzoni, who gives an excellent account of the expe- 
dition of Gutierrez. 



682 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

to be scattered over more than GOO acres. They are not close together 
or uniformly distributed, but in separate groups. Large quantities of 
broken pottery are scattered around the foundations, some of it very 
prettily marked. The foundations are similar to those previously de- 
scribed. Eows of upright undresSed stones, metates, and a few mortars 
were discovered. One of the mortars, near a small stream, had been 
hollowed out in a shelf of solid rock and was 300 feet distant from the 
remains of buildings. 

Judging from the pottery found in the tumuli, the people must have 
cremated their dead and buried the asbes in urns without any of their 
trinkets or other property. The large mound explored certainly had 
not been disturbed, and yet revealed no relics. 

The Apache Indians, who have inhabited this region since the com- 
ing of the Spaniards, do not cremate the dead but bury in secluded 
places, and singly ; they endeavor to remove all traces of the interment. 

In giving the number of the mounds I have not over-estimated, for 
doubtless a careful search would reveal many more. Some of them are 
quite small, not containing more than a ton of stone. 



MOUNDS IN HENRY COUNTY, IOWA. 

By George C. Van Allen, of Mount Pleasant^ Iowa. 

The following is a description of three Indian mounds located on Sec- 
tion 34, Township 72, Eange 7 West, in Henry County, Iowa. The hill 
is about 1,000 feet long, and 300 feet wide from the base on the east to 
the fence on the west, and is about 120 feet above the level of the corn- 
field. Major Bereman, of this place, visited the'se mounds in June, and 
from one took out a quantity of bones, teeth, and charcoal. Some of 
the bones were charred and some sticks only partly burned. There 
seemed to be no order in the burial. The bones were nearly in a heap, 
and showed that more than one person had been burned and buried 
there. On July 20th a small party visited the place, took the measure- 
ments, and made some further excavations, but found nothing beyond 
some pieces of soft bone, a few bits of charred wood, and a pink- 
ish-white arrow-head. No stones were found that seemed to us to have 
been arranged in any order, but a few were scattered at random through- 
out the mound. No. 1 is 50 feet north and south by 41 feet east and 
west ; No. 2 is 43 feet north and south by 49 feet east and west ; No. 3 
is 40 feet north and south by 40 feeteast-and west. The distances from 
center to center are 107 feet and 50 feet. The height is from 4^ to 5 feet 
at the center. South of No. 3 are the remains of two mounds begun, 
about one foot deep at the center. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 683 

MOUNDS IN CARROLL COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 

By James M. Williamson, of Thomsoyi, III. 

In the town of York, Carroll County, Illinois, is a group of five very 
remarkable mounds. They are situated on the bluffs, 300 feet above 
the bottom-lands on the east side of the Mississippi River, from which 
they are distant about 2J miles. They are built upon a high ridge of 
ground running in a due line from southwest to northeast. The first 
mound on the southwest is about 50 feet in diameter, and they grow 
smaller until the last one of them is only 10 feet across. 

In September, 1882, I procured help and opened the first one by dig- 
ging a trench directly through, beginning on a level with the base of 
the mound. After trenching about. 8 feet we came to some fragments 
of burned clay, the pieces being as hard as burned brick, and resem- 
bling it very much in color. On digging in a little farther we came to 
fragments of rotten bone and teeth, but soon met with other bones in a 
better state of preservation. Digging in still farther we presently came 
to a perfect charnel-house of bones, most of them well preserved. We 
took them out as carefully as we could, and procured twenty-two 
crania, some of them very large indeed, and many of them in a good 
state of preservation and well shaped. All the other bones were in a 
fine state of preservation, and I have no doubt that this mound yet con- 
tains the skeletons of one hundred or more of the ancient mound build- 
ers of Carroll County. 

The next mound opened was the last of the five on the northeast end 
of the ridge and is the smallest of the number. In this, at the depth of 
6J feet, we came upon another mound or cist of burned clay, 3A feet 
wide at the base, 7^ feet long, and 20 inches high, this being so hard 
that it was almost impossible to j)enetrate it; but by slow work we tore 
it to pieces and found that it contained the remains of a body which had 
been burned. I brought away many of the bones ; they are charred and 
very hard. Fragments of the skull are as tough as the thickest pot- 
tery. Over this mound of burned clay were ashes to the depth of nearly 
two inches, intermixed with charcoal. The body had evidently been 
laid on the surface of the ground, and the clay packed around and over 
it, after which the fires were kindled. This inside mound could have 
been taken out whole if we had exercised forethought. The other three 
mounds I have not opened yet, but shall do so in early spring. I ex- 
pect from them some rich developments; they are all covered with 
heavy timber and hard to get at, as many of the roots from the oaks 
penetrate the skulls. Inside of the burned cist I found many fragments 
of pottery and flint implements, convincing me that the class of mound- 
builders inhabiting Northern Illinois broke all their implements, uten- 
sils, ornaments, «&c., at the time of burying their owners, for in all my 
mound opening in this section I have never found a whole piece of pot- 
tery and but few whole stone implements or ornaments, but vast quan- 
tities of broken ones. 



684 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

MOUNDS OF THE MISSISSIPPI BOTTOM, ILLINOIS. 
By Wm. JMcAdams, jr., of Otterville, III. 

The first exploration to be described relates to two remarkable mounds 
the first of which is ou the Illinois River bottom, 15 miles from the mouth. 
It is oval in outline, 175 feet long and 50 feet wide on the level top, the 
sides sloping gradually down to the bottom. At the depth of 16 feet we 
eame to a basin of clay filled with clean white sand. This basin was 25 
or 30 feet long, and 20 wide. Covered up in the sand was a wagon- 
load of raw material for stone implements, flints, quartz, chalcedony, 
jasper, some of these in large pieces and very fine. The flint was from 
broken nodules, three of which, weighing from 20 to 40 pounds, were 
entire. These flint nodules were white without and dark brown within, 
like the flint nodules in the chalk. Some of the material was blocked out 
for implements. Lying on the sand were three large sea-shell vessels 
holding two quarts each. At the north end of the basin were found two 
skeletons in a sitting posture on the sand. The one on the east was that 
of an old man, judging from the teeth and obliteration of the sutures of 
the skull. The skeleton at his side was that of a young woman with 
beautiful even teeth. Around the neck of the old man was a string of 
shell beads of curious form, the perforation not going entirely through 
the bead, but out laterally. A few beads were scattered around. On the 
old man's breast was a circular plate of copper, about 4 inches across, 
also an ornament of copper like a large sleeve-button or spool 2 inches 
across the disks. These were much corroded. At the left side of the 
old man lay a beautiful pipe of mottled catlinite in form resembling many 
figured from the mounds, the curved base forming the stem. The skull, 
which I was very anxious to preserve, was broken, but the upper portion 
was saved. There were ashe^ and evidences of fire around the basin, in- 
dicating that fire had been used in the funeral ceremonies. 

The second was a remarkable mound previously unexplored, situ- 
ated on the Mississii^pi bluff' in Calhoun County, Illinois. It was not a 
large mound, being only about 25 or 30 feet across the top, and 3 feet 
high. The bones found in it were very old and much decayed, and there 
seemed to be ten or twelve bodies buried in it. From this mound were 
taken seven ceremonial axes. They are of porphyritic granite, and are 
5 to 6 inches long. There were four of the regular axe pattern, and two 
with narrow wings on the side of the central column, and one with jags 
at the two ends, like feet. One is of quartz and the other two are of ava- 
riety of quart zite. The lines on them are straight and true, the perfo- 
ration passing through the center. They are very smooth and highly 
polished. Four copper axes of the celt pattern were found, plainly show- 
ing that they were hammered out from native ore. They are somewhat 
corroded. Three spear-points, with notched bases C inches long, were 
also unearthed, two of white jasper and one of red. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 685 

In addition to tbese our liud included thirty-five chipped implements 
of white chert, varying from 8 to 10 inches in length, three polished 
axes, a plummet, and a stone tube. It is quite uncommon to find axes 
in a mound. These were taken from the base of the mound. There 
were no beads,'Shells, pipes, or ornaments found. 

The country about the mouth of the Illinois and Missouri Kiver is a 
good locality for mound exploration, especially on the highlands, but 
those in the bottoms are much the richest in relics. Fifteen miles from 
the mouth of the Illinois Eiver is a group of six mounds in the riv^er 
bottom ; the largest of these was explored by the writer, and a pi])e, cop- 
per ornaments, shells, &c., recovered. A ceremonial ax, however, was 
taken from a mound on the highland. On the Illinois Kiver bottom, 35 
or 40 miles from its mouth, is another group of eleven mounds, which 
are larger than those of the first group. Arrangements have been made 
with the owner of the field, aud digging in them will soon commence. 
Some of the most promising mounds, however, are within a day's drive 
of Otterville, on the American bottom, between Alton and Saint Louis. 
Some valuable relics have been obtained here, yet very few, if any, of 
these large mounds have been explored. 

The mounds, group No. 1, described below are situated on the Illinois 
Eiver, 40 miles from its mouth. They are ten in number, and are in the 
lowlands or bottom, just beneath a precipitous bluff and near the river 
bank. 

An excavation was made in No. 8, 13 feet deep, which revealed ashes 
in considerable quantity, alongside of which was an aich ol fat stone 
covering a skeleton not very well preserved. The skull was broken and 
lyiug on a thin shingle-like piece of cedar, colored green with copper. 
Some of the bones were green also, but no copper implements were found, 
they being entirely oxidized. Nearly a quart of shell beads, some large, 
others small, were found at the head as well as at the feet of the skele- 
ton. An excavation in No. 7 to the depth of 13 feet revealed nothing. 
No. 4 is a conical mound, flat on top with a de]>ression in the center. 
At the de])th of 10 feet two crumbling skeletons were imbedded in a 
light-colored marly earth, showing marks of stratification, as if water 
had been used in its deposition. The white and dark colored laminae, 
which I have not before ^een in a mound, were not half an inch in thick- 
ness. The same stratified earth was found near the skeleton in No. 8. 
No relics of any kind except the human bones occurred in mound No. 4. 

jNo. 2 is a double mound much lower in the middle, and seeming to be 
two mounds joined together. In this an excavation was made 18 feet 
deep, and tunnels carried under a good part of the mound, but nothing 
of value was found except burned stones, some ashes, and a few river 
shells. The mounds were very hard, and the excavations were made as 
we descended. Yet this long search yielded little or nothing. The au- 
thor camped among the mounds with five young men, but in spite of 
good tools the young men got discouraged, and further exploration was 



686 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

reluctantly postponed. The largest mound of the g^oup, No. 1, is 20 feet 
high, and unex])lored, as are the remainder of the group not mentioned. 

In mound No. 8, about 7 or 8 feet below the surface we found two 
skeletons, apparently an intrusive burial. With one were some arrow- 
points and a piece of plumbago nearly an inch square. 'With the other 
skeleton was an earthen vessel broken and crushed. 

There are many mounds on the bluff adjacent to the group in the 
bottom. They are comijosed of earth and flat stones, and from one of 
them were obtained several perfect skulls, two of them very interesting 
on account of their peculiar shape, one broad and flat, the other narrow 
and long. From this mound was also obtained a fine piece of pottery 
in good preservation and perfect, excepting a small piece broken from 
the rim by the spade. It is different from any hitherto found. The 
vessel is of a dark, nearly black color, and seems to have been burned. 
It contained the inevitable spoon of shell from the adjacent stream. 
Near the vessel were secured flint implements, such as arrow-points, 
scrapers, bunts, knives, &c. The skull was broken in many pieces and 
beyond recovery. The flint and shell-spoon on one side have a siliceous, 
stony crust. This incrustation is also on the inside of the earthen vessel. 
From the fields in this vicinity were obtained a number of stone imple- 
ments. 



ABORIGINAL EEMAINS NEAR NAPLES, ILL. 
By John G. Henderson, of Winchester, III. 

A nnmber of years ago Dr. Clark Roberts, of Winchester, 111., had 
in his possession some singular pipes, which upon examination proved 
to be relics of the mound-builders. This, however, is a rather unfor- 
tunate title, as the history of nearly all savage races shows them to have 
been mound-builders. The same locality, by disease, famine, emigration, 
or war, may have been depopulated and again repeopled by other races, 
each of which in its turn may have erected mounds for religious pur- 
poses, as sites for temples or dwellings, points of observation or monu- 
ments over dead heroes. The word mound-builder, therefore, is calcu- 
lated to lead to error by the implication that the habit of mound-build- 
ing was peculiar to one prehistoric race, and that all the mounds of the 
great valley of the Mississippi are relics of one lost and forgotten people- 
In this paper the term moundhuilder is applied to no particular race or 
nation, but to those who in ancient times occupied the Mississippi Valley, 
and there erected earthworks of any kind. 

As the bulk of all that is known of the ancient inhabitants of this 
valley, especially of their curious and beautiful pipe-sculpture, was ob- 
tained by Squier and Davis from the mounds of Ohio, the importance of 
the discovery of similar articles on the banks of the Illinois River, the 
ancient Houkiki of the Algonkins, was fully appreciated by the writer, 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



687 



and Dr. Roberts kindly placed tliem at his disposal, giving all the in- 
formation he conld relative to them. The relics were obtained from a 
mound at Naples, 111., where several years ago the writer resided and 
heard of the finding of tbese relics, especially the turtle-pipe. Dr. 
Roberts's courtesy determined at once a visit to the place in order to 
examine carefully the character of the mound, and to find anything 




/ j Old Indicav GraveyacBl 



NAPLES 



SCAL 



Map. iijj;. 1. 

that had been overlooked or thrown aside by the parties who first ex- 
plored it. Accordingly, in February, 1876, in company with Mr. Mer- 
rill, the author visited the spot with the necessary implements for 
making a thorough examination. On a sand ridge, about one mile 
southeast of Naples and about three-quarters of a mile from the river, 



688 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



are five mounds, represented in the accompanying map, Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. 

The river bed is near the center of the space between the bluffs or 
highlands, which are at this place 7 or 8 miles apart. 

The following figure shows the relative position of the bluffs, river 
bottom, river bed, and sand-ridge on which the mounds are located: 



Fig. 2. Section of bluffs, &c., on Illinois River. 

Kos. 2 2 represent the bluffs capped with loess ; 3, the river bed, and 

5 the sand ridge. This ridge is between a fourth of a mile and half a 
mile in width, about 30 feet higher than the level lands on either side, 
and runs a little east of north, parallel with the river. The mounds are 
nearly parallel with the ridge. The oue farthest to the north, j^o. 1 (Fig. 
1), IS a regular oval, 132 feet long, 98 feet wide, and about 10 feet high. 
It was, no doubt, originally much higher, as it has been plowed over 
for years, and the top is composed of sand. Mound No. 2 is the one 
from which the pipes and other relics referred to were taken. Tbis one, 
and Nos. 3 and 4, are covered with a small growth of hickory aud oak 
trees. No. 2 is 86 feet in diameter and about 11 feet high. No. 3 is 90 
feet in diameter and 11 feet 4 inches high. No. 4 is G6 feet in diameter 
and about 4 feet 8 inches high. No. 5 is 50 feet in diameter aud 3 teet 

6 inches high. Mound No. 3 is comjiosed of very hard ash-colored clay. 
No. 2, from which the pipes were taken, is shown in the following out- 
line cut (Fig. 3), which represents its present condition : 




Fig. 3. Section of mound near Xaples, Ul. 

The inclosed space marked 4 represents the excavation made by 
former explorers. In the present exploration the diameter of the 
mound, 86 feet, was first obtained and then its height, using for this 
latter purpose a spirit-level and po^e, as represented in the cut, placing 
the level on the margin of the excavation at a. Its height i)roving to 
be about 11 feet and the depth of the old excavation about 7 feet, 4 
feet remained in order to reach the original surface. The removal of 
a large amount of forest leaves that had accumulated in the hole re- 
vealed for the first foot or more, soil that had tumbled down from the 
walls of the excavation. Next was encountered a stratum about iS 
inches in thickness, composed of clay, black soil, and sand, in separate 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 689 

patches, indicated by 2 in the above cut. Below this was a layer of 
black soil, in which were found human bones, the head of one femur, 
the head and about 6 inches of the upper end of the other, one of the 
vertebrae, both clavicles, ribs, and other bones, but all very much de- 
cayed. Pieces of the skull were found, but so much decayed that only 
the outline was indicated on the earth. The size of the femur and 
other bones refuted the current tradition in the neighborhood that the 
original excavators found bones of giants in this mound. 'No ashes, 
charcoal, or any other indication of fiie»appeared. There was no altar. 
It seemed to have been simply a burial mound, the body having been 
placed on the ground and covered with a layer of black soil. 

The first explorers found three pipes and two copper axes, of which 
two pipes and one copper ax were secured. The thorough excavation 
before mentioned prevented the determination of the exact position of 
the bones. The occurrence of the bones of only one individual led to the 
conclusion that the mound was erected as a memorial over the remains 
of a single chieftain or hero. 

The relics discovered in mound No. 2 are probably as fine specimens 
of carving as have ever been found anywhere belonging to that ancient 
people, and they are in no way injured by the action of fire. Three 
pipes and two copper axes were found in the mound at a depth of about 
15 feet. The following cut represents one of the pipes, intended to re- 
semble the raccoon {Procyon lotor). 



Fig. 4. Raccoon pipe, from Naples, IlL 

This raccoon pipe is made of very hard stone, and is polished as smooth 
as glass, and every feature of the animal is perfect. The bars on the 
tail, the claws, the position of the fore and hind feet are all correct ; 
even the markings of the face are i^roperly indicated by lines cut in the 
stone. But above all, the artist has caught the very expiession of the 
animal which he was imitating. 

Such artistic skill in the manipulation of the hardest and most in- 
tractable material into beautiful and graceful forms could only be ob- 
tained by long study and patient toil. 
H. Mis. 26 44 



690 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

One of the most remarkable things about this specimen remains to be 
described, for it is not shown in the cut. The native workman, for some 
reason, began drilling the hole for the stem at the rear end of the curved 
base, so that the nose of the animal would he from the smoker, but, by 
accident, the under side of the material chipped out. Too much labor 
had been expended on the specimen to throw it away. He therefore 
made a neat plug of the same material, stopped up the hole with it, 
and then drilled a hole, as is almost invariably the case, in the front end, 
so the animal would face the smoker. The right front corner of the 
curved base is broken oif, the fracture beginning at the stem hole, and, 
it may be, that this other hole was an attempt to repair the pipe after 
it was broken, and that, when the artist chipped out the lower side of 
the hole, he gave up the work and jdugged up the partially drilled hole. 
Whatever may have been his object this neatly fitted plug is another 
proof of the skill of the workman. 

The other pipe taken from the same mound is no less perfect. It rep- 
resents the common hard-shell turtle of the American rivers, as shown 
in Fig. 5 . 




Fig. 5. Tur le pipe, from Jfaples, HI. 

The cut shows but faintly the beauty of this specimen — the nostrils^ 
the head partially drawn back, the consequent fold of skin in the rear 
of the skull, the jiaddle-like feet, the claws, the tail folded around and 
against the body on the underside of the rear of the shell — all are per- 
fect. In one of the eye-holes is a copper bead representing the eye ball, 
the other one being lost. 

Professor Baird pronounces this turtle pipe to be made of catlinite. 
There has been some question whether any articles made of this sub- 
stance have been found in any locality of undoubted antiquity; the 
shape, however, is precisely that of the other mound pipes. There is 
no question as to the antiquity of the specimen, however. 

Judged from the figure on p. 423, of '■'■Flint Chips " of a turtle pipe, 
found in the mounds of Ohio, by Squier and Davis, the Naples specimen 
is far superior to that one in fidelity to nature. The copper ax, Fig. 10 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 691 

a and 6, is 8§ inches long, 3f wide at tlie cutting edge, 2 inches wide 
at the top, and nine-sixteenths of an inch thick. It is made of pure 
copper. On one side the salts of the copper have preserved the cloth 
that lay against it.* The warp and woof, Fig 10 c, are distinctly marked. 
On the other side of the ax are preserved, in the same manner, feathers 
over the whole surface. This feather cloth was extensively manufactured 
by the Eed Indians of two hundred years ago, but is now, like the man- 
ufacture of pottery, to most tribes a lost art. 

For the manufacture of textile fabrics the aborigines used the inner 
bark of the mulberry tree {Morus rubra), cedar {Juniperus Virginiana), 
cypress {Taxodium distichum), red elm (slippery elm) {Ulmusfulva), the 
bass-wood {Tilia Americana), the papaw {Asimina triloba), and the 
outer bark of the Southern cane {Arnndinaria macrosperma). The 
Southern Indians used the silk plant {Apocynum canabinum), while the 
California Indians manufactured their textile fabrics of J. ^/are^mm- 
eana. The natives of North America also wove the hair of the buffalo, 
the wolf, the dog, the brown lynx, and Virginia opossum (Didelphys 
Virginianus). 

It is difficult to determine whether the threads on this ax are of bark 
or wool, though they seem to be the latter. In the Mitchell mound, in 
Madison County, Illinois, specimens of cloth were found of both ma- 
terials, while the size of the mound, copper implements, and contents 
generally, indicated that it was of great antiquity.t In no one of the 
Instances, except in the Mitchell mound, is there any trace of feather 
cloth. The reverse side of this copper ax is covered with the imprint 
of feathers. The body, no doubt, was wrapped in a bark mantle, one 
side of which was covered with feathers in the style in which the In- 
dians of the Mississippi Valley manufactured feather cloth. 

Out of hundreds of references on the subject the following are selected 
as probably throwing some light on the manner in which the tenant of 
this mound was clothed for his final rest. 

Jones' Southern Indians, pp. 84, 85; Hayward-s Tennessee, vol. 11, p. 
163; Archceologia Americana, vol. 1, p. 303; Bradford's Amer. Antiqui- 
ties, p. 30. 

Other mound pipes have been found in the vicinity of Naples, and 
among the number that shown in Fig. G. 

Of this pipe Dr. Charles Eau says : " It is certainly the finest 
mound pipe thus far known. I have handled a hundred times the mound 
pipes of the Squier and Davis collection (now in the Blackmore Museum, 
Salisbury, England), but none of them equaled the specimen in ques- 
tion. Not having been exposed to the action of fire like the Ohio pipes, 
it has suffered no damage whatever, and is as perfect as on the day 

*" )ieG 3 ones? Southern Indiana, p. 225; S. S. Lyon, Smithson. Rep., 1870, p. 399; Foster, 
Prtkistoric Races, p. 223. 

tUpoQ thie point consult Flint Chips, p. 420; Ijapham'B Aniiquitiea of Wisconsin, p. 47. 



692 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



when it was made." Certainly a relic so highly spoken of by such com- 
petent authority justifies all the information relative to it which could 
be obtained. 





1 

2 

Fig. 6. Eaglo pipe, from Naples, 111. 

On the right bank of the Illinois Eiver, about 300 yards below Griggs- 
ville Landing, rises a lofty bluff fully 300 feet above the level of the 
river. On the summit is a beautiful, oval mound, 150 feet long, 92 feet 
wide in the middle, and 25 or 30 feet high. The following outline. Fig. 
7, will give an idea of its appearance. 




Largo oval mound, near Naples, Til. 



Daniel Burns, John W. Windsor, and others, about forty years ago, 
were engaged in digging a grave on this mound, when the spade turned 
out a stone bowl about 6 inches in diameter across the top and about 
4 inches deep. Deposited in the bowl was found the eaglo pipe, another 
bird pipe, a frog pipe, and a copper gouge about 6 inches in length. 
This locality has afforded many valuable relics of prehistoric man, and 
it is a matter of regret that they did not fall into the hands of persons 
who knew or appreciated their scientific value. 

Just south of the large mound above described, on the next point, are 
five circular mounds about 30 feet in diameter and 10 or 12 feet high. 
Indeed, within a radius of 5 miles from Naples there are at least fifty 
mounds, very few of which haA^e ever been opened. 

After the foregoiu g description of these mounds and the articles found in 
them was written, the Smithsonian Institution, in December, 1879, began 
a through exploration of them. On the 10th of December, Mr. Merrill and 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTUROPOLOGY. 



693 



the writer, with six laborers began worli on mound ISio. 3 of the plat. In 
1876, we had started a trench on the northeast side of the mound, about 2 
feet wide, intending to carry it to the center, but the hardness of the mate- 
rial and wantof time compelled us to desist. A part of our men were put to 
work in this trench, and the others began to sink a shaft about 8 feet square 
in the center of the mound. The earth was so hard that it was impossible 
to use a spade orshovel except forthrowingit out after loosening with the 
pick. When within about 18 inches of the original surface a whitish 
substance was encountered resembling ashes. This substance was in a 
layer several inches thick, about 2 feet wide, and 10 or 12 feet in length 
north and south. The workmen in the center of the excavation reached 
the red sand of the original surface and then began carefully to enlarge 
the hole to the size of our shaft. Shortly, upon the west side, the pick 
struck the elbow of a skeleton. The arm, slightly bent, was resting in 
a natural position by the side. Carefully removing the earth the whole 
length of the skeleton, we found that the bones were those of an aged 
man about 5 feet 8 inches in height. The body had been placed at full 
length on a small elevation of sand, the head a little to the west of south, 




Fig. 8. Diagram of monnd No. 3, near Kaples, JU. , 

a, male skeleton, ft, female, c, two large, dark, chert nodules, rf, circular plate with hand engraved 
on it. e, piece of galena. /, circular plate of mica, jr, arrow-points and knives, /i, copper ax. i, skele- 
ton of woman i?). j, skeletons. 

both arms in a natural position, resting by his side. The bones were 
greatly decayed. The skull had been mashed flat and broken into a 
great many pieces by the weight of the earth above, so that several 
were lost. The porous ends of the leg bones were completely decayed 
so that they crumbled to dust on exposure to the air. The processes for 



694 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

tlie attachment of ligaments indicate a man of great strength, while the 
tibias do not show any of the unusual flattening described by Mr. Henry 
Gillman, but are of the usual form, and the lower part of the humerus 
was not perforated in the manner described by the same author. The 
skull, from its great thickness, was capable of being restored by gluing 
the edges of the fragments together. This skull is represented in Fig. 24, 
a side view, h back ; the top, in a. Fig. 2G. Near this skeleton was another, 
lying in the same position as the first. The two bodies were placed side 
by side, and the latter, judging from thedelicacy of the bones and teeth 
and the thinness of the skull, was that of a woman. In the preceding 
cut (Fig. 8) a and h represent the position of these skeletons. From 
the appearance of the teeth the woman was in the prime of life. Both 
of the bodies were buried in the mound with the flesh upon the bones, as 
every bone was found in its proper position. Near the feet of the male 
skeleton, at the point marked c in the cut, were found two large nodules 
of dark chert resembling the true flint of Europe. One of these was 
but slightly chipped, while the other had been split in two near th© 
middle, and but one half deposited in the mound. This half nodule was 
lying face downward, and resting upon it and the ground was a remark- 
able specimen, which maybe designated a "sun-symbol." It is a whit« 
stone, perfectly round, 12y^2 inches in diameter, about one-half inch thick 




4 

' Sun-synibol," from mound near Naples, ni. 



in the middle, and 1 inch upon the edges, slightly concave upon one side, 
and having upon the other a figure of a human hand. An idea of its 
appearance will be obtained from Fig. 9. 

The outlines of the hand are cut into the stone between an eighth and 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



695 



a sixteenth of an inch in depth, and then the inclosed space was cut down, 
or Tabbed down, to about half the depth of the outlines. In this man- 
ner the hand was shown very distinctly. The edge at the thumb 
was resting on the ground, and at the little finger on the top of the 
cbert nodule ; thus the hand faced the east, the fingers pointing to- 
ward the south. The mass of suijerincumbeut earth had broken this 
disk into several pieces, as there was when buried nothing under the 
middle to support it. To the left of this specimen and the nodules of 
chert were found a piece of galena weighing about 7^ pounds, and a cir- 
cular piece of mica about 14 or 15 inches in diameter and about one- 
half inch thick. 

Still further to the left, at the points marked g and h in the cut, were 
found two copper axes (Fig. 10, ah, d-e), one weighing 7^ i)ounds and 
measuring lOi inches in length and 4^^^ in width at the cutting edge. 
Fig. 10, c, shows the texture of matting found around the copper axes. 




d e 

Tig. 10. Copper axes and matting, from moiiud near Naples, Ul. 

With this ax were found four very fine arrow-heads (Fig. 12) ; two 
knives (Fig. 11 and Fig. 13, b) ; a finely worked spear-head (Fig. 13, a) ; 
and a very fine chipped ceremonial ornament (Fig. 14, a). The latter 
consists of a dark piece of cbert, with two wings upon each side. The 
base and point are a modified form of the arrow-point. 

There was also found a regular mound pipe made of a soft, white stone, 
very much decayed (Fig. 14 h.) The articles that were buried with 
these two persons are all represented in Figs. 11, 12, 13, and 14. A 
little southeast of the heads of these skeletons, at a distance of about 
8 or 10 feet, at the point marked i, in Fig. 8, was found another skele- 
ton in a sitting posture. Judging from the character of the bones and 



696 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



skull, this was probably a woman. Those boues which extended upward 
into the hard dirt are in an excellent state of preservation. 








Fig. 11. Chipped knife, from 
luound utar Naples, 111. 



Fig. 12. Arrow-heads, from 
mound near Naples, 111. 






k k i 

ah c 

Fig. 13. Spear-head and knive.s, from mound near Naples, 111. 

Those in contact with the sand were much decayed. The skull was 
broken to pieces ; yet with patience it was restored. The bones, both of the 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



G97 



skull and other parts of the skeleton, are clean and white — even the 
spongy ends of the femora and other bones being perfect. 

Resting against the skull of this skeleton, with the ijoint downwards, 
was found a fine wrought bone awl (Fig 15, a). Unfortunately the point 
was broken off, and it was probably deposited in the mound in the con- 
dition in which it was found. The portion recovered was probably 
placed in the hand of the person at the time of burial. This awl, together 
with five or six others of somewhat similar character found in the same 





a h, full size. 

Fig. 14. Pipe and flaked ornament, from mound near Xaples, 111. 

mound, were all made of the metatarsal bones of the elk {^ervus cana- 
densis). The one marked a in Fig 15, is 9^^^ inches long, and was, when 




6. Head of same ; full size. 
Fig. 15. Bone awl, from mound near JJaples Ul. 



perfect, about 10 inches long. The metatarsal bone was split down 
through the center and the implement made of one of the halves. It is 




Fig. 16. Bone awl, from mound near Xaples, 111. 



finely polished and is so well preserved that, with the point restored, it 

would be as useful an implement as it was the day it was manufactured. 

Around the circumference of the lower end are cut twenty-six notches. 

The part of the bone selected for these implements and the method of 



698 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



their manufacture are shown in Fig. 17, which represents the end of 

the metatarsal bone of the elk 
found in mound No. 6. A wedge 
was driven into the opening at the 
end, and the bone split in two along 
the middle line, each half afterward 
being converted into an implement 
by scraping and rubbing. Ten or 

Fig. 17. Bone of elk, from monnd near Naples, ni. twelvCOfthcSe large bOUC awls WCre 

found in mound No. 1, sticking in the sand around a single skeleton. 
One of these is painted red and retains its brilliant color. 

A small bone awl, represented in the following cut, half size, was found 
in mound No. 15. 




2 

Fig. 18. Bone awl, from mound near Nai)le8, 111. 

Lying at right angles to the two skeletons already described in mound 
No. 3 were six or eight others, all with their feet to the west, except one, 
which was at least 15 inches below the surface sand, stretched out at 
full length, with the head to the northwest and feet to the southeast. 
No object of any kind was found with these skeletons. The bones were 
greatly decayed, and the skulls so far gone as to reuder the fragments 
almost worthless for any scientific purposes. The posterior portions had 
been much distorted, probably by the pressure of the earth. The frag- 
mentary frontal of one bone is remarkable fortheheavy superciliary ridges 
and retreating forehead, while another has the bone of the nose almost 
perfect, showing the feature to have been very prominent. The latter 
specimen is very similar in this particular to Fig. 65 in Foster's "Prehis- 
toric Eaces." The comi)arison of the Dunleith mound skull with the 
Neanderthal skull in that figure seems to be very unfair to the former. 
By elevating the posterior portion of the fragment until the skull as- 
sumes a normal position, the difference between it and the Neanderthal 
specimen will be found to be very great. 

No animal bones or fragments of them were found, and no evidence 
of any funeral feast or any funeral ceremony in which fire was used. 

Mound No. 4 was opened by sinking a shaft about 8 feet 
square in the center several feet below the original surface. 
Nothing was found but a few fragmentary human bones 
greatly decayed and one fine, white chert arrow-point, rep. 
resented in the following figure (half size) : 

Mound No. 5 was opened but nothing found. The earth/ , 
in mound No. 4 was of the same character as that in No. 3.^ 

The oval mound. No. 1, was explored in April, 1881 by 
beginning a trench at the north end and carrying it to the 
original surface and through to the south end. Lateral Fig. i9. chert ar- 
trenches were opened at intervals, and from these and the mound near Na- 
maiu one a complete exploration was made by tunneling. ^ ''^' 




PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



690 



Near the center of the mound a single skeleton was found in a sitting 
position, and no objects were about it except a single seashell resting in 
the earth just over the head, and a number of the bone awls already de- 
scribed sticking in the sand around the skeleton. The individual had 
been seated upon the sand, these awls stuck around him in a circle, 4 or 
5 inches in the sand, and the work of carrying dirt began. When the 
mound had been elevated about 6 inches above the head, the shell was 
laid on and the work continued. Although the many perfect bone imple- 
ments found in this mound fully repaid the expense and labor of ex- 
ploration, some disappointment was felt, since, from the size and beauty 
of outline of the mound, we expected some fine discoveries in the way 
of pipes, copper axes, &c. This mound was raised to about the height 
of 6 feet with hard clay, and then finished with sand. The skeleton was 
about 10 feet below the surface. The shell, a fine specimen of Fyrula 
perversa with the inner whorls removed, so as to be used for a drink- 
ing cup, is represented in the following figure : 




Fig. 20. Pyrula drinking-cup. from mound near Xaples, lU. 

Mound jSTo. G, upon the river bank, is the finest in the vicinity. It 
is a truncated cone, about 13C feet in diameter at the base, 15 feet high, 
and 30 feet across the top. It is perfectly symmetrical, and from the 
success in the mounds upon the high ground great hopes were enter- 
tained of this, though the anticipations were not realized, yet what 
was found and the information we obtained fully paid the expense of 
opening the mound. The character of the earth was the same as that 
found in mound No. 3, but still much harder. More than once the 
workmen had to take their steel picks to the blacksmith shop and have 
them dressed. It was impossible to use the spade or shovel until the 
original surface was struck. These mounds were intended as euduring 
monuments to the dead, and for that reason were not built of the sur- 
face loam, or saud, which would soon be destroyed by washing, but of 
clay, and no doubt a part of the workmen engaged in their erection 
were employed in carrying water and pouring it on the mound as the 
work progressed. This, with the constant tramping, would account for 
the hardness of the material. At a depth of 7 or 8 feet, bits of rude pot- 



700 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY 

tery were encountered now and then all the way down to the base of 
the mound. Kone were found of sufiQcient size to indicate the form of 
the vessels, but, as they undoubtedly were made by the people who 
built this mound, they were carefully preserved. The material and ap- 
pearance of these specimens are precisely those of specimens found in 
an old aboriginal cemetery on the bank of the river nearly opposite 
the mouth of McGee's Creek. (See plat. Fig. 1.) The outer edge of 
one pot was ornamented with slight notches made by pressing a stick 
or some other object into the soft clay. Judging from the fragment 
there was no other ornamentation on this vessel. Upon the inside, 
about three-fourths of an inch from the top, at intervals of about 1 
inch, holes were made nearly through the vessel, not far enough, how- 
ever, to cause any elevation of the corresponding portion upon the outer 
surface, as is the case in another fragment from this mound. The latter 
is ornamented with an oblong imprint similar to those in Fig. 22, o. 
Another piece from this mound shows a part of some figure traced upon 
the surface, but the fragment is too small to determine what it was. 
When near the base of this mound the men encountered a skeleton ex- 
tended at full length with the head to the southeast. The bones were 
so greatly decayed that not even the fragments could be removed. 

No moisture having ever penetrated to the base of this mound since 
its erection, the condition of these bones, as compared with those from 
mound No. 3, was looked upon as an indication of the greater age of the 
former. Even the molars were so decayed that they could be crushed 
between the finger and thumb. Yet the fallacy of such testimony, so 
often quoted by explorers, was fully demonstrated by finding in the sand 
below the base of this mound a perfect skull. A shaft about 10 feet 
square was sunk to the original surface, but, except the scraps of pot- 
tery and the skeleton referred to, nothing was found. The surface line 
was sharply defined as the mound was made of dark-colored clay, built 
on a plain of red sand. Upon encountering this red sand it was decided] 
to explore the whole base of the mound by tunneling, which was done 
thoroughly by one of my men who was a coal-miner. With a little lamp 
upon his cap, and with short shovel and pick, he went everywhere in the 
sand under the base of the mound, at the same time chipping ofi" from 
a foot to 18 inches of the clay roof over his head. By so doing it was 
found that at intervals of from 6 to 8 feet all over the base of the mound, 
for a space of 30 feet in diameter, there were pockets of ashes in the , 
sand; that is, a hole about 2^ feet wide was scooped out to the depth 
of about 8 inches and filled with ashes. In these ash heaps were] 
found numerous fragments of bone, many of them split in that pecu- 
liar manner practiced by savage man everywhere, for the purpose ofi 
obtaining the marrow. In these ash beds were also found a humerus of] 
the wild turkey and about half of the skull of a skunk. In the sandj 
near one of these ash beds was a human skull almost perfect but quite 
fragile. By the exercise of great care in handling it was washed and] 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



701 



covered with a thin solution of glue. It is figured below, both side and 
back view, also from above. Figs. 24, e and/, and 26, e. There was also 
found a perfect awl or piercing instrument (Fig. 15, &), made of the left 
half of the right metatarsal bone of the elk {Cervus Canadensis). A part 
of the larger end crumbled a little after bringing it to the air. It is 12y^2- 
inches long, and would have been an effective weapon to use in close 
combat. From a burial mound in Tennessee Dr. Jones took a needle, 
as he styles it, or piercing implement measuring 14 inches in length. * 
"It had'' he states ''been fashioned with great care from the tibia of 
the American deer, and was probably used for piercing leather." The 
larger number of the fragments of bone found in this Naples mound 
were those of the deer. 

Mound No. 7 is within 60 feet of No. 6, on the west. It is now of 
an oblong shape, being longest from north to south, but this is due to 
the fact that the western half of it has been removed by the washing of 
the river. This mound was opened in one place to the original surface 
but nothing was found at the time, except fragments of bones split in 
the same manner as those in mound No. 6. Among these were fragments 
of the humerus, tibia, radius, ribs, and vertebra of the deer {Cervus vir- 
(jlinianus. The humerus and femur of the wild turkey were found intact, 
also two femora of the beaver, the ulna of a large bird not identified, 




X 

z 

Fig. 21. Earthen pot, from mound near Naples, lU. 

and the ulna of a small feline probably the skunk. All these fragments 
were found mixed with ashes and pieces of charcoal, indicating plainly 
that they are the remains of a feast. No fragmentary bones were met 
with, and nothing to indicate cannibalism. Of the other mounds of this 
vicinity only one was explored. This was No. 15, which is about 60 
feet in diameter and 6 feet high. A shaft about 8 feet square was sunk 



(* Explorations of the Aboriginal Eeinains oj T&nnessee. By Joseph Jones (Smithsonian 
Contributions io Knowledge, vol. XXII, p. 61.) 



702 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY, 



to the original level, developing the fact that it was a burial mound. 
The bones were so greatly (k-cayedas to render it impossible to preserve 
even anj' fragments of the skulls. Large numbers of fragments of 
pottery were found, but no whole vessels. The material and many 
of the markings resemble those of specimens, already referred to, from 
the old cemetery on the margin of the river, distant about 300 yards. 
Judged from the fragments, the majority of the vessels would hold 
about 2.J gallons each. One, however, was not much larger than the half 
of a cocoauut-shell and of about the same shape. Fig. 21. 






i'lG. 22. Poltciy fragments from niotjnd near Naples, 111. 

It is of a dark color, about one-quarter of an inch thick, symmetrically 
made, and ornamented with lines about the sixteenth of an inch in depth, 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 703 

arranged as to form small lozenges about half an inch in length. The 
spaces so ornamented are four iu number, large at the top and tapering 
to a point at the bottom, ending near the pointed end of the cup. The 
smooth intervening spaces form a four-i)ointed star, folded over the bot- 
tom of the cup, as shown in the cut. The preceding figure represents 
fragments of pottery from mound iTo. 15. The pieces a and c are each 
ornamented with figures stamped into the soft clay. One fragment from 
mound No. 6 was ornamented with a similar figure; also several frag- 
ments from the ancient cemetery above alluded to. 

It is diflBcult to determine what was used to make this impression, 
but it must have been something of vegetable growth, serving as a 
natural stamp. From the character of the imprints on the fragment 
from mound No. 6, it seems that the stamp was someAvhat pliable, as 
some of the figures seem distorted. The pottery must have been de- 
signedly broken and deposited in mound No. 15, as no whole vessels 
were found and not enough fragments of any one to restore it. From 
a careful examination of fragments from the mounds, as well as those 
from the ancient burial-place, it has been possible to determine the size 
and form of many of them. The most usual size held from 2^ to 3 gal- 
lons, and was shaped as in the accompanying cut, restored from frag- 
ments found in mound 15. 




\ 



\ 



4 
Fifl. 2S. Pottery, from mound near Naples, IU. 



Fragments from mound No. G measure at the rim, one 9 inches and 
another about 6, while those from mound 15 give the following : 10| 



704 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

inches, 10^, 9J, 8f , and 6^ ; and specimens from the ancient burial-place 
give diameters of 20, 14^, 12, 9^, 8, and 5 inches, respectively. The bead- 
like dots around the margin of Fig. 23 indicate holes launched from the 
inside of the vessel at intervals of about three-fourths of an inch, made 
with the end of a round stick about the size of a lead-pencil. The dots 
upon the outside indicate corresponding elevations made by the point of 
the stick being pushed nearly through. This method of ornamentation 
was found upon specimens in mounds Nos. 6 and 15, in specimens from 
the ancient cemetery, and in fragments found on an old village site, 3 
miles west of Winchester. 

The theory of a uniform typical skull-form for all the nations of the 
New World presented by Dr. Morton in his great work Crania Ameri- 
cana, so ably seconded by Dr. Nott in Types of Mankind indorsed by 
Humboldt, and for a time acquiesced in by American ethnologists, first 
challenged by Professor Eetzius in 1859,* and again by Dr. Daniel Wil- 
son in 1862,t may now be considered to have been completely over- 
thrown. 

It may be safely said that examples of all the various forms which the 
mania for skull classification has distinguished may be found among 
the various tribes of the New World yet living, as well as in crania ex- 
humed froDi the ancient burial-places of extinct tribes. 

Although the material for generalization is yet scanty, the same may 
be affirmed of the mound-builders and stone-grave race. The plan here- 
tofore followed in attempting to establish a typical skull-form both for 
the modern Indian and the mound-builders is wholly unsatisfactory and 
fallacious. Let us assume an experiment exceeding in magnitude any- 
thing yet attempted in that line, for upon the theory adopted, the greater 
the number of skulls examined the more the probability that the typical 
form ascertained is the correct one ; and if we find this experiment open 
to great sources of error which we have no means of eliminating, we 
may safely conclude that the attempts made upon a much smaller scale 
have failed to furnish us any reliable information. Let us take one 
thousand skulls, ten skulls from each of one hundred tribes scattered 
from Hudson's Bay to Patagonia. We tabulate all the various meas- 
urements, longitudinal, parietal, frontal, vertical, &c.,and by this means 
strive to obtain a typical skull. It may be that not five of the whole 
number conform to this type, and it may be that each of these belonged 
to one tribe. In attempting thus to establish a typical skull-form for a 
hundred tribes we assume a fact which does not exist, viz, that there is 
an average uniformity in the skull-forms of the various hundred tribes, 
or, in other words, that the average variation of skull-forms is the same 
in all these tribes. Secondly, we assume that the ten skulls taken rep- 
resent fairly the variations of skull-forms in the particular tribe. This 
may be true or it may not. For example, every skull obtained may, by 

* Smithsonian Beport, 1859, p. 264. 
t Ibid, 1862, p. 240 et seq. 



PAPERS RELATIXG TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 705 

accident, belong- to the brachyceplialic type, while the sknlls of the 
tribe may be equally divided between that form and the dolichocephalic. 
With these facts before us examine any table of measurements yet made 
of American crania and calculate the chances of error. There are not 
in all the public and private collections fifty undoubted mound-builder 
skulls, assuming that the builders of the great mounds and earth-works 
were a diSerent race from the modern Indian. With a view of ascer- 
taining the probable number of such skulls in the country, in January, 
1880, the author mailed a circular letter to a large number of private 
individuals and public institutions, about seventy in all, requesting an- 
swers to two questions : 

1st. How many genuine mound-builder skulls are in your collection? 

2d. How many that are supposed to be mound-builder skulls '? 

In a very large majority of the cases the answer to even the second 
question was " not one!" while the exce[)tion was rare, indeed, where 
persons claimed to be in possession of skulls of the first character. 
The four greatest public collections are the Academy of Science, Phila- 
delphia; the Smithsoriian Institution, at Washmgton', the Peahody Insti- 
tute, Cambridge ; and the Davenport Academy of Science, in Iowa. 
In these public collections are many labeled mound-skulls, simply 
from the fact that they came from the base of a mound, without any 
reference to its size or other articles taken from it. In estimating 
the number of undoubted mound-skulls, those of this character are ex- 
cluded. Assuming a difference in the race who built the great mounds 
and earth-works of the Mississippi Valley and the modern Indian, a 
skull taken from a mound of this character may belong to the one or 
the other. Applying the test suggested in the circular above alluded 
to, which is the best the nature of the subject will admit of, that is, " to 
only class as genuine those that are found in connection with other ob- 
jects that Unquestionably belonged to the mound- builders," the number 
of genuine mound-builder skulls is reduced by two thirds.* 

Dr. Foster fell into a grave error when he classed as " authentic skulls 
of the mound-builders" those obtained from low mounds on the banks 
of the Des Plaines Eiver, of Illinois. These mounds were elevated only 
about "2J feet above the surrounding plain," and no objects were found 
in the mounds which are looked upon as peculiar to the mound-builders. 
Yet he classes these skulls as genuine mound-builder remains, figures 
^ome of them in his work ; and in the winter of 1869-1870 presented to 



* Dr. J. F. Snyder, a peiitlcmfin who has devoted a great deal of tliouj^lit to tins 
subject, suggests that " this test appears very unsatisfactory, for the difficulty of dis- 
tinguishing 'objects that unquestionably belonged to the so-called mound-builders' 
is necessarily as great as to distinguish their crania." The force of this criticism is 
admitted ; yet if we find a skull at the base of a great mound, and with it copper 
axes, pipes with the peculiar curved base, and such articles as were found by Squier 
and Davis in the mounds of Ohio, we may safely assume that the mound was built by 
the same race that erected those of similar character in which similar articles were 
found, 

H. Mis. 20 45 



706 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

the Chicago Academy of Sciences " the generalization as to the former 
existence on this continent of an anomalous race, characterized by a 
remarkably depressed forehead." * 

Judge Force suggests that " Dr. Foster's argument is very good, 
but he failed in the first step ; he failed to get crania of the mound- 
builders." t 

Dr. E. H. Davis remarked before the American Ethnological Society 
in 1859, that " in more than one hundred mounds opened by Mr. Squier 
and himself, they had found only one or two skulls in good preserva- 
tion." $ 

The assumption of the existence of a typical mound-skull implies that 
there was one homogeneous race, or tribe, that built all the great mounds 
and earth- works everywhere in the Mississippi Valley, or that the mounds 
were the work of various tribes, and that the typical skull of each separates 
tribe was the typical skull of every other tribe. The first hypothesis is 
wholly untenable. The variation in form of these earth-works would 
indicate that they are the work of different peoples. The peculiar char- 
acteristic of the Ohio works is the great squares and circles nowhere 
else found of such magnitude or in such numbers ; while that of Wis- 
consin is in the wonderful animal eflBgics, spread out like picture-writing 
upon a grand scale on the prairies and in the central and southern x>or- 
tions of the vast valley. These works culminated in great teocalU, such 
as the great mound at Cahokia and that of Seltzertown, in Mississippi. 
I know that it has generally been accepted without much investigation 
that the center of this widespread race was in Ohio, and that the wonder- 
ful animal mounds of Wisconsin were the work of the same people, built 
probably as a pastime as they went to and returned from the copper 
mines on Lake Superior. This is wholly unwarranted by the facts. 
Mound-building upon the scale of these great earth-works, anywhere 
in the Mississippi Valley, was a slow and laborious process. The exten- 
sive earth- works of Ohio were erected by a people who lived on them 
and about them. The same may be said of the animal mounds of Wis- 
consin. The erection of such magnificent works of art, considering the 
stage of the civilization of the workmen, far beyond the borders of their 
territory, where they would never be seen by members of their own 
tribe, except by those engaged in commerce or on the war-path, is in- 
credible. The great burial mounds on the banks of the Illinois and 
other tributaries of the Mississippi contain the bones of those who lived 
in the vicinity, and the wonderful teocalli in the center and south were 
erected in the midst of the homes of their builders. The fact that the 
mounds of Ohio were first explored, and the result of that exploration 
given to the world in a magnificent volume by the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, is one of the reasons why that locality has been frequently spoken 

* Prehistoric Races, pp. 275, 282. 

\ Indians of Ohio, &c.,p. 64. 

t Hisl. Magazine, vol. Ill, p. 264. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



707 



of as the great center of the population of tlie mound-builders. The 
fact is, it was a great center of an ancient population. Wisconsin was 
another great center of another population, while Southern Missouri was 
still another great center of a different population, judging them by the 
character of the mounds and the works of art found in them. Tennessee 
may be considered as another center of a distinct population; and we 
have no reason to believe that one of these was more densely populated 
than another. 

Having shown that belief in the existence of one uniform, homoge- 
neous race with a common skull-form, all over the Mississippi Yalley, is 









Fig. 24. Mound-builders' skulls, from mound near Naples, 111. 

wholly untenable, in order to warrant us in still looking for the typical 
mound skull we must assume either absolute uniformity of forms be- 
longing to each tribe, or uniformity in variation, and that, from one or 
the other of these causes, the typical skull of one tribe was the typical 
form of every other. The first of these latter hypotheses, absolute uni- 
formity of skull-form, has never been found existing in a single tribe, 
and it would be a miracle to find^ not only uniformity in a single tribe 



708 



PAPEES RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



of these ancient mound people, but that the same uniformity extended 
through all the various tribes. Compelled to abandon the idea of a sin- 
gle widespread people for whom we can assign a typical skull, and com- 
pelled to relinquish the idea of absolute uniformity of skull-forms in 
numerous tribes, we are driven to the only remaining hypothesis — that 
of uniformity in variation in the various tribes 5 and I think it can easily 






e f 

Fig. 25. Crania from monnds near l^Taples, HI. 

be shown that the probabilities of the existence of such fact are very 
slender. 

Lieut. W. H. Dall* has perfectly expressed my ideas in regard to vari- 
ability of skull-forms, and the difficulties in attempting to establish 
typical forms. 

This "factor of individual variation" is strikingly illustrated by 
the two skulls taken from mound No. 3, at Naples, the one a very 
brachycephalic and the other a dolichocephalic skull, undoubtedly of 



* On succession in shell-heaps of the Aleutian Islands, in Contributions to North American 
I^thnology, vol. 1, pp. 70, 71. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



709 



the same people who built the mounds, as there is not a possibility that 
either could have been an intrusive burial. These skulls are shown in 
Fig. 24, a and c side views, and h and d back views ; and in Fig. 26, a 
and c top views. 

The vast dilBference between these two skulls can only be understood 
by an examination of them, and no better illustration could be found of 
the futility of attempting to establish a typical form for the mound- 
builders. 

In figure 25, a is the skull of a modern Indian buried just below the 
surface in a mound in the town of Meredosia, 5 miles from Naples, and 








B f 

Fig. 26. Mound crania, from mounds near Naples, HI. 

is only figured here for comparison with the others. It is a short, wide 
skull, and admirably corresponds with the ideal Indian skidl of Dr. 



710 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Morton, c is a remarkably distorted skull from a low mound on the 
bluffs 3 miles west of Winchester. The cut accurately indicates the 
side view, but the distortion sideways cannot be shown by a figure. 
The top of this remarkable specimen is shown in Fig. 26, d. 

It is not pretended that this skull belonged to the same people who 
built the Naples mounds. Indeed from the decayed condition of the 
IS'aples specimens, protected as they were from moisture, we may safely 
say that a skull buried at the same time only 3 feet below the surface 
would have completely disappeared. Any one who has ever made and 
tabulated the usual measurements of half a dozen skulls must have been 
conscious of the fact that these measurements are as inadequate as 
wood-cuts to indicate differences in forms instantly recognized by the eye. 
For example, exactly the same parietal diameter may exist in a skull 
perfectly symmetrical as in one greatly distorted ; or agaiu, exactly the 
same occipitofrontal circumference may exist in a low, dolichocephalic 
skull and a brachycephalic one with elevated vertex, or the horizontal 
circumference be identical in a round head and a long one. I have 
figured three undoubted mound skulls and three more modern ones, and 
below furnish a table of the most usual measurements, with but little 
expectation that those who read this article will get any clear idea of 
the vast difference in some of these skulls, differences which can only 
be appreciated by examination of the skulls themselves. 

To show the great difference in a side view of two skulls, taken from 
the same mound, the outlines of both are given in the same cut. Fig. 27. 

The dotted line represents the skull 
marked No. 2, and the other outline, skull 
No. 1, both from mound No. 3. For the 
purjiose of still further elucidating the var- 
iations in these forms, the following table 
of measurements of three of the Naples 
mound skulls and one skull of a modern In- 
dian is appended, the latter taken by me 
FIG. 27. Outlines of mound crania, ^om near the the surface of a mound in 
the town of Meredosia 6 miles north of Naples. 






L. D. 


P. D. 


V. D. 


F. D. I.M.A. I.M.L. 


O.F.A. 


H.C. 




6.88 
6.68 
6.05 
7.008 


5.58 
5.05 
5.25 
5.05 


5.25 
5.16 
5.16 
5.41 


4.75 
4.75 
4.75 
5 


i 
14.25 i 5.16 


13.08 
13.16 
13.66 
14. 008 


20.25 


Mound-builder (mound No. 6) 

Mound-builder (mound No. 3) 

Mound-builder (mound No. 3) 


13.66 
14.16 
14.16 


5.16 
5.41 
5.008 


10.75 
19.66 
20.58 



Many writers have spoken of the soundness of teeth of the mound- 
builders. Dr. T. S. Sozinsky* says: " The dental profession was un- 
known to the mound-builders, and they had no need for it ; for toothache 
and all such diseases were troubles with which they were but very little 



* "The teeth of the Monnd-Builders." Dental Cosmos, vol. 20, p. 496, 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 711 

acquainted." Dr. Farquliarson * meutious the invariable soundness of 
teeth, in the remains found in the Davenport mounds. The fallacy of 
drawing general conclusions from insufficient data is well proven by 
such statements. A few mounds were opened in the vicinity of Kansas 
City, and all the teeth found were sound, and the general statement is 
at once made that diseased teeth were unknown to the mound-builders. 
Dr. J. J. E. Patrick, of Belleville, 111., who has had a fine opportu- 
nity for observation, says : '^ It is the exception to find a sound set of 
teeth. - - - The marks of alveolar abscess are common ; loss of 
molars and bicuspids are fiequent, with complete absorption of the sock- 
ets." t The writer's observations, which have been limited, accord ex- 
actly with those of Dr. Patrick. The lower jaw belonging to skull No. 
2, from mound No. 3, shows an alveolar abscess under the second molar 
upon the left side, and loss of all the molars upon the right, with com- 
plete absorption of ihe alveolar processes. The second molar upon the 
left was diseased, a cavity extending entirely through the crown. In 
this specimen there was no complete loss of teeth before death, but the 
second and third molars upon the right side are badly decayed, and while 
Dr. Sozinsky's statement, that ",the dental profession was unknown to 
the mound-builders," probably was quite correct, yet the owner of these 
teeth could vouch for the fact that at least one of their number knew 
what it was to have the toothache. The teeth of all the specimens found 
are worn quite flat upon the crowns, and this remark apjjlies to the cus- 
l)ids and bicuspids of all the specimens found except one. Dr. Patrick, 
in the paper above quoted from, says he has but " two skulls in which 
the front teeth lap over each other ; in all the other cases the masticat- 
ing surface of the upper jaw fits perfectly that of the lower, and so with 
all the teeth that are not missing. The incisor teeth do not lap, but Im- 
liinge on each other at their cutting edges like the molars, and are worn 
quite flat, so that when we look along the surface of mastication we i^er- 
ceive that it is almost a perfect plane." This is an exact description of 
nearly every specimen from these Naples mounds, there being but a sin- 
gle one (No. 154) in which the incisor teeth are chisel-shaped like those 
of our own race. This form of the front teeth is not peculiar to the 
mound-builders, but is characteristic of savage races generally. The 
disuse of the front teeth for the purpose of severing mouthfuls of food 
from the mass, consequent upon the use of the knife and fork, together 
with change of food, has materially modified the process of mastication 
and the form of the teeth. J 
From the authorities cited it will be found that the ancient Peruvians 

* Smithsonian Report, 1874, j). 363, 

\ Dental Fallacies, a paper read before the Missouri Dental Association by Dr. John 
J. R. Patrick, pp. 8, 9. 

t Upon the teeth of savage races, see D'Orbigny ; V Homme Am^ricain, voL 1, p. 128 ; 
Flint Chips, p. G2, note; Morlot, iu Smithsonian Eeport, 1860, pp. 312, 313; Indige- 
nous E aces, -p. 297; hnhhock's Prehistoric Times, p. 538; Bancroft's yative Eaces, \ol 1, 
pp. 25, 46, 163; Wilson's Prehistoric Man, 2{i ed., pp. 454, 455. 



712 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

and Egyptians, the primitive men of Denmark and Great Britain were, 
and that modern savage races still are, characterized by this peculiar 
form of the front teeth, and from these facts in advance we might have 
foretold the form of those of the mound-builders. 

Having fully described these mounds and their contents, so far as ex- 
plored, it only remains to offer some general conclusions as to the char- 
acter and habits of the people who built them. There is no evidence 
that the mounds numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 were built by the same peo- 
ple who erected Nos. G and 7 ; for, except the finding of bone awls simi- 
lar in form, made from the metatarsal of the elk, there was nothing 
common to the two groui)s. It is true that Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the first 
group, No. 6, and probably 7, of the second, were all burial mounds, 
yet the funeral ceremonies, as indicated by Nos. 3 and G, were wholly 
different. It is clear that one distinguished man of the tribe was buried 
in mound No. 3, and that the other persons, twelve or thirteen in num- 
ber, were sacrificed to go with him to the land of souls. In a circle 
around his feet were i)laced the most valuable of his possessions, under 
the belief they would be of use to him ; beside him was placed his wife; 
near him in a sitting posture his sister or some other near female rela- 
tive, and at his head half a score of his most trusty attendants. Even 
the laborers assisting in the exploration seemed to understand that this 
man was the one important personage over whom this monument was 
erected. There were no broken or split animal bones, no charcoal, and 
nothing else to indicate a funeral feast. With the exception of the single 
bone awl, no object was found near any of the skeletons, except at the 
feet of the one named ; and the skeleton of this one, and that of her al- 
luded to as his wife, were deposited on a little hillock of sand, while those 
at their heads were apparently laid on and against its sloping sides. The. 
bones and skull indicated a man of great age, which is confirmed by the 
character of the teeth, several of them being badly decayed, and in one 
pla<;e the alveolar processes completely absorbed. Again, the burial of 
the remarkable stone disk with the human hand inscribed upon it, an 
object requiring long and patient labor in its manufacture, also points 
to the importance of this personage. 

As before remarked, the funeral rites practiced by the people who 
built mounds Nos. 3 and G seem to have been wholly different. In the 
latter case there is evidence of a great funeral feast ujwn the flesh of 
the deer, the elk, the wild-turkey, the skunk.* 

In the use of fire and the careful deposit of the ashes in little pockets 
scooped out of the sand, there is no evidence that any of these Naples 
mound-builders were " an agricultural people." The weapons deposited 
with their dead are those used in war and the chase, and are very 

*Laws<>n {Description of N. Carolina, p. 197) says of the skunk: " The Indians love 
to eat their flesh, which has no manner of ill smell when the bladder is out." Mr. 
Comft>Tt{SmithfiO)iia)i Report 1871, ]>. 394) .suggests relative to the skull of a skunk found 
in a mound by him, that it probably was attached to a medicine bag. 



PAPERS RELATING TO AKTHROPOLOGY. 713 

similar to those used by savage races everywhere. The fiucling of 
copper axes (Fig. 10), too, indicates no great advancement toward civ- 
ilization, for there are more instances on record of articles of this metal 
found in the hands of the Indians than in the mounds. The fact is, 
but little copper has ever been found in the mounds, and it is absurd to 
contend that the few specimens met with show^ that the builders of the 
mouncis habitually used copper implements and were the authors of all 
the prehistoric mining upon Lake Superior. A writer recently remarked 
in the Virginia Gazette, that "the mounds and old grave-yards and camp 
ing grounds of the prehistoric races of our country have been pretty 
well ransacked, and so far all the copper relics found in the United 
States put together would not weigh half a ton." Dr. Charles Eau, the 
best authority in matters relating to American archieology, in an admira- 
ble paper upon Ancient Aboriginal Trade in North America,* says : "The 
use of copper was comparatively limited, and cannot have exerted any 
marked influence on tbe material development of the natives." ISTeither 
does the fact that some textile fabric was manufactured by these people, 
as shown by the specimen adhering to the copper ax found in mound 
No. 2, indicate any advance beyond the aborigines of tbe New World 
at the date of the discovery. In a paper on The Textile Fabrics of the 
Ancient Inhabitants of the 3Iississip2n Valley, read before the American 
Association at Boston last year, the author showed conclusively from 
historical sources that textile fabrics of some character were manufact- 
ured by the aborigines from the lakes to the Gulf at the period of first 
contact with civihzed man, and that many of these fabrics (Fig. 10, c), 
especially those made by the village Indians of the Lower Mississippi, 
surpassed in quality any specimens yet taken from the mounds. 

Fragments of bone, teeth, and horn from the mounds, the faithful 
representation of animals left us in the pipes of the mound-builders, and 
the immense animal mounds have enabled us partially to reconstruct 
the fauna of the period of the builders of the mounds. A careful exami- 
nation of recorded facts enables us to present the following list : 

Mastodon.{%) — Shown in sculptured pipes from Davenport mounds, 
and upon a tablet from a mound in same vicinity.^ Represented in 
immense bas-relief u])on prairies of Wisconsin. A tooth was found in 
stratum overlapping a mound in Missouri.^ 

Buffalo. — Professor Sbaler^ says that the buffalo was not here in the 
time of the mound-builders, but the spinous processes of tbis animal 
have been found in a mound in Dakota.* It is represented in the 
animal mounds of Wiscousin,^ and the teeth of the buflalo have been 

* Smitlvioman Report, 1872, p. 350. 

1 Proceedings Davenport Academy of Science, Vol. XI, Plate II. 
^Eighth Annual Report reahodi/ Museum, p. 45. 
" Jmer. Naturalist, vol. 4, p. 159. 

* Smithsonian Report, 1871, p. 394. 

^Lapliam's Antiquities of Wisconsin, p. 69, and Plate XLV, No. 1. 



714 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

found iu the drift of Maine.^ It is singular, however, that this animal 
is not represented iu the sculptured mound pipes, yet the same remark 
applies to the moose, the porcupine, the rabbit, the skunk, and other 
animals, a part of which are known to have been familiar to the builders 
of some of the mounds. 

Moose. — Perforated teeth from mound on Saint Clair Eiver, Michigan.^ 

Elk. — Bone implements from mounds of Ohio,^ and from mounds 
Nos. 1, 3, 6, and 15, Naples, 111. The head of the elk is also faith- 
fully represented iu a sculptured pipe from Ohio mound."* Skull of elk 
found by Sidney S. Lyon in a mound in Union County, Kentucky.^ 

Deer. — Bones found by Prof. F. W. Putnam in a mound on the Wa- 
bash Eiver, Indiana.^ Bones found by the writer in mounds Nos. 6 
and 7, Naples, 111. Awls made from bone of deer found by Sidney 
S. Lyon in Union County, Kentucky.' Horn found in a mound at 
the same place.^ 

Bear. — Fragment (head) from sculptured pipe found in Ohio mounds.^ 
Drilled teeth from same mounds.'" Drilled teeth and radius from Illinois 
mouud.i' Bones found by Prof. F. W. Putnam in a mound on the Wa- 
ba.sh, ludiana.'^ 

Wolf. — Sculptured pipes from Ohio mounds.'^ Drilled teeth from 
same mounds. ^^ Skull of prairie wolf in mound in Dakota.'^ 

Dog. — Skull from mound iu IlUnois.'*' 

Fanther. — Fragment of pipe from Ohio mound," also a pipe fromDa- 
venport mound.'^ Teeth found in a mound in Kentucky.'* 

Wildcat. — Sculptured in Ohio pipes,^" and drilled teeth from same 
mounds.^^ 

^Amer. NaturaUst, vol. 1, p. 268, note, and Vol. 6, p. 98, note. 

'^Sixth Annual Report, Peaiody Museum, p. 17. 

^Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 220, Fig. 119. 

*Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 257, Fig. 161. 

6 Smithsonian Report, 1870, p, 395. 

« Foster's Prehistoric Races, pp. 137, 138. 

1 Smithsonian Report, 1870, p, 395. 

sJftW, p. 403. 

^Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, tf-c, p. 271. Fig. 189; Flint Chips, p. 430 
Fig. 69. 

i°Sqiiier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 234, Fig. 131. 

^^ Second Annnal Report Peahody Museum, pp. 15, 16. 

*2 Foster's Prehistoric Races, p. 1 37. Represented in the animal mounds of Wisconsia- 
ha]pham^8 Antiquities of Wisconsin, pp. 65,70 and Plate XLV, No. 4 ; Squier and Da. 
vis Ancient Monuments, p. 130, and PI. XL III, No. 8. 

13 Squier and Davis, ^wcteui Monuments, p. 271, Fig. 190; Flint Chips, p. 431, Fig. 74. 

"Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 234, Fig. 131. 

^^Smithsonian Report, 1871. p. 394, 

^^ Second Annual Report, Peahody Museum, p. 16. 

"Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 257, Fig. 160. 

^^Proceedings Davenport Acad, of Science, vol. 1, PL IV, No. 11. 

^9 Smithsonian Report, 1870, p. 403. 

^''Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 257, Figs. 158, 159, 160. 

21 /(Z., p. 234, Fig. 131 ; Fli7it Chips, pp. 452, 480. 



PAPERS EELA.TING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 715 

Baccoon. — Fragment of pipe from Ohio mound ^ and pipe from mound 
No. 3, Naples, 111. [Ante^ p. — , Fig. — .) 

Opossum. — Bones found by Prof. Putnam in a mound on the Wabash 
Eiver, Indiana.^ 

Beaver. — Three sculptured pipes from Ohio mounds.^ Bones found 
in mound No. 7, Naples, 111. Skull found in mound in Dakota.* 

Muslcrat. — SkuU in mound in Dakota.^ 

Otter. — Fragment of pipe from Ohio mound.^ 

Mink. — Either this animal or the weasel, which is very similar in 
form, is represented in an animal mound of Wisconsiu.''^ Some of the 
animal forms represented in mounds are easily recognized, while others 
are hard to determine. For example, Squier and Davis say of one : "It 
human figure."^ 
may have been intended to represent a bird, a bow and arrow, or the 

Sicunlc. — Fragment of skull from mound No. 6, Naples, 111. {Ante., p. 
— ), and skull found in mound in Dakota.^ 

Squirrel. — Mound pipe from Ohio.^" From the marking on the side it 
may be that this specimen was intended to represent the flying squirrel, 
Pteromys volucella. 

Gopher {Spermophilus FranMini) Sabine. — Ohio mound pipe." Several 
species of this family are so nearly allied that it is not certain which 
was intended to be represented. 

Manatee. — Seven sculptured pipes from Ohio mounds.^^ 

Walrus. — Pipe from Ohio mound." 

Alligator. — Drilled teeth found in Ohio.^* 

Turtle. — Pipe from Ohio mound.^^ Pipe from mound No. 2, Naples, 
111. {Arite, p. — , Fig 5.) Bones found in mound on the Wabash Eiver, 
Indiana, by Prof. F. W. Putnam.^^ Eepresented in animal mounds of 
Wisconsin." 

— ■—•ff • ' — ~~ 

^ Flint Chips, ip. 430, Fig. 68. 

2 Foster's Prehistoi-iG Races, p. 137. 

3 Squier aud Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 257, Fig. 155; Flint Chips, p. 428, Fig. 63. 
* Smithsonian Report, 1871, p. 392. 

^Smithsonian Report, 1871, p. 394. 

^Squierand Davis, A^icient Monuments, p. 257, Fig. 156. 
"'Jja^hsim.^s Ajitiquities of Wisconsin, Plate XXIX. 
8 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 130. 
^Smithsonian Report, 1871, p. 394. 
^oFWit Chips, 428, Fig. 62, 

"Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, Fig. 157; Flint Chips, p. 428,Fig. 61. 
12 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, pp. 251, 252; Figs. 153, 154; Flint Chips, p. 
429, Figs. 65, 66. 
"Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 271, Fig. 192; Flint Chips, p. 430, Fig. 67. 
"Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments,^. 282, Fig. 197. 
^^ Flint Chips, p. 423, Fig. 43. 
i<*Foster'8 Prehistoric Races, p. 137. 
"Lapham's Antiquities of Wisconsin. 



716 PAPERS RELATING TO AJJTHROPOLOGY. 

Frog. — Sculptured figure iu mound pipe of Davenport collection/ and 
pipe taken from mound jSTo. 8, at Naples, 111. 

Toad. — Sculptured figure in mound pipes of Ohio.^ 

Serpent. — Coiled around sculptured ijipes from Ohio mounds.^ Eep- 
resented in an immense earthwork, Adams County, Ohio,^ and in the 
animal mounds of Wisconsin.^ 

Rattlesnake. — Carved on Ohio pipes f carved figure found iu Ohio 
mound,'^ and figures carved on shells found in mounds of Tennessee.^ 

Xi2;«r(Zs.— Eepresented in animal mounds of Wisconsin.^ 

Shells. — Many marine species have been exhumed from the mounds. 
The cassis, fulgur perversus of Lamark, the oliva, onarginella, and natica, 
and probably stromhus found in mounds of Ohio.^" Splendid specimen 
of a fulgur perversus taken from mound No. 1, Najiles, 111. Large num- 
bers of these have been found in mounds near the mouth of the^Illiuois 
Eiver by the Hon. William McAdams, many of which were exhibited 
by him at the Boston meeting of the American Association. Shells of 
the common mussel were found by the writer at the base of mound No. 
3, Naples, 111. Great numbers of beads made from the species marginella^ 
oliva, and natica have been found iu the mounds." Of fluviatile species 
the mounds of Chio have furnished unio ellipticns, rectus, Tcrrneosns, and 
ovatiLS, " all existing at the present time in the neighboring streams.'"^ 

Bald eagle. — Sculptoired pipe from mound No. 8, near Najjles, 111.^^ 

Eagle.^^ 

Hawk. — Sculptured pipes from mounds of Ohio.^^ 

Owl. — Three species, viz : " Great owl, horned owl, and the little owl" 
are recognized in the scultpured pipes from the Ohio mounds.'^ 

Turkey buzzard {Carthartes aura). — Sculptured pipe from mounds of 
Ohio.i' 

Wild turkey. — Bones found by the writer in mounds Nos. C and 7, 
Naples, 111. 

• Proceedings Davenport Academy of Science, vol. 1, p. 118, aud Plate IV, Fig, 5. 

^Squier aud Davis, Ancient iJonuinenis, p. 268, Figs. lt^3, 184, 185. 

''Sqiiier aud Davis, Ancient Monuments, pp. 248,268, Figs. 143, 186. 

*Id., p. 96, Plate XXXV. 

^Lapliam's Antiquities of Wisconsin, pp. 37, 38. 

^Squier aud Davis, Ancient Monuments, &c., p. 268. 

TIrf.,p. 276. 

^ Fifth Annual Report Pealody Museum, pp. 17, 18, and Id., vol. 2, p. 89. 

9 Lapliam's Antiquities of Wisconsin. 

10 Squier aud Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 283 ; Foster's Prehistoric Races, pj). 234, 235. 
1' Sqnier aud Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 233. 

'2 Squier aud Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 284. 
"Sqnier aud Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 259. 
^* Squier aud Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 70. 

IB Squier aud Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 259, and Fig. 165; Flint Chips, p. 428, 
Fig. 60. 

16 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 259; Flint Chips, p. 427, Fig. 57, 
17 Squier and Davis, p. 260, and Fig. 171; Flint Chips, p. 427, Fig. 58, 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 717 

Prairie hen {cnpidonia cuindo)., Linn). — Sculptured pijie from Ohio 
monnd.^ 

Also, pipe from Davenport mound, Iowa.** 

Quail {Ortyx virginianus). — Sculptured mound pipe from Ohio.' 

Toucan. — Sculptured pipes from Ohio mounds.^ 

Parroquet. — Sculjitured pij^e from Ohio mound.^ 

Cedar bird, {Ampelis cedrorum). — Sculptured pipes from Ohio mouud.^ 

Swalloic. — Sculptured pipes from Ohio mound.^ 

Night heron. — Sculptured pipe from Ohio mound.^ 

Wood duck {Aix sponsa). — Head sculptured upon Ohio mound pipe.^ 

Prof. C. W. Butler, comparative anatomist, Champaign, 111., very 
kindly identified for me the bones found in the ISTaples mounds. 

From the foregoing list it may easily be surmised that all the ani- 
mals found in the Valley of the Mississippi upon the advent of the 
wbite race were familiar to the builders of mounds, also possibly some 
whose habitat was far distant, such as the mastodon and walrus of the 
north or the manatee, the toucan and tropical shells of the south. 

From the " finds" in the Naples mounds we can plainly see that con- 
siderable commerce was carried on by their builders, as we here find a 
shell from the coast of Florida, obsidian from Mexico, lead ore from 
Wisconsin, coi)per from Lake Superior, and mica from the Allegbanies. 
It was once contended that the great age of the mounds was shown by 
the fact that they had never been found upon the latest or lowest river 
terraces. This statement has been disproved, however, as in more than 
one instance in the west they have been found upon the lowest terrace. 
The largest mound explored at Nai)les is in the low-lands upon the very 
brink of the river. Man naturally selects elevated positions for burial 
sites. Mounds of observation would be built upon the highest points, 
while other mounds, whether for houses, temples, or for whatever pur- 
pose they might be built, would as a rule be placed beyond the reach 
of overflows. These suggestions sufBciently account for the usual ab- 
sence of these ancient works upon the low-lands along the rivers. 

This locality is also rich in finely-worked stone imjjlements. None, 
however, have come from the mounds, but some of the finest articles 
of chert were found a few feet below the surface at the foot of the 
bluff upon which the eagle-pipe mound is situated. Below this about 

^ Flint Chips, p. 425; Fig. 51. 

^Proceedings, Davenport Academy of Science, vol. 1, Plate IV, No. 14. 

^ Flint chips, p. 425, Fig. 50. 

■♦Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, pp. 260, 266, Figs. 169, 178; Flint Chips, p. 
426, Figs 53, .56. 

6 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 265, and Fig. 172. 

^Sqnier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 265, and Figs. 173, 174 ; Flint Chips, p. 424, 
Fig. 48. 

^Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 260, and Fig. 167 ; Flint chips, p. 424, Fig. 
47. 

8 Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 259, Fig. 164 ; Flint Chips, p. 425, Fig. 52. 

^Squier and Davis, Ancient Monuments, p. 260 and Fig. 168. 



718 



PAPEES EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



two miles was tbe ancient qnarry from which the chert was taken to 
manufacture knives, arrow-heads, and spear-heads. At the base of the 
Burlington limestone bluff are found hundreds of fragments of chert 
implements, broken and cast away by the workmen, amidst thousands 
of chips. The material was obtained from the nodules in the limestone 
and worked on the spot, but whether by the ancient mound folk or the 
more modern Indian there is nothing to indicate. In an old book called 
the Navigator, the writer, Patrick Kennedy, who passed up the Illi- 
nois River in the year 1773, says "The Peories wintering-ground is 





IK-paB 



X 




"b c 

Fig. 28. European objects from mounds. 

48 miles from the Mississippi. - - - Pierre Island is some dis- 
tance above, near which, from a hill on the western side, the Indians 
procure a flcche or arrow-stone, with which they make their gun flints 
and point their arrows." On an old map, furnished to Governor Ed- 
wards in 1812 by John Hoy, a Frenchman, is found a creek marked 
Pierre a la Flcche. In a letter to the Secretary of War, May, 1812, Gov- 
ernor Edwards called this creek the Arrowstone. It is now known as 
Flint Creek. The French no doubt derived the name from the Indians, 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



719 



and tluit Pierre a la Fleche was a translation of the equivalent Algon- 
kin. With these facts as a starting-point, the writer found the " work- 
shop," which probably had been the scene of busy labor for centuries. 

Upon the banks of the river at Naples are the burying grounds of the 
modern Indian, in which have been found many stone implements inter- 
mingled -with civilized manufactures, such as beads, knives, crosses of 
silver, and other articles indicating traffic "with the French during, 
probably, the latter part of the seventeenth and the first half of the 
eighteenth centuries. Some of these articles are shown in Fig. 28. 

The above are all in the private collection of Richard H. Keener, esq., 
of Naples, 111., who first gave the writer information relative to the 
former exj)loratiou of mounds in the vicinity. The pottery exhumed 
from this ancient cemetery shows that it was the common burial-place of 
the race that built at least a part of the mounds, while the above and 
similar articles of French manufacture show that the same place was 
used as a burial site by the modern Indian. The same reason that 
prompted these ancient races to select this locality as the resting-place 
of the dead caused our own people to locate their cemetery within a few 
hundred yards of the ancient one and upon the same ridge, just as the 
modern city occupies the ancient village site, and the highways of travel 
follow the ancient trails, the bones of races, separated by thousands of 
years, in time mingle together and molder into common dust ! 




Fif!, 29. Pictographs on slab from rock-shelters near Naples, Til. 

Though not immediately connected with this subject, yet possibly the 
work of the same race who built the Naples mounds, attention is 
called to foot-prints and other marks on a limestone slab found in a 
rock-shelter on the east side of the Illinois Eiver, about 10 miles below 
Eagle-pipe mound. This slab originally formed a projecting shelf in the 
rock-shelter, but is now broken off and stands on its edge at the opening 



720 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

of the shelter.* From the preceding cut, Fig. 29, it will be seen that there 
is a remarkable similarity between the tracks and other markings upon 
this rocif and tliose of the Barnesville and Newark 'Hrack-rocks" of Ohio, 
as figured in the Ohio Ceniemiial Bepori^ pp. 91, 92, 9.'3, 95, and pp. 58 and 
59 of the Journal of the Anthropolofjical Institute of New YorJc. 

Mr. J. H. Salisburyt maintains, '' that tbe ancient bird-tmck char- 
acter belonged to the mound-builders is evident from the fact that it is 
found among their works constructed of soil on a large scale. One of 
these bird-track mounds occurs in the center of the large circular in- 
closure near Newark, Ohio, now standing in the Licking County Fair 
Grounds." On the lowlands, half a mile south of this rock-shelter, 
are sixteen mounds, in a straight line, running a little east of north, and 
directly toward the rock-shelter. These mounds are all about 2i feet 
high and about 25 feet in diameter. Nothing has been found in them. 
Those toward the south are composed, largely of slabs of Burlington 
limestone obtained from the neighboring bluff, while those toward the 
north are composed wholly of earth. Another similar row of mounds is 
found in Scott Count}'. 

In conclusion, I will add, the dividing line between the mound- 
builders and the modern Indian — that is, the Indians of the Mississippi 
Valley of two hundred years ago, and especially those inhabiting the 
lower part of that great valley, is not so distinct as is generally sup- 
posed. It is almost the universal opinion of those who have made the 
subject a study that the mound-builders were not the ancestors of the 
red Indian, but, on the contrary, were a distinct race, much further 
advanced in civilization, and that by choice or pressure of barbarous 
tribes from the north they abandoned their homes, or that they were 
exterminated by war, famine, disease, or domestic dissensions. Fully 
imbued with this idea, the writer began the study of the relics of 
this nameless race, but in the end has been compelled to abandon this 
received opinion and to conclude that the mound-builders were the an- 
cestors of the southern tribes. There is no distinctive feature, whether 
physical or anatomical, whether in art or custom, that would stand the 
test of criticism fls peculiar to that ancient race. If the comparison is 
m-ade between the earthworks, implements, copper ornaments, pottery, 
and other relics of the mound-builders and the works and character of the 
modern Indian, with a straw hat on his head, a Mackinaw blanket and 
calico shirt about his shoulders, skinning animals with a steel knife of 
yankee manufacture, cooking his food in an iron pot from the same 
source, and all the manhood that was ever in him crushed out by fire- 
water and contact with the worst elements of civilization and fear of a 
dominant race, then, indeed, the line is distinct and well marked ; but 
if instead of the modern Indian we substitute the red man, who lived 

*A plaster cast of this track- rock was presented to the Smithsonian Museum in 1878. 
t Centennial Report, p. 96. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 721 

in the valley of the Mississippi two or three liiindred years ago, as de- 
scribed by the chrouiclers of De Soto's expedition, or by the followers 
of Loj'ola, who, carrying the cross through prairie and desert and wilder- 
ness, ever had an eye open and a pen ready to record the character, cus- 
toms, habits, and superstitions of the strange race about them, then the 
line of demarkation fades away, if it does not entirely disappear. Here 
we find mound-builders, fort-builders, manufacturers of stone imple- 
ments, pottery, baik-cloth, feather- cloth, ornaments — in short, a race of 
men dependent on their own resources for supplying their wants of every 
nature, physical or mental. 

A dying race — a race crushed out by the struggle of nations for room 
in the world, with no human heart to appreciate and no historian to 
record its wrongs, its own virtues lost, and to its vices added the vices 
of civilization, is not a fit subject for the scientist, but rather for the 
moralist. 



THE GLIDWELL MOUND, FRANKLIN COUNTY, INDIANA. 
By De. G. W. Homsher, of Fairfield^ Ind. 

This mound is two miles south of the village of Fairfield, Franklin 
County, Indiana, and is situated upon a very high hill, or bluff", and on 
the East Fork of the White Water Eiver. It faces the river on the 
east side, almost opposite the mouth of Wolf Creek. To the south and 
east of the hill is Templeton's Creek, both creeks emptying into the 
White Water. On the south side and at the foot of the hill are two 
very fine springs which never run dry. 

From the water's edge of the river to the summit of the hill is 796 
feet. Surrounding the hill, facing the river and Templeton's Creek are 
five terraces, commencing at a ravine on the north side of the hill, pass- 
ing across the west side, thence around the south side, about two-thirds 
of the distance. Time and constant washing have obliterated them 
beyond that point. 

These terraces originally were from 30 to 50 feet wide, but at the 
present time they measure, commencing at the base of the hill, the 
first, 32 feet in width ; the second, third, and fourth, 24 feet in width; 
and the fifth, 48 feet in width. The distance from the water's edge to 
the first terrace is 300 feet ; from the first to the second is 64 feet; from 
the second to the third, 80 feet; from the third to the fourth, 104 feet; 
from the fourth to the fifth, 80 feet; and from the fifth to the summit 
of the hill is 168 feet. On the west side (where these measurements 
were taken) the bank facing the river is almost perpendicular. It is 
almost impossible for one to climb the hill from the fifth terrace to the 
summit on the west side, or that side facing the river. These terraces 
are also broader on that side and are the least washed, in fact, there are 
no gullies cut down through the hill or terraces. Large oak, maple, elm, 
hickory, iron-wood, beech, and gum trees are growing all over them. 
H. Mis. 26 46 



722 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



From the summit of tliis liill one has ii grand view of tlio valley extending 
north about 7 miles, and can see the locations of other mounds that dot 
the hill-tops and second terraces of this beautiful and productive valley, 
and those along Wolf Creek and other tributaries that empty into the 
White Water. 





A.— The Glidwell Monml, Franklin Co., Ind. 

The Eev. J. P. MacLean, of Hamilton, Ohio, claimed these so-called 
terraces to be land-slides, but acknowledges those surrounding the 
fortified mound on the Templeton hill to be the work of the mound- 
builders. Now, the terraces surrounding the fortified mound on Tern- 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY, 



723 



pleton's hill are five in number, the same as that of the GlidwcU mound; 
their width ranges from 24 to 30 feet. The distance from one to another 
is from GO to 120 feet. Again, it is not likely that three terraces sur- 
rounding the same hill would measure the same in width and run 
parallel with each other from one side to another, and be land-slides. 
Such, it will be noticed, is the case with the second, third, and fourth of 
those surrounding the Glidwell hill. 

Furthermore, no land slide has been found across any of the hills or 
bluffs, along the White Water, without a break at least every hundred 
or two hundred feet. "But such is not the case in any of the above-men- 
tioned five terraces, which measure from 700 to 900 feet in length, with- 
out a break or gully, and they are -sufficiently wide to drive two road- 
wagons side by side from one end to the other. The similarity of the 
two fortified mounds is almost complete. The measurements of the 
length of the terraces and the height from the water's edge of the 




Fig. 1.— Copper bracelet from Ghdwel! Mouud. 

Tempieton hill was not taken, but the Templeton hill is much higher 
than the Glidwell hill, and commands a fine view of the White Water 
south to Brookville, where the East and West Forks unite into one 
stream. 

The first time the writer visited the Glidwell mound was in April, 
1871. It was then 15 feet high and 60 feet in diameter. Mr. T. L. 
Dickerson assisted in taking these measurements. 
The composition of the mound is of fine brick or com- 
pact clay, which has been brought from Wolf Creek, 
almost three-quarters of a mile from the mouth of the 
creek and one mile from the summit of the hill or 
mound. This mound was covered with flat, shelly 
limestone, one overlapping another, similar to shingles 
Fig. 2.— Copper riugupou a roof. Ovcr this was a deposit of loam varying 
from Giid^veii Mound, f^.^^ -j^^ ^^ 3 fgg^_ Qu the wcst side are still standing 

two iron- wood trees about 13 inches in diameter, also a large maple. On 




724 



Px\PERS RELATING TO ANTIIROPOLOGr. 



the north side, about one-third the distance up the mound is a lar^e 
maple 2^ feet iu diameter. On the east side are large beech, maple, and 
iron-wood trees. At the edge of the mound and ou the south side is a 
stump of a large maple, very much decayed. There are five distinct 
strata (see vertical section) : oSTo. 2 is 5 feet thick and of compact clay j 
No. 3 is li feet thick and is composed of ashes and clay ; l^o. 4 is 8 
inches, aud consists of ashes and coal ; No. 5 is 2^ feet thick, and made 
of burnt clay ; No. 6 is 2| feet deep, and composed of clay aud burnt 
stones. Between the strata Nos. 4 and 5 were three hearths made of 
sand and limestone, one in the center, one in the northeast, and the 
third in the northwest part of the mound. (See foregoiug sketch. A.) 

In June, 1879, in company with Mr. T. L. Dickerson and Thomas Glid- 
well, the writer suuk a shaft 12 feet deep into the center, and in the 

course of the work removed one skeleton 
with several fragments of pottery aud 
one fine copper bracelet (Fig. 1). The 
copper had been pounded iuto a thin 
sheet and then rolled. A similar one, 
but smaller, was found some time after- 
wards by Mrs. A. Crist in the same 
mound, and is now in Mr. A, W. Butler's 
collection (Fig. 2). The above-men- 
tioned skeleton was G feet 3 inches be- 
low the slabs or rock covering (base 
section, center figure, head to the east.) 
In July, 188(», the writer visited the 
mound in comiiany with Mr. C. W. 



'?^4. 




Fig. 3.— Bone awl from Glidwell Mound. Fig. 4.— Arrow point from Glidwell Mound. 

Ruse, and commenced a trench 5 feet wide in the southeast side, about 
5 feet from the base (base section, dotted line), and trenched to the, 
center. "When within 3 feet of center shaft we came upon and re- 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



725 



moved a skull, wliicli wa.s 5 feet from the top of the mound and 3 feet 
below the rock covering. But, strange to say, no other part of the 
skeleton could be found, or any marks of decayed bones. After the 
center shaft -was reached it was sunk 2 feet deeper, and trenched back 
to the place of beginning. In the process six skeletons were removed 
in a very good state of preservation, two with heads to the east; one to 
the south; one to the north; one to the southeast; one to the northeast. 
Over one skeleton, whose head pointed to the east, were laid two others 
(see base section), the head of one to the south, of the other to the north. 
AVith this group were found one bone bodkin or needle (Fig. 3) ; two 

,^^-,:...„. ^^^_„_.,^_,,j-^^.-.p-r-^^if^ arrow-points (Fig. 4); several 

■ pieces of animal bones, with a 

lew fragments of pottery (Fig. 5). 

: In An gust, 1880, in company 

|: with Mr. J. E. Snider, the writer 

fci, .^ i'ontinned his investigation by 

f) -^ commencing a trench on the west 

""v / side about 4 feet from the base 

I ,,, (base section, dotted lines), and 

it "^ trenched to the center shaft, re- 

f> .J^" moving four skeletons. Three of 

../ these lay with their heads to the 

'■*' east; one with the head to the 

south, or rather a little to the 

riG. 5 -Pottery fn.m Gii.iwei! Mouu.i. sontheast(see base plan of sketch 

A). With the group nf tbree were found several pieces of pottery, one 






•v^' 



Fig. 6.—^ 't:rnt disk from Glidwell Mound. 



726 



PAPERS KELATING TO AN'l lIPOI'OLOiiV. 



burnt disk (Fig. C), one pendant, etchings on one side, dingoual lines on 
reverse (Fig. 7). Tlie six skeletons removed witli Mv. Ituse's assistance 





^^slMs^^" 




Fig. 7.— Pendant from Glirtwell Mound. 

were C feet 9 inches below the rock covering. The fonr removed with the 
aid of. Mr. J. E. Snider were 5^ feet below the rock 
protection, near the enter of the mound. 

May 10, 1881, the Eev. C. W. Hargett and Mr. E. 
Osboru helped to open a trench G feet wide on the 
south side of the mound, and 2 feet below the surfiice 
surrounding the mound (see base plan of first sketch 
A, — dotted lines), and continued to the center shaft. 
At this time were removed four skeletons. With 
the second skeleton, under the lower jaw, were found 
two beads (Fig. 8) made of the nnio shell, split deer 
or elk bones (Fig. 9), aud a few .•-'" _^,,j 

chips of flint, or chert. The first '"' ^ "^f'i 
skeleton was 4 feet below the rock 
protection ; the second 4 feet 7 in- 
ches; the third G feet 5 inches; the 
fourth, near the center, was G feet ; 

10 inches below the protection. , ^^ 

August 23, 1881, by the assist- ^ ^"'^ ^ ^,., 

^ ' ' '^ Pig. 8.— Bead from GUd- 

auce of the Eev. C. W. Hargett, weii Mound. 
Lewis Mullien, and William Hippard, an infant skele- 
ton was found 7 feet below the rock covering, and a 
little north of the center hearth, in a direct line with 
the northeast and northwest hearths. (See base sec- 
tion.) Over this skeleton had been placed two large 
flat stones. The bones were very much decayed, so 
much so that there could be removed only a few frag- 
ments of the skull. The skeleton measured in length 
3 feet 1^ inches. No ornaments of any kind were found with this skele- 
ton. It lay with the head to the east. To the east of the skeleton, a 



Fig. 9.— Chert chip from 
Glidwell Mound. 



PAPERS KFLATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



727 



small stone hearth was discovered, made of sinall round stones, princi- 
pally sandstone. August 29, 1881, Mr. A. W. Butler and Eev. D. E. 
Moore commenced near the center and trenched to the west side, follow- 
ing the old trench made by the writer and Mr. J. E. Snider. In doing 
so they removed three skeletons or parts, one lying with the head to the 
north, one northwest, and one northeast. (See base section.) 

September 5, 1881, with the aid of Mr. A. W. Butler, digging was 
commenced again at the place where Mr. Butler and Moore left off, 



W^ 




Tig. 10.— Slate "gorget" from Glidwell Mound. 

and continued to the north and east; two skeletons were removed 
one with the head to the northeast, one with the head to the east, and 
one overlapping across the middle the one whose head pointed to the 
east. A fine gorget (Fig. 10), about one-fourth of a large celt, some 
fragments of pottery, and animal bones were found. 

September 12, 1881, the same party again A^isited this mound and 
continued investigations. Two skeletons were removed, one with the 
head to the north, one with the head to the east. (See base section.) A 
stone hearth was found in the northwest part of the mound. This hearth 
was umde of small bowlders. A little north of the covering of tlie infant 
was removed a skeleton of an adult, protected similarly to that of the 
infant, the head pointing to the south. The skeletons removed by Mr. 
Butler and the writer were from 5i to feet below the rock covering. 
The fragments of pottery removed from this mound bore, no ornamental 
etchings or moldings upon them. They were unglazed, both externally 
and internally, and were made of fine quartz sand or pulverized quartz, 
pulverized shell, and fine, compact claj'. The bone bodkin is evidently 
made from the bone of the deer. The only parts of the above-named 



728 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

skeletons which could be recovered were the crania, and they badly de- 
cayed. In fact only one Avas removed in such a condition that it could 
be put together, and that one is deposited in the museum of the Brook. 
ville Natural Historical Society. The prominent features of that are an 
exceedingly narrow forehead, receding, with an extremely broad occiput, 
zygomatic arch large and prominent, inferior maxillary large and massive. 

I find the characteristics mentioned by Mr. Gillman {Smithsoman Re- 
port., 1875) in about four-fifths of the humeri and tibias removed from 
this mound, but in the several parts of the skull no perforation as spoken 
of by the above-named gentleman. 

The dotted lines show that part of the mound that has been removed. 
All that outside of these lines has been reserved for future investiga- 
tions. 



EEMAINS OjST WHITE WATER RIVEK, INDIANA. 
By George W. Homsher, M. D., of Fairfield., Ind. 

Themounds, workshops, cemeteries, block-houses and camping grounds 
herein described are located on the East Fork of White Water River, 
in a portion of Brookville, Springfield, Bath, and Blooming Grove Town- 
ships, and in all parts of Fairfield Township, Franklin County, Indiana; 
in all of Harmony, with a portion of Center and Liberty Townships, in 
Union County ; and also, in portion of Jackson and Jennings Townshii)S, 
of Fayette County. 

The Bast Fork of While Water River is a beautiful stream, whosehead 
waters originate in the northeast part of Wayne County, Indiana, flow- 
ing in a southern direction through Wayne, Union, and Franklin Coun- 
ties, to a point near the center of Brookville Township, just south of 
the town of Brookville, where it joins the West Fork. These united 
form the White Water which runs in a south and east course across the 
southern part of the township until it crosses the southern boundary 
line near the southeast corner, thence south and west until it empties into 
the Ohio River near Lawreuceburg. Both branches and their tribu- 
taries are noted for the richness of the soil, as well as for the great num- 
ber of mounds, workshops, cemeteries, »&;c., that are distributed upon 
their upper and lower terraces from their sources to their mouths. In 
touching upon the location of the structures, &c., reference will be made 
to thetownsnips and sections. And in this report the range, as wrll as 
the survey and description of each stiuctuie is given, Thu>s by the aid 
of the map all the ancient structures may be visited without any difli- 
culty whatever. 

In a paper read before the Brookville Natural Historical Society, the 
writer touched upon the mounds, workshops, cemeteries, &c., of a por- 
tion of Brookville, Springfield, Bath, and Fairfield Townships, of Frank- 
lin County. The society appointed a committee to prepare a complete 
.map of the county, locate each structure, and give a description thereof. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 729 

As this committee lias not made a report, in this communication will be 
presented the latest survey, which includes the townships mentioned 
above. The distance from Brookville to mound No. 80, the most north- 
ern here described, is 16 miles. The townships of Liberty, Center, and 
Union, of Union County, have been only partially investigated. Several 
tumuli are said to exist within these townships, but the exact location 
is not known. Just east of Brookville is a very high hill, whose head- 
land juts out to the river, and fi'om the apex of this hill, one looking 
south has a grand view of the White Water below the junction of the 
two rivers, and of a few of its tributaries, for several miles. To the west 
and northwest, up the beautiful valley of the West Fork, the eye be- 
comes tired with the picturesque landscape of the whole valley, whose 
second and third terraces are dotted o'er with ancient earthworks, both 
single and in groups. Again, looking north, up the East Fork, we be- 
liold another enchanting scene, whose lofty hills hug close the clear 
waters from either side as it winds its way through the fertile valley 
and along its course. * 

The writer has spent many pleasant hours investigating the last rest- 
ing places and other structures of a peoi)le who once spent their time 
here in fishing and hunting, and in the cultivation of the cereals upon 
which the.v partly subsisted. 

Mound ISO. 2 is in Sec. 5., T. 9 N., E. 2 W., near the southwest corner 
of the southwest quart.er section, almost directly opposite the bridge 
that spans the river at the base pf the hill, on the west side of the river, 
and between two ravines, one on the north and the other on the south 
side of the hill. This is known as the Templeton's Fortified Mound, 
an account of which was given by Edgar Quick in the Smithsonian Ee- 
port for 1879, and by Dr. Eufus Hayman in the Geological Eeport of 
Franklin County, Indiana, of 1869. . The Doctor's report is, to some ex- 
tent, incorrect, so far as the descrii)tion of the work is concerned. This 
mound is on the top of a very high hill, not less than 375 or 400 feet high. 
It is built on a plateau, Imck from the apex of the hill at least 500 yards, 
and partly surrounded by a semi-circular wall on the east side and a ditch 
on the west. The semi circle extends across the plateau from the ravine 
on the north side to the ravine on the south side. This semi-circular wall 
is very distinct, measuring, in some places, 3 feet in height. The ditch 
on the inside of the wall was formed by the removal of the dirt to con- 
struct the wall. It measures, in some places, from 2 to 2^ feet in depth. 
If there was a wall of any description on the west side it has been ob- 
literated. About 250 yards on the west side is a very wide ditch, from 
9 to 10 feet, symmetrical from one end to the other, and about 3 to 4 feet 

*Mr. C. C. Royce, ou liis map showing the cessions of land by Indian tribes to the 
United States, in the annual report of the Bureau of Ethnology for 1879-1880, lays 
down the junction of the East and West Forks just south of Connersville, and about 
midway of the lines of the old boundary line and the 12- miles purchase. This is a 
mistake. The two forks unite within the territory know^n as the Wayne purchase. 



730 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

deep. In it and on its banks are growing- some very large trees. Sur- 
rounding the hill are five terraces, commencing some distance up the 
ravine on the side of the hill facing the north, thence passing around 
the hill facing the south, extending some distance up the ravine on the 
south side of the hill. These terraces vary in width from 20 to 40 feet, 
and from one to another as you ascend the hill the distance is 50 to 75 
feet. The length of those terraces also varies from 600 to 800 yards. 
The outlines and formation are defaced but little, only a few gullies 
having cut their way through them to mar their symmetry. The whole 
hill is covered by a very heavy forest, and trees are growing upon the 
terraces and hillside that will measure irom 4 to 4| feet in diameter; in 
fact, this hill in outline is similar to the Glidwell Fortified Mound, with 
the same number of graded ways or terraces. The construction of these 
graded ways, with semi-circular walls and ditch, is conclusive evidence 
that this hill, at one time, was an ancient fortification. The original 
height of this mound, by measurement of the several strata, is 10 feet, 
and the diameter at base 40 feet. It is composed of brick clay, ashes, 
and charcoal. The mound has been badly mutilated by curiosity seek- 
ers; skeletons have been thrown out promiscuously and broken, which 
no doubt with a little care could have been removed intact. Mr. 
James Eucker, who took great interest in the study of archaeology, in- 
formed the writer, in regard to the positions in which the subjects were 
laid in tbis mound, that they were placed promiscuously throughout that 
portion of the mound which has been mutilated, and all within the clay 
forming the base stratum. He himself removed several, but not know- 
ing how to treat them properly, they were broken into fragments in his 
efforts to preserve them, and, deeming them of no value, he threw them 
out with the dirt among the rubbish. 

A portion of the mound still remains undisturbed. This will afford an 
opportunity perhaps to secure a portion of the remaining objects which 
have been entombed therein. From this mound there is a good view of 
the uplands between the two forks of the White Water, also mounds 1, 
3, 4, 5, 6, and 12 can be seen. 

Number 3 is on the same side of the river, about one-half mile north, 
and located in Sec. 4, T. 9 N., R. 2 W., midway of the west part of the 
northwest quarter section 4, on Mr. George Templetou's farm. This 
mound is a little more than half way up the hill, in the center of a de- 
pression about the shape of a horseshoe. Above, below, and on each 
side of the depression it has about the same angle of descent as that of 
other parts of the hill. This is the only mound the writer has ever seen 
built midway of a hill. 

Number 4 is in the northeast corner of the southeast quarter Sec. 9, 
T. 9 N., R. 2 W., on Mr. Jeff'. Logan's farm, on the second terrace forma- 
tion. Originally it was about 6 feet high, with a base diameter of 50 
feet; but it has been under annual cultivation for about forty years, 
which has almost obliterated it. A few more years will level it with 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 731 

the surrounding earth. As to whether bones of any description have 
ever been found in this mound during the process of tilling or otherwise 
no information can be obtained. Mr. Ja^mes Rucker, when living, secured 
a great many arrow-points, axes, &c., from the field in which this mound 
is located. 

Number 5 is in T. 9 N., R. 2 W., near the southwest corner of the 
southwest quarter section 2, on Mr. James Logan's farm, and on the high- 
est terrace formation, on the west side of a small creek that runs through 
the farm and empties into the south fork of Templeton's Creek at 
Locks Chapel. This mound is 4 feet high, 30 feet in diameter at the 
base, and is composed of fine brick clay. From this mound, looking to 
the east, one can see mound No. 6 in the northeast corner of the south- 
east quarter Sec. 1, T. 9 N., E. 2 W., which is also on one of Mr. James 
Logan's farms, on the highest terrace formation. This mound is 4 feet 
high, with a base diameter of 40 feet, and is composed of brick clay. 

Number 7 is in T. 9 N., R. 1 W., Sec. 6, midway between the east and 
west quarter section lines, of the southeast quarter, and only a few rods 
from the north quarter section line. The height is 4 J feet, the diameter 
at the base 30 feet, and it is composed of brick clay. 

Number 8 is in T. 9 N., R. 1 W., Sec. 5, near the northwest corner of 
the northwest quarter section, close to the Billingsville and Springfield 
pike. The field in which this tumulus stands joins the pike, and is 
known as the mound field. The height of the structure is CJ feet, the 
diameter at the base 50 feet, and it is composed of brick clay. 

Number 9 is in Sec. 35, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the southwest corner of 
the northeast quarter, on the north side of the south fork of Temple- 
ton's Creek, on the highest terrace formation, and on Mr. Mark Mul- 
lien's farm. The height is 5 feet, the diameter at the base, 45 feet, and 
the composition compact clay. 

Number 10 is in the same section, northeast of No. 9 but a few rods, 
on the same farm. The composition is compact clay. 

Number 11 is a circle, in Sec. 25, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., midway between 
the north and the south quarter-section lines of the northeast quarter, 
and 10 rods from the west quarter- section line, on the side of the south 
fork of Templeton's Creek, and on Mr. Henry Fry's farm. This circle is 80 
feet in diameter and 242^ feet in circumference. The embankment form- 
ing the circle is 2J feet high. On this embankment are hickory trees 
from 3 to 3J feet in diameter. Within the circle or embankment there 
is not a tree, but outside of it on every side are heavy woods. This 
circle, like others examined, was constructed for protection to the dwell- 
ing, and not for an arena in which, or around which, were performed 
various ceremonies. Probably it was not constructed for a protection 
during a war among the tribes ; but after the erection of the dwelling the 
savages dug this circle just inside of their building, so that in case of 
rain the water would be carried off and not run within, thus securing to 
the occupant a dry and comfortable floor. Otherwise, the ground 



732 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

within being tramped down, would be lower than that outside, and, 
when it rained, the water would run within the wigwam and make a 
wet and disagreeable floor. Their conceptions were acute to all the 
comforts of life, for we see in all their work comfort and protection so 
far as it was in their power to secure and apply that which surrounded 
them. 

Number 12 is in Sec. 33, T. 10 N., 11. 2 W., on the east side of the 
river, midway between the west and east quarter-section lines of the 
southeast quarter, and near the north line of the same quarter. This 
is the noted Glidewell mound,* which is not only a fortified mound, but 
was also used for burial purposes. No doubt it has also been used as 
an observatory or signal mound, from the fact that from the top there 
is a grand view of the valley and uplands of Wolf Creek. Looking 
south and southwest, west, and north, can be distinguished mounds 2, 
3, 4, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 49, 50, 41, 42 ; workshops 
57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 63; cemeteries 64, 65; camping grounds 70, 73, 75; 
stone graves 54, 55. A fire burning upon this mound could plainly be 
seen at all these points, and perhaps at others were it not for the inter- 
vention of a heavy forest that has grown up since these mounds were 
constructed. They are all in a line with this mound, and a few of them 
can be located from the Templeton Fortified Mound No. 2 ; perhaps all 
could be were it not for the same intervention. 

Number 13 is in Sec. 33, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., midway between" the east 
and west quarter-section lines of the northwest quarter and 40 rods from 
the north line, on the west side of the river. It occupies a very promi- 
nent ridge that projects out to a small creek on the north side that 
empties into the river on Mr. Alex. Johnston's farm and second terrace 
formation. This mound is 8 feet high with a base diameter of 40 feet. 
On top of this structure is a very large maple tree. From this summit, 
and only thence, are to be seen mounds 51, 52. 

Number 14 is in Sec. 32, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northeast corner of 
the northeast quarter of the section, on the highest terrace formation, also 
on Mr. Johnston's farm, better known as the Hall farm. This mound is 
5J feet high, with a base diameter of 46 feet. The composition is com- 
pact clay. 

Number 15 is in Sec. 5, T. 9 N., R. 2 W., midway between the north 
and south quarter-section lines of the northwest quarter of the section, 
and 6 rods from the west line, on the highest terrace formation, on the 
west side of Berris's Creek, on Mr. Chas- Conrad's farm, and in plain 
view of the Glidwell mound No. 12. This mound is 4 feet high, with 
a base diameter of 35 feet and composed of compact clay. 

Number 16 is in Sec. 32, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., near the corner of the south- 
west quarter, in the highest terrace formation, north of Wolf Creek and 

* This mound is fully described in the preceding article, with drawings, giving 
vertical and horizontal sections, and showing position of skeletons exhumed, &c. 



PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 733 

east of a small creek called Monday Branch, on Mr. Phil. Snider's farm. 
The hill or headland on which this mound is built projects out to this 
small stream called Monday Branch. The tumulus is 8 feet high, with 
abase diameter of 60 feet, and composed of compact clay, coal, and ashes. 
Five distinct strata were encountered, varying from 7 to 20 inches in 
thickness. Ko bones of any description were found, nor ornaments or 
fragments of pottery, in fact nothing that would go to show that it had 
been used for burial purposes. It was simply a signal mound. Taking 
the location and surroundings into consideration a better site could not 
be found on the East Fork of White Water Eiver, one that commands as 
large a scope of country as this, of both uplands and valley. To the 
east, west, north, and south, the hill towers above a majority of the sur- 
rounding forest, with nothing to obstruct the grand view that is presented 
to the eye from ail points of the compass. One hundred and fifty yards 
northeast of the mound is an excellent spring of never-failing water. 
From this mound can be distinguished mounds 12, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 
27, 28, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, 46, 47, 48, 50,53, 76, stone 
grave 55, workshops 57, 59, 60, 62. 

i^umber 17 is in Sec. 13, T. 12 N., E. 13 B., 20 rods from the boundary 
line, midway between the north and south section lines, and on the south 
side of a small branch that empties into Monday Branch, second terrace 
formation, on Mr. Jacob Master's farm. This mound is oblong, 75 feet 
long, 5 feet high, and 35 feet in diameter at the center. It is simply a 
heap of fine compact clay ; no ashes or charcoal were discovered in trench- 
ing it both ways longitudinally and diagonally. It could not have been 
used as a signal mound, for it is in the hollow of a small ravine, and 
only to be seen from No. 16. 

Number 18 is in Sec. 31, T. 10 N., E. 2 W., midway of the north part 
of the section, 10 rods from north section line, and near the township 
line that divides Fairfield and Blooming Grove, on the former boundary 
line that divided the Territory of Ohio and Indiana. ('' This line was 
established at Greenville, Ohio, treaty in 1795,") and it is also in that 
territory known as the " Twelve-mile purchase." The mound is on the 
farm of Mr. Jacob Master, sr., and has been under annual cultivation 
for the past forty years. Mr. A. Buckley, who settled this farm, informed 
the writer that when he cleared the timber from the field in which the 
mound is located, it was then 9 feet high, and surrounded by an embank- 
ment, with a deep ditch, evidently from which the material was taken 
to build the mound and embankment. At the present date the ditch is 
obliterated, and but a faint ridge marks the outline of the embankments. 
The remaining part of the mound is 2 feet high, with a base diameter of 
45 feet. From this field a great many fine arrows, axes, celts, pestles, &c., 
have been picked up. In trenching the remaining portion only burnt 
clay, ashes, and charcoal were encountered. No bones of any descrip- 
tion, ornaments, or fragments of pottery were seen. So far back as the 
time that this field was brought under cultivation, Mr. Herrall has no 



734 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

recollection of ever plowing up so much as a fragment of a human skele- 
ton, nor has the present owner ever observed anjthingof the kind ; there- 
fore this mound also must have been constructed for a signal station. 

Number 19 is in Sec. 29, T. 10 K., R. 2 W., in the southwest corner of 
the southwest quarter, on the highest terrace formatiom, and on Mr. 
Wilson Jones's farm. This mound, like ISTo. 18, has been under cultiva- 
tion for a great many years, which has diminished its size considerably, 
so that at the present time it only measures 4 feet in height, and as to 
the diameter of these cultivated mounds it is impossible to obtain any- 
thing accurate. In trenching no signs of fire occurred. It is simply a 
heap of compact clay. 

Number 20 is in Sec. 29, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., about in the center of the north- 
east quarter. It occupies the highest terrace formation on Mr. Jno. 
Kelley's farm, south of the Blooming Grove and Fairfield road, due east 
from Mr. Kelley's house about 30 rods, and very near the line of his 
and Mrs. George Miller's farm, just at the apex of the hill that juts up 
to the ravine running along the base of the hill on the north side. This 
mound, says Mr. Kelley, was originally 8 feet high, with a base diame- 
ter of 50 feet, but with the plow and scraper he leveled it down, so 
that he could cultivate over it, which he has continued to do for the 
past twenty years. At the present date it measures 2 feet and 3 inches 
in height. The portion levelled down was similar in the strata to the 
remaining portion of the mound. Around this was a ditch and circu- 
lar wall or embankment, the wall originally was 2 feet high, wdth the 
ditch upon the inside. But in leveling it the ditch was filled and the 
•circular embankment destroyed in several places. This circular wall 
measured 225 feet. In the process of leveling was found a fine copper 
gorget, which was used to mend a broken shovel-handle. The shovel 
was purchased and the article removed in a mutilated condition. In 
trenching the remaining portion of the mound the writer found one fine 
leaf-shaped spear-point in the debris of ashes and charcoal, being some- 
what burnt. From this mound can be distinguished mounds 31, 36, 37, 
^8, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 4(3, 47, 48, 49, 50, 12, 19, 25, in the autumn when the 
forest is divested of its foliage. No doubt, at one time, judging from 
the several locations of these mounds, no forest intervened between 
them. 

Number 21 is in Sec. 9, T. 12 N., R. 13 E., in the southeast corner of 
the southwest quarter of the section, second terrace formation of Duck 
Creek, and on Mrs. Wilson's farm. The height is 6 feet, base diameter, 
36 feet, and the composition, compact clay. 

Number 22 is in Sec. 4, T. 12 N,, R. 13 E., in the southeast quarter of 
the section, 00 rods from the north line and 40 from the east line. It 
is located on Mr. J. Hay's farm, and on the west side of the Blooming 
Grove and Connersville pike, south side of Duck Creek, near where the 
pike bridge spans the creek. This is also in the second terrace for- 
mation of the creek. Its height is 8 feet, base diameter, 48 feet, and 
composition, brick clay. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 735 

Number 23 is iu Sec. 34, T. 13 N., E. 13 E., iu the soutlieast corner 
of the northeast quarter of the section, on Mr. Milton Trusler's farm, 
due west of his residence about 20 rods. This mound has been culti- 
vated for several years, long enough almost to obliterate it. It is some- 
what difficult to distinguish it from the surrounding surface. 

Number 24 is in Sec. 33, T. 13 N,, E. 13 E., in the southeast corner of 
the northeast quarter of the section, near the east line, on Mr. J. 
Backhouse's farm, and but a few rods from the Blooming Grove and 
Connersville pike, on the east side. The height is 7 feet, and base di- 
ameter GO feet. This mound also has been under cultivation for several 
years; perhaps originally it was 10 feet high, it is composed of brick 
clay. 

Number 25 is in Sec. 17, T. 10 N., E. 2 W., near the west quarter 
section of the southeast quarter, and north of the county line 40 rods. 
It stands on the second terrace formation that juts out between two 
small branches or creeks that empty into the river, about 15 rods south- 
west of the residence of Mr. Jas. Herrall. The tumulus originally was 
about 5 or 5^ feet high, with a base diameter of 20 feet, but at the pres- 
ent time it measures only 3 feet 9 inches. The diminished height is 
owing to annual cultivation. Upon being trenched, several fragments 
of calcined bone, one spear-point, a small gorget, but no pottery or 
fragments of pottery were found. The remaining portion is composed 
ot four strata of ashes, charcoal, and clay. The fragments of bones, 
relics, were found in the base or first stratum. 

Number 2G is in Sec. 16, T. 10 N., E. 2 W., in the northeast corner of 
the northwest quarter section, on the second terrace formation of the 
river, north side of Bloyd's Creek, between the creek and road, due 
north of Mr. Orlando Campbell's residence 2 rods. The creek during 
the freshet of June 14, 1882, cut into it about 4 feet. This is a low, flat 
mound, only 2 feet high, with a base diameter of 40 feet, and that of the 
apex 40. In trenching, no bones or relics of any description were seen. 
The mound is composed of fine sand, and covered by a very thin stratum 
of brick clay. This is the only mound of this description known along 
the valley or in the territory under investigation. If this was a resi- 
dence mound, as some would term it, we should find several such mounds 
grouped together. If this is to be construed as a camping ground or 
village site, taking the location and surroundings into consideration, the 
selection was poor and does not correspond with the better judgment 
exercised by these people in the selection of the sites of their other 
tumuli. Some contend that these were constructed for the site of the 
chief's wigwam or building, so as to afford him a better view over his 
subjects or village, but such arguments are not convincing. The notion 
that a low, fiat mound, only 2 feet high, aftbrded a much better view is 
preposterous, when within 40 feet of the mound we come upon the third 
terrace formation 5 feet higher than the mound itself, afibrding a far 
better view and over three times the amount of territory. The mound 



736 PAPKRS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

shows no action of fire, and no remains of any description were found 
within it. It could not have been a resident mouud, a burial mound, or 
a sacrificial mound. In either case fragments of some kind would have 
remained to tell its story, 

!N"umber 27 is in Sec. 8, T. 10 N., E. 2 W., in the northwest corner of the 
southeast quarter section, on the highest terrace formation, at the apex 
of the hill, and on the north side of Bloyd'.s Creek. East of the mound, 
about 100 yards, is a small ravine, fed by springs. The tumulus is 7 
feet high, with a base diameter of 48 feet. It had been explored to 
some extent about a year before the work of 1880, and the parties 
who sunk the pit in the center found, while so doing, a part of a 
pendant and a small celt, also, a few bones, ulna, radius, tibia, 
and a portion of the spinal column, but no fragments of the cra- 
nium. They, like a great many other curiosity hunters, placed 
no value on these bones, but threw them out among the brush. The 
exploration herein described commenced with a trench on the north side, 
1 foot below the base, which ran longitudinally through the mound. 
An unfinished gorget was found, one corner of which having lain in the 
fire had become calcined to some extent. This ornament and the " finds"' 
of the other parties are made of striped slate. This mound will be fully 
explored in the near future as opportunity offers, being only 1^ miles 
northwest of the village of Fairfield. The construction of this mound 
is different from that of any other of the numerous mounds explored. 
No distinct strata occur but patches of ashes and charcoal are inter- 
spersed throughout the mound. There have been seven hearths, and 
the fires kept burning there were intense, for the clay beneath each is 
burnt to a brick, red and hard, also giving evidence that the fires have 
been extinguished at different times, and covered over to be rebuilt in 
another place. The construction of this mound is similar to that on 
Shaw's Point, on Manatee Kiver, Florida, described by Mr. S. F. Walker. 
In its use, however, it was entirely different, for no charred animal 
bones occur, nor were the bones removed by the first explorers in any 
way burnt. From this mouud can be distinguished mounds 12, 28, 34, 
36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 76, stone grave 55, work- 
shops 57, 58, 59, 61, 62, 63, cemeteries 64, 65. From oft' this mound an 
enchanting scene is presented to the observer in whatever direction he 
may choose to turn, with the exception of the west. No doubt this 
would be as beautiful as that to the north, east, or south, were it not for 
a dense woods that obstructs the view. You have not only a plain view 
of the valley, but also of the uplands as far as the eye can reach to the 
east. A fire built upon this mound at any time and in any season of 
the year, could be plainly seen at all the mounds, &c., specified in the 
figures given above. We are justified, tlierefore, in terming this stiuct- 
ure not only a burial mound but an observatory, or signal mound as 
well. 

Number 28 is in Sec. 5, T. 10 N., E. 2 W., on the highest terrace for- 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 737 

mation on Mr. Charles Snider's farm, about 50 yards from the apex of a 
very prominent hill which is on the south side of Elie's Creek, and back 
from the river on its west side about 80 rods from the mouth of Elie's 
Creek. The highest is 4^ feet, and the base diameter, 35 feet. From 
the field in which this mound is located, and the one due west, many 
finely made perforators, arrow-points, spear-points, celts, «S:c., have 
been picked up from time to time. IMr. Milton Trusler and Mr. Elmer 
Sheppard have in their cabinets some very beautiful specimens from 
this locality. In the trenching no bones or ornaments of any descrip- 
tion were recovered, but, as usual, the tumulus proved to be a stratified 
mound, Avhich also may be classified as a signal mound. Erom this and 
only this one can be seen mounds 23, 24, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33. 

IS^umber 29 is in Sec. 5, T. 10 IST., R. 2 W., in the southeast quarter of 
the section, about the same distance from the east and north section 
lines. It stands on the south side of Elie's Creek and the west side of 
the river, about 50 yards from the creek and river, on the second terrace 
formation, on Mr. Chas. Snider's farm. The height is 3^ feet, the di- 
ameter 22 feet. It is composed of sand overlaid with a thin stratum of 
brick clay. Mr. Snider, in cultivating over this tuumulus has at several 
times ])lowed up human bones, but they would crumble as quick as 
exi)0sed to the atmosphere. In trenching, the writer met with the same 
trouble of crumbling to dust on exposure. So far as learned, no relics 
have been fouud in this mound by any one. Several have dug into it, 
thus marring the symmetry, and in the course of five or six years there 
will be nothing left to mark its location, which is the case with a gTcat 
n.iany of these ancient monuments along this valley. 

Number 30 is in Sec. 24, in the southwest corner of the northeast 
quarter section, T. 13 N., II. 13 E., on Dr. A. C. Fosdick's farm, and on 
the east side of a small creekthat empties into Elie's Creek. It occu- 
])ies the highest terrace formation of Elie's Creek. The height is 8 feet 
and the diameter at the base, 28 feet. This mound has a pit sunk in 
the center about 5 feet square, concerning which nothing is known. The 
mound is composed of comjjact clay stratified. 

ISTumber 31 is in Sec. 14, T. 13 I^., R. 13 E., Fayette County, in the 
southwest corner of the northeast quarter section, on Mr. John Dun- 
gan's farm. It stands on the north side of the same creek as No. 30, 
northwest of Mr. Dungau's residence about 150 yards. This mound is 
7^ feet high and 46 feet in base diameter. It has been partly explored 
by some one who commenced a trench on the west side 5 feet wide, and 
dug to the center of the mound. The sides of this trench reveal the 
composition throughout. The mound stratified and composed of brick 
clay. From the field in which this mound is located several species of 
aboriginal handiwork have been picked up. 

Number 32 is in Sec. 14, T. 13 N., R. 13 E., in the northwest corner 
of the northeast quarter, about 20 yards from the north section line and 
75 yards from the west quarter-section line. It stands in the center of 
H. Mis. 20 47 



738 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

a fiue maple grove, on Mr. Asbury Henson's farm. Tbe height is 11 
feet, and the base diameter 57 feet. This mound, like No. 30. has a pit 
sunk in the center. Fifty yards to the northwest of the mound is a 
large circular pit, from which, no doubt, the material used in the con- 
struction was taken. On the mound are three large maple trees, and 
on mound 31 are two maple and a beech tree. The material is compact 
clay. 

Number 33 is in Sec. 25, T. 11 N., R. 2 W., in the southeast corner of 
the northwest quarter section, in CJuion County, northwest of Eoseburgh 
500 yards. It stands on the east side of Hannah's Creek, about 400 
yards distant, and on second terrace formation, on Mr. Hayworth's farm. 
This mound is 15 feet high, with a base diameter of C5 feet, and is con- 
sidered the largest mound in Union County. Kiding over it with a 
horse or pounding on the apex produces a hollow sound. The supposi- 
tion among the villagers is that it is not solid. No doubt this is a sepul- 
chral mound. 

Number 34 is in Sec. 3, T. 10 N., 11. 2 W., about midway, near the east 
section line of the northeast quarter section, on the east side of Han- 
nah's Creek, and on the highest terrace formation. It is located on Mr. 
Andy Sutton's farm, northwest of Santaannahsburg a little over a 
half mile, and on the west side of the road that runs from the burg 
across to Hannah's Creek, and 300 yards a little northwest of Mr. Sut- 
ton's residence. This mound is 14J feet in height, with base diameter 
of 60 feet, unexplored. 

Number 35 is in Sec. 33, T. 11 N., E. 2 W., in the southeast corner of 
the northeast quarter-section, on the highest terrace formation of the 
river, 40 rods from the east section line, and 75 or 80 yards from the 
south quarter-section line. It is on the north side of the road and about 
150 yards north of Mrs. Hughes's residence, on Mr. Jas. Wilson's farm. 
The height is 4 feet, base diameter 38 feet ; the material is brick clay. 

Number 36 is in Sec. 34, T. 11 N., E. 2 W., on the line that divides the 
northwest and southwest quarters, and 60 yards from the west section 
line, on Mr. Israel Martin's farm. It stands on the highest terrace for- 
mation of the river, east of Mrs. Hughes's residence about 100 yards. 
The height is 4| feet, and the base diameter 38 feet. This mound has 
been trenched from the west side to the center, and Mr. Geo. Hughes, 
who lives in close proximity, states that there have been taken from this 
mound several nice copper and striped slate ornaments, and human 
remains, in a very good state of preservation. Like a great many 
others who destroy these ancient tumuli, however, merely to satisfy a 
morbid curiosity, placing no value upon these old and partly decomposed 
bones, "he threw aside" that which the student as well as the scien- 
tist value as highly as the relics found with them. Thus it is, in every 
c()muiuuity, a class of people exist, to place hinderauces in the way 
of investigators. 

Number 37 is in Sec. 34, T. 11 N., E. 2 W., about half way between 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 739 

the east and west quarter section lines of the northwest quarter, and 10 
rods from north section line. It is located on the highest terrace for- 
mation of the river, on Mrs. Lewis Hugh's farm. Its height is 4J feet, 
and base diameter 35 feet. It is unexplored. 

Xumber 38 is in Sec. 3, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northwest corner of 
the northwest quarter, about equal distance from the north and west 
. section lines, on the highest terrace formation of Hannah's Creek, and 
on Mr. Jerry Sample's farm. The height is 4 feet, and the base diam- 
eter 28 feet. It is unexplored. 

Number 39 is in Sec. 3, T. 10 K., R. 2 W., in the southwest corner of the 
northwest quarter, about equal distance from the west section line and 
south quarter-section line. It stands on a very prominent hill that juts 
out to Hannah's Creek, where it and Dubois Creek join. From this 
mound can be distinguished Nos. 30, 37, 38, 40, 41, 27, 28, workshops 
CO, 62. 

Number 40 is in Sec. 4, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northeast corner of 
the southeast quarter, about 10 rods from the east section line, and 12 
rods from north line of the quarter, on the highest terrace formation of 
both the river and Hannah's Creek, and on Mrs. Scott's farm. Unex- 
plored. 

Number 41 is in Sec. 9, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northeast quarter of 
the section, southwest of the township school-house 508 yards, on Mr. 
Alex. Johnson's farm, and southeast of his residence 300 yards, on 
the highest terrace formation of the river. The height is 5 feet, and 
the base diameter 40 feet. From this mound can be distinguished Nos. 
27, 28, 29, 38, 39, 40, 42, 43, workshop 60. Unexplored. 

Number 42 is in Sec. 9, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northeast corner of 
the southeast quarter section, on the second terrace formation, and on 
the south side of a small stream called Hollingsworth's Creek. It 
stands only a few rods east of Mr. Henry Master's spring-house, also 
southeast of his residence about 400 yards. The height is 4J feet, and 
the base diameter 32 feet. It is composed of compact clay. 

Number 43 is in Sec. 9, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., about midway between the 
south section line and the north quarter section line, and in the south- 
east quarter of the section, due south of residence about 500 yards, on 
the same farm, and on the second terraced formation. This mound is 
oblong, and is 3 feet high, its longest diameter being 42 feet, its shortest 
20 feet. Mr. Enoch Hollingsworth, who owned this farm years ago, at 
his leisure moments trenched it from east to west, and in doing so re- 
moved several fragments of human bones, a few arrow-points, and one 
stone ax, which were thrown aside as valueless. 

Number 44 is in Sec. 24, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northeast corner of 
the northeast quarter section. The east section and township line 
touches the base of the mound on the east side. It is south of the north 
section line just 8 rods, and northwest of Mr. Thomas Flood's residence 
40 yards. This mound has been under cultivation annually for the past 



740 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

fifty years ; therefore as to its original height there are no means of 
judging. From this mound have been taken a fine pipe, several arrows, 
spear-points, and ornamental stones, all of which were given to persons 
who were making a study of these j^rehistoric relics. 

Number 45 is a stone structure in Sec. 23, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the 
northeast corner of the northwest quarter section, 10 rods south of the 
north county line, 20 rods west of the east quarter-section line, on the 
west side of a small branch or creek that empties into the north branch 
of Templeton's Creek. This is the most peculiar stone structure in the 
valley. The east half has been destroyed by the branch undermining 
the bank, and letting it down about C feet to the bed of the creek. This 
structure was examined very minutely. Judging from the remaining 
half, and allowing both sides to have been equal in width and length, 
we may form some idea of its character. The height of the wall 
and altar is the same, measuring just 2 feet. It is an easy matter 
to conjecture the use for which this peculiar structure was erected, 
but a more difficult task to establish opinions as facts. There is an 
altar surrounded by a wall. Whether this was a sacrificial altar or 
one upon which had been erected an idol cannot be known. The 
center is not raised above the surrounding walls. The stone covering 
the top was once in one solid piece, but now broken, and was perfectly 
smooth on its upper surface. It does not show any action of fire. Mr. 
Joseph Miller, who first called attention to it, and others, could not' 
imagine for what purpose it was constructed. This was a great curi- 
osity during the days when the noted Bath Springs were a resort of the 
jieople from a distance as well as those ot the surrounding country. 
Crowds would visit this structure and speculate upon its probable use 
and constructors.* 

Number 46 is in Sec. 15, T. 10 N., E. 2 W., in the southeast corner of 
the southeast quarter section, 4 rods from the south section and county 
line that separates Franklin and Union Counties, 8 rods from east sec- 
tion line. It stands on the south side of Bath Creek, 40 feet from the 
bank, at the foot of a small hill in the woods, on the third terrace forma- 
tion of the river, and on Mr. Noah Newkirk's farm. On the north side 
and also on the east side, about, midway of the apex and base, are grow- 
ing two large beech trees. Mound, height, 3^ feet; base, diameter, 30 
feet; composition, compact clay. 

Number 47 is in Sec. 22, T. 10 N., E. 2 W., in the northeast part of 
the northeast quarter section, on the south side of Bath Creek, and on 
third terrace formation of the river, located on Mr. Amos Cary's farm. 
The height is 5 feet ; base diameter, 35 leet ; composition, compact clay. 

* Since the above was written Mr. Joseph Miller states that during the Iroshets of 
June 13, 18S2, the creek, near whose bank it was situated, overflowed. The current, 
being swift and destructive, completely destroyed the remaining part of the structure 
by undermining the bank and tumbling the whole into the creek. Thus it is, one by- 
one, these old remains are becoming removed. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 741 

Number 48 is in Sec. 22, T. 10 I^r., R. 2 W., in the southwest part of 
the northeast quarter section, on the south side of Bath Creek. It oc- 
cupies the highest terrace formation of the river, about midway between 
the creek and the road to the south that leads from Fairfield to Colter's 
Corner and Oxfoitl. It is located on Mr. Amos Cary's farm. The height 
was originally G feet and base diameter 40 feet. This mound has been 
under cultivation for the past half century. The author remembers 
very distinctly going twenty-two years ago, in company with a cousin, and 
gathering pockets and hats full of fine arrow-points and spear-points 
from this mound, carrying them to the house, after which they amused 
themselves by striking them together to see the sparks fly. Even recently 
have been secured fine specimens of arrow-points, spear-heads, two or 
three very good axes, several fine celts, and three discoidal stones, the 
largest weighing eight pounds and six ounces. In digging from west 
to east a trench 6 feet wide, nothing was found in the shape of orna- 
ments or domestic implements, but a stratum of ashes, coal, and burnt 
clay. 

Number 49 is in Sec. 16, T. 10 N., E. 2 W., in the southeast quar- 
ter section, about midway between the north quarter and south 
section and county lines. It is 10 rods from east section lines, on the 
third terrace forraatiou, on Mr. John Sim's farm. This is an oblong 
mound, height, 3 J feet ; longest base diameter, 40 feet; shortest, 20 feet; 
composition, compact clay. From this mound can be distinguished Nos. 
20, 25, 26, 27, 28, 53. 

Number 50 is in Sec. 27, T. 10 N., E. 2 W., in the northeast part 
of the northeast quarter section, about 20 rods from the north section 
line, the same distance from the road on the south of the mound, and 
northeast of Mr. C. Master's residence, on whose farm it is located. It 
lies south of a small stream called Blue Lick, which empties into Bath 
Creek, and is in the woods about 60 rods from the creek. The height 
is 5 feet 9 inches; base diameter, 25 feet; composition, burnt clay, coal, 
and ashes. On the north side of the mound is a large beech tree, whose 
roots permeate the mound. This tumulus, in construction, is similar 
to No. 12 in being a protected mound. No. 12 is covered with flat 
shelly limestone ; this, with cobble-stones. The strata are five in num- 
ber, the protecting rock, or cobble-stone covering, varying from 5 to 12 
inches in thickness. The stones were laid symmetrically from base to 
apex, and were all calcined ; the silex and quartz by the confined heat 
had become vitrified. This was accomplished by overlaying the rock 
covering with a heavy deposit of compact clay, thereby confining the 
heat ; but the most diflQcult problem is how the savages accomplished 
the feat of arranging these bowlders so evenly while such an intense fire 
was burning. What was the object in thus protecting such a mound is 
diflicult to say, unless it was for the cremation of the dead. Upon sink- 
ing a shaft in the center below the level of the mound, or in digging a 
trench 6 feet wide from the west to the east side, not a fragment of bone, 



742 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

pottery, or any implement appeared. It was simply a pile of calcined 
rock, intensely burnt clay, ashes, and coal. Judging from the vast 
amount of broken arrow-points, spear-points, and celts, in the field near 
mound 51, a terrific conflict must have raged upon this spot, and it may 
be that the conquerors heaped up their dead or those of their enemies 
and cremated them upon the spot where this mound of ashes, coal, and 
calcined rock now stands. It was not used as a signal mound, for sev- 
eral reasons: First the builders would not have expended their labor 
in gathering these cobble-stone and protecting it as they have done for 
such a purpose. Second, the location is not suitable, for all signal sta- 
tions or mounds are located on the most in^ominent points, clear of all 
obstructions. Nor is it a kitchen mound, there being no fragments of 
bone, pottery, &c. Therefore this must have been a funeral pyre. 

Number 51 is in Sec. 27, T. 10 N., E. 2 W., in the northwest corner of 
the northeast quarter section, on the highest terrace formation, about 6 
rods from west section line and almost due west of number 50. It lies a 
little northeast of Mr. Jon. Hugh's residence, on whose farm it is located. 
This mound has been under cultivation for the past half century. Under 
the turning process of the plow and scraping and dragging of the 
harrow during all this time, one finds it impossible to form any idea of 
its original height. At the present time this one is 2 feet 10 inches 
high. From the field in which this mound is located a great many 
arrow-points, pestles, axes, bark-pealers, scrapers, etc., have been picked 
up from time to time, of which a great majority were broken. 

Number 52 is in Sec. 27, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northwest part of 
the southeast quarter section, on the highest terrace formation, due 
south of number 51, near the woods, on Mr. Jon. Hugh's farm. The 
height is 4J feet; base diameter, 35 feet; comi)osition, compact clay. 

Number 53 is in Sec. 20, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the northwest part of 
the northwest quarter section, near the head of a stream called Herralls' 
Branch, on the highest terrace formation, due north of Mrs. Hay worth's 
residence, on whose farm it is located. The height is 4 feet; base 
diameter, 25 feet, and composition, compact clay. 

Number 76 is in Sec. 27, T. 10 N., E. 2 W., in the northeast corner of 
the southwest quarter section, on the highest terrace formation, and on 
Mr. A. C. Carter's farm. The height is 3 feet; the base diameter, 20 
feet, and composition, compact clay. 

Number 77 is in Sec. 23, T. 10 N., E. 2 W., in the southwest corner of 
the southwest quarter section, on the highest terrace formation, on Mr. 
E. Wortman's farm, at the head of a small stream called Blue Lick, 
which empties into Bath Creek. The mound is on the east side and 
almost due south of the old log cabin that still stands on the south side 
of the farm. The height is 4J feet; base diameter, 28 feet; and composi- 
tion, compact clay. 

Number 78 is in Sec. 28, T. 11 N., E. 2 W., about the center of the 
southwest quarter section, on the second terrace formation. It stands 



PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 743 

a little northwest of Quakertown, on the east side of Bond's Creek, about 
80 yards distant. The present height is 3 feet, and base diameter, GO feet. 
Mr. Hugh Abernathy, among the first settlers of this valley, states that, 
sixty years ago, this mound was about 18 feet high, and made of fine 
sand, which the older citizens of Quakertown and Dunlapsville hauled 
away for building purposes. The remaining portion does not look like 
the remnant of a mound. 

Number 79 is in Sec. 31, T. 14 iS^., R. 14 E., in the northeast corner of 
the northwest quarter section, on the third terrace formation, on Mr. 
Hugh Abernathy's farm. The height is 8 feet; base diameter, 45 feet, 
and composition, compact clay. 

Number 80 is in Sec. 2, T. 11 N., E. 2 W., in the northwest part of the 
northeast quarter section, on the highest terrace formation, on the Lev- 
iston farm. It stands about half way between the Junction Railroad 
and Liberty and Brownsville pike, and about 4 rods from a never- failing 
spring, which is a little northwest of the mound. The mound has been 
under cultivation for a great many years, which has greatly diminished 
it in height. 

Number 84 is in Sec. 5, T. 11 N., R. 2 W., in the northwest part of 
the southeast quarter section, and on the second terrace formation of 
Hannah's Creek, on Mr. Henry Ruse's farm. The height is G feet; base 
diameter, 42 feet; composition, compact claj-. 

The fragments of pottery which have been found in the exploration 
of the several mrunds that are distributed along this valley (no com- 
plete vessels have been recovered) are composed of potter's clay, sand, 
and pounded shell. In the process of burning, a portion of the sand 
became vitrified and the shell calcined. By the aid of the microscope 
it was possible to find out the composition of each fragment, yet these 
would crumble with tke least handling. The mysterious people who 
constructed these mounds must have exercised a great deal of care in 
removing the larger pebbles from the dirt, since those composed of clay 
or sand show a very few pebbles as large as a good sized marble. This 
fact has been often verified by the author, who ordered his helpers to 
notice critically every particle of dirt handled in the process of trench- 
ing or sinking a i)it. Mounds from 20 to GO feet in diameter have been 
trenched without finding as many as a dozen pebbles. It is not for the 
want of pebbles in the surface soil, for they are plentiful and can be 
gathered by the bushel. It is not that the material has been brought 
from a distance. Ninety-nine of every hundred mounds are heaped up 
from the surrounding soil, and seasons of rain-fall, freezing and thaw- 
ing, growth and decay have filled up these places, so that the surround- 
ing surface presents the appearance of never having been disturbed. 
How much higher these tumuli were originally we have no means of 
knowing; the same changes will diminish the height of these monu- 
ments with each succeeding year. 

Number 54 is a group of stone graves in Sec. 10, T. 9 N., R. 2 W., in 



744 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

the northwest corner, near the north section line of the northwest 
quarter section, on the third terrace formation of the river. It is situ- 
ated north of a small stream that runs through Mr. James Logan's farm. 
Mr. James Rucker, in company with Mr. Logan, some years ago, excavated 
them, but in doing so only found a few fragments of decayed bones. 
Mr. Logan also states that the field in which these graves are located 
was formerly covered with arrow-points, but the process of plowing, 
rolling, and harrowing has broken them into fragments ; yet a great 
many are still picked up by the children from time to time. 

Number 55 is also a stone grave iu Sec, 16, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., about 
midway between the north section line and the south quarter- section line, 
and iu the northeast quarter section. It stands about 4 rods from the 
east section line, on the brow of a very high hill that is covered by heavy 
timber. In digging into this grave a few fragments of bone were found, 
a portion of the humerus, ulna, radius, and femur, the outer plates of 
the cranium, which was as thin as paper, the inner being entirely de- 
cayed. 

Number 04 is a cemetery in part Sec. 29, T. 11 N., R. 2 W., on the 
highest terrace formation, and on a prominent ridge that projects out 
to Bond's Creek, on the west side, on Mr. Jackson Leeche's farm. 
Five years ago, in the neighborhood in which this cemetery is located, the 
road supervisor, in his t>earch for gravel, by chance stumbled upon the 
point of this ridge, which he commenced to remove. After digging and 
caving down the ridge about 8 feet from the i)oint of commencement, 
the workmen came ui)on and removed four skeletons with a few stone- 
axes, one of which, 8 pounds in weight, is in the author's cabinet, and one 
of about the same weight is in the cabitiet of the Natural Historical So- 
ciety of Cincinnati. At that time also a few celts were found with these 
skeletons. A great portion of the skeletons c^pmbled to pieces upon 
exposure to the air. One cranium w^as nicely put together by Mr. Stan- 
ton, who has it yet in his cabinet. The depth of the interment was 7 
feet. 

Number 65 is a cemetery in Sec. 4, T. 9 N., R. 2 W., in the southwest 
corner of the southeast quarter section, on a ridge that projects out 
to a small stream which empties into the river. It is situated on 
the east side of the river, on the second terrace, a little southeast of 
the river bridge, on Mrs. K. Templeton's farm. Over it has grown a 
small forest, which obscured the fact that it was a resting-place of the 
dead. There are only four places within a range of 11 miles — these 
two cemeteries and the stone graves — where the dead were buried in 
this manner. 

Number 56 is an open-air workshop in Sec. 3, T. 9 N., R. 2 W., in the 
southeast corner of the southwest quarter section, on the second terrace 
formation of the river, iu a field on the north side, through which runs 
a small stream fed by numerous fine springs. This workshop is but a 
short distance southwest of the grouj) of stone graves. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 745 

Number 57 is an open-air workshop in Sec. 4, T. 9 N., R. 2 W., near 
the southeast corner of the northwest quarter section, on Mr. George 
Templeton's farm. It is situated on tlie second terrace formation of the 
river, south of Templeton's Creek about 300 yards, and 150 j^ards south 
of his residence. The gentleman states that he has found a great many 
axes, pestles, celts, and arrow-points on this piece of land, and from a 
spot about 200 feet square has hauled at least sixty wagon-loads of 
chipped and unchipped cobble-stones, and yet as many loads remain. 
Mr. Templeton has in his possession an ax taken from this shop, the 
most perfect one the writer has examined. 

IM umber 58 is a workshop in Sec. 12, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the north- 
east corner of the southwest quarter section, on the second terrace forma- 
tiou, and in Mr. Charles B. Hay ward's farm. It stands almost oj)posite the 
noted Glidwell mound, and on the west side of the river, in plain view 
of No. 57. To the northwest of the field in which this shop is located are 
several never-failing springs, whose water forms quite a stream, which 
flows along the north side and empties into the river. Here can be 
found a vast amount of chert chips, chert balls, broken and chipped cob- 
ble-stones, and broken arrow-points. The implements that predominate 
are the scrapers, axes, sinkers, hammer or chipping-stones. A few or- 
namental pieces have been found. The author has gathered and re- 
ceived from Mr. Hayward at least a bushel of relics. And every year 
when this spot of ground is turned over hundreds are picked up by the 
owner and given away, yet, from among the vast number, not one pure 
flint-point has been found. 

Number 59 is a workshop in Sec. 17, T. 10 N,, R. 2 W., in the south- 
east part of the northeast qiiarter section, on the second terrace for- 
mation of the river, on Mr. James Herrall's farm, a little east of north 
from his residence, and close to the road, on the east side of the field in 
which it is located. East of the field is a fine spring of water, and near 
by in the field is the workshop, about 300 feet square. Here were manu- 
factured the ornamental or ceremonial pieces, for every year that this 
spot is cultivated several implements are picked up in an unfinished or 
finished state. Some are only chii)ped into form, some chipped, pecked, 
and partly ground ; others completed, with the exception of drilling, 
which in some cases is commenced j others are entirely' finished. A few 
.celts and chipping-stones have been found, but they do not seem to be 
very numerous. 

Number 60 is a workshop in Sec. 9, T. 11 N., R. 2 W., on the south- 
west corner of the northwest quarter section, on the second terrace for- 
mation of the river, and on Mr. Alexander Johnston's farm. The spot 
covers about 4 or 5 acres, constituting the area of the jolateau over 
which the work was prosecuted. The articles of manufacture were 
axes, celts, and pestles. From this spot have been gathered quite 
a number of these domestic implements, with a few ornaments, by Mr. 
Theodore Campbell, S. Conrad, H. Brown, James Mills, and others. Quite 



746 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

a number of large axes, weighing from 10 to IG pounds, liave been found 
here. Mr. James Rucker has one in his cabinet with about 4 inches of 
the bit broken off, found by Mr. Henry Brown, that weighs, as it is, 12 J 
pounds. No doubt before it was broken it would have weighed 16 
pounds. The author has one in his cabinet, made of striped slate, 
plowed up on the 2Gth day of August, that weighs 10 pounds. Mr. 
Theodore Campbell gave the author a mortar that holds very near a half 
gallon, the finest specimen of the kind he has ever seen. It was i>lowed 
up in 1848, by Mr. Taylor, " a former owner of this farm," who at that 
time picked the date on the bottom of it. Very few arrow-points are 
found on this farm or those joining it on the north, east, or south. 
Through the field in which this shop is located an old Indian trail 
passes to an Indian camping-ground due west, about 200 yards. 
Some of the older inhabitants of this and that neighborhood still 
recollect some of the incidents that transpired at this camp while 
the aborigines yet roamed at will up and down this valley. 

Xuraber Gl is a workshop in part. Sec. 29, T. 12 N., R. 2 W., on the 
second terrace formation of the river, and on Mr. Levi Bond's farm, 
just north of his residence, about 300 yards. It is about 500 yards 
northwest of Quakertown, on the north side of the road that leads from 
Quakertowu to Alquina ; also on the west side of Bond's Creek. A lit- 
tle to the south is an excellent spring of pure water running the whole 
year round. A little northeast of this shop was the once great sand 
mound spoken of. The articles of manufacture of this shop were the ax, 
pestle, celt, and hammer-stone. This was one of the most productive 
shops along the valley. There has been gathered here, from time to 
time, at least a half wagon load of domestic implements, and yet every 
year that this field is cultivated Mr. Bond or his sons pick up about two 
dozen implements. Almost every cabinet in this section and that of 
the State museum contains typical specimens taken from this notorious 
workshop which covers about 2J acres. This space is covered with a 
mass of chipped and broken stones ; but to my knowledge or that of Mr. 
Bond's, no ornamental piece has yet been found within the field in which 
these remains are located. Northwest of this, a quarter of a mile, is a 
cemetery which will be mentioned further on. 

Number 62 is a woikshop in Sec. 4, T. 11 N., E. 2 W., in the north- 
west part of the southeast quarter section, on the second terrace forma- 
tion of the river, and on Mrs. E. Scott's farm. It stands northeast of her 
residence and on the north side of Hannah's Creek. The articles of 
manufacture have been pestles and celts, those implements predomi- 
nating. But very few axes have been found here. The area of this 
shop is about 1 or li aeres. A vast amount of broken cobble-stone 
covers the spot. Very little of the striped slate stone is found here. 
No ornaments or fragments thereof has ever been discovered on this 
piece of land, arrow-points also being very few in number. Occasion- 
ally one is picked up in the spring or fall of the year, when plowing is 
going on. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 747 

Number G3 is a workshop in Sec. 21, T. 12 N., R. 2 W., in the north- 
west corner of the southeast quarter section, on the second terrace 
formation of the river, and on Mr. Harrison Erb's farm. It stands on 
the west side of the river, also on the west side of the road that leads 
from Dunlapsville to Brownsville. A little northeast of this work- 
shop is an excellent spring, which has never been known by the oldest 
settler to fail in supplying an abundance of water. The articles 
of manufacture at this shop were axes, pestles, celts, and hammer- 
stones, or, as some would wish to classify them, sinkers. From this 
shop, which covers an area of about 2 acres, quite a goodly number of 
these domestic implements have been taken. Only two or three orna- 
mental pieces have been found here, and those were broken or unfin- 
ished. A great many of the domestic implements have also been found 
in this condition. 

Number G6 is a workshop in Sec. 3G, T. 13 N., R. 13 E., in the north 
west part of the southwest quarter section, on the highest terrace for- 
mation, on Mr. Jacob Master's farm, a little northwest of the residence 
and on the north side of Bloyd's Creek. To the south of this shop is a 
fine spring of water. The predominant articles of manufacture were 
arrow-points, scrapers, and drills. Seldom an ax, celt, or pestle is found 
here, but a great many arrows, with which the several local collectors 
have enriched their cabinets. They are principally made of chert ; occa- 
sionally a specimen of chalcedony or of flint occurs. 

Number 82 is a workshop in Sec. 20, T. 10 N., E. 2 W., in the south- 
west part of the northwest quarter section, on the highest terrace forma- 
tion, and on Mrs. Agnes Miller's farm, north of her residence about 100 
yards. To the south of this shop is a fine sj^ring of water. Articles 
of manufacture are arrows, spear-points, and scrapers. The area of the 
shop is about one-half acre, which is thickly covered with fragments 
of chert. A great many fine arrow-points have been found here by Mrs. 
S. B. Johnston's sons, who make a business ofcollecting these relics and 
selling them to the several local collectors. 

Number 83 is a workshop in Sec. 27, T. 13 N., R. 13 E., in the 
southwest part of the southeast quarter section, on t-he highest terrace 
formation, on Mr. Jacob Meyer's farm, northwest of his residence about 
75 yards. East of the shop about 100 yards is a good spring of water, 
which flows directly along the south side of the field in which the shop 
is located. Articles of manufacture are arrow and spear j^oiuts, al- 
though a few fragments of ornaments havebeenfound and two "anvils." 
The area covered by the shop is IJ acres. Here we find the ground cov- 
ered with chips of chert, with occasionally a few fragments of flint and chal- 
cedony. This shop has also furnished several local collectors with a fine 
assortment of arrow-points. So far, not a single ax, celt, or pestle has 
been found on this shop or even on the farm. 

Number 85 is a workshop in Sec. 10, T. 12 N,, E. 13 E., in the north- 
ern part of the southeast quarter section, on the highest terrace forma- 



748 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

tion, and on Mr. Jon. Webb's farm. Articles of manufacture are axes, 
celts, arrovr and spear points. Here a profusion of articles have been 
found, along with some fragments of ornaments. Mr. Webb and his 
sons, in the process of tilling this field, have secured a vast amount of the 
arrow-points, some of them very fine specimens. The shop covers about 
2 acres of ground. In the writer's cabinet is a sledge which Mr. E. 
Webb gave him in the spring of 1880, turned over in the process of plow- 
ing. This sledge weighs 22J pounds ; the groove being complete, also 
the pole, the bit being chipped and pecked down ready for grinding. 
This is an excellent specimen. Every year when tilling the field in 
which this shop is located the owners secure a goodly number of relics. 
In the adjoining field on the north the oldest settlers say there was 
an Indian camping-ground, and the trail passed through the northeast 
corner portion of the field'in which this shop is located. 

The old block-houses which were erected along the valley some sev- 
enty-five years ago have nearly all been removed, and the spot where 
they once stood will soon be unknown. The old settlers are passing 
away rapidly, and they alone retain their history. Here in this valley 
they settled down in 1803 and 1804, in somewhat compact colonies, and 
erected these forts for preservation in time of danger from the then 
savages. Of these but two remain, one on Mr. William McClure's farm, 
a little northeast of Brookville, Ko. 89 ; the other on Mr. Jon. Power's 
farm, No. 81. This was weather-boarded and converted into a dwelling, 
and has been occupied as such up to the present time, but the owner 
contemplates its removal. Thus the last one of these forts whose rude 
walls had protected our first inhabitants from the deadly arrows of the 
red men will be gone to give place to a more commodious dwelling 

Block-house ^N'o. 67 is in Sec. 28, T. 12 K, R. 2 W., and in the south- 
east corner of the northwest quarter section, on the east side of the 
village of Dunlapsville. This block-house was erected by Mr. William 
Nickles in 1806. 

Block-house No. 68 is in Sec. 30, T. 14 K, E. 14 E., in the southwest 
corner of the northeast quarter section, and just opposite the mouth 
of Richland Creek. It was erected in 1805. 

Block-house No. 81 is in Sec. 33, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., in the southwest 
corner of the southwest quarter section, erected by Obadiah Eustes, in 
1804. 

Block -house No. 87 is in Sec. 21, T. 9 N., R. 2 W., near the southwest 
corner of the northwest quarter section. 

Camping-grounds and trails have been laid down on the map and 
sectional drawings as correctly as it were possible. To accomplish this 
has been quite a task and involved writing to a ^reat manj^ who are 
acquainted with facts, who do not now reside within the county. The 
greater portion of the knowledge thus gained was from the oldest in- 
habitants who were born and raised in this community. 

No. 09 is in Sec. 31, T. 10 N., R, 1 W., in the southwest corner of the 
southwest quarter section. 



, PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 749 

Ko. 70 is in Sec. 33, T. 10 J>'., E. 2 W., in the northwest corner of the 
southwest quarter section. 

No. 71 is in Sec. 10, T. 12 N., K. 13 E., near the southwest corner of 
the northeast quarter section. 

No. 72 is in Sec. 36, T. 13 N., E. 13 E., very near center of the sec- 
tion. 

No. 73 is in Sec. 8, T. 11 N., E. 2 W., southeast corner of the north- 
east quarter section. 

No. 74 is in Sec. 11, T. 11 N., E. 2 W., in the northeast corner of the 
southwest quarter section. 

No. 75 is in Sec. 7, T, 14 N., E. 14 E., in the southwest corner of the 
southwest quarter section. 

No. 80 is in Sec. 34, T. 13 N., E. 13 E., midway between the east and 
west quarter-section lines, and near the north line of the northeast 
quarter section. 

OPEN-AIR WORKSHOPS. 

These shops are discovered in the valleys under th-e uplands by evi. 
dences as positive as those of the mounds and earthworks, and perhaps 
more so than those of the mounds, from the fact that a great many per- 
sons are misled in regard to these elevations, ever ready to call any sym- 
metrical hillock a mound. Only a section will disclose the truth as to their 
natural or artificial formation. Not so in regard to these ancient work- 
shops. If by chance one should, while I'assing over a field or piece of 
ground, come upon a vast amount of broken cobble-stones or chert, un- 
able to find hardly one intact, he naturally would conclude that here 
some kind of industry' had been carried on. A true knowledge of that 
branch of industry' would be found out by any inquiring mind. If 
among these spalls or fragments we find an ax, celt, or pestle, and upon 
due inquiry of the owner or tenants ascertain that he at dift'erent 
times had gathered several of these different implements there we could 
surely say, this is a workshop where were manufactured only this pecu- 
liar class of implements. Wherever these fragments are found there is 
no difficulty in classifying the style of implement which were manufac- 
tured, whether they be the ax, celt, pestle, hammer, arrow, or ornament ; 
the superabundance of each article tells the storj-. Sometimes we find 
a variety of implements, such as the ax, celt, arrow-points, &c. In such 
instances there will be found a conglomeration of fragments. But such is 
seldom the case, and only one shop of this character is known along 
this valley ; this is No. 59, in Sec. 17, T. 11 N., E. 2 W. Here are 
found the warlike and domestic implements in conjunction with orna- 
ments, all of which have been found in goodly numbers in their finished 
and unfinished state ; some chipped into form, others chipped and partly 
pecked ; others again showing three stages of advancement, chipped, 
partly pecked, and partly ground or polished. Such is not only the case 
with the ornamental finds, but also the axes and celts show the same 



750 . PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY 

stages of advancement. These workshops, as a general rule, are located 
on the second terrace formation along the river or the larger streams 
that empty into the river, and in close proximity with each shop is an 
excellent spring of water. Also in close proximity will be found a sig- 
nal mound or station, located on the highest hill or bluff along the river. 
Mound 12 commands an excellent view of Nos. 56, 57, and 58 ; mound 
25 thatof No. 59; mound 27 that of shop GO; mound 41, that of G2; mound 
79, that of 63 ; mound 21, that of 85 ; and so on, through the whole val- 
ley. 'Tis true these signal mounds in some instances have been con- 
verted or adopted as burial mound, probably after their abandonment 
as signal stations. We are better able after trenching these struct- 
ures through the center to determine their true character and probable 
use. Until this is done our theories are premature, for only a true sec- 
tion of their formation can establish the facts as to whether they are 
signal mounds or burial mounds or both. In signal mounds there is only 
one spot, and that in the center, that shows the action of fire, and when 
it has served its purpose it is built up in a cone shape and abandoned. 
In case it is converted into a burial mound the fire has been extin- 
guished, the surface leveled, the dead deposited, and again another 
layer of clay or whatever material is used iu its construction is sym- 
metrically laid over the dead to the depth of 6 to 18 inches. Over the 
whole surface a fire once more is started, the object being to burn the 
clay or harden it, so that the water will not permeate it so readily as it 
does the unburnt clay. In doing this there is no fear of destroying Uie 
objects deposited below. Sometimes where a limb has not been suffi- 
ciently covered it has been charred, which accounts for that part of the 
subject we oftentimes find iu these tumuli that are mutilated and at- 
tributed to cremation. The moisture that is contained in the body pre- 
serves the bones of these subjects from the intrinsic action of the fire. 
In studying the reports of the survey of mounds in certain portions of 
the country ,by those who have classified them as signal and burial mounds, 
the question often presents itself, by what criteria are they asserted to 
have been signal stations or otherwise 1 The writer has followed in 
their footsteps heretofore in his classification, description, surveys, &c. 
In the present paper the theory of their past usage is based on the ap- 
pearance of their strata, after a perfect section of the mound is made, 
not from the strata shown iu sinking a shaft in the center, for, perhaps, 
these strata may extend to "within 6 inches of the outer edge of the 
structure or tumulus, and perhaps they may not; hence the advisability 
of a perfect section of the works so as to enable one to classify them cor- 
rectly. This has been done in this i)resent report as far as it was possible 
to superintend the work. These signal and burial mounds develop the 
fact that their builders looked to the safety of the living and to 
the preservation of their dead, and adopted the most rational means 
at that time, taking into consideration their surroundings and facili- 
ties. They could not, with all their shrewdness, have hit upon a more 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 751 

preservative mode — the ashes and coal for the bed of the sleepers, and 
the hard burnt clay as their covering. Under such circumstances it re- 
quired years for these bodies to molder away. Perhaps where these 
mounds stand forests have grown up, fallen, and decayed to give place 
to other species, and yet a goodly portion of the skeletons are exhumed 
from these tumuli in a good state of preservation. The people who once 
occupied this land have had their turn, and in the most joyous career 
of their vanity and splendor their strength failed, and they have again 
returned to dust. Therefore the whole world is but a sepulcher, and 
there has nothing lived on its surface but has been entombed beneath 
it. The mounds and obscure cemeteries all over the world are full of 
this loathsome dust of bodies once quickened by living souls, who per- 
haps occupied thrones, i^resided over assemblies, marshaled armies, and 
subdued provinces. 

Mounds surrounded by circular walls are scattered along the valley 
and on the hill-tops that command a view of the greatest territory ; 
those in the valley generally stand on the second terrace formation, 
near the greatest prominence. Why are the circular walls thus built ? Is 
it to mark the peculiar purpose for which they were constructed, as 
signal, crematory, or sacrificial. Perhaps these walls wfere built to serve 
the purpose to which have been attributed the smaller circular works 
without any center elevation. All the lesser works of this character 
were probably constructed for the same purpose as mentioned hereto- 
fore. They are the remains of a primeval wigwam, it may have been of 
a religious character, or one in which the royal chief and family dwelt. 
Exx)loratiou does not develop anything positive. It is seldom that any 
fragment of bone is found. When such is the case it is of an animal, 
but the species cannot be determined. Generally fragments of pottery 
are found throughout the work, but domestic implements are seldom 
found. If such be the case it will be only a fragment. Another notice- 
able feature is that these structures contain no ornamental or ceremonial 
stones. If one is allowed to judge from the material that is found 
within them, of a domestic character, they would be classed as kitchen 
mounds, containing more fragments of plain domestic pottery than any- 
thing else. They cannot be works of defense, for they are too small, 
measuring only 40 to SO feet in diameter. These circular works were 
simply the protection walls of a wigwam or temple, perhaps of religious 
character. Nothing can be more obvious than that they were built in 
accordance with a general plan and for a specific purpose. When, how- 
ever, a conclusion is sustained by analogies of a most striking charac- 
ter, it is invested with double value. It is then that we proceed with 
some degree of confidence to inquire how far we are justified in suj)pos- 
ing that these ancient structures were temples of worship, or palaces for 
the chief ruler. It is true, we have neither the light of tradition nor 
■ that of history to guide us in our inquiries. Even the name of the 
people by whom these works were constructed is lost. Therefore every 



752 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

attempt to draw aside the curtain that separates myth from truth may 
fail, but if this investigation is but partially successful in casting a ray 
of light upon these mystical structures, the labor will not have been in 
vain. 



SIGJ?"AL MOUNDS OF BUTLER COUNTY, OHIO. 
By ,T. p. MacLean, of Ilaviilton, Ohio. 

The great mound of the valley of the Great Miami Eiver is situated 
on one of the highest hills in its immediate vicinity, and located about 
three-quarters of a mile southeast of the town of Miamisburgh, Mont- 
gomery County, Ohio, and about the same distance east of the Miami 
Eiver. The hill is composed of limestone representing the geological 
formation known as the Hudson River efjoch. Broken limestone crops 
out on the surface, and the soil is very thin, not adapted to agricultural 
puri>oses. The hill from the north and west is steep and may be said to 
be diflScult of ascent. The surface of the country for a considerable dis- 
tance to the east and south is very much broken. The mound is on the 
summit of the hill and on a natural knoll of a very noticeable declivity. 
The sides or various sloi)es of this knoll appear to be regular and of 
equal descent, or rather rising evenly from all directions. On the east 
side of the mound and penetrating it is an excavation walled with stone 
and probably used as a milk house. Two or three rods farther removed 
is a farm-house, while the same distance to the northeast is a barn. The 
mound is 08 feet in perpendicular height, and 852 in circumference at 
its base, and contains 311,353 cubic feet. The summit is level, circular 
in form, with a diameter of about 20 feet. It is said that from this point 
a view may be seen extending for 20 miles up the valley' and the same 
distance down the river. The day I visited it was cloudy and rainy, caus- 
ing the view to be limited, although one of the grandest sights within 
the State presented itself to my eyes. Some of the hills of Butler 
County, upon which I knew were located mounds, were before me. 

The summit of the mound overlooks some of the most important iu- 
closures of the valley. Looking north a distance of 3 miles are the in- 
complete works at Alexandersville, figured and described in "Ancient 
Monuments of the Mississippi Valley," p. 82. 

In a southwest direction and 5 miles distant from the mound is the 
Fort on Big Twin located on Sec. 3, German Township, Montgomery 
County, described in my work on " The Mound-builders," p. 25. An en- 
larged plan of the work is given. 

Nine miles northeast of the last-named fort, and IJ miles south by 
west of Farmersville, situated on Big Twin Creek, is another inclosure 
containing two irregular circles, with still another at the north gateway. 
The work is situated on a spur of land about 100 feet above the creek 
with a perpendicular declivity. Toward the north the hill slopes and the 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



753 




H. Mis. 20 48 



754 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 




PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



755 




756 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



line of embankment is carried down the slope. The entrance-ways are 
at the east and west sides, the inclosure at these points bein^? covered 
by a double line of embankment more formidable than at other points. 
The circles have no gateways. A short distance east by south are the 




remains of what purports to have been a very large nionnd. The alti- 
tude of the mound as it now stands is 20 feet. The creek encroached 
upon the bank and gradually undermined the mound, taking away not 
less than three-fourths of it. The creek then receded to its present 
bed, distant about 20 rods. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



757 



On tlie same creek, in Lanier Townsliip, Preble County, was once the 
work described and fiAured in "Ancient Monuments."* 

Five miles south of the great mound is the large mound near Frank- 
lin in Warren County. This mound is about 35 feet high, located on 




one of the high hills bordering the east bank of the river, and removed 
a distance of about three-fourths of a mile from it. 

The best view of the Miamisburgh mound seen from any of the Butler 
County mounds, is that given from the summit of the mound on Sec. 32, 

* Ancient Monuments of the Mississipiri Valleij, p. 33 (Plate XII, No. 2). 



758 PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Madison Township. In the same township, Sec. 19, is the highest 
mound in the county, with an altitude of 43 feet. A fire on the Miamis- 
burgh mound would be distinctly seen from the summit of this mound. 
While this mound is not situated on the highest hill in the county, yet 
its situation is seen to be better adai)ted for the puri)ose of a signal 
station than any other spot, when the various earthworks it was in- 
tended to jjrotect are taken into consideration. All the signal mounds 
radiate from this one. It is located on a hill rising 400 feet above the 
Miami. It overlooks the inclosure on Sec. 14, Wayne Township. A 
fire on its summit could be seen from the mounds on Sec. 26, Wayne 
Township ; Sees. 9 and 16, Saint Clair, and Sec. 22, Fairfield ; also from 
the inclosure situated on Sec. 16, Fairfield. The three mounds on Sec. 
9, Saint Clair, overlook the inclosure last named, also the one on Sees. 
4, 5, 8, 9, Saint Clair ; the one on Sec. 30, Wayne, and that near Somer- 
ville (Sees. 3, 4, 9, 10), Milford. A light on the same three mounds 
(Sec. 9, Saint Clair) could be seen from the mound on Sec. 31, Milford, 
which overlooks the inclosure on Sec. 36, Oxford Townshij). 

The mound on Sec. 20, Liberty Township, could be signaled from the 
Madison, Saint Clair, or Fairfield mounds. From that point communi- 
cation could be had with the mound on Sec. 24, Union Township, thence 
to the mound on See. 14. The last named overlooks the inclosures on 
Sees. 14 and 8, Union. 

Communication is established between the mounds on Sees. 16 and 
19, Saint Clair, and from the latter to Sec. 12, E-oss, located within a 
few rods of Fortified Hill Fort. This fort commands a view of the earth- 
works on Sees. 10, 10, 15, and 8, Fairfield, as well as Sec. 13, Eoss. 

A light on the mound in Sec. 12, Ross, would be seen from the mound 
in Sec. 21, and this by those in Sec. 30, Hanover, and 24, Reily, while 
one in the last named mound would be visible from that on Sec. 22, 
which overlooks the works just above the village of Reily. 

The mound on Sec. 21, Ross, overlooks the mound and fort on Sec. 8, 
Fairfield, also the Cobrain works in Hamilton County, and the circular 
works on Sees. 27 and 34, Ross. 

Jn Sec. 9, Union Township, and Sec. 15, Fairfield, were a series of 
works overlooked by a mound on last-named section. A communication 
could be had with this mound from several mounds on the west bank of 
the river, notably such as the mounds on Sec. 12, Eoss, and 3 and 16, 
Saint Clair. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 750 

REMAINS ON BLENNERHASSETT'S ISLAND, OHIO RIVER. 
By J. P. MacLean, of Eamilton, Ohio* 

The most famous of all the islands of the Ohio River is known as 
Blennerhassett's Island. For more than two generations it has been 
an historic spot. Around it clusters one of tbe saddest episodes in the • 
history of our country. The traveler anxiously seeks to have it pointed 
out and having once beheld it his imagination lingers at the spot. 
The history of the past wells up before him, and with pity and kind- 
ness he thinks of the unfortunate man who was once its possessor. 

The island received its name from Harman Blennerhassett, who, m 
1798, purchased the upper portion, containing 170 acres. Previous to 
this purchase it was known as Backus' Island. It is supposed that 
the island was first located by General Washington, in tbe year 17.0. 
It was first surveyed in 1784, and in 1786 Patrick Henry, then governor 
of Virginia, made out a patent for it to Alexander Nelson. In 1.91 it 
was purchased of James Heron by Elijah Backus. At the present time 
it is divided into four larms, and owned by four different parties, none 

of whom resides there. . ^ ^ i- ^ ■ 

All that remains of Blennerhassett's costly mansion and tastetul im- 
provements are the old well, whose wall is covered with moss and fern, 
two sand stone steps, and a piece of a stone gate-post. Where once 
was the cellar is now a depression, with a sycamore tree several feet in 
<Uameter growing in the center. 

The island is situated 14 miles below Marietta, and 1^ miles west of 
the mouth of the Little Kanawha. It extends east and west and is ot 
peculiar form, narrow at the middle and broad at both extremities. It is 
over 3 miles long, although its area embraces only 297 acres At the east- 
ern extremity a ridge of land commences and runs through the center of 
the island until half the distance is reached. On either side of this 
ridge is a natural trough, resembling the bed of an ancient canal, with the 
ridk-e banks higher than those bordering the river. The trough or ancient 
channel bed on the north side of the western half of the island has been 
cut away by the river, thus leaving the ridge to form the river's bank 
During high water the river breaks over its banks and flows through 
these troughs, and in its course deposits rich sediment. During the 
time of these explorations the river washighand. had broken into the 

"T^:i;7;~;;^^;;;:rdl^;r;ip^"^17^^ F. P Ames, of Belpre 

Ohio for the valuable assistance he rendered in the exploration of Blennerhassett s 
?sW It^vas he who called attention to its antiquities, and who took every oppor- 
tunity to naake the visit both profitable and pleasant. Mr. Bryant E. Johnson al o 
deseves grateful mention. Besides furnishing relics and granting permission to aig 
t the principal shell heap, he generously abandoned his plow and assisted in making 
the excavations. The illustrations were made from photographs and negatives fur- 
XZTytrZ C. Overpeck, of Hamilton, Ohio, who kindly volunteered to do the 
work without any charge. 



7 GO PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

troufth on the south side and flowed through the channel to the pomt 
where the water re-entered the river, thus forming an island of consid- 
erable size on the south. During low water the river recedes, thus re- 
uniting the diiferent parts of the island. The head of the island is 
covered with trees, which serve to protect it from erosion and also from 
damage by ice. Between these points is a dense covering of trees and 
underbrush left for the same purpose, on account of the land being low 
and the channel somewhat deep. Here driftwood accumulates in great 
quantities, making it of particular advantage to the islanders. Wisdom, 
however, would dictate to allow the driftwood to accumulate in order 
to protect this, the weakest part of the island. 

The geological formation of the bluff on the Virginia side of the river 
was not examined, but the rocks appear to be the same as those on the 
opposite bank. On the Ohio side the rocks are composed of sand and 
take the name of sand-rock. Kot far distant, and farther up the river, 
are located several grindstone quarries. The series of rocks belong to 
that age known as the upper portion of the coal measures. Through 
this sand-rock the Ohio has gradually cut its way until its bed is nearly 
600 feet below the summit of the adjacent hills. That the bed of the 
river was once still lower is evident from the fact that its bottom is 
composed of sand and gravel. The river channel was partially filled 
during the glacial epoch, and since the close of that period the river has 
been gradually reaching its former level. During this process it has 
changed its bed several times. The plain of Belpre was its bed at the 
close of the glacial epoch. Distinct markings occur which exhibit 
changes that took place upon the plain. By the continued process of 
erosion, first on the Ohio and then on the Virginia side, shifting its 
channel from time to time, the river has cut its way to its present bed, 
leaving on the Ohio side a series of beautiful plains and on the Virginia 
a perpendicular bluff. 

Blennerhassett's Island is not wholly an accretion of sediment formed 
by the river, but largely a deposit of the age of ice. The river, in 
the constant shifting of its bed, formed two channels at this point, which 
gives shape to the island. The troughs running along the sides of the 
ridge, thus forming three ridges (one of which is high and the other 
two low and bordering the river), were once additional channels, thus 
presenting four beds, all of which were occupied at one and the same 
time. When this was the condition of the river the island, in all prob- 
ability, was a series of three islands running parallel, the two outer ex- 
tending farther into the present river channels. The bed of the trough 
on the north side is higher than that on the south, and hence was the 
first to become dry. More than one-half of the old trough on the south 
side is still quite low and is soon overflowed during a rise in the river. 
The whole island is occasionally inundated, which generally inures to 
its benefit on account of the riih sediment usually deposited. 

Prom the observations made the land seemed to be making on the 



PAPERS RELATIx\G TO AJlTHROPOLOGY. 761 

soiitli side, but on the western balf of the north side the erosion was 
great. The river, flowing from the north, strikes the Virginia bhTffs a 
little below the mouth of the Little Kanawha, and, on its rebound, 
passes over to the north side of the island ;;nd washes the Ohio shore, 
which in turn forces the waters against the island. So great has been 
the erosion at this point that the summit of the ridge is scarcely 3 feet 
in width. Unless it is soon protected the river, at no distant <lay, will 
cut through, which will result in the rapid annihilation of the western 
half of the island. 

The geological structure presents a mixture of sand, gravel, clay, and 
river sediment. Fine sand is the principal ingredient ; the clay and 
gravel are not predominant. The ridge is covered with a rich vegetable 
mold, varying in thickness from 4 inches to 30. Fossils are occasion- 
ally picked up, among them Spirifer mucronatus and a variety of Zaph- 
rentis. Coal is washed upon the sand-bars in the form of rolled peb- 
bles. The coal has been lost from sunken barges and then rolled along 
the bottom of the river. When thus found it takes all the variety of 
shapes represented in the river gravel or cobble-stone. 

The fact that the island was rich in its archaeological remains was 
known only to a few. The islanders are not interested in the«e remains 
save to pick up the relics, for which they find a ready sale. Curiosity- 
seekers have paid high prices for relics, simply as mementoes of the fa- 
mous place. Two speculators have steadily watched the island for sev- 
eral years, and immediately after high water they search along the north 
bank where they pick up quantities of ancient art. These are disposed 
of without revealing their true locality. Although the wiiter visited 
the islands two days after a speculator had been there, enough relics 
were secured to illustrate fairly the wonderful productiveness of the 
place. Including those purchased, the following is a list of relics ob- 
tained : Fifty-seven arrow-heads, twelve spear-heads, one drill, four 
hatchets, one flesher or bark-peeler, two pestles, three hematites, two 
bodkins, one bone needle, two bone beads, seven ornaments, five circu- 
lar stones, besides numerous pieces of pottery, human and animal bones, 
and three pipes, one piece of the bowl of a pipe, and two pipe-stems. 
Some of these are now deposited in the Smithsonian Institution. Oc- 
casionally complete vessels are obtained. Some of these were found by 
Blennerhassett, all of which were presented to his guests as soon as 
they were obtained. 

The first point examined was the largest shell heap on the island near 
the center. The deposit is 1,125 feet long by 200 in width at the west end 
and 3 feet in width at the eastern extremity. What was the original 
^idth of the shell heap would now be impossible to tell. Mr. Bryant 
Johnson, who has resided on the island during the last twenty years, 
and in its vicinity all his life stated that, in his recollection the width 
had been reduced 70 feet, and the whole distance was covered with 
shells. Save along the margin of the bank the shell heap has been 



762 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

plowed over for the last forty years or more. The plow has displaced 
iuuumerable shells from their bed and thrown them upon the surface. 
The ground is almost covered with the shells of the Unto. Intermingled 
with these shells are numerous pieces of pottery, chert chips, the bones 
of the deer, &c. The jaw-bone of the deer is found in great numbers. 
The remains of two human skeletons had been recently turned out by the 
plow, but in a fragmentary state. This location is a little below the 
brow of the ridge. Lying on the beach human and animal bones occur 
with the shells of the land tortoise. 

The point presenting the most satisfactory view for examination was 
the brow of the bank, for along this line the deposit of shells had not been 
disturbed by the plow. The bank presented first, a layer of vegetable 
mold varying in thickness from 6 inches to 30. Then a layer of shells 
( Unio) ranging from 4 to G inches, containing pieces of pottery, bone 
and stone implements, and the bones of various animals. Under this, 
at different points, varying in depth from 12 inches to 25 were ash pits. 
Then came a sandy formation lying over a stratum composed of sand, 
gravel, and clay. 

Along this bank were made seven excavations ; the first was at the 
eastern extremity. As the ridge here is so extremely narrow the face 
of the bank was slightly cut away in order to discover whether the 
shells occurred farther east along the neck. The shells here presented 
a fair compactness of deposit, but on being handled their sharp edges 
crumbled. This is also true of the other places examined. Farther 
westward, immediately under the mold, and 4 inches below the sur- 
face were found in conjunction, intermingled with the shells, several 
pieces of pottery and an implement made of the antler of a deer. It 
had been ground to a point and was probably highly polished. It does 
not come to a point evenly, but presents two fiat sides. Numerous 
split bones occurred .and the jaw, axis, and other bones belonging to the 
deer [Cariacus virginiamis); a little west of the middle, 2 feet below the 
surface was found a human skull, and with it a shell bead of the OUva. 
It was lying on its left side, with its base toward the north and within 
the bank a distance of 4 inches. Under it and partly around it was an 
ash heap. All the bones of the face were in place when discovered, but 
rajndly crumbled on exposure to the air. By great care the cranium 
was saved almost entire. It is now in the Smithsonian Institution. The 
entire skull was filled with vegetable mold, ver^' compact, and full of 
rootlets, some of which still adhere to the sutures. On the removal of 
the mold, within the skull and lying against the sagittal suture were a 
pebble, a piece of charcoal, two finger bones, three sections of the verte- 
bral column, a piece of the atlas, a part of the sphenoid bone, and i^ieces 
of the ribs, also one of the teeth (bicuspid of the upper jaw) in the right 
orbit. It may be a matter of interest to know how these bones came to be 
displaced. The skull bore no traces of having been rolled or even dis- 
placed since inhumation, save a twist in the lower jaw. If the skull had 



I 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 763 

been displaced then the body or rest of the skeleton was displaced with 
it. The probability is that some small animal burrowing into the earth 
found the body before decomposition had destroyed all the fleshy parts, 
and enteriug the skull through the foramen magnum used the cranium 
for a home. This must have taken place prior to the accumulation of 
vegetable mold within the cranium. But this will not account satis- 
factorily for the gravel stone and charcoal within the cranium nor the 
tooth within the orbital cavity. The following are the measurements of 
the cranium : 

Inclies, 

Longitudinal diameter 6 

Parietal diameter 5 J 

Vertical diameter . . 5 

Intermastoid arch 12 

Horizontal circumference 18| 

The cranium nowhere bears any traces of artificial flattening. On 
placing it side by side with a skull taken from a mound in Liberty Town- 
ship, Butler County, Ohio, a great difference presents itself in every 
feature. Compared with an Indian skull from the west bank of the 
Great Miami, same county, still another difierence is seen besides its 
noticeable smallness. The only feature in common is the raised line 
along the sagittal suture. But between it and a skull from a mound 
near Belpre, Ohio (noticed farther along), a great similarity is readily 
seen in every characteristic feature. The skull was found where it had 
been placed by the burial party. Had it not been for the few bones 
protruding from the bank it would have been missed. The remainder 
of the skeleton had been washed away by the encroachments of the 
river. The fire-heap had gone out and was partly buried before the iu- 
terment, and vegetable mold had commenced to form over it. In cov- 
ering up the body some of this mold was thrown immediately over it. 
The probability also is, that some shells had been deposited prior to the 
inhumation. The mold above the skull gave no evidence of having 
been disturbed. 

Within 3 inches of the skull, and on the same level with it, an atlas 
of the deer was found ; on the west of the skull, and removed about 2 
feet, yet on the same level, were excavated a chert chip and one of the 
bones of the foot of the deer; immediately below the skull, and lying 
on the beach, were pieces of the lower and upper jaw of the deer ; also 
the scapula and one of the bones of the foot of the same animal, besides 
many fragments of pottery. This pottery, like all the rest found, was 
made of clay mixed with crushed river shells. 

The next examination was made a little farther west. The vegetable 
mold was over a foot in thickness, and the remains of the shells and 
works of art also a foot in depth, includiug ornamented pottery aud 
fragmentary bones in abundance, together with a human atlas. A 
broken implement was obtained here. It is composed of porphyry, and 



7G4 PAPERS KELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY, 

was finely polished. It presents four sides, showing brenkage. In all 
probability it was originally a bark-peeler. 

At the la<-t point examined the shell deposit is from 6 to 10 inches 
below the surface. Under the shells is a charcoal layer. In this de- 
posit were found ornamented pottery, an imi)lement from antler, the 
lower jaws of the deer, both young and old, the sjjlit b<.nes of same 
animals, the breast bone of some large fowl, probably the turkey, and 
other objects of interest. 

It is. evident that if one should excavate at any given point within 
this shell-heap works of art would be revealed. 

It should be remarked that the above excavations did not i^artakc of 
the true character which that word necessarily implies. Only a few 
inches along the face of the bank were removed, a further exposure 
being unnecessary. Another consideration also had weight, that to cut 
much away would endanger the bank, and hence would have been dis- 
advantageous to the land. 

It is along this bank where most of the implements which have been 
thrown upon the market have been taken. All the implements men- 
tioned in the paper either came from this shell-heap or else from one 
on the southeastern part of the island. 

Other shell-heaps inspected are small and composed of the unio. They 
were not exjjlored, as they appeared to belong to the same age as the one 
fully described above. The shell heap at the southeastern part of the 
island covers about one-half acre, extending to the south bank of the 
ridge. When first discovered it was inclosed by a low wall, nearly 
square, composed of surface material. Pipes, ornaments, circular stones, 
and, some other implements were found in this heap. 

A little below the shell-heap, and over the brow of the bank, five 
human skeletons were dug up. Two of these were very large. They 
were placed in a straight line, heads near together, but divided by a 
small pile of shells. 

These heaps face the Virginia shore, with the exception of one. It is 
probable that the large one faced both shores originally. The general 
surface of the land presents no reason why the heaps should be so 
located. It is not probable that the Virginia side contained more of the 
unio, and even if it did the supply would not have held out long enough 
to have continually maintained a residence on the south. The reason 
must be looked for in another direction. The Virginia bluffs do not pre- 
sent a favorable point of attack by marauding bands, and, hence, it may 
be concluded that the south side was deemed safer in case of an assault 
by an enemy. 

Fifteen different forms of arrow-heads are common on the island. 
They are composed of gray, black, and brown chert, chalcedony, jasper, 
and hornstone. As the implements occur in abundance it is probable 
they were fastened to arrows and used for shooting fish. Implements 
of the form commonly called a drill, composed of jasper, were probably 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 765 

used in fishing. The general opinion that these so-called drills were 
used for x^erforating stone or other implements may be true. So far as 
my own observation extends this view is not sustained. Hundreds of 
them have been examined by the writer, and many are in his cabinet, 
yet out of aU these not a half dozen would indicate that they had been 
used for driUs. If so used their edges would be more or less broken. 
In Butler County, Ohio, they are almost wholly found along our larger 
streams. It is probable that sometimes they were used for drilling, but 
usually in fishing or in the chase. 

The forms of spear-heads made from chert and other stone are various. 
One with a sagittate base is composed of a very pure and clear chalce- 
dony. Only the stem or base is Mr; the shaft lost. This form is rare 
in the latitude of Ohio. 

Other forms of implements were secured ; a drilled ornament com- 
posed of the columella of the Pyrula perversa ; another composed of the 
same, not perforated, resembling a handle, but with no appearance of 
ever having been so used ; the tips of the horn of the deer, already re- 
ferred to; pendants composed of cannel-coal, in one the eyelet is broken, 
but in the other it is perfect ; beads made from bones of the bird ; a bone 
awl; one cup-shaped form is called an "eagle-stone." It is a natural 
formation, and must have been picked up from the gravel. It is partly 
drilled, and perhaps intended for a suspended ornament. 

Three forms of pipes occur in the collection. One is composed of 
baked clay, and is as hard as stone. It somewhat resembles catUnite. 
Near it was found the stem, composed of the same material. As this 
stem makes a complete fit in the orifice or stem end of the pipe there can 
be no question that it was intended for this identical pipe. The work- 
men did not complete it, for the perforation is still unfinised. At one 
end its depth is one inch, and at the other one-fourth inch. A second 
pipe is composed of a fine-grained sandstone, blackened by use and age. 
At the top and opposite from the stem is a lip made for adornment. 
The third is an incomplete pipe, composed of calcite, and intended to 
represent the head, neck, and breast of some bird. A tube composed 
of steatite found with it was, in all probability, a pipe-stem. 

Among the pottery fragments are ears ;^ one is perfect and the other 
broken. One stone celt might be classed between hatchet and bark- 
peeler. It is somewhat rude, never was finished, and is composed of 
greenstone. A polished hatchet composed of greenstone and a tool of 
the same material, probably used as a polisher, are types of stone im- 
plements. 

Circular discs occur. Some of them are perforated; one is discoidal, 
and all of them are composed of fine micaceous sandstone, except- 
ing one, of cannel coal. Its face is smooth, and near the center is a 
countersink. The perforation is regular, but not smooth. The opposite 
side is roundish, with a slight depression at the center. It is scratched 
by the coarse grains of sand. 



7GG PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Another implemeut is composed of a very kard quality of baked clay, 
and probably nsed in polishing. Chert flakes are everywhere picked up 
in the two principal shell-heaps. Nodules of red hematite are common 
here, but do not belong to the island. 

Some of the coarser implements found are a broken flesher or bark- 
peeler, polished and made from sandstone, a pestle, made of quartz and 
finely polished, another unjjolished and composed of a compact sand- 
stone, a double mortar, composed of sand-rock. The obverse bowl is G 
inches long, 5 wide, and 1^ in depth. The reverse bowl is of the same 
depth and 5J inches in diameter at the top. 

Double mortars are seldom met with in the Ohio region. The collec- 
tion contains also a so-called spindle-rest, with three perfect circular de- 
pressions. On the opposite side is one similar depression. The mate- 
rial IS a fine sandstone. It was found in Highland County, Ohio. The 
mortar is from the alluvial deposit on the Ohio side of the river, imme- 
diatel}" opposite Blenuerhassett's Island. 

The implements above described do not represent all that are found 
on the island, but only those obtained. Some very fine hatchets, com- 
posed of brown hematite, and grooved stone axes were seen, but they could 
not be purch..sed. Doubtless other classes of implements are picked up 
from time to time. 

After a careful study of what was observed at Blennerhassett's Island 
the following conclusions were reached : 

(1.) The shell-heaps were all deposited by the same race of people 
and at the same period of time. 

(2.) The deposits were formed by that race commonly known as the 
American Indians. 

(3.) The evidence appears to lead to the conclusion that the Indians 
who formed these heaps belonged to the earlier tribes ; for {a) time 
must be allowed for the formation of the vegetable mold, and (&) also 
a period must elajjse for the growth of the forest trees. When the 
island was first known to the Caucasian it was covered with forest trees, 
which extended over the shell-heaps. 

(4.) The island was a permanent home for the savages, and chosen 
on account of its natural advantages. The savage races of North 
America chose their abodes, whenever practicable, along the margiu of 
streams, partially because it afforded them protection against a sudden 
attack. The high bank near the point of the confluence of two streams 
was always chosen either for villages or camping parties, for the reason 
that only one side needed to be guarded. Blennerhassett's Island was 
protected on all sides, thus giving natural advantages not aflbrded on 
the main land. The deer and other animals were hunted on both sides 
of the river and brought over in their canoes. 

(5.) The evidence that the island formed a permanent habitation is 
further shown by the vast amount of chert chips scattered throughout 
the heaps. The chert was brought from " Flint Ridge," in Licking and 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 767 

Muskingum Counties, Ohio, and then worked into such forms as the 
"arrow-maker" had designed. The cannel-coal was brought from a 
distance, and, then shaped into such forms as was desired. Two good- 
sized pieces of cannel coal were exhibited, which had been plowed up. 

(G.) That this people either bartered or undertook long excursions is 
shown by the chert and cannel-coal implements, and the ornaments 
made from the columella of the Pi/rula, which shell-fish lived in the 
Gulf of Mexico. 

(7.) The numerous skeletons turned up by the plow probably belong 
to a later age. It is hardly susceptible of proof that the people who 
deposited the shells would bury their dead in shallow graves before 
their huts. That intrusive burials occurred on the island as late as the 
time of the white man is proven by the evidence of a lead pipe found 
among the sliells. The stem of this pipe is 3 inches long, and the 
bowl IJ inches in height. It shows the traces of the molds. 

On the Ohio side of the river, and immediately opposite Blennerhas- 
sett's Island, and on the second river terrace (plain of Belpre), are numer- 
ous evidences of the mound-builders, consisting chiefly of mounds. One 
of these mounds is a miniature representation of the truncated mound 
in the cemetery at Marietta. Like the above, it is surrounded by a 
wall, with the ditch on the interior, the elevated pathway leading from 
the mound to the gateway. In front of the gateway (parallel still kept 
up) is a straight embankment several feet in length. The only difier- 
ence in the design of the two mounds is that the gateway in the Belpre 
mound faces the north. 

About one year ago a mound near the above was removed. It meas- 
ured 14 feet in height. In it were found several human skeletons and 
numerous tubes and pipes. It is composed of some kind of mottled stone 
resembling steatite. One of the steatite tubes measures 11 inches in 
length, and it is 1 inch in diameter across the mouth. The bore is per- 
fectly smooth and even until it reaches within one-eighth of an inch of 
the opposite end, where it suddenly contracts and the remaining part 
of the aperture becomes quite small. This end of the tube (some call it 
a pipe) is surrounded by a flange 1^ inches in diameter. The tube is 
finely wrought, and exhibits much skill on the part of the workman. 

i^ear the top of this tumulus was found a human skull, which is now 

in the Smithsonian Institution. In form it is similar to the one obtained 

on the island. The wormian bones in the right lambdoidal suture and 

at the junction between the lambdoidal and sagittal sutures are the 

largest the author has observed. These bones do not occur in the skull 

from the island. The following are the measurements : 

Inches. 

Longitudinal diameter 6^ 

Parietal diameter 5^ 

Vertical diameter 5| 

Inter-mastoid arch 13^ 

Horizontal circumference 10^ 



768 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Over the kft orbital cavity, aud just above the superciliary arch, is a 
perforation one-lialf inch in diameter. Another perforation occurs in 
the right parietal bone, near the sagittal suture. 

On the farm of Cyrus Ames, and on the alluvial terrace, several years 
ago, the river washed out a hollow structure, composed of stone care- 
fully laid up in the form of a well or cistern. This subterranean vault 
had no visible outlet. Kear it was found a rude mortar. 

It is probable that other remains occur on the plain of Belpre and on 
the Virginia side, but as attention was not called to any other ancient 
works, this account must here come to a close. 



ABORIGINAL STRUCTUEES IN CARROLL COUNTY, 

TENNESSEE. 

By James M. Null, of McKenzie, Tenn. 

The aboriginal structures in this county are four mounds, situated in 
the southwest corner of civil district No. 22, three of them on Clear 
Creek, and one on Crooked Creek, 4 miles south of McKenzie, Tenn. 
Crooked Creek and Clear Creek are small, ever-running streams, with 
swampy bottoms and miry banks, without any fords except where they 
are crossed by the old Indian trails. Mound No. 1 is 8 feet high and 30 
feet in diameter, being situated in a front yard. The owner will not 
allow it to be explored. It is on a ridge running down to a point on the 
creek, half way between a spring 300 feet distant on the west and a 
bluff 20 feet high on the east. On it were standing, when first occu- 
pied 35 years ago, a chestnut and a sweet gum tree, eacli 2^ or 3 feet 
in diameter. 

Mound No. 2 is on the south bank of Clear Creek, three-fourths of a 
mile from mound No. 1, in a northwest direction, 350 feet from a bluff 
]5 feet high, and 200 feet from a spring. It was originally not more 
than 3 feet high and 30 feet in diameter, was in a horse lot twenty-five 
years or more, and has beon plowed over for 10 years, so as to be nearly 
obliterated. During the plowing nothing in the way of relics has been 
discovered. 

Mound No. 3, one-half mile northeast of No. 2, is on the east side 
of a bluff 20 feet high, and 200 feet distant, and about the same dis- 
tance from a spring. It was 6 feet high and 25 feet in diameter when 
explored a few years ago. A man dug a cellar in it, knowing it to be 
an " Indian mound," hoping to find valuables. He sunk a pit 12 by 14 
feet, 2 feet below the original surface, and found nothing but " red 
dirt," as he expressed it. 

Mound No. 4, 6 feet high and 20 feet in diameter, is one-half a mile 
northeast of No. 3, and 1^ miles north of No. 1, with a spring 300 feet 
and a bluff 600 feet distant on the east. It is situated in the woods, 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGr. 769 

Dut has no growth on it. There is no depression of the earth near by. 
It was explored by an old gentleman 30 years ago for treasures. He 
sunk a i^it 3 feet in diameter from the center of the summit to the level 
of the surrounding earth. A gentleman who was present gives the fol- 
lowing account: The mound was composed of red clay, and extending 
from the apex to the bottom was a circular space,* 6 inches in diameter, 
consisting of black mold, apparently the remains of a jDole, around 
which the mound had been built ; nothing else was discovered. 

At the head of the bluff, east of mound No. 1, is a good ford, with 
hard, sandy bottom, the only one known on Crooked Creek. On the 
north bank, which is 10 feet high, is a deep worn trail, plainly visible, 
although it has not been used as a crossing since the settlement of this 
country, as long ago as 1820. The old settlers call it the " buffalo trail." 
A ridge runs from this ford to the lower end of the bluff near mound 
Xo. 2, where there is another ford and the only one on Clear Creek for 
a number of miles. Like IsTo. 1, it shows a deep trail worn down the 
bluff on the east side. From the bottom runs a ridge near mounds No. 
3 and 4. 

When this country was first explored by white men, all the land west 
and north of Clear Creek for a great distance was open barrens, almost 
devoid of timber, and, consequently, a vast grazing place for buffalo, 
elk, deer, etc. These fords gave them the only means of crossing in 
their migrations, and the absence of any remains or relics in the two 
explored mounds leads me to the opinion that they were designed for 
observation. Each one is within sight of another, from No. 1 to No. 4. 
Mr. Edward Gwin, who settled this place, collected quite a number of 
relics in the vicinity of mounds Nos. 1 and 2, consisting mostly of spear 
and arrow heads and obsidian axes. They were sent to the Smithson- 
ian Institution by Prof. E. H. Eandle a few years ago. 

The other indications of the former occupation of this region by the 
aborigines are the remains of a great number of workshops. There are 
a great many springs in this country, and wherever a spring occurs, on 
the nearest elevation will be found quantities of flint chippings, broken 
pottery, incomplete arrow-points, blocks of flint, smooth, rounded stones, 
some with a small cavity worn on one or on both sides. These places 
occupy an area of from i to 2 acres. The material used must have been 
brought from a great distance, as there is no stone in this country except 
soft sandstone, and very little of that. 

In 1863 the author assisted in exploring a mound 3 miles west of Tu- 
pelo, Miss. It was 8 feet high, 30 feet in diameter, and composed of 
white sand. It was situated on a ridge 400 feet west of a bluff, at the 
base of which is a spring. A shaft about 6 feet in diameter was sunk 
from the summit to the level of the surrounding soil, and a circular 
space filled with dark mold was reached. It was not more than 2 
inches in diameter. The ridge on which it was situated was composed 
of loose sand covered with small growth of scrub oak. 
H. Mis. 20 40 



770 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

MOUNDS IN PUTNAM COUNTY, GEOEGIA. 
By Benj. W. Kent, of Eatonton, Putnam Co., Ga. 

The most remarkable mounds in Putnam County were visited and 
measured by Charles C. Jones, jr., and the writer, and reported by Mr. 
Jones, namely, the Eagle Mounds, of which no description is needed in 
this communication. Since the last rei)ort the stone tumuli on the 
plantation of Dr. J. T. de Jorrette, east of Eatonton, have been dis- 
turbed, and besides human bones taken therefrom, a pottery pijje of the 
ordinary size, and shaped like the head of an eagle, was found. No 
description is necessary of the other pipes in the series excepting the 
one made to imitate a human foot, which is remarkable for the hardness 
of the stone. From the stone tumulus on the i^lantation of Robert M. 
Grimes was taken a soapstone finger-ring, not in the writer's collec- 
tion, which is without ornamentation. Another finger-ring, found near 
the Eagle Mound, on Scott's plantation, is made like a seal ring, with 
a head or top. None of the pottery collected is remarkable ; one vessel 
is about 14 inches high, and a bowl measures 13 inches across the top ; 
all the remaining vessels are about the usual shapes. 

There is in this place a chungkee stone of white quartz or limestone 
about 6 inches in diameter, owned by Thomas B. Harwell. It is beau- 
tifully smooth, hollowed out on either side, and more smoothly finished 
than any other implements ever seen by the writer except those of 
Mexico or Peru. It has no hole through the center like the one drawn in 
Foster's Prehistoric Eaces (p. 218). 

The human bones picked up from time to time reveal nothing unusual. 
It is impossible, however, to get any whole skulls. Attention is drawn 
to the fact of the existence of human remains under every conical- 
shaped stone tumulus so far as examined ; but whether such will prove 
true of the bird-shaped mound is not known, as the stones are too large 
to be removed Eegarding the three mounds on Shoulder Bone Creek, 
near Sparta County, pipes and pottery have been obtained from the 
largest mound, but no human bones ; whereas from the middle mound, 
which is the smallest, and but little above the level of the bottom lands, 
having been plowed over for 7 years, many human bones and teeth and 
beads were taken. Ashes and shells are often found, showing where 
the aborigines lived. There existed hereabouts, so far as I know, no 
cave dwellings, and neither masonry nor sculptured slabs. While an 
isolated skeleton is sometimes found, many exist in the tumuli. No 
skeleton in a cyst or other receptacle has been found, except one of an in- 
fant, probably in Mellepueli. All the stone tumuli are on high hills, usu- 
ally on the highest portion ; all the earth tumuli are in the bottom lands. 

There are various other mounds and shell-heaps in this and adja- 
cent counties. There is an earth mound on the lands of Mr. C. Purifoy, 
in Jasper County, once probably 6 feet high, but now much leveled by 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 771 

plowing. Near Murder Creek, in this county, and not over half a mile 
from the Clinton road, exists a stone tumulus said to be of immense 
size, but never visited bj' the author. Near Little Eiver, and below Pier- 
sou's mOl, and on the opposite side, are several stone tumuli, and another 
group east of these. They are within a few feet of the conical group, and 
not more than 100 yards apart. There is a mound near Dr. Jorrette's dwel- 
lling, near the opposite bank of the Oconee Eiver, from which was dug a 
bird-shaped calumet, and human bones also were found. There is a rock 
mound on the plantation of Eobert M. Grimes, near the line of Han- 
cock and Greene counties, also an earth mound about 8 feet high and 
30 feet in diameter, west of the rock tumulus, and near the Oconee River, 
in Greene Connty, situated in the bottom land. Near Lawrence's Ferry, 
and between Little's Ferry road and Oconee River, is a mound supposed 
to be bird-shaped, inclosed in a circle. Upon the plantation of Dr. 
White, Hancock County, are mounds of earth, near which runs a ditch. * 
Various other small mounds and shell-heaps are scattered over this 
county. 



PREHISTORIC REMAINS IN FLORIDA. 
By J. Francis Le Baron, U. 8. Engineer. 

I arrived in Fernandina, Fla., February 26, 1877, accompanied by an 
assistant. This place seemed to have been a campiug or living place 
of prehistoric man, for there was to be seen here the remains of a some- 
what extended kjokkenmodding, on the north side of the town. 

I next went to Jacksonville, and remained there until July 14. 
While there I made the acquaintance of the principal archaeologists of 
the place, and from them obtained many valuable notes and sugges- 
tions. 

Mr. A. A. Knight, esq., informed me of the location of the mound in T. 
2 S., R. 27 E., and the shell-heaps or kjokkenmoddings at the mouth 
of the Saint John's River, in T. 1 S., R. 29 E., which I have since visited. 
Those on the north side of the river on Fort George Island are men- 
tioned by S. P. Mayberry in the Smithsonian Annual Report for 1877, 
p. 305, and by a writer in Harper's Monthly for November, 1878, in an 
article entitled the '' Sea Islands." 

W. W. Dewhurst, C. E., postmaster at Saint Augustine, referred me 
to the mounds in T. 3 S., R. 26 E., and T. 4 S., R. 26 E., two miles east of 
Mandarin. 

Leaving Jacksonville on the 14th of July, 1877, we sailed up the river 
in a two-masted sail-boat and discovered our first mound one mile south 
of Picolata, on the east bank, in a high hammock. It is of sand, about 
25 feet in diameter at the base, and 8 feet high, and situated about 50 feet 
from the river. We did not open it, and it showed no signs of ever hav- 

* Aniiquitiea of Southern Triies, C. C. Jones, jr., p. 144. 



772 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

ing been explored. Leaving this place and continuing up the river, we 
passed a mound on the east bank, 5 miles south of Tocoi, without know- 
ing it. The next mound that we found was situated on the west bank 
of the river, about 2 miles north of Pilatka. It was a shell-heap about 
12 feet high, the eastern edge abraded by the waters of the river into a 
steei) bluff. A large part of this shell-heap had been carried away in 
boats to form walks and drive- ways in Pilatka and for fertilizing pur- 
poses. 

This practice is very common throughout the State, and is working 
the speedy destruction of these interesting remains. 

The shells in this mound were mostly fresh- water species. The bot- 
tom of the mound is washed by the river, and the part that has been 
exposed to the continued action of the water has formed a kind of cal- 
careous conglomerate, which is thickly intersi^ersed with human and 
other bones, broken in all cases that came under my notice. The con- 
glomerate forms a very hard, apparently durable, stone, upon which 
extreme age would produce but little effect. 

I am informed by Mr. James H. Fry, of Pilatka, that there is a mound 
in the swamp half a mile west of the shell-heap. Arriving at Pilatka 
I found the remains of a small mound, filled with broken pottery, in the 
southeast part of the town. The fire-bell tower stands upon it, and it 
is partially demolished. There seem to be kjokkenmodding remains all 
along the shore here. I was fortunate to meet Mr. J. H. Fry in this 
place, and I found him well versed in the archaeology of the region, and 
disposed to give me all the information in his possession. To him I am 
indebted for the location of a large number of stations, including the 
following : 

1. A shell mound nearly opposite Pilatka, a little to the north, on 
the land of Mr. Thew. There is a wind-mill on the top. 

2. A large shell mound, about 9 miles east of Pilatka, on the land of 
Mr. EoUinson. 

3. A large number of mounds, 20 to 30 miles west of Pilatka, from 
one of which shells and arrow-heads have been taken. 

Mr. Fry had a large collection of relics from different mounds; among 
them was an earthen bowl holding about a quart, in perfect preserva- 
tion, which was taken from a mound in Lake Worth, on the east coast. 
Mr. Fry also informed me that there was a well defined chip-yard, or 
aboriginal neolithic workshop, with an abundance of rejected fragments 
of flint, on the east bank of the Saint John's where it leaves Lake 
Monroe. 

At Pilatka I also met Col. H. L. Hart, to whom I am indebted for the 
locations of two mounds on Murphy's Island, in the Saint John's Eiver, 
10 miles south of Pilatka, on his land. 

Leaving Pilatka, the next mound on the river, going south, is 4 miles 
south southeast up a creek. We stopped next at San Mateo, a landing 
on the east side. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 773 

From Mr. P. B. Bishop there I learned of a mound about 15 feet high, 
30 feet in diameter, on the southeastern shore of Orange Lake, Marion 
County. 

• The next place of interest on our route was a shell bluff near Buffalo 
Bluff, on the east side of the river. Here we found human and other 
bones and pottery in abundance. The bluff was about 6 feet high, and 
the locality gave evidence of having been a residing station of an 
ancient people. This place is only a short distance south of the mouth 
of Dunn's Creek. A little further on we came to Mr. White's, on the 
same side of the river. From him I obtained the following data : There 
are three mounds here on Mr. White's land, and three shell-heaps partly 
on his land and partly on that of his neighbor, Mr. McDean. There is 
also a shell-heap on the opposite or west side of the river, about a 
quarter of a mile from the bank, claimed by Mr. White to be the largest 
in the State ; and a shell-heap and mound three-quarters of a mile south 
of Mr. White's, on the east bank, on land known as the Hernandez 
grant. There are, besides these, one on the west bank, 2 miles south 
of Mr. White's, which is very large ; one opposite this, on the east 
bank ; a very large one on the east bank, 4 miles south of Mr. White's; 
a very large one on the east bank, 6 miles south, on land of Mr. Wells ; 
another very large one on the east bank, 13 miles south of Mr. White's, 
at a place now called Beecher, at the entrance of Little Lake George ; 
and, finally, one on the east shore and one on the west shore, 2 miles 
south of Beecher. 

On the east side of Dunn's Creek is a mound with earthworks and 
fosse. There is another mound on the same side of the creek, at its 
junction with the Saint John's, on land of Mr. Weils, or very near his 
line ; and one on the other side of the creek, on Mr. John Wells's land. 
On Bear Island, in Dunn's Lake, there are mounds, and others on 
both sides of the lake. Mr. Wells's house, at K"ashua, Putnam County, 
east bank of the Saint John's, is situated upon a large shell heap. There 
is another about half a mile north of Mr. Wells's, on the same side ; and 
still another west of Mr. Wells's, about a quarter of a mile from the 
river, on the first island in the swamp. There is also a shell-heap on 
the west side of the Saint John's, half a mile north of the mouth of the 
Ocklawaha Eiver and half a mile from the Saint John's River. We 
passed the celebrated Mount Eoyal, but did not go ashore to examine 
it, as it has been so fully described by Bartram and Professor Wyman. 
There was a large shell heap (kjokkenmodding) at Fort Gates, on the 
opposite side of the river from Mount Eoyal and a little to the south. 
Here Dr. Lente found an arched fire-place or oven, with numerous bones 
of turtle, deer, and other animals, together with human bones, on land 
belonging to himself, about 30 feet from the wharf. The arch, he stated, 
was perfect, and was found several feet below the surface of the kjok- 
kenmodding as it was being leveled. He informed me that it exhibited 
the true principle of the arch. 



774 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Five miles south of Fort Gates we came to the outlet of Lake George. 
Here on the east side, on land of Martin Hyas, are two mounds aud two 
shell heaps, in Eange 26, Township 13, East and South. These were 
pointed out to me by Judge Bartlett, of Georgetown, whom I found very 
kind and obliging, and who left his oflice and took me through the hum- 
mock to the locality. On Lake George are additional remains, as fol- 
lows : 

1. On the west shore, commencing at the northern end, there is a shell 
mound directly west of Hog Island. 

2. One on Salt Run, 1 mile up the run. 

3. One at the mouth of Silver Euu. 

4. A very large shell-bluff on land of Damon Greenleaf, at the mouth 
of Silver Spring. The shell mounds noticed near Silver Lake, and oue 
2 mdes up Juniper Creek, are given on the authority of Professor Jef- 
fries Wyman.* 

Passing around the southern extremity of the lake to the east shore, 
at the influx of the Saint John's, at a place called Lake View, we find a 
very large mound on land of Mr. Rapes. 

Next on the Acosta grant. Range 27 S., Township 13 E., on Dr. Lente's 
place, called Seville, there are several small mounds. 

We now leave Lake George, and passing up the river to Volusia find 
there a large cone-shaped mound at the landing on the east side of the 
river. This mound appears to be nearly 20 feet high, aud at least 300 
feet in diameter at the base. There is a house and orange grove upon it. 
It is irregular in shape, and was probably built on hilly ground. Pro- 
fessor Wyman speaks of a shell deposit there and a mound at Fort But- 
ler, opposite, but we saw nothing of them. The next shell mounds 
observed by us are those called Orange Bluff and Bartram's mound, 
near the outlet of Lake Dexter. These are also mentioned by Professor 
Wyman.t He also speaks of two between these and the last mentioned, 
which we did not see. 

The next shell mound visited is at Saint Joseph's, 7 miles north of 
Osceola, on the west bank of the river. There is a house on it. We did 
not stop again until we arrived at Blue Springs. There are several shell- 
heaps shown on the map in this distance which had been examined by 
Professor Wyman, so we did not stop for them, but contented ourselves 
with a view of them as we sailed along. The one on the west bank at 
the outlet of Lake Beresford appeared very large. The other one is half 
a mile south of Palm Landing, aud one a mile south, both on the east 
side. At Blue Springs I was fortunate in meeting Mr. L. P. Thursby, 
to whom I am indebted for valuable information, as was Professor 
Wyman on his visit. We found there the shell heaps mentioned by the 
latter on both sides of the Blue Spring outlet. 

The next shell mound is at Mr. Scott's, called Barker's Landing, on 

* Fresh-icatei' shell mounds of the Saint John's River, Florida, p. 38. 
MUd., pp. 35, 37. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 775 

the east bank, about 2 miles north of the mouth of the Wekiwa. There 
is a house upon it. At the mouth of the Wekiwa there are two mounds 
on the east bank of the Saint John's. They are 1 mile south of Emanuel 
Landing. One is about 100 feet from the river, on the edge of the hum- 
mock, and the other is about 250 yards, and in the hummock. There is 
another about 7 miles by river, 4 in a straight line, near or on laud of 
Colonel Thrasher, about a quarter of a mile from the Saint John's Eiver, 
across a marsh. This mound is 1 mile north of Lake Monroe, on the 
east side of the river. 

Professor Wyman mentions extensive shell deposits, 6 or 7 miles up 
the Wekiwa, but we did not visit them. There is a shell mound on the 
Sanford grant, at the north end of Lake Monroe. About Lake Monroe 
are other mounds, as follows : 

The celebrated shell mound at Old Enterprise ; this was being carted 
off when I visited the spot, August 15, 1877, for the purpose of fertiliz- 
ing a neighboring orange grove. I collected several specimens there, 
of which mention will be made further on. The mound was apparently 
about half gone. It was composed of fresh-water shells, similar to those 
now found in the lake, but very much larger than any now living that I 
have seen. 

There were occasional fragments of large sea conchs, many human 
and other bones, and much pottery with ashes, &c. Very many of the 
delicate shells were uninjured, although very fragile, showing that they 
must have been piled up in very large quantities at a time, and not 
have been simply the remains of a feast left on the ground, for in this 
case the shells would have been exposed to breakage by the trampling 
of feet and movements of the family. Throughout the mound the shells 
were deposited very looselj". There was not sand enough to bind them 
together, and remarkably little humus or black soil. This heap cannot 
then be classed as a kjokkenmodding. It must have been raised for a 
purpose, and not as the incidental accumulations of kitchen refuse. If 
the shell fish were used as food it would seem that they must have been 
boiled whole and then the shells thrown on the pile after the extraction 
of the tenant. 

I am informed by Mr. Scott, of Barker's Landing, that 2 or 3 miles 
from this mound and from the lake is a shell heap, composed entirely 
of oyster shells. 

Leaving Lake Monroe, the first station of interest was Ginn's Grove. 
Here are two sand burial-mounds and near by is a shell heap, or rather 
a kitchen refuse heap (kjokkenmodding). One of the mounds is high and 
conical, the other low and flat, and spread out over a large extent of 
ground. The conical high mound had been opened previously and we 
found several tiagments of pottery and human bones thrown out of the 
excavation. 

Continuing on our voyage we passed Lake Jessup by a cut-off, and so 
did not see the mounds referred to by Professor Wyman, and shown on 



776 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

the map at outlet of Lake Jessup. Lemon Blaff was the next place 
where we found prehistoric remains. This about 10 miles from Lake 
Harney. The bluff is about 30 feet high and on the top is a cultivated 
field, and here are found indistinct remains, broken pottery and shells. 
It was evidently a place of residence. 

At Cook's Ferry, on the west bank of the Saint John's, at the outlet 
of Lake Harney, is a very large shell heap, on which is an orange grove 
and house. I found several i^ieces of pottery there and some bones of 
animals and human beings. This is described under the name of King 
Philip's Town by Professor Wyman. Back about 200 yards is a small 
but steep conical sand mound. In this mound Mr. Coue, sheriff of 
Yolusia County, found two flakes of silver about as large as a 25-cent 
piece ; they were smooth and without marks, and he thought were poor 
silver. 

On the west side of Lake Harney, just north of Fort Lane, is a mound. 
I am also informed that there is a large earth-mound at Fort Christmas, 
above Lake Harney and west side of Saint John's, in pine woods. 

The next that ^e visited was the so-called Orange mound, about half 
a mile south of Salt Creek outlet, and on the west side of the Saint 
John's. This has the appearance of an island in the boundless marshes 
surrounding it, and is visible from a long distance. It was then covered 
with trees, which have since been cut away, sugar-cane and other 
crops being planted in their place. It is conical in shape, rising on all 
sides to the center. It is colossal in dimensions, being over 600 feet 
in diameter at the base, and about 40 feet high. The ground appears 
everywhere to be composed of black earth and shells and ashes. It does 
not seem possible that it should have been artificially formed, for the near- 
est dry land is as much as 3 or 4 miles off, and communication can only 
be made by boats. It appears to me probable that it was a retreat for 
the women and children in time of war, and that there was originally a 
small hill there, which was increased in size by the accumulations of 
shell-fish and kitchen refuse, incident to a prolonged camp. A small 
excavation made by some alligator hunters, which I examined, yielded 
the usual pottery and broken bon^. I think this place deserves a care- 
ful exploration. 

There is a small mound of like nature about 2 miles south of Lake 
Harney, on the west side of the Saint John's Eiver, and about a quarter 
of a mile off in the wet prairie. . It is covered with cabbage palms, and 
is but 3 or 4 feet high. 

The next mound, as I have been informed, is situated at the northeast 
end of Lake Poinsett, on the east bank. Going further south, there is 
an earth mound at Fort Taylor, on the west side of Lake Winder, on 
the margin of the lake. There is now a country store on it. There is a 
mound 10 or 15 miles south of Lake Washington, at the head of Big 
Cypress Swamp, west side of river, and north of the swamp. For the 
last three I am indebted to Mr. Osteen, tax collector of Volusia County. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 777 

Professor Wyman mentions two shell heaps on the east bank of the 
Saint John's and the right bank of Salt or Moccasin Creek (facing down 
stream), near the union of the creek with the river. One of these he 
calls Possum Bluff, but wrongly, as Possum Bluff is situated about 15 
miles south of Orange mound, in a straight line on the east side of the 
Saint John's. 

There is a mound near the mouth of Snake Creek, which connects 
Salt Lake and Lufman's Lake. It is about one-half to three-quarters of 
a mile up the creek. Mr. Coue informed me that he had made a cursory 
examination of it, and found a lot of beads and a human skull with a 
bullet-hole in the back. 

This completes the locations on the Saint John's and its tributaries 
as far as my examinations extend. The Ocklawaha Pviver, I am informed, 
contains a great many on its banks. Crystal River, on the Gulf coast, 
is mentioned by Col. F. L. Dancy, formerly State engineer and geologist 
of Florida, as having a remarkable mound on its bank, 4 miles fi-om its 

mouth.* 

Several mounds are reported 20 miles south of Saint Augustine, on 
Peltier's Creek, on laud of David Carter, and shell-fields on Anastasia 
Island, opposite Saint Augustine. 

I am also informed by a " Cow-boy," who had seen them, that there 
are two or three mounds on the east bank of Eeedy Creek, in the north- 
east corner of Polk County, between the creek and Lake Tohopekaliga, 
and also remains of extensive earthworks, believed to be fortifications, 
near the bay on the east side. 

I am informed there are mounds on two large islands in Lake Kis- 
simee, southerly from the last. 

Mr. A. W. Conklin mentions in Forest and Stream of December 30, 
1875, pp. 330 and 331, the following mounds and earthworks : 

One near the south bank of Boggy Creek, a sti-eam which flows to 
the southeast and empties into the northwestern bend of Little Tohope- 
kaliga, and another about 4 miles further south, near the edge of Fen- 
nel Prab?ie. These mounds, he says, are very much alike, being about 
50 feet in diameter and not over 10 feet high. Also a greater number on 
Barton's or Parton's Island than in any other place. One in particu- 
lar, which he calls Parton's mound, seems to be a fortification, with a 
fosse, enciente, graded approaches, &c. 

A mile to the northwest of the above-described works, in the edge of 
the hummock overtooking Pleasant Lake, are the remains of a very 
large fortification, with walks nearly 20 feet in thickness and from 3 to 
8 feet high. 

Other and somewhat indefinite remains are found on a hill, about a 
mile to the southwest, across Pleasant Lake. One mile farther west, 
on Pine Island, he says, there is another work, consisting of a mound 
surrounded with a wall, and having what he thinks an artificial boat 

* Smithsonian Rei^ort, 1866, p. 357. 



778 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

liarbor. lu the interior of the ishintl, which is 2 or 3 miles in diameter, 
other mounds are found which do not differ materially from the one at 
Boggy Creek. In addition to these larger remains, the main island has 
on its surface some two or three hundred smaller mounds, usually about 
30 feet in diameter, and 2 or 3 feet in height. He considers these dwell- 
ing places. 

Four miles south of Pine Island is a work similar to the one at Pleas- 
ant Lake. Along the eastern side of Lake Tohopekaliga are a number 
of small mounds, and at the placeof Charles McQuaid, on Lake Cypress, 
are two of the ordinary round-topped mounds. Twenty miles south- 
east of Lake Kissimee is another large mound. It is about 35 feet 
high, 40 yards in diameter, built of sand, with a graded approach, and 
covert way. About a dozen miles southeast of this mound, which is 
called the Hope mound, in the neighborhood of old Fort Drum, are two 
other mounds similar to it. 

All down the Kissimee Eiver mounds are to be found, of which the 
largest and most important is at Daughtery's, on the west side of the 
river, 4 miles northwest of Fort Bassenger, on Istokpoga Island, at the 
northeastern extremity. Here we have again the graded approach, a 
covert way, and circular bastion. One hundred yards to the west is an 
earthwork resembling a redoubt. Eighteen miles to the southwest of 
this mound, in the mirsh which bounds the island, is a part of a wall, 
which is a mile in length. At the southeastern extremity of Little Toho- 
pekaliga Lake is a work similar to the Parton mound already described. 

Along the Kissimee Eiver are embankments apparently raised by 
the hand of man, running for long distances in a straight line. He says 
they were apparently constructed for dikes. In the Parton mound, on 
the Little Tohopekaliga Lake, John Evans, ex-sheriff of Queen's County, 
exhumed fifty-four skulls which had been buried close together, forming 
a circle. 

At McQuaid's, mound on Lake Cypress, a piece of gold, inscribed with 
characters in some unknown tongue, was found. It was hammered, not 
coined, and sold for $1G. 

The "Hope mound," near old Fort Drum, has not been disturbed, and 
offers with others near it a fine field for the antiquarian. The articles 
taken from the Daughtery mound are all modern, consisting of an im- 
mense variety of beads, some small as a pin's head and others an inch in 
length, of various colors, and some of them gilded — glass ear-drops, 
and a piece of silver about 3 inches in diameter and about equal in 
thickness to a silver half dollar ; two steel axes, each over 10 inches in 
length, one 4J and the other 5 j inches on the blade. On the sides of 
the ax are several markings made with a cold chisel. All these articles 
were found near the surface. 

Mention is also made of a remarkable work on the Caloosahatchee 
Eiver, which appears to be a canal. On the west side of Lake Okee- 
chobee, near Fort Center, just above the mouth of the Trathlopopka- 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 779 

hatchee Elver, iu Towusbips 40 and 41, Range 31 south and east, are 
mounds, as I am informed by Dr. Keuwortby, of Jacksonville, and others 
who have visited them. There are fortifications south of them iu T. 42 
S., II. 30 E. Dr. Kenworthy also locates a mound south of the Caloosa- 
hatchee River in T. 45 S., R. 20 E. Mention is made of shell banks at 
the mouth of Manatee River, Tampa Bay, iu Smithsonian Report for 
1866, page 357. Mr. James M. Kreamer, chief engineer of the Atlantic 
and Gulf Coast Canal and Okeechobee Drainage Company, who has 
lately visited the remarkable canal on the north side of the Caloosa- 
hatchee River, discribes it as a canal 4 feet deep by 10 feet wide, clearly 
cut through the low flat pine woods, and the excavated sand and earth 
thrown up on the sides. It starts from the upper end of Lake Flirt, 
and runs in a northeasterly direction, in a perfectly straight line, as if 
laid, out by an engineer, to a group of large mounds situated in the pine 
woods about 3 miles from the Caloosahatchee River, and then returns 
to the river in a southeasterly direction between Coflfee Mill Island and 
Lake Hiakpochee, inclosing a triangular area, and having a total length 
of nearly 6 miles. Large pine trees were growing in the bottom, in 
places where there was no water. Many of these trees were as large as 
any growing in the surrounding forest. 

Returning to my own discoveries, while chief engineer of the Saint 
John's and Indian River Railroad in Florida, and engaged in locating the 
liue from Titus ville to Lake Harney, I found the following mounds : 
About half a mile from Titusville, and a quarter of a mile north of 
the track, on the south side of the wagon-road to Salt Lake, is a small 
sand mound in the pine woods. It is only about 5 feet high, and per- 
haps 15 feet iu diameter at the base, and is overgrown with bushes and 
saw palmetto. Four miles and fifty-four hundredths from the terminus 
in Titusville, at the junction of the Salt Lake branch of the railroad, is 
a large sand mound. The Saint John's and Indian River Railroad 
comes round near the west side. It is about 200 feet in diameter and 
30 feet high, almost a perfect cone. The pits from which the sand was 
taken are plainly discernible at its base. This mound is mentioned 
by Professor Wyman,* who opened it on the top, and found a "skeleton 
and piece of coquiua cut in the form of a turtle." Subsequent explorers 
found two silver coins in it, which were in the possession of S. J. Fox, 
then general manager of the Saint John & Indian River Railroad. 

The next mound is about a mile from the railroad, to the east of sta- 
tion 160 (100 feet stations starting from " Indian Mound Station" on the 
Salt Lake Branch Railroad), or about 3 miles from the junction. 

At station 284, about Similes from the junction, is a small mound on 
Turtle Island at the head of the Salt Lake Prairie. It is situated ou 
the immediate east bank of Boggy Branch, and only about 60 feet north- 
east from the center line of the railroad. It is a sand mound about 25 
feet in diameter, and 5 or 6 feet high. 

* Fresh Water Shell-Mounds of the Saint John^s Biver, Florida, p. 16. 



780 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Commeuciug now at Mosquito Inlet, on the east coast, and going 
south, I will mention the mounds on the Hillsboro' Eiver, Mosquito 
Lagoon, Indian and Banana Elvers, and Lake Worth, as far as I have 
been able to discover and locate them or learn of them. But first I 
will mention a mound on the farm of Mr. Andrew Bostrom, on the Hal- 
ifax Eiver, north of the inlet and nearly opposite Ormond. This mound 
is just south of the house and close to the bank of the river. It was 
originally about 50 feet through at the base and 6 feet high, but has 
since been cut through on the western side to form a road. 

There is also a high sand mound a few rods south of Smith's place, 
about a mile south of Bostrom's, on the same side of the river. 

South of Mosquito Inlet the first mound is at " the extreme north end 
of Block Hummock, 3 miles west of Mosquito Inlet." This is described 
by A. M. Harrison, assistant United States Coast Survey,* who found 
in it human skulls and several peculiar beads. 

We come next to the large shell heap at New Smyrna. This is a 
kjokkeumodding, about 20 or 25 feet high, 300 feet long by 150 wide. 
It contains broken pottery. There is a country store upon it. There 
is a shell mound opposite, not a kjokkeumodding, at Captain Briggs's, 
formerly Alden's place, which is mentioned by D. G. Brinton, M. D., 
in Smithsonian Eeport, 1866, p. 357. Half a mUe south of New Smyrna, 
on the west side, is another large shell heap near the river, with a house 
upon it. 

One mile and nearly three-quarters south of New Smyrna, on the 
same side, is a large shell heap upon which are the ruins of Turnbull's 
Castle, and just north of it Turnbull's Canal. The canal and castle 
were built by the English during their occupancy of this region. 

South of the post-office in New Smyrna, at a distance of 5f miles, is 
a mound on the west side, near the river and Mr. E. Burdick's place, 
which is known as the Fox mound. 

Six and a half miles south of New Smyrna and on the same side 
is a very large shell mound, with a house upon it. The place is known 
as Childs's, but is now owned by Mr. F. J. Lockwood. It is about 30 
feet high and 400 feet long on the river. Directly opposite this, and 
half way to the ocean, in the middle of the large mangrove marsh, is a 
shell heap on a branch of Cedar Creek. It is about 15 feet high and 
60 feet in diameter at the base, which has been partly washed away by 
the waters of the narrow creek. If this place was chosen for conceal- 
ment, the builders were eminently successful, as it is very difficult of 
access and effectually hidden by the thick mangrove trees. It seems 
incredible that human beings would ever have chosen such a place for 
a habitation, unless to escape discovery from an enemy. The island 
upon which the mound stands is all mangrove marsh. 

One mile south of Childs's, by the west passage, is a large mound on 
a small island near the west bank, known as "Brick-house Mound." 

* Smithsonian Report, 1877, p. 305. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 781 

The Coast Survey have a trigonometrical station and a stone post on 
top This mound is hig-h and steep, and composed of oyster shells and 
conchs. It is about 100 feet in diameter, and 20 or 25 feet high, with 
a steep bluff on the eastern side, where it fronts on a small cove. This 
cove contains the best oysters on the east coast. A wagon road has 
been built around the eastern face and a causeway across the marsh m 
the rear to the main land, about 100 yards, where there is a large wild 
orano-e grove which has been budded with sweet stock. 

Nearly due east from this shell heap, on the ocean beach ridge, is the 
celebrated Turtle mound, 8* miles south of ^w Smyrna. It is com- 
posed mostly of oyster shells, with occasional conchs. The western side, 
next to the Hillsboro' Eiver, is now abraded by the water to a pre- 
cipitous bluff. It appears to have two summits, with quite a vaUey be- 
tween, and the sides are covered with thick bushes. This mound is de- 
scribed by the same writer in Smithsonian Eeport, 1866, p. 357, and by 
myself in Eod and Gun, November 4, 1876. 

We come next to a very large mound at Bissett's Hill, on the west 
side of Hillsboro' Eiver, about a mile south of Turtle mound. It is 
as much as forty feet high, with steep sides, composed of shells and 
black earth, and covered with a wild orange grove. It was also used 
by tJie Coast Survey as a triangulation station, and its position is well 
shown on their published chart, Ko. 4, of the Inside Passage, East Coast 
of Florida, Hillsboro' Eiver. Several of the mounds on the Hillsboro 
Eiver and Mosquito Lagoon are shown on these charts. 

Directly east of Bissett's Hill, on the beach ridge or peninsula, close 
to the East Channel, is a small shell-bank at a place caUed Pumpkin 

^ Just a mile and a half below Bissett's Hill is a small shell mound, 
called "Live Oak Mound," on land of Mr. Lafayette AUen, and a few 
rods north of his house. This I did not examine. 

A little more than 2 miles south of Bissett's Hill, on the west side, is 
a sheU heap known as Oak HUl. It is about 18 or 20 feet high nearly 
800 feet long and 500 feet wide, the longest side fronting on the lagoon. 
It is composed of shells, mostly oyster, and is very irregular on the top, 
with many smaU hillocks of shells, with depressions between them, as 
if the hill had been the abode of several families, each one making it^s 
own heap. The east side is washed by the waters of the lagoon, and 
the west is backed by a marsh and creek about 800 feet wide alto- 
gether. Human bones and pottery are found m it. There is^ a post- 
office called Oak Hill upon it and several houses. ^^^ f/^^^^^^' ^f^^f ^^, 
a county commissioner of Volusia County, once lived liere and two of 
his family are buried on the top, just south of his house. This is a true 
k okkenmodding. It is situated on a point, partially protected in he 
rfar byTcreek'^^^ marsh, as is the one at Bissett's Hill. This kind 
of location was a favorite one with these people. It served to protect 
them from the stealthy approach of an enemy or from the dangerous 



782 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

attack of wild beasts aiul reptiles, of wbicli the black bear and panther, 
and poisonous snakes were the most dangerous. It also gave them 
greater immunity from the mosquitoes, and enabled them to enjoy the 
cooling sea breezes in summer. For the same reasons the first settlers 
have generally chosen these places for their own residence. 

A little less than half a mile southerly, on the lagoon shore, same 
side, is another large kjokkenmodding, and there is a house upon this 
also, belonging to Mr. Frank Sam's, of New Smyrna. This heap is nearly 
as large as the one at Oak Hill. 

Continuing south just a mile, by the west shore of the Mosquito Ln- 
goon, we come to Swift's wharf, built several years ago for the purpose 
of shipping live-oak lumber. On the shore, at the north side of tins 
wharf, is a large mound and shell heap. Captain Swift's headquarters 
and ofi&ce is located upon it. This place is in sec. 9, T. 19 S., R. 35 K , 
and the two previously described are situated in Sec. 5, same township 
and range. 

Continuing south now, we come to the " Ross Hummock," on same 
side of lagoon and near Mr. McCarty. Here we find a large sand burial 
mound, about 50 yards from the west bank of the lagoon, in what wns 
a wild orange grove, but had been grafted and cleared up at the time (»f 
my visit in February, 1878. There is a small brook between it and rhe 
shore, close to the mound and a deep artificial ditch with running water 
about 100 feet to the south. This last is believed to be the work of Dr. 
Turnbull's colonists at the time of the English possession of Florida. 
The mound, as I have stated, is of sand, with very precipitous sides. 
This has apparently never been opened. 

Two and a half miles north of the Haulover Canal, near Butler Camp- 
bell's, there is said to be a burial mound in the scrub, about 200 or 300 
yards from the west shore of the lagoon. 

Passing through the aforesaid canal and going south about half a 
mile we come to a small sand burial mound on land of Charles H. Nau- 
man, formerly Lisbon Futch, It is about 155 yards from the east bank 
of the Indian River. I made a partial examination of this mound in 
1869, and described it in Rod and Gun, November 4, 1876. We found 
there only i)ortions of skeletons and broken pottery. Subsequent ex- 
plorers have opened a trench through the mound down to the original 
surface of the ground. They found nothing worthy of note except a 
large oval coquina stone, about 2 J feet in transverse and 14 inches in 
conjugate diameter. Around the shortest medial circumference a groove 
was cut about 2 inches deep, as if for the fastening of a rope. There 
were no other marks upon it, but it had evidently been rounded and 
brought to shape by the hand of man. This stone was left lying at the 
base of the mound by the discoverers, where I saw it in 1878. I aiu 
informed by Mr. Nauman, whose house is only about 200 feet east of the 
mound, that the stone was found in the exact center of the mound at 
the bottom. It is difiBcult to determine its use. It could have been 
used as an anchor for a large canoe or for fastening a guy-rope. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



783 



We pass next to the sbell-banks, or kjokkenmoddings, at Dummett's, 
U miles from the last. These are low fields, with shells and pottery, 
and are found on the lagoon and Indian River sides of the isthmus 
One of the largest orange groves in the State is growing at each of 
those places. They were originally wild groves. 

Passing then to the head of Indian Eiver, on the east side of which 
we find a mound in the hummock near Mr. GrifBs's, and descending to 
Titusville I learn that there was a small sand mound about 6 or i feet 
high on land of P. E. Wager, who removed it and excavated a cellar for 
a house on its site. It was about 300 feet from the west bank of Indian 

East southeast from Titusville, on the east side of Indian River, on 
Merritt's Island, there is a large mound on land of Dr. Moore as I was 
informed bv J. W. Joyner, since deceased, who also stated that he picked 
up several earthen vessels on it, which he used in the house until broken 

by the children. ^ , . . , 

On the Banana River there is a large shell-bank containing broken 
pottery, at the De Soto Grove, on the east side of the river, on the line 
between Townships 22 and 23 South. South of this about 5 mdes is a 
burial mound in the orange grove of M. O. Burnham keeper of the 
Cape Canaveral light-house. It is about 8 feet hign and 50 feet diam- 
eter. There was a wild orange grove there. 

South of Titusville, 12.3 miles by the new Titusville and City Point 
road, as I located it, is a large sand mound in the hummock now belong- 
ing to Charles R. Carlin, but formerly to Albert Faber. It ^^ o^^*^^ 
west side of the river, about 500 feet from the bank, m T. 23 S., R. 35 
E. It is about 25 feet high. 

A very large mound or shell heap is reported directly east of the head 
of Banana River, near the ocean beach, but I Hav^never visited it. 

In T 24 S R 36 E., are two sand mounds on Merrit's Island, ihe 
most northerk one is about half a mile west of New Found Hai^or, and 
the other is only about 100 feet from the east bank of Indian River, in 
Sectrn 27, nea; the house of Aaron Cleveland, C. E. They are both 

'°?he next mounds of which I have any knowledge are situated on the 
peninsula, between Indian River and the Atlantic Ocean, at the mouth 
of BananL River. There is at that point a very large shell mound 
which was used by the Coast Survey for a tri angulation station^ Is 
western face is abraded by the waters of the nver into a «teeP ^lufl the 
river having encroached nearly to the center. It is composed of smal 
she'ls and fshes, mixed with human, animal, and fish ^-es. It is no 
far from 50 feet high and 300 or 400 feet in diameter on the iivei. The 
back of it is covered with a wild orange grove, and it is covered with 
large India-rubber, torch-wood, and other trees. There is broken po- 
tery mixed through it, but I could find but one stone implement, al- 

' * Detailed survey and plan of this locality was made. 



784 PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

tliougli the broken river face presented a fine opportunity for viewing 
the interior. I am informed that near this to the north are two burial 
sand mounds in the scrub, although I was able, after a close and long- 
continued search with two assistants, to find but one, and this had been 
opened. What appears indistinctly like a wide level road or way leads 
due east from the shell heap, between two ponds, which possibly were 
once one. 

Less than a mile south of this mound is a small kjokkenmodding on 
the immediate east bank of the river, on land of J. M. Hopkins, M^hose 
house and garden are situated on it. There are somewhat indistinct re- 
mains at the mouth of Crane Creek, at Melbourne, on the north side, on 
land of Thomas Fish, deceased, and on the south side on land of Peter 
Wright. On the opposite side of the river in Sec. 6, T. 28 S., E. 37 E, is 
an Indian mound. South of this not quite 2 miles is another, both on 
the east side of the river, and the last opposite the mouth of Turtle 
or Turkey Creek. I am told that shell fields exist on the banks of this 
creek but have not examined them. 

Cape Malabar is an insignificant point of land on the west bank of 
Indian Eiver. South of the cape, on the same side, about four- fifths of 
a mile, is a shell mound on land of E. Arnold, and adjoining this, to the 
south, is a shell bank. About a mile and a half south of the Arnold 
mound there is a sand mound, on land of Mr. Damon, in Sec. 8, T. 29 S., 
E. 38 E. 

The next mound is of shell, situated on the beach ridge due east from 
the island called Grant's farm, and near the northeast corner to T. 30 
S., E. 38 E. It is called " Wild Boar Mound," and is situated in a deep 
bay of the river at a very narrow i^lace in the peninsula. The waters 
of the river come to the foot of this mound, which is about 20 feet high 
and 200 feet long on the river, with steep sides, and composed of broken 
pottery, shells, and ashes. 

In T. 31 S., E. 39 E. is a high long bluff of shells on the west side of 
Indian Eiver. I have not examined this except from the river, but it 
is probably an extended kjokkenmodding. 

Opposite Jupiter Inlet on tlie west bank at Stone's Point are several 
large oyster-shell heaps, as I am informed by numerous observers, one 
of which is said to be very large. In the southern end of Lake Worth, 
in T. 45 S., I am told there is a large mound on the west side of the lake, 
about 100 yards from the beach, and across the lake on the sea beach 
there are two large shell heaps composed of oyster shells. No oysters 
exist now within 10 miles of these heaps. There is also a mound in 
the hummock opposite the old inlet to the lake. 

On the Delesfine grant, on the east boundary of Sec. 32, in T. 22 S., 
E. 35 E., is a very small and insignificant kjokkenmodding. It is very 
probable that this place is of much more recent age than the remains 
previously described herein, it having the appearance of a camping 
place of some of the Seminole tribe of Indians. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 785 

I will now briefly speak of some prehistoric remains in the southwest 
ern part of the State that I have lately visited. 

In March, 1881, 1 started from Orlando, Orange County, Florida, with 
an ox- wagon, in charge of a Government party, to make certain surveys 
and examinations for a steamboat route from Saint John's Eiver to Char- 
lotte Harbor, on the Gulf of Mexico. 

We passed down by Forts Gatlin, Davenport, and Clinch, and thence 
down the valley of the Big Chocleypopka River to Peace Creek ; thence 
to Charlotte Harbor, and from there to the mouth of Caloosahatahee 
Eiver and up the rivernearly to Lake Okeechobee. Before makingFort 
Clinch, and near Lake Pierce, we passed near the Indian village of Chipco, 
named after the old Seminole chief, since deceased. We visited the vil- 
lage, which consisted of less than a dozen cabins built of logs and fan 
palmetto. It is situated on a small hill. l!^umerous sweet orange trees 
in bearing were growingamong the honses, and a sugar-canefield was be- 
ing cultivated near by. The Indians had been living on this spot for 
many years, but there was no indications of a kjokkenmodding forming. 
This is accounted for by the fact that these Indians live principally on 
venison and fish. No shell-fish of any kind were observed about the 
place, and so the principal agent in the building of the heaps was want- 
ing. This may account in some measure for the absence of heaps in the 
country traversed from Orlando to Charlotte Harbor, as no shell-fish are 
attainable in that region. 

In all this distance from Orlando to Charlotte Harbor, about 120 miles, 
I found only one prehistoric mound that I could confidently assert 
to be of human origin. This was a small kjokkenmodding on the west 
bank of •' Stake Ford " prairie, just north of the entrance of the south 
prong of the Big Chocleypopka River. It was situated in a grove of 
live oaks and was small and uninteresting. 

On the west bank of Lake Livingston, about 12 miles north of the last- 
named locality, we found about one-fourth of a mile from the lake what 
appeared to be an earthwork, about 5 feet high, and perhaps 800 feet 
long, shaped like a crescent broken in the middle. It was in flat pine 
woods, the convex side facing the lake, and the interior was at that time 
a grass pond with three small islets, the water about a foot deep. It 
is very doubtful whether it is the work of man, but it struck us as sin- 
gular to find such an embankment in the flat pine woods, whose monoto- 
nous level is often unbroken for many miles. 

At the town of Myers, on the site of Fort Myers, I found n small sand 
mound in the western jiartof the town. Second street is laid out over it. 

Captain Peter Nelson, of Myers, told me that a canal existed clear 
through Pine Island in Charlotte Harbor. This is a long, narrow island 
about 1^ to 2 miles wide. He said public opinion was divided as to the 
builders, some attributing it to the mound builders and some to the Span- 
iards, or early pirates. I was unfortunately unable to visit it. There 
is quite a large mound below Myers on the same side of the river, about 
a mile from the town. 
H. Mis. 26 50 



786 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

In the summer of 18S0 I was appointed county surveyor of Erevard 
County, Florida, and surveyed the south line of the county, starting in 
near the mouth of the Saiut Lucie Elver, and going west about 22 miles. 
On the way to the starting-point, at the mouth o«f the Saint Lucie Eiver 
I stopped at Fort Capron, opposite Indian Eiver outlet. Here I found 
a large deposit of oyster-shells resembling a kjokkenmodding, but saw 
no mound. I stopped also at Fort Pierce, about 4 miles south of Fort 
Capron, and here I found a large sand mound on the west bank of the 
Indian Eiver or Saint Lucie Sound, and just south of the old fort, the 
embankments of which are plainly discernible. I stopped also and ex- 
amined Mount Elithabeth, which is showu on nearly all maps of Florida. 
I found this to be a large, high, and symmetrical mound of black earth 
and shells, which would probably be classed as a kjokkenmoddiug. It 
is an immense work, probably GO feet high, and with the exception per- 
haps of Turtle mouud, the largest prehistoric monument that I have 
seen in the State. 

I found also, on the north bank of the Saint Lucie Eiver, about 3 
miles from the mouth, in a large bay of the river, another immense 
mound called Mount Pisgah, truly gigantic, and of the same character 
as Mount Elithabeth. Near its base is the remains of a stone house, 
built of coquina stone, and believed to be the remains of the abode of some 
of the pirates that are known to have infested this locality in the early 
days of the present century. I saw no other mounds on the whole trip. 

This completes my present knowledge of the prehistoric remains of 
Florida. As the object of this paper has been to simjjly state facts, I 
will not enter into any lengthy discussion as to the objects or uses of 
the shell mounds. 

Difierent persons with whom I have conversed in Florida have sug- 
gested that some were built for lookouts, others as sites for residences, 
to enable the dwellers on them to obtain the benefit of the breeze, so 
desirable in this climate, while others have thought they were used as 
dwelling-i)laces to avoid the mosquitos, which are so troublesome in the 
woods near the ground, and others still that they were used as dwelling- 
places, to enable the occupants to escape the floods which even now in 
certain seasons often surround their bases during great storms. This last 
hypothesis receives more credence from the fact that numerous instances 
have occurred of white settlers resorting to them in such emergencies. It 
may perhaps be safe to say that incidentally they have served all these 
purposes. JS^ot a few persons whom I have met contend strongly against 
this artificial origin, believing them to have been cast uj) by the sea, 
but they totally fail to account for the presence of broken pottery and 
bones which almost invariably forms part of their composition. The 
great shell banks on Fort George Island, at the mouth of the Saint 
John's Eiver, have the appearance of oyster banks in which the shell- 
fish were killed by some geological catastrophe, such as elevation above 
the water, but the remains of man appear distinct, superimposed upon 
them. This place deserves more careful study. I have endeavored to 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 787 

fix the location of all the mouucls aud remains in the State of which 
I could learn, in the hope that others with more leisure at their disposal 
and better fitted by anatomical knowledge might be aided in their 
search by these descriptions. If in this I have succeeded, I shall feel 
that my labor has not been in vain. There are numerous mounds and 
shell heaps on the western coast of the State that I have been unable- 
to visit. Many of them will be found described in the recent Eeports of 
the Smithsonian Institution. In regard to the race or tribe who have 
left these monuments, it appears to me most probable the kjokkenmod- 
dings were the work of successive races or generations of Indians, and 
incidentally formed by the slow process of accumulation naturally 
coincident to prolonged residence on one particular spot, and the bulky 
and imperishable nature of the remains of the shell-fish upon which 
they principally subsisted, this residence being chosen and maintained 
as most eligible, and in many places the only dry location available 
throughout the year. These kjokkenmoddings are now generally the 
most desirable places of residence to be found in the adjoining country, 
and they and the immediate vicinity are commonly occupied by the 
present settlers. The reason for the formation of the shell heaps is 
more obscure. Some intelligent persons, however, with whom I have 
conversed are of the opinion that they both have been modified by the 
action of water since their formation, the stratified appearance of some 
of them and their immense extent lending a shadow of plausibility to* 
this supposition. If this should be the case it would define an age for 
these remains far earlier than has generally been supposed. The gen- 
eral absence of stone or flint implements would seem at first sight to- 
favor this hypothesis and carry the age of these remains back to the 
earliest advent of man in the Palaeolithic age. I think, however, from 
my somewhat extended observations in this and other States that the 
theory of a submergence since the original formation of the shell heaps 
cannot be maintained. 

We find the same appearance of stratiti cation in the small shell heaps 
in Ipswich, Mass., examined and mapped by me in 1873 for the Pea- 
body Museum, which are of comparatively modern date, and it is easy 
to see that this stratification could have been formed in the gradual ac- 
cumulation of the heaps, occupied probably, at irregular intervals, by 
the wandering tribes. It is known that the Ipswich shell heaps have 
never been covered by flood. In all the remains that I examined in. 
Florida I could find no evidence of a superimposed stratum of material 
foreign to the heap, except such as resulted from an accumulation of 
vegetable humus, or was caused by the action of the wind transporting^ 
loose sand, and by the action of the river waters at their several stages 
or such higher stages as periodically occur. I have, then, unhesitatingly 
assumed the remains to belong to the Neolithic age, and account, in a 
great measure, for the absence of flint and stone implements by the al- 
most entire absence of material from which to construct them in the 
regions examined. The natives undoubtedly possessed some of these 



788 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

tilings, but they must have been brought from a great distance, and were 
therefore held in great esteem ' and corresponding care taken of them. 
Their tools and weapons were probably mostly of wood, and have, of 
course, long ago decayed. Very many of the flints found were probably 
the implements of the later Indian tribes. 

Regarding the remains in the Kissimmee Valley and about Lake Okee- 
chobee there is little doubt that they were constructed by a race anterior 
to the Seminoles, and for puri)oses of worship or war; possibly, also, in 
some places for internal improvements. These remains deserve careful 
and systematic search and study. I am informed by Dr. Ken worthy, 
of Jacksonville, that he has found on the Gulf coast other evidences of 
attempts at improvements by canals on a large scale. 

The amount of pottery that is found in Florida is truly astonishing. 
In the kjokkenmoddings it forms a large j)ercentage of the material. 
It is found also in the sand mounds, generally in larger ineces, and 
sometimes in whole vessels. It has never been my fortune, however, to 
find any of the latter. There is scarcely a hummock or piece of rich 
arable land which does not yield numerous specimens upon being cleared 
and dug up. It seems as if the ancient people who used it had an eye 
to fertility in choosing their residences, and goes to prove that they 
practiced agriculture. They certainly made a very judicious selection 
of lands for cultivation, if we are to believe that these places had been 
in actual cultivation where such broken i^ottery is found in the soil. 
It is very seldom that it is found scattered in like manner in the i^oor, 
light, sandy soil. Kjokkenmodding heaps are found on all kinds of soil, 
but it is very seldom, in fact never to my knowledge, that the poor, 
white, sand^^ soil yields, upon being turned up, any broken pottery, as 
is the case in the rich lands. Per contra^ tbe residence of a large com- 
munity for a great length of time on poor, white, sandy soil would nec- 
essarily enrich the land and give it a darker color ; but it would also 
tend to an increased elevation and so form a kjokkenmodding, which 
simple cultivation would not do. Allowing that these rich fields where 
broken pottery is found had been under cultivation and been cleared of 
trees, we must go back for the age of these agricultural operations be- 
yond the age of the trees now growing upon them, which, in many situ- 
ations that have come under my observation, would exceed four or five 
hundred years. There are now growing upon these fields dense trop- 
ical forests, almost impenetrable jungles, with trees of immense size 
and age. 

It is known that the Seminoles were agriculturists. In the Seminole 
war our armies found flourishing fields of corn and other crops, and the 
settlers often point out clearings in hummocks, with the great dead 
bodies of live oaks girdled and killed many years ago, as old Indian 
fields. These old giant live-oaks will last two or three generations when 
girdled and left standing. Broken pottery is also found in these places 
in profusion, but these fields are but small clearings in immense forests, 
whose soil, wherever opened, is found filled with pottery. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 789 

On Indian Eiver, at the large shell moiiiul situated at the mouth of 
the Banana River, on the beach, at tbe foot of the mound, an unfinished 
arrow-head of flint was found. It is the crudest article of flint manu- 
facture that I have found, but it has evidently been worked by the hand 
of man. It has been smoothed by the action of the waves. Most of 
the pottery found is very rough and shows no marks. There is a great 
difference, however, in the composition of different pieces, some being 
made of very fine clay, and very compact and smooth, while others are 
very porous and disintegratiug. One piece picked up is extremely hard, 
almost flinty, with a smooth polish on the iuside. It is almost impossi- 
ble to cut it with a knife. In color, some are black when cut and some 
light brown. One piece is a bright brick red on the outside third, show- 
ing evidently strong action of fire. A large piece, found in the large 
shell heap at the mouth of the Banana River, previously referred to, 
has still upon the outside the soot or crock from the fire. This was 
found buried nearly 8 feet from the top. None of the fragments found 
appear to contain any pounded shells and very litte sand. 

I am informed by Mr. White, of Buffalo Bluff, a very intelligent set- 
tler, that a large iron ax was found imbedded in the heart of a dead 
live-oak upon his place, and that this oak had been dead as long as any 
of the settlers could remember. He also informed me that a stone phallus 
was found upon his place and is in the possession of a gentleman of Sa- 
vannah. Dr. Joseph Jones, in Antiquities of Tennessee, mentions the 
occurrence there of similar specimens. At the large shell mound known 
as the "Wild-Boar Mound," in T. 30 S., R. 38 E., I found a perforated shell 
similar to the one described by Professor Wyman, on page 58, Fresh- 
water Shell Mounds of Florida, and figured in same Plate VIII, Fig. 2, 
It is a Busycon carica, 4^ inches in length, at present, the beak being 
chipped and broken off. The hole in my specimen is round or nearly 
so, about eleven-sixteenths of an inch in diameter, made in the last 
turn, the nearest part of the circumference being 2 inches from the 
mouth. The spines are all broken or ground off", and the shell, at the 
mouth, is chipped. It looks as if it had been used as a mallet by in- 
serting a stick in the hole for a handle. 

I am informed by the Hon. Columbus Drew, ex-governor of Florida, 
that a golden spear-head was found in a mound in Orange County, Florida, 
along with an oval disk of silver. The spear-head was about 2^ inches 
in length and 1^ in width in the widest point. He stated that it ap- 
peared as if hammered out or formed by a somewhat unskillful work- 
man. Its bullion value, as given by a jeweller, was $18. No marks of 
any kind appear on it. This interesting relic is still in his possession. 
The silver disk found with it appeared to have some marks or scratches 
upon it, but they could not be deciphered and the governor was not sure 
that they were intended for anything. This silver disk had unfortun- 
ately been cut in two by the ignorant discoverer, and, it is believed, a 
piece taken out for the purpose of ornamenting the stock of his gun. 



790 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

It is liighl^" desirable that these interesting relics be aual;5zed at tlie 
mint to discover, if possible, the kind of bullion of which they are made, 
and in this way show if they were made from Spanish or American 
coins, by the amount of alloy they contained. If from neither, but if 
composed of pure gold it would tend to show a much more ancient age 
for them. 

In concluding this imperfect account of the i>rehistoric remains found 
in East Florida, it is proper to state that without doubt other mounds 
and remains exist undiscovered by me in the districts traversed. The 
almost impassable nature of a great part of the countj^, owing to the in- 
numerable ponds, sloughs, brooks, and rivers, the cane-brakes, and im- 
penetrable jungles filled with bamboo, grape, and numerous other vines, 
and tall i)almetto, renders travel on foot, or in any conveyance except 
a boat, almost impossible. The density and luxuriance of the growth 
of these tropical forests hedges onein with an impenetrable wall, through 
■which a bird can hardly fly, and in which vision is limited to a few feet 
around the explorer. 

Of course, in these places it is only by chance the uuguided explorer 
stumbles upon a mound. I am therefore very greatly indebted to the 
.gentlemen I have named for information and for having left their occupa- 
tion in many cases to act as guides. 

Especially would I mention Mr. James H. Fry, of Pilatka; Frederick 
"Lente, of Lake George ; Mr. White, of Buffalo Bluff; Judge Bartlett, 
•of Georgetown ; Doctor Keuworthy, of Jacksonville ; Mr. Wells, of 
INashua; Mr. Scott, of Barker's Landing; Aaron Cleveland, C. E., of 
Merritt's Island ; and Mr. Bradley, of Lake Worth. All evinced great 
interest in the objects of the expedition. 

In summing up the results of the expedition, the paucity of relics will 
he remarked. It must, however, be remembered that the object 
was simply a reconnoissanco and not a thorough examination. It 
"was my desire to accurately determine and map the locations of as 
many stations as possible. It should be observed that between a j^oint 
about 2 miles north of Pilatka and Lake George these remains are ex- 
<^eediugly numerous, a mound or shell heap occurring at about every 
lialf mile of the river. This portion of the State seems to have been 
much more thickly populated than imy other examined. This region is 
a very fertile one, and is now more thickly populated by white settlers 
than almost any other. The wonderful accounts from the valley of the 
Xissimmee, and almost equally wonderful from the Ocklawaha, make au 
•exploration or reconnaissance of these regions desirable. The geo- 
;graphical range and distribution of these people will go far towards 
clearing uj) the mystery of their origin and disappearance. Florida has 
endoubtedly in past ages sustained an immense population, and it is 
appropriate that the ruins of their cities and their imperishable monu- 
ments should be preserved, and their locations mapped, as a record of 
the march of nations. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



791 



GOLD, SILVER, AND OTHER 0R:N^AMEN'TS EOUXD TX 

FLORIDA. 

By J. Francis Le Baron, U. S. Engineer. 

The articles described in this paper were first brought to the notice 
of the writer by the Hon. Columbus Drew, sr., of Jacksonville, Fla., in 
the fall of 1882, wlio has kindly furnished the following account of the 
locality where they were found and their surroundings. The pieces 
belong to his sou. 

'' The gold arrow-head and other pieces were found near the line divid- 
ing Polk and Orange Counties, Florida, about the year 1875. They 
were dug from a small mound in which they lay 3 or 4 feet deep, among 
many stone battle-clubs and hatchets (weighing altogether, perhaps, 
100 or 200 pounds) with clay pots or pot-ware. The clubs and hatchets 
were given away to different parties soon after the relics were discov- 
ered. The remaining half of what seems to h<ave been a triangular 
silver ornament, to be suspended by the small hole on the top, was cut 
off by a hunter to ornament his gun with. The half of the scissors was 
found with the other pieces. I feel quite certain as to the genuineness 
of the relics and the facts stated about them." 

It was found to be impossible to obtain a regular assay of the pieces 
in Jacksonville. They were, however, referred to two jewelers in the 
city for examination. 

Tests were made by Mr. J. Gumbinger, jeweler, of si:)ecimeus Xo. 2 
and 3 with acid and touchstone. He reported the spearhead No. 2 to 
be composed of 14-karat gold, having a bullion value of $19.01, and the 
miniature ax No. 3 to be of 20-karat gold and worth $6. 

The other specimens, except the fragment of scissors No. 6, he con- 
sidered to be silver, except possibly No. 9, which has somewhat the ap- 
pearance of brittania-ware. 

Mr. Crosby, ofGreenleaf «& Co., jewelers, on the contrary, stated 

quite positively that Nos. 1, 5, and 9 were lead or pewter. No tests were 
made of any besides the gold pieces, except with a graver, as neither 
of the jewelers had proper appliances for testing silver. 

My own examinations and conclusions as to the metallic character of 
the specimens I i^resent in tabular form below : 



No. 



10 



Metal. 



1 Alloy of silver.. 

2 Gold 



..-.do 

Silver 

Alloy of silver. 



Iron 

Silver 

....do ' 

Alloy of silver. . 



Character. 



Cast. 



Silver. 



Hammered . . 

Cast 

....do 



Hammered.. 

do 

Cast 

Hammered.. 



Troy weight. 



oz. pwt. 
1 12 



1 14 05 



04 



Specific 
gi'avity. 



Remarks. 



10. 051 I Apparently an alloy of silver or bri- 

1 tania-ware. 
12.439 ! Dark red gold; apparently alloyed with 

copper. 
14. 077 Bright yellow gold. 
8.500 Undoubtedly silver. 
8.574 ; An alloy of silver or britania; mnch 
I oxidized fragment of iron. 



I Undoubtedly silver. 

Do. 
9.594 Doubtful silver; probably britania or 

other alloy. 
Undoubtedly silver. 



792 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

The specimens were carefully weighed. The specific gravity was deter- 
mined by weighing in distilled water at a temperature of 65° Fah. 
Numbers 7, 8, and 10 are very thin, about the thickness of a wafer. 
No. 4 is about three one-hundredths of an inch in thickness. No. 1 is 
about five one-hundredths of an inch thick on the edge and about eight 
one-hundredths near the middle. The hole in the center has been bev- 
eled on one face of the specimen with some sharp cutting tool, the marks 
of which are discernible. It was evidently first cast, and has been rub- 
bed down on the back, as presented in the drawing and photograph, 
apparently by the use of sand, the striae being plainly discernible. The 
face presented in the photograph does not appear to have been treated 
in this way, but has the appearance of a casting. It is very much harder 
than lead, and a fresh cut does not tarnish. It is apparently brittle, 
having a crack nearly across its face. No. 8 is also cracked in much the 
same manner, and has no markings. No. 7 is unmarked in any way. 
No. 10 is pierced with a small hole near one apex, and there are numer- 
ous punctures on the edges, which do not, however, pass through. No. 
4 is marked on the face with lines which were evidently made with a 
sharp pointed instrument, like a graver. The back shows the impress 
of a mold. It is perhaps the most interesting of the collection. 

No. 5 is evidently a bullet, much harder than lead, which has been 
perforated with some sharp pointed tool, making a hole of large di- 
ameter at the two ends and smaDer in the center, such as would natur- 
ally be made by a small penknife. The hole in this and also the two 
holes in the end of No. 9, are filled with a substance resembling rosin, 
which gives to the lizard-shaped specimen, No. 9, the effect of two bril- 
liant eyes. This No. 9 has been broken in two places. Ithasbeen sug- 
gested that this singular shaped specimen served as a spoon or other 
instrument for eating, an idea suggested by its trough-shaped underside, 
which resembles a cheese-knife, such as is nsed by grocers. The ma- 
terial is hard and brittle, and there is a trace of gold in the tail end. Its 
thickness is eight one-hundredths of an inch in the center, one edge be- 
ing considerably thicker than the other. This piece resembles the head 
of a cat-fish. No. 2 is eighteen one-hundredths of an inch thick in the 
center, and the edges have been rubbed down to about from six one-hun- 
dredths to eight-one-hundredths of an inch in thickness. The point is 
sharp. This is evidently cast, the indentations of a rather smooth 
mold, such as appears on the surface of smooth castings, being very 
plain, especially on one side. This appears also to have been rubbed 
down as with sand and water, and the edges beveled. 

No. 3 is about three one-hundredths of an inch thick, somewhat thinner 
on the edge of the axe, and thicker at the top. It is evidently hammered, 
and is very smooth. Examining the specimens on the basis of their rel- 
ative specific gravities, the low values found for the gold specimens is 
most noticeable. This shows them to be largely alloyed with much 
lighter metals, such as copper or brass, silver, &c. The alloys of the 



PAPEES RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 793 

silver specimens are shown to be a lighter material than lead, as all the 
specimens proved to be lighter than silver; cast-silver being 10.474 
(Ganat) and cast-lead 11.352 (Ganat). This shows them to be probably 
alloys of silver and zinc or tin, or both, or possibly nickel. These speci- 
mens were all probably used as amulets. 

No. 9 has the only totemic resemblance. This may have been intended 
as an imperfect representation of a cat-fish or a lizard. Nos. 2 and 3 
were probably of a class known as " ceremonial weapons," being too 
small and valuable for actual use in war or the chase, especially Ko. 
3, but were used by the "medicine men" in their ceremonies. 

On page 61 of the Archaeological Collections of the United States Na- 
tional Museum * there is figured (Fig. 224) a copper celt from a mound 
near Lexington, Ky., which has a resemblance to our No. 3, although 
more than double the size. 

On page 282 of the Eleventh Annual Report of the Peabody Museum 
of Archaeology and Ethnology of Harvard University, there is shown 
(Eig. 6) a round silver ornament, taken from a mummy in the ancient 
cemetery at the bay of Chacota, Peru, and described by Mr. John H. 
Blake. This article has a close general resemblance to our No. 1, and 
is, as described, of the same material, although IJ inches larger in di- 
ameter. Like this specimen, ours is brittle, and the hole in the center 
is larger, but is countersunk in much the same manner. This Peruvian 
specimen appears to have been worn as an ornament around the neck. 
Unlike the Peruvian, ours has no marked indentations on the edge, 
and, judging from the description, the Peruvian was much thinner. 

Discoidal ornaments of shell, stone, etc., are very numerous, and ap- 
pear to have been universally popular with the aborigines. Many are 
figured in the volume on Archaeology of Lieutenant Wheeler, United 
States Engineers, surveys west of the one hundredth meridian. 

Judging of these specimens by their specific gravity, it appears cer- 
tain that the gold ones at least, cannot have been made from coins unless 
a large amount of alloy has been added. 

On page 298 of the Annual Eeport of the Smithsonian Institution for 
1877 there is a description by Professor Rau of a gold ornament found 
in Florida. In his observations on this ornament Professor Eau states 
that there is no ground for supposing that the Indians north of Mexico 
possessed the art of casting gold. This would apparently point to Mexico 
as the probable origin of the gold specimen No. 2, which I think is un- 
doubtedly cast, as I have stated in the table, for we would not suppose 
the whites to have manufactured a gold ornament of this shape; and, 
moreover, a close examination of the specimen will show a want of per- 
fect symmetry, indicating it, with still greater probability, to be the 
work of the aborigines or Aztecs. 



*The Archseological Collectioa of the United. States National Museum, in charge of 
the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. By Charles Rau. (No. 267.) 
Smithsoniaa Contributions to Knowledge, Vol. XXII. 



794 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

SHELL HEAPS OP CHARLOTTE HARBOR, PLORIDA. 
By Dr. M. H. Simons, U. S. K 

Charlotte Harbor, on the Gulf coast of the Plorida peninsula, is 
roughly' estimated to be 30 miles long and 8 miles wide. It is separated 
from the open waters of the Gulf by a series of islands, which the con- 
stant surf is steadily washing away throughout their whole extent. Into 
the northern extremity of the harbor. Pease Creek empties, and near 
the southern end the Caloosahatchie River. 

Charlotte Harbor is divided by Boca Grande Pass, and its channel 
into a northern and southern portion of nearly equal extent. The north- 
ern half has two channels, an outer between Boca Grande and Gaspa- 
rilla, and an inner between Pease Creek mouth and Boca Grande. Be- 
tween these are a tongue ot the mainland and several small keys. There 
are several extensive mud-flats, dry at low water, which afford feeding 
grounds for countless numbers of Grallatores, among which the roseate 
spoonbills are numerous, and the flamingo is not uncommon. On the 
tongue of land there are many marshy or swampy spots where G. ivil- 
^onii abound from December to March. I saw no mounds in the north- 
ern half of the harbor. The southern half contains more than sixty-five 
distinct keys. Pine Key, the largest, is some 12 miles long and 1 mile 
wide ; Bird Key, the smallest, contains less than an acre. There are 
many reefs and shoals exposed at low water, and just awash at high; 
but the keys counted are from 4 to G feet above tide level naturally in 
the center, and fringed witu a heavy mangrove growth. I have visited 
twenty-five shell-heaps in this half of the harbor and feel perfectly se- 
cure in stating that there are as many more hidden by the mangrove 
growth on Pine Key and the keys in the inner channel. 

In the southern part of the harbor there are also two channels. The 
inner, or Mattacha, runs between Pine Key and the mainland down to 
the mouth of the Caloosahatchie, and looks as if it might once have been 
the bed of Pease Creek ; the outer or main channel runs between Pine 
Key and the outer or barrier keys. Un the islands in the Mattacha 
Channel, and on that side of Pine Key, there are many accumulations of 
shells, some of large extent and several feet in thickness, but no conical 
mounds or ridges were seen. There are works of some description, 
however, on nearly every key in the outer or main channel, and these I 
shall now describe, beginning near Boca Grande and working south. 

On the Gulf side of the outer keys there are no shell heaps, but along 
the inner channel there are six known to me. Their average height is 
about 6 feet above mean water, the upper 3 feet of which are of shells 
and fish-bones ; the surface is irregular and varies from one to several 
acres in extent ; they have been cut away extensively by shiftings of 
the channel. Mondongo Key, about two miles southeast of Boca Grande, 
is covered to a depth of G to 8 feet for half a mile in length and 100 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 795 

yards in widtli ; below tlie shells there is probably an equal depth of 
sand and clay; on its northeastern end there is a conical luound about 
10 feet in height, which commands an extensive view. 

Southeast of Mondongo is Patricio Key, which has a layer of shells 
over its surface for half a mile or more, but it is apparently a clay bank 
fifteen or more feet in height, precipitous on one side and sloping rapidly 
down to water-level on the other. 

Less than a mile south is Useppa Key, whose northern extremity is a 
mud-bank 6 feet in height topped by shells to an equal amount ; this 
widens out into a plateau about 100 yards wide, sloping to the west- 
ward. The. island i*< over half a mile in length, and about half way 
down from the northern end the i)lateau forks, the eastern arui form- 
ing a ridge about 18 feet high facing the channel, the western forming 
a narrow flat ridge not over 10 feet high. Between and protected by 
these there is about an acre which is not over 6 feet above mean Mater, 
and at the southern extremity of this there is a space about 20 feet 
square, which is not over 2 feet above water-level, and was probably used 
by the Indians, as it is now by the Spanish fisherman, a« a location 
for a well. It is protected east and west by a continuation of the ridge 
and plateau and on the south by a conical mound 15 feet or so in height. 
Abreast of this mound a boat channel, which runs down from Pease 
Creek channel between Pine and Patricio Keys to join the main one, 
comes close inshore, and probably has always been the landing place, 
for the ridge, plateau, and mound form a gentle slope to the water's 
edge ; south of this there is another large irregular mound and a high 
l^lateau, quite flat, and about 2 acres in extent. 

South of Useppa, about 3 miles, is Garden Key, which has a plateau 
in front rising gradually to an irregular oblong embankment on the north 
side, and to one of equal height, but greater length, on the south. The 
latter runs east for about .^0 yards, then south about the same distance, 
and west for a little greater distance. Between the north and south 
ridges there is a spring hole, or garden, half an acre in extent. Farther 
back, and protected by the ridges in front and on the sides, is a plateau 
of shells about an acre in extent and about 8 feet above mean water. 
South of Garden Key there is a key about 5 acres in extent, which has 
been raised throughout to a height of 8 or 10 feet. 

Due east of Useppa, a little more than a mile, there is a group of 
mounds and ridges very similar to those on Garden Key, but much 
greater in extent — a plateau in front, then mounds or ridges flanking a 
spring-hole. One ridge runs parallel to tlie present beach but is crossed 
by another at right angles, the two protecting a plateau several acres in 
extent. These heaps are on Pine Key, and, from them, straight across 
the island to Mattacha Channel, there runs a canal or ditch which passes 
two ])ouds and another mound in the center of the island. This canal 
may have been a feeder to the ponds, as described by De Soto, but it 
also shortened the distance to JMattacha Channel fully 10 miles for 
canoes. 



796 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

The shell mounds were formed by piling up the beach sand and then 
putting the shells on top as they accumulated. They were evidently 
the accumulations of ages, and were shaped as seen (conical mounds, 
ridges, and plateaus) to afford protection to the inhabitants during the 
high waters of hurricanes. In 1870 the water at Punta Kassa stood 8 
feet deep over the beach on which the cable station is built. The beach 
is fully 4 feet above mean tide, so that the water rose 12 feet in less 
than twenty-four hours. The mounds also make splendid gardens, and, 
by giving sweep to the wind, afford the best of protection against mos- 
quitoes and flies. The fact that the mounds and ridges do not form an 
inclosure shows that they were not intended as fortifications; they 
simply afforded places of safety from the flood and prevented the wash- 
ing away of gardens and crops by it. 

Many of the mounds have large trees growing on them, and the shells 
and bones in the center have been ground to dust, but others are made 
of shells, always broken, as hard as if gathered yesterday. There is an 
old trader among the Florida Indians, settled now at Key West, who 
told me that the Indians say that their ancestors built the mounds along 
the coast. He said, moreover, that the Florida Indians exactly resem- 
ble physically those of Cuba, but neither look at all like those of Mexico. 
A Charlotte Harbor settler told me that the present Florida Indians 
were, until the last few years, in the habit of coming down to the coast 
every fall and camping on the mounds to fish and to escape the sickly 
season on the mainland. He further said that these Indians are not 
Seminoles, but remnants of a tribe which occupied the country before 
the Seminoles moved down from farther north and conquered them. 
They are sun worshipers. 

I went up the Caloosahatchie Eiver 25 miles, and the Manatee 12, 
and neither saw nor heard of any fresh-water shell-mounds. There are 
shell heaps at Manatee and on the east coast at Mosquito Inlet, but they 
are oblong mounds with flat tops and are solitary. In a small one in 
Manatee village I was told that human bones were found, and with them 
some stone implements. 



ANTIQUITIES IN WASHINGTON COUNTY, MARYLAND. 
By John P. Smith, of Sharps!) urg, Md. 

In the vicinity of Sharpsburg there were mounds and earthworks, some 
of which have been destroyed, and others have been excavated and found 
to contain numerous archaeological specimens. Tradition informs us 
that a most bloody affair occurred on the Antietam Creek, near its 
mouth, which is distant 3 miles south of Sharpsburg, more than a cen- 
tury ago, between those warlike tribes of savages, the Catawbas and 
Delawares. These tribes, it is said, were engaged in strife when this 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 797 

section of the country was first known, between 1730 and 1736, and 
they so continued for a long period subsequent. The evidences of this 
conflict are still apparent in the skeletons which from time to time are 
exhumed. 

On the farm of Mr. William Hebb, distant 2 miles west of Sharpsburg, 
and near the Potomac Eiver, vast quantities of arrow-heads, pestles, 
skinning-knives, and tomahawks of exquisite workmanship have been 
found. Mr. Hebb, one of the oldest inhabitants, remembers distinctly 
numerous earth mounds formerly on his farm ; but the constant tilling 
of the land has obliterated all traces of them, so much so that it would 
be impossible for him to determine their exact location. 

On the farm of Mr. Lafayette Miller, distant 1^ miles westof Sharpsburg, 
and adjoining the lands of Mr. Hebb, an abundance of stone implements 
have been brought to light. Mr. Miller has a number of them in his 
cabinet. These implements were found in the fields, and in some places 
they were particularly numerous. Some curiously wrought stones, per- 
fectly round in shape, varying from 6 inches to 4 and 3 inches in diam- 
eter, and about 2 inches in thickness, have been found from time to 
time on this farm. The stones are perfectly flat on both sides and are 
polished. 

A short distance from this farm, and bordering on the Potomac Eiver, 
is the farm of Mr. Samuel Beeler. On this farm were two small stone 
mounds, one of them about 12 feet in length and 6 in width. They 
were composed of very small stones. One had been opened years ago ; 
the other was excavated by the writer of this pajier. The removal of 
the loose stone revealed a grave, which was very ingeniously constructed. 
The bottom of the grave was laid with large flat stone ; the sides and 
ends also composed of the same. The covering was of large, flat stones, 
built in the form of the comb roof of a house. In this mound were 
found some bones, broken pieces of pottery, and a stone knife, now in 
the National Museum. 

On the farm of the heirs of the late Jacob Miller, 2 miles south of 
Sharpsburg, on a high bluff bordering on the Potomac River, are two 
exteasive stone mounds, which had been partly exj^lored twenty years 
ago, and on a recent examination revealed bones, pottery, flints, etc. 
These mounds, as near as I can judge, were about 12 feet in length and 
6 feet in height, and were entirely of stone. The interior was con- 
structed in the same manner as those on the farm of Mr. Beeler above 
mentioned. The bones in these mounds were so much decayed that 
they crumbled on being handled. A few years ago some workmen were 
quarrying limestone near this mound when they came upon a skeleton 
which was buried in an upright position. At the head was a small 
vessel of pottery, holding about a quart, which fell to pieces on being 
handled. 

About half a mile from this i>oint, on the farm of Mr. William Black- 
ford, several articles of pottery have been unearthed. Traces of some 



798 PAPEES RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

earth mounds are still to be seen, and beautifully fiuishcd arrow-heads 
are occasionally iouud. 

On the lands of Mr. James Marker, 3 miles southeast of Sharpsburg, 
is a cave, which tradition says was used both as a dwelling and as a burial 
place. This cave is about 20 feet in diameter and G feet in height, avid 
contains two rooms. The outer room has been partially explored. The 
opening to the inner room is so small as to be difficult of access. An 
examination of the cave last spring disclosed some flat stones, which 
were removed; and underneath them a large quantity of ashes, burnt 
bones, bead ornaments, arrow-heads, and flints were encountered. A 
few years ago a pipe of exquisite workmanship was found in this cave. 
It is situated on the banks of Antietam Creek, on a rocky bluff, and 
possesess every advantage for defense, accessibility to water, game, and 
other means of living. Several years ago a skeleton was found under 
a ledge of a rock near this place in a good state of preservation. I have 
also in my possession a pipe found on the banks of the Antietam near 
this cave. 

Numerous changes have taken place in the streams and forests where 
once roamed the aborigines. The construction of the Chesapeake and 
Ohio Canal, which borders on the Potomac, destroyed a great many of 
the mounds and earth-works. Along the canal, at a place called Mercer- 
ville, 3 miles northof Sharpsburg, is an old, aboriginal burial ground 
containing half an acre. Last winter the writer visited this spot and 
found numerous pieces of pottery, bones, a few ornaments, and several 
stems of pipes. The bodies were buried about 2 feet below the surface. 
On an examination of the graves were found ashes and burnt bones^ 
which led to the belief that cremation was i^ractised by these people. 
Large trees were growing on the spot, which indicates plainly that 
this was an ancient burial site. The canal passes through a large part 
of it. 

On the farm of Mr. Jacob McQuilkin, near Martinsburg, W. Va., are 
two large mounds, one of stone, which is about 12 feet in height and 20 
feet in diameter; this one had been explored. The other mound is of 
earth, and is about G feet in height and 12 feet in diameter. Several 
large oak trees are growing in this mound, probably' 40 feet in height and 
2 feet in diameter. In the mound were found arrow-heads, fragments of 
pottery, some of which were very beautiful, also bones, and a large i)es- 
tle formed of sandstone, 18 inches in length. These remains are lo- 
cated on a high clift" overhanging the Potomac Eiver, commanding a fine 
view of the surrounding country. Around them occur an abundance of 
broken i^ottery and flint chippiugs. In one place twenty arrow-heads, 
all differently formed, were picked up. There can hardly- be a doubt that 
this point was the lapidary of the aborigines. The arrow-heads found 
were of different colored stone as well as of different shapes and sizes. 

On the farm of Dr. Whiting, in what is commonly known as " Whi- 
ting's Neck," a short distance from the farm of Mr. McQuilkin, are sev- 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 799 

eral large mouuds. On the same farm is a large cave, which has beeu 
explored about 50 feet ; it coutains several rooms. In oue of the rooms 
there were discovered bones and some arrow-heads. Tradition informs 
us that this was one of the dwellings of the aborigines, which seems 
plausible, from the numerous flint chippings which are scattered around. 

On the farm of Mr. B. F. Harrison, adjoining the farm of Mr. Mc- 
Quilkin, are numerous stone mounds and some earth- works, which have 
all been opened. These mounds, like all the rest described, are located 
on the high cliff land overlooking the Potomac Eiver. 

The dead were all buried with their heads towards the east, on a high 
point of land, and, in almost every instance, near a stream of -water. 
Their burial places were in some romantic spot commanding a fine view 
of the surrounding country. All the mounds excavated by the writer 
have been found in just such sijots. 



SHELL HEAPS NEAR PROVINCETOWN, MASS. 

By H.E.Chase, of BroolcUne, Mass. 

In the report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1880, p. 441, it is 
stated that it is the desire of those engaged in collecting material for 
publishing a permanent work on archteology to learn the location and 
characteristics of all shell heaps, mounds, pueblos, etc., in the country. 

Thinking it possible that some of the shell heaps which were visited 
by the author last summer may not be known to these i)ersons, the fol- 
lowing descrijition is given of the Indian shell heaps, burying grounds, 
etc., in a stretch of country about 50 miles long, from Provincetown, 
Cape Cod, to Hyannis Port. 

If attention had been solely given to shell heaps and the collection of 
Indian implements, no doubt a much better account could be given, for 
only a small portion of tlie route lay along the shore where Indian en- 
cami^ments were usually made. On the return from Provincetown^ 
short excursions were made by small boats east and west from Hyan- 
nis Port along the southern shore, and later, a trip to Martha's Vine- 
yard, where a few more places were located about Buzzard's Bay sta- 
tion. After leaving Provincetown, in crossing the fields about a mile 
and a half northwest of the Highland light, in North Truro, a chipped 
piece of quartz, the size of one's fist, was picked up with a half dozen 
splinters of the quartz lying near it. These were the first Indian chip- 
pings the writer had ever found, but the keeper of the signal station 
stated that not far from the spot where the chips were found, close by 
High Head, at the east end of East Harbor, there were large Indian 
shell heaps. 

This spot, mentioned by Thoreau, is well known to collectors, and 
many implements of stone have been found there. In the railroad cuts, 



800 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

a sliort distance south of the North Truro station, there was reported 
to be an Indian burying ground. These railroad cuts are through little 
hills of modified drift, close to the shore, near two little ponds, and 
only a little way from the 113th milestone from Boston. In both these 
cuts were many traces of Indian settlements, such as broken and un- 
finished arrow and spear heads, scattered shells, chips of quartz, por- 
phyry cores, and unworked pebbles of the same stone, together with 
bones, some of which were split lengthwise. The layer of earth in 
which these occurred varied from 1 to 2^ feet below the surface, the 
drift containing none except where the bank had washed down and 
mixed with the lower soil. 

Although there were obtained no human bones here, yet the next 
day, at South Truro, the railroad section man in charge at the time the 
banks were cut through produced a fine arrow-head, and said that 
while digging in one place they found the bones of about three Indians, 
and got one good skull, besides a great number of stone chips and 
arrow-heads. 

The next place where shells and arrow-heads occurred was at Well- 
fleet, at a cut a little north of the railroad bridge. In the rich bla-ck 
soil, about C inches below the upper edge of the cut, on both sides of 
the track, and in the earth thrown out of a trench in which railroad 
sleepers were placed on end to prevent snow drifting in, were found at 
least 2 quarts of stone chips and arrow-heads. With a few hours to 
give to the search and with one or two shovels to turn over the surface 
soil, this spot would very likely prove richer in implements than the 
North Truro locality. The latter place is much better known, and 
nearly everything has been picked up as fast as it washes out. 

A little further on, close by the shore of Wellfleet Harbor, which 
puts in here, was found an arrow-head that had probably been shot at 
something, as the point was splintered by a direct blow on the tip. 

On the bluffs along Wellfleet Harbor and on the plains at Orleans, 
ofl" the road which runs south of the Brewster road, many arrow-heads 
have been found. 

In parts of Brewster and on a little island near the source of Bed 
Eiver and upon its banks further down many old camps, arrow-making 
spots, and shell heaps have also been discovered. 

The next day, at Harwich Port, was spent in hunting arrow-heads 
near the mouth and in the fields about Allen's Kiver. No attempt was 
made to cross to Trous, the bluffs which lie just across on the west 
side of the stream, as it was not then known to be a good place for In- 
dian relics. There were found here one hatchet-head, one spear-head, 
several arrow-heads, a shell heap containing charcoal and bones broken 
in lengths, besides a few scattered shells near the mouth of the stream. 
A letter from a person who accompanied this search states that, in the 
shell heap found that day, he has recently dug up ten more arrow-heads, 
some pieces of stone pots, and bones that look like deer antlers. He 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY, 801 

visited Trous also and found thirteen arrow-heads, a stone gouge, and a 
broken pipe. It is probable that Mr. Josiah Paive, of Harwich Port, has 
the best collection of Indian implements on Cape Ood, as many persons 
have spoken of his collection. 

On the return to Hyannis Port, a methodical search was made for 
Indian relics in the vicinity of Barnstable and Yarmouth, all along the 
south shore of the cape, from Centreville Kiver to Bass River. With 
the addition of a few places learned on the trip to Martha's Vineyard, 
the following list includes all the places seen this summer, where In- 
dian camps have been pitched : Two railroad cuts at West Truro, de- 
scribed ; one place at Wellfieet ; at Harwich Port ; along Swan Pond 
Eiver ; along Bass River ; at Port Gammon ; along a stream from mill 
pond in West Yarmouth ; around Hall's Creek, at Squaw Island ; at 
Centreville camp-meeting ground ; along Centreville River; around But- 
termilk Bay, the head of Buzzard's ; on shore, just south of the two sta- 
tions of Cataumet and Monument. 

The west end of Martha's Vineyard proved to be another good field, 
for, near the base of Prospect Hill, in Chilmark, on the northeast slope, 
close by a small stream, were found, in a spot where the surface soil 
had been removed by floods or by the wind, great numbers of stone 
chippings, cores, and partly finished or broken arrow and spear heads, 
besides several well-defined circles of stones, blackened on the inside, 
which had undoubtedly served as fire-places. 

Northeast of Menemsha Pond was one scattered shell-heap, and a few 
stone chips. Proceeding across Menemsha Bight to the Gay Head clay 
cliffs, Mr. Flanders, the boatman, stated that one day, some years ago, 
he found over eighty perfect arrow-heads in a bare spot over Squ- 
bucket beach, close by the club-house. A boy named Tilton, living 
near Prospect Hill, showed a collection of over a quart of perfect arrow- 
heads which he had picked up mostly on the plowed fields. 

On Cape Cod shells and black earth seem to be found wherever In- 
dians have halted long or frequently. This layer of black is usually 
from 6 inches to 1 foot below the surface, but in one or two places it 
was fully 2 feet deep. Bass River, Centreville River, and Buttermilk 
Bay have the greatest shell heaps, and seem to have been settlements 
or regular stopping-places. The shells in the heaps are usually broken 
fine, and are often spread out thin, although, in one or two places, 
heaps occur 1 or 2 feet thick, and covering many square yards. 

They are mostly quohoags, conchs, winkles, and clams, with very 
few or no scallops. Camps were almost always within easy reach of 
shoal salt water furnishing shell-fish, or between a freshwater pond 
and the shore, or along the widest portions of the streams. Mixed 
with the stone chips and shells have never been found any substances 
of metal, except two small pieces cut in the shape of arrow-heads, which 
Professor Putnam, of the Peabody Museum, has determined to be of 
brass. These were found at Centreville and Buttermilk Bay. The fol- 
11. Mis. 26 51 



802 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

lowing is a list of utensils, »S:c., that were found on the cape, either by 
the writer, or by his friends ; arrow-heads and spear-heads ; quiver and 
arrows that crumbled on exposure ; axes, hatchets, and tomahawks of 
stone 5 leaf-shaped implements and skin scrapers ; needles ; graphite 
for marking ; stone pestles and mortars ; sinkers ; stone-borers, gouges, 
and sharpening stones ; stone pipes and pipe-stem (or bead) ; stone 
knives, broken stone pots of steatite and pots of clay ; a sort of copper 
or brass breastplate, found on Captain Crawford's farm (Centreville), 
buried with a skeleton. 

At Bass Eiver, where the arrows were found in the quiver, while 
sinking a barrel-well, a man found Indian skeletons in two places, 
buried in a sitting or crouching position. With one of these were buried 
a stone knife, a spear-point, and arrows, which afterwards were pur- 
chased by a storekeeper of the place for a trifling sum. The position 
of these buried Indians is the same as that of others described as found 
on Cape Cod, Nantucket, and at Mattapoisett, and it seems to have 
been the general method before the whites came to these places. The 
skull of an Indian girl, probably sixteen to twenty years old, in the 
opinion of Professor Putnam, was given to us by some one who found 
it buried in a lying position, in an Indian burying- ground at Chilmark. 
The position, and presence of nails, very much decayed, but suggestive 
of a co£Qn, lead to the supposition that the burial must have taken place 
after the coming of the whites. 

At Mashpee and Gay Head are to be seen the mixed descendants of 
the Indians, but here you can seldom see a strongly Indian face, for 
the negro features predominate, and many of the men when warmed up 
by whisky will break out into a real jjlantation song, thus showing a 
talent which their red ancestors are said never to have possessed. 

The "History of Massachusetts" by John Warner Barber, contains 
more information about Indians on Cape Cod and Martha's Vineyard 
than is to be found in any other book, and a reference to it may be use- 
ful in determining the distribution of Indians in these places after set- 
tlement by the whites. 



EEPOET ON EXPLORATIONS IN CENTEAL AMERICA, IN 1881. 
By Dr. J. F. Br.ansford, U. S. N. 

VISIT TO COPAN. 

Sir : I have the honor to make the following* report of work done in 
Central America in 1881, in obedience to my instructions; first, to de- 
termine whether the Rio Copan could be used in the transportation of 
the monoliths from the ruins of Coijan ; second, to find if possible the 
source of the jadeite of Costa Rica. 

Sailing from New York on December 24, 1881, I arrived at Aspin- 
wall January 1, and San Jos6, Guatemala, on the 8th. Next day the trip 
was made by rail from San Jos6 to Escuintla. The road runs through 
low land, almost perfectly level, for 18 miles, then rises by rather a 
sharp grade some 8 or 10 miles more to Escuintla. This town is about 
the same distance from the sea as Santa Lucia de Cotzumalquapa, 
just where the foot-hills begin, and the whole of this piedmont belt 
seems to be rich in antiquities. The ancient inhabitants of Central 
America were apparently fond of good scenery, especially when there 
might at the same time be enjoj^ed the advantages of a fertile soil. And 
these two conditions are nowhere more happily combined than in the 
foot-hills of the Pacific slope of Guatemala. From every coigne of van- 
tage the eye may glance over the rich forests to the placid waters of the 
Pacific, while on the other hand the hills slope up towards the superb 
volcanoes de Agua and Fuego, which seem facing each other, each 
grand monarch mountain followed by along line of retainers. 

The soil, which is extremely rich, is, in the neighborhood of Escuintla, 
devoted principally to sugar, the coffee plantations appearing at a 
greater elevation. The road from Escuintla to Palen, always rising, 
winds its way among these plantations, at every turn unfolding a new 
beauty in landscape. At one point we were on the edge of a cliff, deep 
down below in a ravine — a sort of Watkins Glen on a ^rand scale — the 
river from Lake Amatitlan rushed and tumbled. It was near sunset, 
the light green of the fields of sugar-cane in the foreground were given 
fine effect by the dark forest beyond. The tops of the volcanoes were 
clear cut, but lower ; ghost-like white clouds in silent succession loomed, 
and breaking away floated off seaward. Some fires had been burning 
in the lowland woods aU day, and the smoke-laden atmosphere took on 
purple tints as the red sun slowly sank in the Pacific. 

The volcan de Fuego, which was in active eruption in 1880, is rugged 
toward the peak, with ravines and patches of bare rock. The volcan 

803 



804 PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

de Agua is apparently wooded to the summit. The latter is easy of as- 
cent } the former very difficult ; but while I was in the country it was 
ascended by an English gentleman, Mr. Alfred P. Maudsley. 

The valley of Amatitlan, between Palen and Guatemala City, is a 
garden spot of exquisite beauty. Beyond that another long hill took us 
up to the table-land of Guatemala, a parched and windy plateau, unin- 
teresting, at least during the dry season, except for the mountains in 
the distance. One day had changed the climate from tropical to tem- 
perate. The direct rays of the sun were hot, but at night, or in the 
shade during the day, the temperature was cool and bracing. 

The old village of Mixco was in sight before we reached the city; and 
on the left of the road, just before entering the gate, we found the plain 
covered with mounds for a square mile or more. One learned writer on 
Guatemala has described these as ant-hills. 

On my presentation by the American minister to President Barrios, 
1 was kindly received and promptly furnished with letters to the offi- 
cials along the route of travel to Copan. These letters were signed by 
the President, and secured me every assistance possible on the trip. 
Under the strong administration of Barrios I journeyed in perfect se- 
curity along the road where annoyance and danger so beset Mr. Stephens 
in the olden time. 

On the 18th of January I left Guatemala for Copan at midday with 
an arriero, and rode as far as San Jos6, on the Zacapa road. The way 
was through a barren hill country, some 5,000 feet above the sea. Ever- 
green scrub-oaks and pines were the predominating trees. The geologi- 
cal formation was volcanic, with tufa and lava showing in the cuts. Just 
before reaching the stream at Navajo, 3 miles short of San Jos6, a vein 
of obsidian was seen crossing the road-bed, and the sharp-edged frag- 
ments of the bright and cutting iztU scattered around doubtless gave 
its name to the neighboring village. The road uj) the steep hill beyond 
was paved with blocks of stone, probably the work of colonial times. 
At several points along the road are standing in good preservation 
staunch monuments of Spanish work in the shape of stone bridges, high 
over ravines whose insignificant streams suggest no idea of the furious 
torrents of the wet season. 

Mr. Stephens* gives a beautiful description of the park-like appear- 
ance of the environs of San Jos6. Alas, the glory has departed, and 
left rather barren -looking hills surrounding a wretched hamlet, whose 
inhabitants live on the travelling public and the trains of mules and 
muleteers. I dismounted at the door of mine inn, every bone racking 
with fever, tumbled into a hammock, and took a drink of brandy and 
twenty grains of quinine. Two stalwart and rather fine-looking young 
ladies kept the establishment, but one was married and the other was 
pock-marked. Later a young bride and groom stretched their bed, 
consisting of a raw-hide, on the ground. The dogs and hogs shoved 

* I. L, Stephens : Incidents of Travel in Central America, Chiapas, and Yncatan. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 805 

my hammock from side to side in querulous search for «, comfortable 
resting-place, finally leaving me to the fever and the fleas. 

At 5 o'clock next morning we sallied out on a most pleasant road, fol- 
lowing the crest of a ridge with valleys falling away on either side. 
Near the road the milpas or patches of Indian corn flourished. Far 
away on the right were the mountains toward Honduras, and on the 
left bej'Ond the valley of the Motagua rose the giant range of the Vera 
Paz. About 8 miles from San Jos6 we came to the edge of the plateau, 
and descended by a zigzag trail, among masses of limestone and blocks 
from the overlying basalt, to a tributary of the Motagua. Beyond this 
Puente del Monte for many miles the hills were barren. Then the deso- 
lation was varied by valleys at intervals, each with its small and miser- 
able village. At one of these we stopped and had a good breakfast of 
corn-cakes (foriillas), beans, and eggs. After breakfast took a lazy swing 
in a hammock until 12 M., and then five hours to Guastatoya, where Mr. 
Stephens had his first experience in robber hunting. That night brought 
the luxury of a raw-hide bed,until4 a.m., when we startedagain. About 
2 miles more and we descended into the callejou of Guastatoya, a pass 
for 5 miles through a dismal gorge with steep hills or ravines on each 
side, where in the olden time the robber could attack with impunity and 
retreat with security, laughing at any attempted pursuit. It is when 
riding along such a road in the hour before daybreak, with an old arriero 
who at each dark thicket, or sharp turn, or silent cross, recalls a deed 
of blood enacted here in other days, that one feels inclined to pardon 
certain little irregularities so long as a strong government keeps its hand 
at the throat of the robber. 

At half past 9 we reached Casaguastlan, and, riding up to the best- 
looking house in the village, were politely received by a mestizo lady. 
A few minutes later, hearing the appellation doctor from mj' arriero^ 
she marched me right in to see her hidalgo who was suffering with liver 
and spleen. Eesult, a superb breakfast of beans, eggs, chicken, rice, 
and tortillas. 

At dark we entered the miserable village of Eiote, and were directed 
to a stopping-place where, in answer to inquiries, we were assured that 
there was no bed, no supper, no feed for the mules, but there was a shed 
where my hammock might be swung among pigs and dogs and squall- 
ing brats. The arriero then started out to find a bundle of fodder at 
one house, an egg at another, and, strange to say, some coffee at a third. 
Before day next morning a girl started a fire and made coffee. Her 
beau crawled out from somewhere looking disgusted and miserable, and 
stood around rubbing his eyes to see that there was no flirting with the 
stranger. 

At 9.30 a. m. on this the 21st of January we arrived at Zacapa. The 
road during the morning had been along the valley of the Motagua, past 
more frequent and larger villages. Just before entering the town we 
crossed the Eio Zacapa, a stream of interest to me, as it has the Eio 



806 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Copan for a tributary. The river at that time was some 40 yards wide 
and 6 inches deep, where it goes in rapids over a bar at the ford. Above 
and below, the width and depth are greater. After passing some strong 
rapids it empties into the Motagua, about 3 miles lower. Some 10 or 12 
miles from Zacapa, Gualan is situated on the Motagua, at the head of 
navigation for boats of large size. 

At Zacapa I was kindly received by Mr. Thomas Payne, an English 
merchant, who assisted me in securing mules and a guide for Copan. 
We started early next morning and kept up the river, leaving the road 
to Chiquimula, and following a trail which gradually ascended some 
1,500 feet to a peak overlooking the valley of Zacapa on one hand, and 
on the other giving a tine view of the more distant Chiquimula. At the 
foot of this hill, toward the latter town, was the junction of the rivers 
Chiquimula and Jocotan, forming the Eio Zacapa. Turning and following 
the ridge in a northeasterly direction for awhile we changed our course 
again, and, descending, came to the bank of the Rio Jocotan at the foot 
of the rapids opposite the Peligro Negro. The latter, a cliff, is the end 
of the mountain which separates the valleys of Jocotan and Chiquimula. 
It is a sheer wall of rock between 2,000 and 3,000 feet high, and well 
deserves the name Black Danger. At this point my hope of utilizing 
the river for transportation of the Copan statues was at once dispelled. 
For 2 miles it rushes through a narrow and tortuous channel which it 
has cut in the rock, and the lightest canoe could not have passed at the 
time of my visit. 

It is reported that occasionally during the wet season canoes pass 
successfully, but I doubt whether even then they can make the passage 
loaded. The rugged character of the hills forces the trail down to the 
bank here, and we had to follow the river some 4 or 5 miles until clear 
of the pass, then began to ascend again. These old Indian trails were 
famous for following the crest of the ridge, and frequently there was 
barely room for our sure-footed mules, the ground sometimes falling 
away abruptly on both sides. At midday we were well above the clouds. 
At lower points the gusts of wind would occasionally bring up a light 
cloud, and for a few minutes we would be enveloped in fog and misty 
rain. We were some 5,000 feet above the village and valley of Jocotan 
on the opposite side of the river. From that point of view it was the 
loveliest valley I had ever seen — a garden of milpas or patches of Indian 
corn and sugar-cane, and in some places coffee, on the hills. Cultivated 
land could be seen to the very mountain top wherever a bit of ground had 
been found not too steep for an Indian to stand on. This region gets 
much of the moisture borne on the winds which are turned away from 
Zacapa by the mountains northeast of that town. During the dry season 
the people of Zacapa, stifling in heat and dust, can look up and see the 
crest of the ridge veiled in mist, while cool showers occasionally come 
part of the way down the hills and then fade away in the face of the 
brazen valley. 



PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 807 

On the hills we were crossing there were scattered superb, tall pines, 
apparently the yellow pine of the United States, and a great portion of 
the land was clothed in fine grass, which was supporting good cattle. 
Winding our way down again we came, at dusk, to a village of ten or 
fifteen houses perched half way up the mountain-side and rejoicing in 
the name of Mataxano. An Indian dialect was spoken by the inhabit- 
ants, but a man was found who understood Sijanish. After visiting 
half the houses and considerable negotiation permission was obtained 
to swing my hammock under a shed, where I shivered in the raw, north- 
east wind all night. We had three eggs and a tortilla for supper and 
the same for breakfast next morning. Early in the morning we de- 
scended by a steep and dangerous trail to the river at the pass between 
Jocotan and Oopan. Here again was a wild rush of water for 2 or 
3 miles through a narrow and tortuous channel with immense bowl- 
ders strewn along its course. The river, here known as the Oopan, 
flows through a narrow valley of more fertile land. Vegetation was 
richer; in some places irrigation was practised, and some fine cattle were 
noticed. In the afternoon we crossed a slight ridge clothed in pines 
and descended to the village of Oopan. 

The night was spent in the village, and next morning, January 24, 
the ruins one mile east were visited. My instructions to determine 
whether the Oopan Eiver could be used for transportation had been car- 
ried out, and then it was my duty to return to San Jos6 and catch the 
steamer of the 4th of February for Oosta Eica, if possible. I therefore 
concluded to spend only one day here walking around the ruins, and by 
an occasional critical comparison of some object with the representa- 
tion given in incidents of travel in Central America, Ohiapas, and Yuca- 
tan, testing the work done by Stephens and Oatherwood. 

Along the road from the village to the ruins, antiquities are scattered 
and the dense forest on either side is without doubt the keeper of great 
archaeological treasure. Once at the village of Oopan any native will 
give the locality of the ruins, and once there, no guide is needed but 
Stephens. The thoroughness of the work done by Stephens and Oather- 
wood has been confirmed by subsequent visitors and is a lasting rebuke 
to the imperfect methods of most investigators. There is one curious 
mistake, made, probably in copying notes — Stephens' plan of the ruins 
is turned around, and the north side is marked south. With the excep- 
tion of these two errors the work of description and illustration is ad- 
mirable. 

Passing the statue O we struck the temple at the northwest corner. 
Where we ascended, near D, the steps were 16 inches high and 17 wide, 
in blocks of stone. We descended into the court at U. In the north- 
west corner were two vases in the shape of human heads, ornamented 
fantastically, and with bowis 9 inches in diameter and 6 inches deep. 
These are probably the heads which Stephens says were turned over and 
partially buried. The colossal head, figured on page 143, was in the 



808 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY, 

same position leaning against a tree, and after tliirty-two years there 
was very little change in the relative size of tree and head. After ex- 
amining the veutana and ascending the wall overlooking the river, we 
pursued the passage Y aud returned by A. The drawing of the altar 
is excellent. I made a close examination of the hieroglyph in the upper 
right-hand corner of the side represented at page 141, and found the 
drawing exact except that there are thirteen knobs instead of the 
twelve given by Catherwood. Again, the characteristic prominence of 
the glabella, whence the nose and forehead sloped, forming an obtuse 
angle, is not sufficiently marked in the drawings. In other instances the 
minor details were hardly worked out with sufficient minuteness, a de- 
fect which was probably unavoidable in dealing with such a mass of 
minute and intricate ornamentation. The bold freedom of the sculp- 
ture is its most striking feature, and in some cases the undercutting 
leaves the ornamentation free, and several inches from the mass. The 
legs of some of the large figures are nearly free. I was prepared to see 
good work because of my faith in Stephens, but the boldness of it was 
beyond my expectation, and had to be seen to be appreciated. The 
figures in some places had been mutilated. The lip of that shown on 
page 136 had been broken and the chin broken off. The face looks out 
from a snake's mouth. About 60 feet northwest of B was the head of a 
large serpent, lying with other fragments at the foot of the slanting wall. 
In front of it, lyiug on the ground, was a tablet in four sections. The 
figure on it is looking over the right shoulder towards the head of the 
serpent. In the right hand is something spherical, possibly a head, 
which is apparently offered to the serj)ent. There were two other tab- 
lets similar to this, the three with the serpent head forming a square. 
The figure on the tablet is seated cross-legged, with a plumed turban, a 
mask, a necklace suspending a gorget, and a belt fastened in front with 
a circular gorget. 

The statue C is 12 feet high, 4 across the from and 3 feet thick. 
Back of E, halfway up xhe side of "the pyramid — if it may so be called 
— the stones were in position and cut to form a smooth incline, the sur- 
face of which is covered with hieroglyphs. 

We readily found all the large statues mentioned by Stephens except 
that at S, shown opposite page 151. In 1839 it was buried nearly out 
of sight, and I had no time to make a thorough search. In the deep 
cuttings on some of the statues were still remains of red paint. This 
was in positions protected from sun and rain, aud in such a climate 
will probably last indefinitely. 

About a mile west of the temple, in the village of Copan, is a mound 
some 40 feet high, at the west base of which are two altars with glyphs, 
&c. One of them has figures similar to those on the altar at A. On 
the south side is a double row of glyphs in the middle, with two hu- 
man figures on each side facing in. On both east and west sides are 
four figures in profile sitting cross-legged and facing south, apparently 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 809 

followers of those first described. The north side has a i)erj)endicular 
row of glyphs, on each side of which is one figure sitting facing in 
and offering something having the appearance of a head, just as on the 
tablets in front of the serpent's head at the temple. These figures had 
the characteristic large noses and retreating foreheads, with prominent 
glabellse. Their ornaments are necklaces, cuff"-like bracelets and ank- 
lets, and profuse plumes in the turban-like headdresses. Those on the 
sides have each in his hand something like a sheaf of wheat. On the 
top of the altar are other figures and hieroglyphs. 

The ruins were visited by Mr. Alfred P. Maudsley in 1881. After 
photographing many of the objects, he testified to the excellence of the 
work of Stephens and Catherwood. I am sure that work will not be 
improved on until a party with apparatus for lihotographing and tak- 
ing casts goes there to stay at least two months. Such a party, by in- 
telligent exploration of the neighboring forest as well as the ground 
already known, might secure an enormous amount of material in a 
shape to be forever safe. If the hieroglyphs of Central America are 
ever to be deciphered it is of the utmost importance that every avail- 
able specimen should be photographed and cast before the hand of igno- 
rance or time renders their correct representation impossible. Here are 
the walls of a pyramid covered with inscriptions, altars, and statues with 
human figures and hieroglyphs, illustration and text, and the study of 
the one must assist in unraveling the mysteries of the other. Some of 
the monoliths have fallen in the last thirty years; others have been 
mutilated by the ignorant native, who, with a careless swing of his 
machete, knocks the nose off a statue to see if it breaks easily. 

The road can be made sufficiently good forcartstoJocotan, thence to 
Chiquimula, Zacapa, and Gualan. At the last place we meet large 
bonyos and transportation to the sea. 

According to Mr. McGee, of San Jos^, who has been for years engaged 
in hauling in this country, a cart will carry one ton, a wagon two. 
Therefore one of the large statues 12 by 4 by 3 feet cut into two pieces 
might be transported on wagons, and cut into four, on carts. Two of 
the finest statues are fallen, one of which is broken just in half. 

From Copan to Izabal $3 is the hire of a pack-mule carrying 200 
pounds. From Izabal there is a small steamer which connects with the 
^ew Orleans line at Livingstone. Again, at less expense the objects 
might be transported by pack-mules to Gualan, and there embarked for 
the sea. Thus might be removed a large number of small objects, 
blocks on which are hieroglyphs, &c. 

By using some discretion a camp might be selected near Gopan, where 
a party could safely, if not comfortably, spend the months of February, 
March, and Ax)ril. 

The land in the valley seemed fertile, and a field of fine tobacco ex- 
tended up to the west wall of the temple. Fruit was scarce, and pines 
grew close down to the valley. The last night of my stay I awoke in 



810 PAPERS RKLATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

the wee small hours, chilled through. The northeast wiud bore a cold 
mist, almost a drizzling rain. After dressing I wrapped myself in a 
blanket and again turned into my thick canvas hammock, only to 
shiver until daybreak. We left Copau early, and ascending the ridge, 
looked back to see the valley a lake of fog, above the surface of which 
the temple and the mound in the village rose like islands. This ridge 
is of the same rock as the statues, a soft, whitish trachyte, which hardens 
on exposure to air and sun. It may have been worked easily with flint 
implements. 

After passing the Honduras line we left the valley, and turned to 
the right, ascending by a zig-zag trail. Near the crest of the ridge we 
struck the road, so-called, between Jocotan and Gualan, and kept it 
through the pass and down the other side. The pines on the south side 
became more lofty and scattered until near the top they were almost as 
thin as on a lawn, the shade not being dense enough to interfere with a 
rich growth of grass. Suddenly this vegetation gave way to dense 
forest matted with creepers. In place of the pines were innumerable 
varieties of tropical and semi-tropical trees, their leaves dripping with 
water from the mist. The road was miry, and the banks were graced 
with ferns. We had crossed the crest, and were seeing the effeots of 
the moisture-laden northeast " trades." 

Along the road at short intervals we met iDarties of Indians carrying 
heavy loads of corn or other merchandise on their backs, with hands 
across their foreheads, the loads resting on their hii)s. Down hill or on 
the level they go in a shambling trot, and make better time over the 
mountain roads than the mules do. Over a great part of the republic 
the mail is carried by Indians on foot. I was assured that by following 
more difficult but shorter trails, they made the trip from Copan to Za- 
capa in a day. It took me a day and a half and Mr. Stephens three and 
a half. 

About 10 o'clock the morning after leaving Copan we reached the 
crest of the ridge east of Zacapa. As usual it was enveloped in thick 
mist, almost a rain. The trees were giant pines, draped in gray moss, 
and ferns were abundant. Descending a little we came to the lower 
edge of the canopy of mist, and looking out from under this curtain, we 
had the valleys of the Motagua and Zacapa in full view. Beyond was 
the great range of the Vera Paz in blue with strata of white clouds 
along the sides. Around us, all save the moss was green, and the ferns 
were dripping with moisture, while we looked through the vistas of the 
})ines, with their festoons and streamers, at the scorched and glittering 
valley below. We were standing under the edge of the clouds, and less 
than 5 miles away the vegetation was parched and the leaves were gray 
with dust. 

I was in the City of Guatemala on the evening of the 29th, and spent 
next day there. The collection of antiquities in the Museo Nacional was 
insignificant. I noticed the two tripods of the Luna ware described 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 811 

in Arcliseological Eesearcbes in Nicaragua;* there was no iudication of 
their origin. 

Mr. Edwin Rockstroh, professor in the Institute Nacional, was work- 
ing in Indian philology with Berendt at the time of his death, and is prose- 
cuting studies from which much may be expected by anthropologists. In 
1881 he made a trip through the Peten and into the hitherto unexplored 
country of the Lacandones. He found them speaking a dialect of the 
Maya, and his Maya interpreter from Peten had no difficulty in under- 
standing their language. Mr. Eockstroh discovered some ruins which he 
called Mench^, which were afterward visited by Mr. Maudsley. M. 
Charnay found the latter there. The ecstatic Frenchman was in rap- 
tures, and dubbed poor Mench6 "Lorillard City." 

Mr. Eockstroh told me the Lacandones, or rather more than half of 
them, had the peculiar profile of Copau and Palenque — large nose, prom- 
inent glabella, and retreating forehead. This gentleman presented for the 
Smithsonian a fine specimen of pavo real, whose habitat he informed 
me is between the Motagua and Zucatan, in the Vera Paz and Peten. 

The afternoon of February 1 I rode 30 miles, from the Escuintla to 
the princely estate of Don Manuel Herrera, Pantaleone, and next 
morning, in company with my host, proceeded some 3 miles farther, to 
Santa Lucia. It is northwest of Escuintla, about the same distance from 
the sea, and in a region of similar topography. We found that the best of 
the objects mentioned by Habel had been removed to Berlin. Still several 
remained on and around a low mound. At one point were yet to be 
seen, in situ, blocks of stone forming steps up the side of the mound. 
These were 6 inches high and 18 inches wide. Most of the sculptures 
were in hard black lava. No. 9t was in granite, as were two or three 
blocks in the steps. I was informed that there was no granitic forma- 
tion in this neighborhood. 

The drawings of Habel were found to be good representations of the 
objects remaining. The drawing of No. 7 was excellent. Nos. 10 and 
11 were good ; 16 and 17 well drawn, except that details were not suf- 
ficiently worked outw No. 18 was not well drawn. These sculptures 
are in very low relief. 

Returning to Pantaleone, I examined the figures which are mounted 
on the wall around the fountain. Facing the house on the opposite 
side of the fountain is one in hard, black basalt, 50 inches high, 43 
inches wide, and 9 thick. It is a head with turban and plumes, the 
whole overtopped by a crest, which arches over to the front and ends 
in a fringe of tassels. There were large earrings ; a gorget was sus- 
pended under the chin by a necklace. A fillet was on the brow at the 
edge of the turban. On the turban was a ribbon knotted in front, and 
above this a mask or ornament in shape of a face. Above were broad 

'Archaeological Researchea in Nicaragua ; Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, 
No. 383, page 20. 
+ Habel. 



812 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

plumes, which looked like leaves. The face was the best work of art 
that I have seen by the ancient Americans, nor have I met with any 
specimen represented in the books to equal it. There was nothing con- 
ventional; the features were regular and well cut; the expression grave, 
dignified, regal. 

One of the figures on the left had the beardlike ornament discussed by 
Habel.* It seemed not a beard, but a strap passed under the chin to 
hold on the head-dress. Next was the head of a woman, with the eye- 
ball hanging out of the socket on the cheek. The forehead was wrinkled 
and the face expressed acute pain. Next a man with both eyes hang- 
ing out. Here the expression was of sadness mixed with pain, as of one 
recently blind. Each face was distinctively individual, but all with 
high cheek bones, wrinkled brow, and stern expression. The woman 
had a small cap on one side of the head ; the men wore turbans. They 
all originally had trunnions behind the neck for insertion into a wall. 
They were found by the mayor domoin some of his agricultural operations. 

As remarked before, this belt of territory, at the foot of the western 
slope of the Guatemala Mountains, is extremely fertile; is almost covered 
with forest, and the objects at Santa Lucia, Pantaleone, and many 
other places reported near Bscuintla indicate a rich field, awaiting the 
investigations of the archaeologist. 

The day after my arrival in Guatemala, Colonel Stewart, the American 
consul, presented some specimens of i)ottery, which were obtained from 
a mound about a mile and a half from San Jos6, that was cut by the rail- 
road. The specimens consist of No. 59380, a vase nearly complete, and 
the fragments numbered 59381, 59382, 59383, 593S4, 59385, 59386, 59387. 
There is similarity in the biscuit and the degree of burning of the objects, 
and in certain features of ornamentation. The vase is 12 inches high and 
13 across the top. The bowl only occupies about two-thirds of its depth. 
On each side is an ear, or handle, on the lower part of which is a button 
or flower-like form with a depression in the center. On the front of the 
vase is a rosette or bow in relief, the ends of which are free. This also 
has the button, the central depression in this case Jbeing filled by a flat- 
tened ball. The color is buft', with red bands and circles, and on each 
side is a crescent in red. 

No. 59382 is a head, originally an ornament on a large vessel. The 
collector probably broke this off and saved it as curious. The face is of 
the type of many of the pottery figures here in the collection from Mex- 
ico. The head-dress is a coronet, with i)lumes above ; the earrings of 
a flower form, shaped like the curved corolla of certain lilies; a banded 
necklace suspending a flower-shaped gorget, and an ornament sus- 
pended in the nose or upper lip graced this belle. The fragments are 
ornaments, probably of the same vessel ; they are evidently representa- 
tions of flowers. 

The discovery of this Mexican pottery makes one more link in the cor- 

* Habel. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 813 

roborative evidence furnished by arcliseology in support of the tradi- 
tions of a migration along this coast from the valley of Mexico toward 
Nicaragua — a migration which was so clearly traced by Dr. C. H. Berendt 
in his i)hilological investigations. 

VISIT TO COSTA RICA. 

We reached Punta Arenas, Costa Eica, February IG, and on the 
morning of the 19th embarked on a steam-launch bound up the Gulf of 
Mcoya. We got to the head of the gulf at 3 p. m., and our destination, 
Bolson, at C.30 p. m. This place, the port of Santa Crua, is on a creek 
which empties into the Tempisque. The little steamer arrived at high 
tide, and had a comfortable bed of mud in which to lie while waiting 
for the next rise. 

From Bolson, with a man and three horses, the journey to Nicoya 
w\^s made in seven hours. Found it the same dead Spanish town seen 
in 1877. A long church at one side of theplaza and rectangular streets, 
with eight or nine hundred inhabitants of all grades, from the pare 
Spaniard to the pure Indian. It is a fertile valley, with hills 500 to 800 
feet high around it. Here was one of the most important towns 
found in Central America by the conquerors, and if we may judge 
by the relics with which the ground is sown in every direction we are 
inclined to credit the stories related by the old chroniclers of dense 
masses of population that owed allegiance to the cazique of Nicoya. 

Biding uj) to the house at which I stopped in 1877, everything seemed 
as though I had left it but yesterday. The same old blacksmith-shop, 
and apparently the same old gray horse waiting to be shod. I had the 
good fortune to secure a room and a raw-hide bed, and madame engaged 
to feed me. Hernandez reports that no strangers have been here hunt- 
ing for antiquities since my visit. And as the neighbors drop in one 
by one I have accounts of huacas enough to keep me at work for years. 
At Bolson similar reports were made, and subsequent investigations 
proved that there was no exaggeration in the accounts. 

After two days spent in looking around and settling down, I rode 
with the padre, the alcalde, and jefe politico to some huacas at Pipal 
and Ochote, some 4 or 5 miles from Nicoya. There were several slightly 
raised mounds of loose stones, below which were the relics in shape 
of human bones, shards, and celts. The padre had made excavations 
in one or two places, but had not met with conspicuous success in ob- 
taining entire vessels. The ground was of tough clay, and during the 
dry season was almost like brick ; it was, therefore, rare luck for an 
object to escape the violence of the blows necessary in digging. 

That night, headache and fever ; next day, quinine and rest. 

The 27th, with the padre and jefe, rode to Las Huacas, where rich 
fields were reported. The road lay along the valley as far as Matina, 
whence it began to rise, crossing one or two slight ridges and finally 
mounting by a steep zigzag some 2,000 feet to the plateau of Las 



814 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. ' 

Huacas. From near Matina to and beyond Las Huacas are cuts and 
other remains of an old road supposed to antedate the conquest. 
Along its route cane and pita grows, marking its trail through forests, 
up and down hill, in straight lines, instead of the zigzag for easier 
grades, as would have been the case with Spanish roads. This road 
was like those in the mountains of Guatemala in their propensity to 
follow the crest of the ridge. 

The next morning three men were set to work excavating at a point 
on the road to Matina, about 200 yards from the house of Angela 
Carrillo, where irregular piles of stones, forming elevations of 2 feet in 
height indicated huacas, Near the surface there were many fragments 
of metates of great variety' and rollers. At this point hundreds of metates 
appeared to have been broken, and it seemed incredible that they 
should have been the results of accidental breakage, but rather as if in 
time of war sudden flight had become necessary and articles too heavy 
for easy transportation had here been rendered unfit for the enemy's 
use. JSfear the surface, and mixed with the stones, were fragments of 
the class attributed to the Chorategas in a paper on Nicaragua.* Lower 
were fragments of red painted pottery. At 51 inches depth the hand- 
some argillite gorget No. 59849 was found, in the mouth of a red vase, 
No. 59811. The body of the vase was in fragments ; it was apparently 
a water jar. The end of the gorget showed above the mouth. About 
2 feet away and 19 inches lower was found No. 59850, which unfortunately 
was badly broken by the Macana. On a level with that and within 2 

feet was the celt No. . The small vessels Nos. 59827, 59828, 59820 

were found in the earth above the gorgets, and were probably associated 
with them in origin. 

Among a great number of shards there were none of Luna ware.t 

About a mile from Carrillo's, near the house of Mayorga, were many 
large huacas on the border of the old roadway. 

That evening we returned to Nicoya, and the next few days were 
spent in hunting and interviewing old Indians, always with eyes and 
ears open for the green stone mine. There was an old man named Es- 
piritu, living near Nicoya, of much shrewdness and native intellect. He 
took a great deal of interest in antiquities and questions concerning 
the old Indians. He reported that many of the old graves were seven 
or eight varas deep. A Frenchman who had spent several years in 
Chiriqui told me that the huacas were similar to those observed near 
Nicoya. Of course, the only possible way of discovering the source of 
the jadeite was by searching the ravines and cuts while hunting or 
riding, or by questioning the old Indian hunters and rubber-men. 
Many of these men become interested in what they saw I considered 
so important, and some later traveler may reap the reward in finding 
a guide to the jadeite mine. 

*Aich8elogical Researches iu Nicaragua, Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, 
No. 383, p. 80. 
t Archseological Researches in Nicaragua, p. 80. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 815 

The padre and I made a trip to Santa Cruz on the 3d of March, re- 
turning next day. We heard great accounts of antiquities on the Pacific 

coast, and one small figure No. was obtained by purchase. One 

of the men who worked for me at Las Huacas brought Nos. , 

which he reported that he obtained working at the same place. jSTos. 

were lying together beside a skull, and were, presumably, 

worn as a necklace. 

With a party of about a dozen men the padre and I left Nicoya on the 
morning of the Gth, and following the road to Matina for awhile, turned 
to the right to Matambu, thence over a ridge into the valley of the Xo- 
sara, and camped on that stream at a place called Las Canillas, about 
a mile beyond the castia of Bias Lopez.' This man Lopez had a great 
reputation for knowledge of the antiquities of the region, but was a 
very suspicious and surly Indian, and managed to keep to himself all 
that he knew of the huacas. Close by a mango tree, near our camp, 
some i^artial excavations had been made, and in one of them we com- 
menced work. The fi^rst plateau, above the low grounds of the river, 
was some 25 feet above low water. In the edge of this the burials had 
been made, and the top of the grave covered to a depth of 3 feet with 
stones from the river-bed, the pile forming a slight mound now, after 
ages of settling, about 2 feet above the surface of the plateau. These 
resembled some graves seen on the Madera end of Ometepec* The clay 
here was tough, but not so hard as at Las Huacas, as it contained more 
vegetable matter and was protected in the shade of the forest. In the 
surface soil and among the stones were fragments of pottery. Celt No. 
59875 was 3 feet below the top of the mound, with the little vessel, No. 
59883, near it. In a neighboring excavation was found a human skele- 
ton and a celt. No. 59880. A mound larger than the others was some 
distance back of the edge of the plateau. 

Discouraged by such poor results for two days of work, we trans- 
ferred our camp some 3 miles further up the stream. Here in a higher 
plateau on the left side of the river similar piles of stones, hardly 
deserving the name of mounds, were seen on all sides. We were in the 
finest forest I had ever seen. Apparently not one of the magnificent 
trees in this valley had been cut since the conquest, except where for 
an acre or so in two places clearings had been made. The undergrowth 
was scanty, while high overhead there was a dense canopy supported 
by superb columns. The rays of the sun touched the ground at rare in- 
tervals, while at night a star here and there peeped through the foliage. 
Along the river innumerable frogs made night hideous with their croak- 
ing. Then owls and many night-birds of discordant note, reeuforcing 
the howling monkeys, joined forces in the early night to convince the 
trembling greenhorn that all the ferocious beasts of the earth were as- 
sembled to sup on him. The mosquitoes, which were vicious the first 
two hours, suddenly disappeared, and the forest quieted down. The 
"Archaeological Researches in Nicaragua, p. 44. 



816 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

padre led off, and was followed by first one Indian and tlien another, 
with cuentas tales, after the style of those of the Arabian Nights, to 
amuse children. Wrapped in their blankets, one by one they fell aleep 
as the words of the last yarn died away in drowsy tones. Don An- 
tonio freshened the fire and peered into the darkness to see whether a 
tiger were lurking around, then hugging close his gun and machete, 
sought repose. About midnight I awoke. The fire had died out, but 
it was not entirely safe to stir around for wood ; there was the possi- 
bility of a tiger and the probability of a shot from Don Antonio. So I 
kept quiet, and began to feel the awful stillness of a tropical night in 
the forest; then from far away came the sound of a solemn moan, 
nearer and nearer, till with a sigh and a rustling of leaves a breath of 
wind passed overhead, and left the night as silent as before. 

Again we were doomed to bad luck. We worked two days at this 
place carrying the excavation to a depth of 6 feet with miserable results 
so far as securing specimens was concerned, and as there seemed nothing 
peculiar in the style of burial, as there was nothing more to eat less thau 
half a day's journey away, we gave up the job as unprofitable. 

A few days later I made a trip to Punta Arenas, via Bolson, and on 
the 15th took passage in a canoe from Punta Arenas for Puerto Jesus. 
Among the many delightful modes of traveling in Central America, the 
voyage in the dug-out deserves remembrance. There is no room to 
stretch one's legs under the most favorable circumstances, while on 
this occasion the boat was loaded, and I had to eat, sleep, and be as 
comfortable as I might for two days and a night on thetop of two boxes 
that were not even. The second day we were becalmed at midday in the 
middle of the gulf, with not even a fleecy cloud between us and the sun. 
Then in the afternoon a stormy breeze sprang up and we were driven in 
on the rocky coast of Chira and had to drop our anchor, a large stone, to 
keep from going ashore. There we lay within 20 feet of the rocks bob- 
bing and bouncing abound so we could hardly sit up, for six or eight 
hours, till the weather moderated. About midnight, the second night 
we reached Puerto Jesus, the port of Nicoya, at the head of an estero, 
which can only be navigated by canoes at high tide. The rest of the 
night was spent on a raw-hide stretched on the ground, with musquitoes 
for company. Next morning on a hired mule some 12 or 15 mUes to 
Nicoya. 

The neighborhood of Santana was visited on the 18th. There was no 
lack of huacas as indicated by the low mounds scattered over the country. 
On the northern slope of the ridge between Nicoya and Santana there 
is a round top-hill, from which is a fine view over towards the Tem- 
pisque and the head of the gulf to the line of volcanoes in the distance. 
On this hill-top the huacas were marked by large stones, under which 
the relics were found at a depth of 3 to 5 feet. The burials in the val- 
ley seemed similar to those at Las Huacas and Las Carrillos. 

Sunday, the 19th, was the feast day of the patron saint of the barrio 



PAPEES EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 817 

of Las Huacas, and I visitetl it, arriving before sunset. There were sixty 
or seventy natives present, the guests of the family of Carrillo, who fed 
them well and furnished wine of the coyal palm as a beverage. Dancing 
and singing were kept up to a late hour, the padre as usual contribu- 
ting his share towards the merry-making. 

Next morning the padre and I with two men started on the trail 
used by rubber-men between Las Huacas and the Eio Oro. A horse 
had never been over this trail, and it required an expert guide to follow 
it. The padre and I were mounted, and were preceded by the men who 
trimmed a way for us with their machetes. For the first two hours 
we were on the plateau of Las Huacas between 2,000 and 3,000 feet 
above the sea. In the bed of a stream called Salto de los Perros, where 
it was crossed by the trail, there was a bowlder of hard basalt nearly 2 
feet in diameter, on one side of which there were eight parallel grooves 
up and down, the widest and deepest of which was just of the width of 
an. ordinary celt. The incline of this side was about 75°. I repeatedly 
noticed celts which had apparently been sharpened after use, and believe 
that this was a grindstone for that purpose. 

From the edge of the plateau there was a steep break to the small 
Eio Medio, some 1,500 or more feet below. Off to the right there was 
a sheer wall over the edge of which poured a small stream. The In- 
dians claim 3,000 feet for this fall, and it apparently was several hun- 
dred, the water breaking into mist towards the bottom. We descended 
along the edge of ridge, dismounted, and the poor horses slid a good 
part of the way on their haunches, one man leading and another driving. 
After reaching the stream we kept the bed of it; most of the way the 
horses were led, and slipped and stumbled over the bowlders as best 
they might. Occasionally short cuts were taken across bends, which 
were particularly enjoyed by me. In the morning while trying to ascend 
a steep bank my horse fell back and rolled over into the stream below. 
The stirrups were narrow and I could not free one foot, and in the 
struggle my foot was hurt so that I could not wear a shoe; so when in 
the afternoon I had to walk through these woods without a shoe, travel- 
ling was anything but pleasant. At last, late in the afternoon, the guide 
stopped at a camping ground after the most terrible trip in my expe- 
rience. In the bed of this river Medio, a tributary of the Oro, black 
basalt formed the rock with veins of quartz. Eight in our camp were 
killed an otter, a pavon, and two pavos. There were tracks of deer, 
tapir, and tigers. Below the camp green quartz appeared in the rock 
of the bed of the stream. During the day fragments of pottery wen? 
noticed several times where slight washes had occurred, or in the banks 
of ravines. My couch was of palm branches on the solid rock. About 
1 a. m. next morning I was awakened by the swaying or horizontal 
motion of what I supposed a solid bedstead ; the trees were waving in 
that not unusual occurrence, an earthquake. An hour and a half later 
there was another shock. 
H. Mis. 26 52 



818 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

At 6.30 A. M. we started again, and in two hours of more pleasant 
travel reached the Eio Oro at the mouth of the Eio Medio, where we 
breakfasted in style ou pavo and camerones. Between noon and 5 p. 
m. the descent of the Oro was made to the head of tide-water, within a 
mile of the sea. 

The valley of the Eio Oro was narrow, with hills or mountains close 
up on either side. As with all these streams during the dry season, the 
water occupied but little of the broad bed, and we had rather a good 
roadway and excellent sites for camps, the banks furnishing grass for 
the horses. 

The tide was low enough at 10 o'clock on the 22d, and we went to the 
mouth of the river. On the beach were a few pebbles of argillite as the 
nearest approach to jadeite. I had made the trip across the peninsula 
of Nicoya, carefully examining the rock at every opportunity, follow- 
ing the bed of the stream almost continuously from the divide to the 
sea, only to be disappointed once more. 

A guide from Nicoya, who was to pilot us from this point, arrived 
about noon, but as the route lay for some distance mostly along the 
beach, we were constrained to return to our camp and pass another 
night there. A start was made at 6.15; at half past 11 we arrived 
at the Eio Buena Vista, some 2 miles above its mouth. The road was 
along the beach most of the way, and at several places we passed snug 
little harbors like that at San Juan del Sur Nicaragua. While the 
horses were resting, I took the guide and, wading down the river or 
scrambling through the thickets for about a mile, reached a point 
about 40 yards from the river where was a bank some 7 feet high, 40 
yards long, and 20 wide, formed apparently almost entirely of fragments 
of red-painted pottery of large and small vessels. This was in a man- 
grove swamx), and the water at high tide came up to the foot of the bank. 
It looked as if thousands of vessels had been collected here and deliber- 
ately broken. No shells were mixed with the fragments, but most prob- 
ably they were relics of repeated encampments here during the dry 
season for people from inland who came to feast on fish, turtle, &c. 

We went a few miles up the Buena Vista and camped for the night, 
that is, we cut some palm leaves ou which our blankets were spread, and 
we considered ourselves in camp. We had not killed any game since 
the morning before, and our commissary stores were running quite low. 
Sardines and the tender buds of a small variety of palm made our din- 
ner. Next morning a small allowance of the same luxuries, and we 
started on a forced march for Nicoya and something to eat. At noon 
we stopped ou a small stream for lunch, my portion of which consisted 
of half a sardine and a palm bud. The trail all day lay over rocky hills 
where the vegetation showed that the soil was unusually poor for that 
country. Late in the afternoon we reached the small collection of 
houses at Lazartito, within 10 miles of Nicoya, where was the first hut 
we had seen since leaving Las Huacas. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 819 

As usual after such a trip I was ill for a day or two with fever and 
dysentery, but after resting Saturday was in condition to take the saddle 
again at 2 p. m. on Sunday for Bolson and Punta Arenas. 

Early on the morning of March 29, I was called for my trip to San 
Jos^. I was in a room on the second floor of the hotel at Punta Arenas, 
sitting on the edge of my cot when the room began to rock like a boat 
in a sea-way. The tiles on the roof rattled and danced overhead, and 
outside the tops of the trees lashed the air as if shaken by a giant hand j 
the chickens cackled, and women rushed screaming into the streets. It 
was the heaviest earthquake of my experience, and I in an upstairs 
room with the door locked ; but in a frame house built with an eye to 
resisting just such strains there was little danger of accident. 

The road was along the beach for 8 or 10 miles, then struck inland and 
began to ascend. By much labor on my lazy mule, I made more than 
half the distance, and slept at Atena. A ride of three hours next morn- 
ing took me to Alajuela, a town at the western end of the valley of 
San Jos6, from which a railroad i^assing through the principal towns 
extends eastward to Cartago. The valley is some 4,000 feet above the 
sea, and surrounded by mountains rising several thousand more, the 

peak being feet in elevation. This is one of the finest cofiee- 

growing regions in the world, and the superb plantations, with here and 
there a town ox village, and in every direction a background of mount- 
ain range or volcanic peak, make up landscapes as fair to view as any 
beneath the sun. 

On my arrival at San Jos6 I was met by Mr. Minor C. Keith, a young 
American, who had been in Costa Eica some ten years, and who had by 
pluck and perseverance at last completed a railroad from Port Limon 
on the Atlantic to a point within 25 miles of the capital. The inter- 
vening distance was covered by a cart road which he was then finishing. 
These gave a continuous line from San Jose to the sea with much cut- 
ting, and I accepted Mr. Keith's invitation to accompany him over the 
roads. 

One of the ministers, Mr. Sanez, who,in the absenceof the President, 
was in charge, received me most kindly, gave directions for facilitating 
my work, and promised permission for the jefe politico of Nicoya to ac- 
company me for one month on my explorations. I was also introduced 
to Don Leon Pernandez, who was in charge of the Government archives 
and then engaged in his work " Documentos para la Historia de Costa 
Eica," the first volume of which was out. * Senor Fernandez was found 
an enthusiastic antiquarian and historian. The chapters of his work 
first came out in the official gazette, in addition to the ordinary circula- 
tion, of which copies were sent to the officials in all parts of the republic, 
and everywhere awakened an interest in antiquities and the history of 
the Indians, which must work valuable results. Eepeatedly 1 had co- 

* The second volume has since appeared. 



820 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

operation which was due to the interest excited by these papers. In 
company with this gentleman I called on the bishop of Costa Rica, 
who, while interested in anthropology, was especially fond of ornithol- 
ogy. In his collection were jadeites, one very fine, and several speci- 
mens in argillite and marble. These two gentlemen were to start iu 
about a week on a Government expedition for exploration in the country 
of the Guatuso, or Rio Frio Indians, and kindly invited me to join them. 
Here was a rare opportunity, but on consideration I concluded to stick 
to my instructions and give my time to the department of Liberia. * 

April 4, we (Keith, some half-dozen Costa Rica gentlemen, and I) left 
San Jose for Port Limon. We crossed the ridge between the central 
valley or plateau and the Atlantic slope, and took breakfast at one o'l 
the stations of the parties building the cart road. This was a graded 
road which followed a stream in its rapid but tortuous descent through 
the mountains to the point where the railroad entered the gorge and 
crossed the Rio Lucio. An extra train was made up in the evening, and 
we made a night trip of a few hours to Port Limon, distance 71 miles. 
At the upper end of a curved beach is a promontory formed of coral 
rock, and off this an island making a very beautiful harbor. There 
were no antiquities found in this neighborhood, but in the storehouse 
of Mr. Keith was a collection made along the line of the railroad, and 
several people in the town had very pretty specimens from the same 
source. Mr. Keith agreed to send his to the Smithsonian by his brig 
Nile on her next trip to New York, so 1 spent the 6th hard at work 
packing. 

We were back in San Jos6 on the 8th, and in San Mateo, on the road 
to Punta Arenas on the 10th, and sailed in a dug-out for Puerto Jesus on 
the 11th at midday. The first showers of the coming wet season had 
been at Alajuela as I passed on the 9th, and I found the road from Jesus 
to Mcoya in some places miry from the heavy shower of the evening of 
the 12th. The ride was made at night, and progress in the intense 
darkness was only made practicable by a lantern carried by my com- 
panion. Three o'clock the morning of the 13th found me at Nicoya. I 
had not had a night's rest for six nights, aud the well-deserved fever 
promptly made its call. The northeast wind came up strong again and 
blew the wet season back for another two weeks. 

The leave of absence for the jefe politico, Don Juan Jos6 Mata-Rita, 
not having arrived, he and I went to Santana on the 20th to make some 
investigations in the Jmacas of that place. As around Nicoya and Ca- 
nillas, they were indicated by low piles of stones, principally limestone 
from the neighboring hills. These piles only rose 1 or 2 feet above 
the surface. Commencing excavation in one, the stones were found for 
first 3 feet, at the bottom of which were human bones and some frag- 
ments of Chorotega pottery. Lower still was the hard clay of this sec- 

* In November, Don Leon wrote me a most interesting letter informing me of their 
enccess. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 821 

tion. In one place the excavation was carried to a depth of 6 feet; 
i:)ieces of coarse pottery were found near the bottom, where apparently 
undisturbed clay discouraged further digging. In neighboring huacas 
were found some fine specimens a few years ago. One of them, ISTo. 
50891, which was afterwards broken, was secured and mended. It is 
well burned, light, and strong, and altogether a very fine specimen of 
old Indian work. 

The afternoon of the 22d of April I started on an extended trip ac- 
companied by Don Juan Mata-Eita, the jefe politico. Before leaving the 
Department of Mcoya the fragment of a figure in argillite was obtained 
at Savana Grande. There was much pretty quartz in the ridge which 
separates Nicoya from Santa Cruz. We spent the night at the latter 
place, and, furnished with letters from the jefe to the officials of his de- 
partment along our proposed route, we resumed our journey in the 
morning towards the Pacific. For some miles the road was along the 
plain of Santa Cruz, and then we crossed a ridge not more than 200 or 
300 feet high, and entered the townshif> or barrio of El Gallo (the cock). 
The game-cocks of El Gallo, who are mostly smugglers, got into some 
trouble a few years since, and the name of the barrio was changed to 
El Yeinte-Siete de Abril, the anniversary of President Guardia's acces- 
sion to power. The land here was very poor, and the inhabitants cor- 
respondingly wretched. The business of smuggling over the Nicaragua 
line helps them in their struggle. These people at once took us for 
Government officers in search of contraband, and viewed every act and 
word with suspicion. They apparently had forgotten how to tell the 
truth, and really seemed the greatest liars on the face of the earth. 
While sitting on our horses at the door of a hut with the whole family 
protesting that they had never heard of any relics of antiquity in that 
region, we pointed out fragments of pottery, etc., in a bank not 20 feet 
away, ami we knew that at the time these i^eople had some good speci- 
mens in their house, but they could not conceive such folly as two men 
traveling in these parts merely in search of old pots ; believed us to be 
ravenue oflicers, and did not wish to give us any pretext for remaining 
in their neighborhood. But in this abominable barrio we had a most 
delightful surprise. Eiding up to the house of the school-master, 
we presented our letter and were received with charming courtesy. 
There were two school-houses, one for girls the other for boys, on oppo- 
site sides of a plaza. Between the two and a little back was the domicile 
of the teacher, all in bamboo, and so neat and new, for a moment I thought 
I was back in Japan. He was a mestizo of excellent manner and toler- 
able education. His wife managed domestic afl^airs, while a daughter 
of seventeen years relieved him of the girl school. She was an exquisite 
specimen of the mestiza senorita, slender and graceful as a wand, with 
hands and feet of a sylph, and eyes so large and so soft — verily I did 
want to go to school again, and if there had only been the excuse of some 



822 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

decent huacasin the neighborhood, the worthy dominie would have had 
me for a guest for some time. m 

The alcalde, after having our horses attended to by his policeman, 
escorted us around the neighborhood in search of antiquities, but Ave 
only secured a few specimens of extremely rude ware. The ancient 
inhabitants were no doubt as miserable as those now here, and proba- 
bly could ill afford the extravagance of jadeite ornaments. 

^ext morning, with the policeman as guide, we pursued our journey 
to Santa Eosa, where were two more schools. Don Juan wore an argillite 
gorget suspended around his neck, and this was shown the children, 
and one little fellow said there were things like that at his house, 
and we decided to accompany him to his home. Before his school hours 
were over he had been so frightened by suspicious natives that it was 
with the utmost difficulty we persuac ed him to accompany us. On the 
road we met a man and asked him tlie usual question, if he could tell 
us where to find huacas, when he stepped back aghast and with the 
most ludicrous expression of alarm, exclaimed '■^Huacas ! the Lord pre- 
serve me ! What do I know about huacas ? " I have travelled a great deal 
in Central America, but never before saw a place where ignorance and 
suspicions put such obstacles in the way of simple investigations. The 
trials of a foreigner travelling alone may be imagined, when it is remem- 
bered that I was accompanied by Don Juan himself, a nearly pure blood 
Indian, who was born and raised in the Nicoya and wdsjefe politico of 
that district. 

Some 5 or 6 miles more and we stopped at a cattle ranch of the rudest 
class — three miserable cane huts near by a corral for such cattle as 
needed attention, and an inclosed area of a few acres for maize and plan- 
tains. The proprietor, owner of a large number of cattle, was here, and 
lived as poorly as his meanest vaquero. The morning of the 2oth April 
we rode to within a short distance of the sea to examine an old burial 
ground. The graves were indicated by slight piles of stone, showing 
but little above the surface. There is- very little soil above the rock 
here and the relics, human bones, extremely rude pottery, celts, aud 
broken grinders were found within 15 inches of the surface. This was 
on a slope, and apparently the surface had been much denuded by the 
wash of the wet seasons. One skeleton was extended with head to south- 
west; on one side of the skull was a celt, edge down, on the other a 
small rude vessel in pottery. Of eight celts collected, all but one were 
blunt, the edge apparently chipped off to render the imi)lement useless. 
The one excepted was a very small one. The collection, interesting 
for the very rudeness of the pottery made here, was intrusted to the 
school-master at Santa Eosa, who failed to forward it to Santa Cruz and 
it was lost. That worthy was as stupid and ill-mannered as his col- 
league at El Gallo was pleasant and courteous. 

We only worked at that place half a day, then returned via the ranch 
to Santa Eosa. and thence to a small hamlet, Las Huacas, on the route 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 823" 

towards Sardinal country, of the same wretched character. Next day, 
about uoon, after touching- the coast west of Cape Vela, we struck the 
barrio of Sardinal, and were at once in a different country. Evidences 
of greater prosperity were apparent on every side, and besides, at the 

first house a specimen in green stone, argillite No. , was obtained. 

Proceeding along the valley the houses became more frequent until near 
that of Bon Pizarro; it was rather after the order of a scattered village. 
Here nearly two days were spent riding from house to house, and rarely 
inquiring in vain for antiquedades. Some objects in stone, usually, if not 
always, gorgets, were secured, besides a pretty collection of pottery. 

The afternoon of the 28th we crossed the ridge between Sardinal and 
the bay of Culebra to a place called Panama, near the mouth of the bay. 

Here at the house of Pizarro* we got JSTos . Xear 

the road from that house to the beach were lying two fine images in the 
Zapaterra stylet about 6 feet high, with the head of a serpent for a head- 
dress. The head of one was broken off. It was the finest specimen of 
that class that I had ever seen. Nearer the beach in the bank of a 
stream was a lot of pottery fragments, as in the Buena Vista, and near 
by a section of a shell heap which had been covered by alluvium. 

Staying at the house of Espiuosa that night, next morning we 

visited the huaca of Panama, on a hill overlooking the bay. At the 
edge of a mangrove swamp near the foot of this hill was a bank about 
8 feet high and 30 by 50 yards surface, composed, as at Buena Vista, 
almost entirely of shards. On this bank stood a pochate tree 6 feet in 
diameter, at 10 feet above the surface. There was another near by, the 
two forming islands occasionally in very high tides. On the beach near 
by were some Chiriqui Indian women in bivouac, the mates of some pearl 
fishermen, and they, on a small scale, were building their shell-heap, 
and furnishing an illustration of how these immense banks of pottery 
and others of shell may have grown in the old times. Shells were not 
mixed with the shards in the large banks. The fragments, as at Buena 
Vista, were almost all of unpainted ware, or that which was only painted 
solid red; but there were a few pieces in yellow ornamentation, or in 
bands of black or dark brown. The most ordinary pieces were well 
burned. 

Just south of these banks the hill of the huacas rises some 150 or 200 
feet, culminating in a point which overlooks sea and land for miles 
around. The valley of Panama runs off" inland, and to the north stretches 
the beautiful bay of Culebra, the hacknda of Culebra bearing north 10° 
east. On the top of this hill was the finest huaca yet seen. The graves 
had on them stones in pieces about a foot in diameter. Many of these 
had been opened, and a great many objects were reported to have been 
obtained. The burials were shallow, the excavations being only about 
3 feet in depth. Scattered around were bones, fragments of handsome 



* I mention the names of these houses to facilitate the work of other investij^^atora. 
t Squier. 



824 PAPEKS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

nictates, and numberless shards of painted ware, celts, etc. Among the 
remains were some pieces of large jars. A head in green argillite was 
found, but there were no specimens of the Santa Helena ware seen at 
Ometepec and supposed to have been of Aztec manufacture.* 

In the evening we rode to the hacienda El lovo, and spent a quiet 
day with Don David Hurtado. The owner of the hacienda, Jesus Maria, 
dined with us and after giving accounts of shell heaps, stone images, 
etc., told of a large block between his place and Nagascola, on which 
were carved the sun, moon, and other figures. The morning of May 1 
we rode to Jesus Maria and accompanied the hidalgo in search of his 
remarkable monolith. About midday we found a quarry of columnar 
rock, whitish and soft ; near it lay the object of our search, found af- 
ter hours of riding over hills parched by the sun and wind of the dry 
season, and on this precious stone seemed concentrated the rays of the 
tropic sun. We dismounted and walked around it in search of hiero- 
glyphs. There were sundry marks and scratches as if a careless cow- 
boy had made this his seat and scraped his spurs against the side. 
Oh ! We remounted and turned our horses homeward, and conversa- 
tion was not animated for some hours. 

The exi)lorer who goes to Spanish- America and lends a willing ear to 
the yarns of the natives, will follow a will-o'-the-wisp from Texas to 
Cape Horn, and return empty handed. I have accomplished little ex- 
cept when I have settled down at a point and by laboriousinvestigation 
ferreted out whatever of archaeological treasure was stored around, 
sometimes to the great suprise of natives, who, born and raised in the 
neighborhood, had never suspected the existence of the antiqiiedades. 

May the 2d we rode to the hacienda SanEaphael, 6 miles north of El 
Jovo. The burials here were in a clump of trees on a slight elevation 
above the plain, where enough of soil had accumulated above the lava 
rock to support something more than the usual coat of grass. The bur- 
ials were not more than 2 feet below surface. A vase 12 inches deep, 16 
in diameter ,and 3| across the mouth, contained burnt human bones. The 
guide said that he found another here containing bones, and in other 
cases fragments of large jars with bones. There were lying around 
.celts, fragments of red unpainted ware and of finely worked metates. 
The graves were indicated by large stones. 

Continuing our journey to the northward, we visited the hacienda 
Pelon, where on a slight eminence about a mile north of the house were 
seen huacas like those seen in 1877 opposite Boquerones.t The pottery 
was in some cases painted red. There was a fragment of coarse ware, 
If inches thick, which must have been part of an immense vessel, judg- 
ing by the curve. The guide reported the finding here of large jars 3 

feet high, containing bones and charcoal. The two objects and 

were found in the loose dirt of an excavation. 

* Arcliseological researches in Nicaragua, pp. 5.5, 80. 
t Arcliaeological Researclies in Nicaragua p. 74. 



A 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 825 

We left Pelon at 4 p. m., and at dusk were at the Eio Desbozados, 
where some fodder was obtained for the horses and some corn cakes 
and eggs for ourselves. After a bath in the sparkling rapids, I spread my 
blanket on the ground and looked up at the stars until tired " nature's 
sweet restorer" got ahead of the noise of laughter and chatter made by 
an Indian wench and her beaus. We were up at 3 A. m. and took the 
road again for Liberia, where we spent the midday hours. It was a 
lifeless little town, the capital of this department, with its white houses 
and streets glaring in the sunshine. We were shown a handsome vase 
of Luna ware, the prettiest specimen of ancient American ware I have 
ever seen ; but could not purchase it, and, as the owner was absent, could 
not get a history of its origin. A good specimen of a Choratega vase 
was presented, with the information that it was exhumed atKagascola, 
in Culebra Bay. 

In the afternoon we rode some 15 or 20 miles to Boquerones. Next 
morning, securing fresh horses, we visited the hamlet of Communidad, 
up the river. There and in Boquerones were secured four small dial- 
cMJiuitls. That afternoon we stopped at Siete Cuerros, on the road 
to Santa Cruz, and obtained a broken tripod of Luna ware, which 
was said to have been the cover of a vase found in the burial ground 
some miles lower, on the west side of the Tempisque. There were also 
some fragments of Santa Helena and Choratega ware, which I was in- 
formed were found at the same place, as they were near the Luna buri- 
als, Ometepec. 

May the 5th we got back to Nicoya, and after the excitement of the 
trip came fever and dysentery. I was pretty well used up ; the wet 
season was beginning and I determined to leave. Sending special mes- 
sengers to Boquerones for the objects there, the collection was packed 
and taken to Punta Arenas, whence I sailed on the 13th. 

To Prof. Spencer F. Baird, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 



ABSTRACTS FROM ANTHROPOLOGICAL CORRE- 
SPONDENCE. 

EDITED BY OTIS T. MASON. 

The archaeological work of the Bureau of Ethnology withdraws a 
great deal of material formerly published under this head. The danger 
of losing facts in a great mass of current correspondence, however, 
makes it advisable to publish brief abstracts of letters in this form : 

Baxter, J. — Reports opening a grave on the shores of the Gulf of St. 
Lawrence, 40 miles from Chatham, IST. B., and finding the skeleton of a 
large man. The head was covered with a sealskin cap and the feet with 
moccasins of the same material. There were pieces of canvas and birch 
bark about the remains, and inclosed within these a piece of Spanish 
cedar and a short piece of rope, "served," as though it had been a 
piece of standing rigging. Over the body were three large copper ket- 
tles, overturned, one over the head, the largest over the body, and the 
third over the flexed extremities. 

Brown, E. L. — Reports several groups of mounds near Durand, Wis. 
On the farm of the writer, at the depth of about 6 inches, are found 
old fire-beds of burnt rock and ashes, pottery, and arrow-heads. In the 
village of Durand is a group of twelve burial mounds. On the bank of 
Bear Creek, 2J miles east of Durand, near a grist-mill, is a group of 
seven mounds in a row, extending north and south. In the town of 
Nelson, Buffalo County, are several groups of mounds, one hundred 
and fifty altogether. The mounds are generally located on the river 
terraces in groups. They are composed of sand and drift, not strati- 
fied. Several mounds have been explored. On the rocks near Duma- 
ville, Wis., are figures of canoes and animals. The dead buried in the 
mounds are in a sitting posture, facing the east. The remains are en- 
tirely decayed. North of Durand, in Ojalla, two caches have been 
found, one containing about seventy-five large chipped disks ; the other 
one hundred, in various stages of completion. Mr. Brown will make 
further researches for the Smithsonian Institution. 

Burns, Frank. — Reports a cave near Blountsville, Ala., in a cliff of 
limestone. It was formerly a burial place, as a number of skeletons 
were found deposited in wooden troughs. The bodies had been wrapped 
in some sort of matting made of bark. Twelve ornaments of native 
copper rudely hammered out and two chisels were found there, as weU 
as sea shells. The cave was dug over during the civil war for the pur- 
pose of extracting saltpeter. The writer also reports the discovery of 
a cache of seventeen chipped spear heads in a field near Blountsville. 
The specimens are said to be beautifully wrought. 

826 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 827 

Gray, William. — Is studying the prehistoric relics of Kingsbury 
County, Dakota Territory. Many evidences of ancient habitation ex- 
ist here and should be saved to history while they are accessible. 

Luttrell, Elston. — In Calhoun and Talladega Counties, Alabama, 
mounds, stone implements, sculptures, &c., abound. Two and a half 
miles east, and thence five-eighths of a mile south from Oxford, Cal- 
houn County, is a large isolated mound. It lies about 300 yards 
from Choccolocco Creek, on the Caver place. It has never been exam- 
ined; it is about 20 feet in vertical height, and has a large, flat sur- 
face on top. The perimeter is an ellipse, the major axis of which is about 
100 feet and the minor axis about 75 feet. On the west side, a few feet 
from the base, is an excavation or mardelle. The interior has never 
been examined. There is a group of mounds, orderly arranged, 15 
miles southwest of Oxford. They lie on the south bank of Choccolocco 
Creek. Pipes and stone implements are found in the vicinity. At the 
Elston Store place, in an excavation for a cellar, a body was found buried 
in a sitting posture, and many stone implements were also found in the 
grave. 

Mackie, Joseph S. — Writes from Lima, Peru, describing observations 
made at Chorillo, on the coast, at a point forming an equilateral triangle 
with Callao and Lima. Passing up the sandy hillside on one occasion 
he observed a scrap of cloth protruding, and immediately dug it out. 
The fabric was of the peculiar Peruvian embroidery, on which were 
wrought fierce animals in a threatening attitude. Inclosed was the 
mummy of a female child not more than two days old. The continuation 
of the digging revealed a large quantity of bones wrapped in nets, the 
bundles resembling dumb-bells — the head at one end, the long bones in 
the middle, and the small bones at the other end. 

MacLean, J. P., writing about the great Cahokia mound, says: 

"Almost everywhere on its sides you can pick up fragments of pottery, 
broken bones, and white or milk chert chips. Some of the pottery is 
decorated. I found the frontal bone of a human skull on the side of the 
mound. 

"In vol. II, Peabody Museum Eeport, p. 474, will be found a cut of 
the Cahokia mound. While this restoration is a good one, yet it is not 
accurate. I came to the opinion that on this mound were four temples, 
representing four orders of priests, the highest order erecting their tem- 
ple on the upper platform. 

"The lowest platform is not a graded way, as represented by An- 
cient Monuments, page 174. Eo evidence of a graded way presents 
itself at any place. On the west side I discovered traces of baked 
bricks. 

" Professor Putnam is guilty of an amusing oversight (p. 471) in call- 
ing attention to the fact that its exact location is not given by writers who 
have attempted to desciibe the mound, and then neglects to do so him- 
self, although he visited it. It is located in Madison County, Illinois, 



828 PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

on tlie south boundary of Namioka township, 6 miles east of East Saint 
Louis, on the road leading to Collinsville." 

Moore, J. H. — Reports that there are many mounds in the vicinity of 
Oakley, Arkansas County, Arkansas. 

Parish, Sidney. — Writes that near his house, 18 miles above Memphis, 
Teun., is a large mound, upon which relics have been found. 

Poynter, Eobert H. — Writing from Desha County, Arkansas, speaks 
of Wal-ka-ma-tu-ba, an old Indian, who was buried in 1834, in the fol- 
lowing manner : The house in which the family lived was built of round 
logs, covered with bark and daubed with mud. In the middle of the 
house a board was driven about 3 feet into the ground, and the old man 
was lashed to this with thongs, in a sitting posture, with his knees drawn 
up in front of his chin and his hands crossed and fastened under his 
knees. The body was then entirely encased in mud, built up like a round 
mound and smoothed over. A fire was kindled over the pile and the 
clay burnt to a crisp. Six months afterward the family were moved 
away and the mound opened. The body was well preserved. Another 
body had been wrapped in bark of the birch and deposited in the cavity 
of a dry spring. 

Reed, J. W. K., makes the following remarks about Cross Creek, Pa. : 

" In this vicinity are to be found many small mounds. On the top of 
a high ridge, partly on my farm, and partly on my neighbor's, are many 
traces of prehistoric races. At one point on the level, on top of the ridge, 
is a mound which was about 5^ feet high and from 2 to 3 rods in diameter, 
in which an excavation was made a few years ago, and a stone wall was 
uncovered. The wall was built alongside of a crack in a large rock ; 
the crack is V shaped, which shows that one side has settled down j the 
mound is principally formed of stones, intermixed with some earth, and 
on it was growing large trees. There was nothing found in it except 
the stone- wall. It was only partially excavated. In the immediate vi- 
cinity are to be found other mounds, and several large rocks with a pe- 
culiar kind of carving on them. The carving is rather indistinct, but it 
is the "work of human hands. Partly surrounding these carved rocks 
and mounds can be traced a circle formed by flat stones set in on edge. 
From a point in this circle starts a straight line of these stones that are 
set in on edge which runs near the center of the circle ; this line can 
be traced 30 or 40 rods. In other places in this region, where there are 
large rocks, we find these carvings. The circular row of stones set on 
edge appear to follow around the top of the point of the hill. If the 
timber was cleared off this hiU there would be a great view from it. At 
one point objects can be seen beyond the Ohio Eiver (about 10 miles). 
Many stones about the mounds show marksofhavingbeenrudely dressed. 
We find many arrowheads, stone axes, stone hammers, &c., in this vi- 
cinity." 

Eichardson, A. S. — Calls attention to the existence of two mounds in 
the vicinity of West Point, King William County, Virginia. 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 829 

Stubbs, Charles H. — In reply to the assertion made in Smithsonian An- 
nual Report, 1879, page 446, that there are no mounds in Northeast Mary- 
land, states that there are mounds or stone cairns in Cecil County, from 
oneof which he obtained twenty pieces of pottery. There are no sculi)t- 
ured rocks in the Susquehanna Eiver at Conowingo, but many in the 
river at Bald Friar, 1^ miles above Conowingo. Mr. Stubbs claims to 
have first brought these rocks to the notice of scientific men. Lancas- 
ter County was once the home of the Susquehannocks, the Shawanoes, 
and the Conestogoes, and wherever they lived are yet to be found relics 
of these tribes, and in all probability of a race far anterior to them. In 
the southern end of this county is the Eock Spring, excavated by the 
aborigines. On the Hutton farm is an Indian village site. In the Sus- 
quehanna, at Peach Bottom, Mount Johnson Island, is a famous locality 
for gathering stone relics. In Mastic Township are the evidences of 
another Indian village. In Manor, at what was once Indian Town, are 
yet to be found large quantities of pottery. Near Christiana and the 
Gap resided the Shawnees. Here is the quarry at which the steatite 
pots were made, one of which has not been severed from the rock. Mr. 
Stubbs cautions archaeologists about committing themselves to names 
for aboriginal implements whose functions are still unknown. 

Woods, E. H. — States that on the plantation of a friend close to the 
Eoanoke Eiver, near Avoca, N. C, is an old Indian camping-ground. 
During some excavations there were found bones, arrowheads, pottery, 
and a skeleton in a sitting posture. 



INDEX. 



A. 

Page. 

Abbe, Cleveland, report ou progress in meteorology 28,365 

Aborigines, American, houses and house life of 46 

Aboriginal remains near Naples, 111 686 

Structures in Carroll County, Tennessee 768 

Abstract of anthropological correspondence 826 

Accessions to National Museum 126, 195-231 

Ackerman, A. A., assigned to duty 42 

Acoustics • 470 

Acts and resolutions of Congress relative to the Smithsonian Institution and 

National Museum 264 

Appropriations 1882, 1883, 1884 264,265 

Armory building 264,267 

Fire-proof building, National Museum 264,265 

Fire-proofing Smithsonian Institution 266 

Furniture and fixtures, National Museum 264,265,266 

Heating and lighting National Museum 266 

International exchanges 265,266 

National Museum 264, 267 

North American ethnology, Smithsonian Institution 265, 266 

Preservation of collections 264, 267 

Transfer of Centennial collections. Treasury Department 266 

Distribution of public documents..... 271 

Inauguration of Henry statue ..., 267 

London Fishery Exhibition 269 

Printing Centennial Exhibition Eeport 267 

Southern Exposition at Louisville, Ky 268 

Withdrawal of the Thomson Siamese deposit 271 

Adams, Hon. William M., explorations by 44 

Additions to list of foreign correspondents 79 

Aeronautics 386 

African geography 363 

Agate bequeathed to Institution 43 

Agassiz and Marshall ; list of generic names employed in geology and paleon- 
tology 27 

Aiuslee, Hon. George, presented lock of hair of Sir Walter Scott 43 

Airy, Sir George B., letter from 71 

Alaska, explorations iu 14 

American aborigines, houses and house life of 46 

Indians, chief deities of the 47 

Institute of Mining Engineers, meeting of 10 

Linguistics, bibliography of 46 

Amulets, cranial, prehistoric trephining and 46 

Amsink, G., co-operation ot 89 

Analyses made by department of chemistry 155 

(831) 



832 INDEX. 



i aTO. 



Anatomy, vegetable, notes on 551 

Anchor Steamship Company, co-operation of 31,89 

Anthropogeny, notes on 634,655 

Anthropological correspondence, abstracts of 826 

Anthropological data, on limitations to the use of 46 

Papers, by Charles Eau 23 

Anthropology, papers relating to G75 

Anthropology, report on progress in, by O. T. Mason 28, 633 

Anthropogeny 634,655 

ArchiBology 635,655 

Bibliography 655 

Biology of man 638,659 

Comparative technology.. 648,666 

Ethnology 645,662 

Glossology 646,665 

Hexiology 653,670 

Instrumentalities 670 

Pneumatology 652,668 

Psychology 644, 661 

Sociology 649,667 

Antiquities, department of 126, 127, 195 

Accessions to 195 

Eau, Charles, curator of 127,167, 195 

Washington County, Maryland 796 

Appendices to Eeport on the National Museum 167, 195, 231 

Appendix (general) to Smithsonian Eeport 273 

To the Secretary's Eeport 57 

Appropriations for Sm ithsonian and National Museum 264-266 

Archaeology, notes on 635, 655 

Archegoniata, notes on 560 

Arctic regions 14,357 

Arizona, collections from 46 

Explorations in 18 

Armory building 6, 264, 267 

Art in shells of the ancient Americans, by William H. Holmes 46 

Art of weaving among the Navajos, by Washington Matthews 47 

Arts and industries, department of, in National Museum 128 

Arthropods, notes on 579 

Arthur, President Chester A. , member ex officio xix 

Asia, geography of 361 

Assistants and officers of the National Museum xx, 167 

Astronomical announcements by telegraph 28, 57 

Astronomy, report on progress in, by E. S. Holden 27, 277 

Astronomical bibliography 319 

Comets 293 

Fixed stars 278 

Miscellaneous items 321 

NebulsB 277 

Observatories 311 

Planets 303 

The sun 286 

Atlantic Cable Company, co-operation of 28 

Atlas Steamship Company, co-operation of 31,89 

Atmospheric electricity, notes on 422 

Auroras 422 



INDEX. 833 

B. 

Page. 

Bacterid, notes on 555 

Baird, Spencer F., Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries 49 

Director of National Mnsenm XX 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution XX, 56 

Introduction to record of scientific progress 276 

Papers in Proceedings of National Museum 27 

Letter transmitting Report for 1881 w ill 

Letters on astronomical announcements 59-76 

Report of 1-56 

Transfer of private library to Museum 34 

Baiz, Jacob, co-operation of 89 

Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, co-operation of 31 

Baltimore and Potomac Railroad, co-operation of 31 

Barker, G. F., report on progress in physics 28, 459 

Barometers 386 

Barometric pressure 420 

Batrachia, North American, check-list of 122 

Batrachians, department of 126, 135, 204 

Bean, Barton A., assistant in department of fishes 137 

Bean, Tarleton H., curator. National Museum xx 

List of publications of the National Museum 122 

Papers by 167 

Report on collection of fishes 27, 137 

Bdbian, L. de, co-operation of 89 

Becker, George F., digest of atomic weights 22 

Belding, L., discovery of new species of reptiles 25 

Explorations by 18 

Bell, James, explorations by ^ 18 

Bendire, Charles, collections made by 17 

Researches of 17 

Papers in Museum Proceedings 27 

BernadoD, J. B., assigned to duty in chemical laboratory 42 

Bibliography, astronomical 319 

Of American linguistics 46 

Of anthropology 655 

Of fishes of the Pacific coast of the United States, by Theodore Gill 22, 26, 122 

OfG. W. Hawes 160 

Of publications of the Museum for 1882 ' 167 

Bicknell, Eugene P., papers by 186 

Biographical notice of George W. Hawes , 131 

Biological Society, meetings of, in Museum lecture-room 10 

Biology of man, notes on 638, 659 

Bird life of the Northwest, researches into, by C. Bendire 17 

Birds, department of 126, 131, 201 

Blackford, E.G., suggestion to use spawn of cod 54 

Bland, Thomas, co-operatiou_ of 89 

Blennerhasset's Island, Ohio River, remains on 759 

Blish, J. B., U. S. N., assistant in department of marine invertebrates, &c.. 42, 144 

Board of Regents xix, 2 

Annual meeting of ix, 2 

Annual report to 1 

Appropriation asked of Congress for fire-proofing of Smithsouiau building. 2 

Committees of 2 

H. Mis. 26 53 



834 INDEX. 

Page. 
Board of Eegents — Coutiaued. 

Resolutions of ix, 4 

Vacancies in "2 

Bcehmer, George H., history of the Smithsonian exchanges 23,28,31 

List of foreign correspondents 22 

Report on operations of exchanges 31, 77 

Bolton, H. Carrington, general catalogue of scientific periodicals 24 

Report on progress in chemistry 509 

Bors, Ch., co-operation of 89 

Botany, progress in, by W. G. Farlow 28,551 

Archegoniata 560 

Ferments and bacteria 555 

Phaenogams 562 

Thallophytes 557 

Vegetable anatomy 551 

Vegetable physiology 552 

Botassi, D. W., co-operation of 89 

Boyd. C. H., paper in Museum Proceedings 27 

Bra6m, H., co-operation of 89 

Bransford, J. F., collections made by 20 

Explorations by 20 

Note on the Guatuso Indians 677 

Report on explorations in Central America in 1881 803 

BraytOD, A. \V.,and D. S. Jordan, on the distribution of lishes of the Alle- 
ghany region of South Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee 22 

Brewster, Hon. Benjamin H., member ex officio xix 

Brewster, William, papers by 186, 187 

Brinton, D. G., introduction to a study of the manuscript Troano 46 

Bron, R. T., ancient remains in White River Canon 681 

Brown, Nathan Clifford, papers by - 187 

Brown, S. C, registrar of National Museum 121 

Brown, Vernon & Co., co-operation of 89 

Broughton, Mrs. bequest of agate to Institution 43 

Building stones, collection of B, 165 

Buildings of the Institution 3 

Additional museum building needed 7 

Armory buildiug 6 

Laboratory of natural history 7 

. National Museum building 5 

Smithsonian building 3 

Bulletins of the Fish Commission 49, 55 

Bulletins of National Museum 25, 126 

Gill, Fishes Pacific coast. No. 11 26 

Ward, Flora of Washington, No. 22 22 

Yarrow, Check-list Re[)tilia, No. 24 25 

Bureau of Ethnology 44 eiseq. 

Field-work 44 

Linguistic manuscripts in the library of the 46 

Publications 46 

Report on operations of 1)44 

Burnett, Swan M., lecture by 10 

Butler County, Ohio, signal mounds of .' "52 



INDEX. 835 

c. 

Page. 

Cabinet of specimens offered to Museum 8 

California, explorations in 17 

Salmon, propagation of 53 

Trout, propagation of 54 

Cameron, R.W. & Co., co-operation of 89 

Cape Saint Lucas (California), fauna at 18' 

Card catalogues for libraries 34 

In the excbauge serv'ico •. 77, 80, 81 

Carib antiquities, collections of 19' 

Carlin, W. E., paper of, in Museum Proceedings 27 

Carp, distribution of 53 

Carrauza, Consul C, co-operation of 89 

Carroll County, Tennessee, aboriginal structures in 768 

Carvings, animal, from the mounds of the Mississippi Valley 46 

Cases in National Museum 119 

Castro, C. de, co-operation of 89 

Caswell, Alexis, meteorological observations by 21 

Catalogue of Zufii collection illustrated, by W. H. Holmes 47 

Of the collections to illustrate the animal resources and the fisheries of the 

United States, by G. Brown Goode 22 

Of the collections from New Mexico and Arizona 46, 47 

Of linguistic manuscripts in the library of the Bureau of Ethnology, by J. 

C. Pilling 46 

Of Smithsonian publications, by William J. Rhees 23 

Of scientific periodicals, by H. Carrington Bolton 24 

Of scientific serials of all countries, by Samuel H. Scudder 24 

Cazeaux, H., co-operation of 89 

Cegiha language, J. Owen Dorsey 47 

Census collections 8 

Centennial exhibit, transfer to Washington 7, 266 

Exhibition report, printing of 267 

Centers of distribution of exchanges 91 

Central America, explorations in 19, 803 

Central American j)icture writing, studies in 46 

Cession of land by Indian tribes to the United States, by C. C. Royce 46 

Chandler, Hon. William E., member ex officio xix 

Charlotte Harbor, Florida, shell heaps of 794 

Chase, H. E., shell-heaps near Provincetown, Mass 799 

Chase, Henry S., U. S. N., assistant in department of minerals 42,151 

Check list of North Aroerican reptilia and batrachia 25, 122 

Chemical geology , , 343 

Mineralogy 538 

Physics 509 

Work performed 155 

Chemistry, department of 155 

Chemistry, report on progress in, by H. C. Bolton 28,509 

Chemical physics 509 

Inorganic chemistry ---- 511 

Organic chemistry 522 

Cheng Tsao Ju, visit to Museum 10, 11 

China, explorations in 21 

Christie, W. II. M., letter from 59,62 

Circular relating to indexing and filing 25 

Circulars of the National Museum 122 



836 INDEX. 

Pa^ie. 

Clark, A. Howard, reorganizatioa of fishery section iu National Museum 129 

Clark, Frank N., in charge of station at Northville, Mich 54 

Clarke, F. H., recalculation of the atomic weights 22 

Classificatiou of the Coleoptera of North America, by John Le Coute and 

George H. Horn 24 

Eozoic and paleozoic rocks 335 

Climate, notes on 382, 453 

Cluss & Schultze prepared plans for fire-proofing of Smithsonian building.. . 4 

Cod, spawn of, utilized 54 

Ccelenterates, notes on 573 

Collections of building stones 8, 105 

Growth of 7 

In ethnology 44 

Made for the Museum 12-22 

Of fishes 19 

Ores 8 

Preservation of. Congressional act respecting 264, 267 

Transportation of, appropriation for 8 

United States Geological Survey 8, 9, 48 

Collins, J. W., papers by 187 

Comets, discovery of 28, 29, 293 

Commander Islands, explorations in 16 

Compagnie Gen^rale Transatlantique, co-operation of 31, 89 

Comparative technology, notes on 648,666 

Committee on Museum building, report of , 2 

Congress. (See Acts of.) 

Connor, Miss Margaret, allowance granted to xiii 

Consuls, co-operation of 89 

Contents of Report, 1881 V 

Contributions to Knowledge 21 

To the natural history of Arctic America, by L. Kumlien 22 

To North American Ethnology, Vols. IV, V 46 

Parti of Vol. 11 47 

Contribution to the study of the mortuary customs of the N. A. Indians 46 

Co-operation of Capt. John M. Dow 21 

Of consuls and transportation companies 89 

Of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company 21 

Of railroad and steamboat companies 31 

Of telegraph companies 28 

Cope, Edward D., check-list of North American reptilia and batrachia 25 

Discovery of new species 25 

Copeland, Ralph, letters from 64 

Copp6e, Henry, Regent X, xi, xix 

Motion by xi 

Correspondence, anthropological, abstracts from 826 

Of exchange service 78 

On astronomical announcements 57 

Correspondents, list of 79 

Costa Rica, explorations in 20 

The Guatuso Indians of 675 

Courtenay, E. H., arrangement of meteorological observations 22 

Cox, Hon. Samuel S., Regent x,xi,xix,2 

Cranial amulets, prehistoric trephining and 46 

Crawford and Balcarres, Lord, letter from 72 

Crystallography, notes on 535 






I 



INDEX. 837" 

Cunard Steamship Company, co-operation of 31 , 89 ' 

Cup-shaped and other lapidariau sculptures, observations on 46 

Gushing, F. H., exi^lorations by 18 

The government of the Zunis 47 

Researches of 46 

D. 

Dakota language, grammar and dictionary of the 47' 

Dale, Dr., researches of 21 

Dall, William H. , honorary curator, National Museum xx 

Lecture by 10 

Papers by 27, 168 

Dallett, Boulton & Co., co-operation of 69 

Dana, Edward S., rej)ort on jtrcgress in mineralogy 5'23 

Davis, Hon. David, member ex officio xix 

Eegent .*. .x,xi, six 

Declaration of Independence, manuscript 43 

Deering, Hon. Nathaniel C, Eegent X, xi, xix, 2 

Dennison, Thomas, co-operation of 69 

Derby, E. H., collections received from 21 

Dewey, Frederick P., assistant curator. National Museum xx 

Chemical assistant 152 

Report of 154 

Sketch of life of George W, Hawes 35 

Dictionary and grammar of the Dakota language 47 

Of Klamath-Euglish 47 

Digest of atomic weights by George F. Becker 22 

Discovery of new mineral localities 541 

Distribution of duplicate specimens of marine invertebrates 144 

Of fishes of the Alleghany region of South Carolina, Georgia, and Tennes- 
see, by D. S. Jordan 22 

Of public documents, Congressional act respecting 271 

Donaldson, Thomas, obtained collections 7,8 

Dorsey, J. Owen, Cegiha language 47 

Government of the Omahas 47 

Method of recording Indian languages 4(5 

Researches of 45 

Dow, Capt. John M. , co-operation of : 20 

Draper, Henry, death of 39 

Dresel, F. G., assistant in department of fishes 42, 137 

Dug^s, A., collections made by 19 

Duplicate invoices for exchanges 78 

Specimens of marine invertebrates 144 

Duplicates and exchanges of the National Museum 122, 123 

E. 

Earle, F. S. , explorations by 44 

Echinoderms, notes on 575 

Economic geology, department of 152 

Eggers, H. F. A., flora of Saint Croix and Virgin Islands 22 

Eisen, Gustav, collections made by 17, 20 

Discovery of new species - 25 

Work performed by * - 20 

Elephant mound '^^ 



838 INDEX. 

Pa-e. 

Electricity, notes on 489 

Atmospheric 422 

Electric service of the National Museum 125 

Embryological investigations, by John A. Ryder 1.5G 

Endlich, F. M., paper in Museum Proceedings 27 

Eozoic rocks 325 

Ethnographic chart 47 

Ethnological collections 44 

Ethnology G45,GG2 

Bureau of, rej)ort on operations of 1 

Explorations by 18 

North American, Congressional act respecting 265, 26G 

CoMtributions to 4G, 47 

Exchanges, international 77 

Appropriation for 3 

Centers of distribution of 91 

Congress'ional act respecting 265, 266 

Deficiencies in Smithsonian publications for exchange 78 

Duplicate invoices 78 

Domestic transmissions 85 

Foreign transmissions 82 

Government transmissions 86, 106 

List of correspondents 79 

List of official publications sent during 1382 107 

Of the National Museum 122,123 

Eeceipts 82 

Report on 77 

Rules relative to 81 

Transportation comj^anies 88 

Executive Committee report of xiv — xvii, 3 

Report accepted by Board of Regents xi 

Expenditures, account of xvi, xvii 

Experimental physiology, department of - 156 

Exploration, deiiartment of, in National Museum - 155 

Explorations by the United States Geological Survey 48 

In Central America, report of 803 

Exposition at Louisville, Ky., Congressional act respecting 2G8 

International Fishery, at London, England 56 

F. 

Farlow, W. G. , papers of, in Museum Proceedings 27 

Report on progress in botany 28, 551 

Fauna at Cape Saint Lucas, California 18 

Fay, Joseph S., presented laud at Wood's Holl 51 

Fernandez, Don Leon, the Guatuso Indians of Costa Rica 675 

Finances of the Institution xi V, 3 

Fire-proof building for United States Geological Survey XV 

Fire-iiroof building for Natiimal Museum, Congressional act respecting 264,265 

Fire-proofing of Smithsonian, xii, 2, 3, 4 

Fish Commission, account of work of 49 

Fisher, W. J. , collections made by 16 

Fishe] y census of 1880 55 

Fishery Exposition, International, at London, England 19, 56 



A 



INDEX. 839 

Pase. 

Fishes, collections of 19 

Department of 126,136,205 

Of the Pacific coast, bibliograpliy of, by Theodore Gill 22,26, 122 

Fletcher, Robert, lecture by 10 

On prehistoric trephining and cranial amulets 46 

Flint, James M. , honorary curator, National Museum xx 

Flora of Washington, guide to, by L. F. Ward 122 

Of Saint Croix and Virgin Islands, by H. F. A. Eggers 22 

Florida, exj)loration8 in 13 

Gold, silver, and other ornaments found in 791 

Prehistoric remains in 771 

Shell heaps of Charlotte Harbor 794 

Folger, Hon. Charles J., member ex officio xix 

Forbes, S. A. , papers by 187 

Foreign correspondents of the Institution 31 , 32 

Foreign exchanges 32,82,86,88,90,91 

Foreman, Edward, assistant, National Museum xx 

Fossil invertebrates, department of 127, 149,221 

Plants, department of 150 

Frelinghuysen, Hon. Frederick T., member ex officio xix 

Funch, Edye & Co., co-operation of ,- 89 

Furniture and fixtures, National Museum, appropriation for 264, 265, 266 

G. 

Garfield, President, death of 2 

Garret, L. M., assigned to duty 42 

Assistant, department of fossil invertebrates 149 

Gatschet, A. S. , and Garrick Mallery, ethnographic chart 47 

Chief deities of the American Indians 47 

Klamath-English dictionary 47 

Method of recording Indian languages 46 

Researches of 45 

Synonymy of the tribes of North America 47 

Geography, report on progress in, by F. M. Green 347 

Hydrography 348 

Figure of the earth 351 

North America 352 

South America 355 

Arctic regions 357 

Asia 361 

Africa 363 

Geological survey of Brazil, collections received from 21 

Of the United States, explorations and collections by S, 9, 48 

New building asked for xn 

Report on 47 

Triangnlations and topographic work of 48, 49 

Geology, Economic, department of 152 

Geology, report on progress in, by T. S. Hunt 325 

Anthracite coal 342 

Chemical geology 343 

Classification of eozoic and paleozoic rocks 335 

Eozoic rocks 325 

Grand Canon of Colorado 338 

Paleozoic rocks -. 333 



840 INDEX. 

Pago. 
Geology, report on progress in, by T. S. Hunt — Continued. 

Paleozoic rocks of Colorado 337 

Serpentine rocks , 341 

Taconic rocks 331 

Tiias of Eastern North America 339 

Georgia, mounds in Putnam County 770 

Gilbert, Charles H., collection of fishes 20 

Gilbert, Charles H. , papers by, in Museum Proceedings 187 

Gill, Theodore, bibliography of fishes of the Pacific coast of the United 

States 22,26,126 

Papers by, in Museum Proceedings ' 187 

Report on progress in zoology 28, 565 

Glazier, W.C. H., in Museum Proceedings 27 

Glidwell mound, Franklin County, Indiana 721 

Glossology, notes on 646, 665 

Gold, silver, and other ornaments found in Florida 791 

Goode, G. Brown, assistant director National Museum xx, 44, 119 

Catalogue of the collections to illustrate the animal resoiarces and the 

fisheries of the United States 22 

Commissioner to London Fishery Exposition 56 

Papers by, in Museum Proceedings 27 

Eeport on National Museum 44 

Goode, G. Brown, and Tarleton H. Bean, papers by 169 

Goode, G. Brown, and J. W. Collins, papers by 170 

Goodrich, J. King, assistant, National Museum 129 

Gore, J. H. , tuckahoe or Indian bread 23, 28 

Gould, B. A. , letters from ,. 06 

Government of the Omahas, by J. Owen Dorsey 47 

OftheZunis, by F. H. Gushing 47 

Government exchanges 32, 33, 86, 102, 103, 105, 106 

Grammar and dictionary of the Dakota language 47 

And vocabulary of several Iroquoian dialects 47 

Grand Canon of Colorado 338 

Gray, Asa, Regent x, xi, xix 

Motion by xiii 

Greely, Lieutenant, exploration by 13 

Green, F. M., report on progress in geography 347 

Green, Seth, suggested propagation of California trout 54 

Green, W. J., electrician of the National Museum 125 

Greenland, explorations in 13 

Guatuso Indians, the, of Costa Rica 675 

Guesde, L. , collections made by , 19 

Guide to the flora of Washington and vicinity, by Lester F. Ward 26, 122 

Gumey, J. H., papers by 188 

H. 

Habel bequest xiv,41 

Halos, notes on 437 

Hamburg- American Packet Company, co-operation of 31, 89 

Hamilton bequest xiv, 41 

Hair of Sir Walter Scott presented to Institution 43 

Hall, Asaph, notice of comets 29 

Havre de Grace. Fish Commission work at 52 



INDEX. 841 

I'age. 

Hawes, George W IGO 

Abstracts of papers by American authors, published in the Neues Jabr- 

buch, by 16S 

Assisted in preparation of works 164 

Biographical notice of 151 

In charge of collection of building stones 165 

Death of *. . „ 35 

List of papers by 160 

Obituary notice of 158 

Paper by, in Museum Proceedings 27 

Hay, O. P., paper by, on southern fishes 18,188 

Hayden, E. E., assigned to duty ^ 42 

Assistant in department of fossil plants, &c 150, 15 1 

Heat, researches on 473 

Henderson, John G. , aboriginal remains near Naples, 111 „ 686 

Henderson & Brother, co-operation of 89 

Hendley, J., repairing of Museum specimens 125 

Henry, Joseph, publication of scientific writings of xii 

Henry, Mrs. Harriet A. , death of 35 

Henry statue xi.xiii, 1,267 

Henshaw, Henry W., animal carvings from the mounds of the Mississippi 

Valley 46 

Henshall, J. H., collections made by 18 

Hering, J. C, collections received from 21 

Herron, Joseph B., death of 33 

Herron , Thomas, collections received from 21 

Hill, Hon. Nathaniel P., Kegent X, xi, xix, 2 

Hillers, Mr. , photographs by 7 

Hiscock, Hon. Frank, application for shad for Hudson Elver 53 

History of the Smithsonian exchanges, by George H. Bcehmer 23, 28, 31 

Hoadley, Dr., collections by IS 

Hoar, Hon. George F., Regent x, xi, xix,2 

Hoffman, W. J., investigations of 46 

Hol^den, Edward S., report on progress in astronomy 27, 277 

Studies in Central American i)icture- writing 46 

Holmes, William H., art in shells of the ancient Americans 46 

Illustrated catalogue by 47 

Homsher, G. W., the Glidwell mound in Franklin County, Indiana 721 

Remains on Whitewater River, Indiana 728 

Horan, Henry, superintendent of National Museum buildings 124 

Horn, George H., and John LeConte, classification of the Coleoptera of North 

America 24 

Hornad ay, William F., chief taxidermist. National Museum 125 

Mounting of specimens 16 

Paper by 188 

Houses and house life of the American aborigines, by Lewis H. Morgan 46 

Howe, Hon. Timothy O. , member ex officio xix 

Hudson River, shad for 53 

Hunt, T. Sterry, report on progress in geology 275, 325 

Hydrography, notes on 348 

Hygiene, Naval Museum of 43 

Hypsometrical map 27 

Hypsometry, notes on 447 



842 INDEX. 

I. 

Page. 

Illinois, aborigiual remains near Naples 686 

Mounds in 683,684 

Illustrated catalogue, by W. H. Holmes, of Mr. James Stevenson's collection . 47 

Illustrations in the Eeport, index of viii 

Imperial Academy of Vienna, Austria, letter from 58 

Income of Institution, appropriation of xi 

Independence, manuscript. Declaration of 43 

Indexing, circular relating to 25 

Indian industries, by 0. T. Mason 47 

Languages, illustration of the method of recording 46 

Indiana, Franklin County, the Glidwell mound in 721 

Eemains on Whitewater River 728 

Indians, American, chief deities of the 47 

North American, mortuary customs of the 46 

Sign language among 46 

Sketch of the mythology of the 46 

Industries, Indian, by O. T. Mason 47 

Ingersoll, E., paper by, in Museum Proceedings 27 

luman Steamship Comjiany, co-operation of 31, 89 

Inorganic chemistry, notes on 511 

Insects, department of, in Museum 142 

Institute of Mining Engineers, offered specimens 8 

International exchanges 31, 77 

Acknowledgments to representatives of foreign Governments 31 , 89 

Congressional act respecting 265, 266 

Domestic exchanges 32, 85, 92, 100, 101 

Foreign correspondents 31,32,79 

Foreign exchanges 32, 82, 86, 88, 90, 91 

Government exchanges 32,33,86,102,103,105,106 

Of astronomical research 28 

Reception of packages 31,32,82,85,86 

Transmission of packages 31, 32, 86, 88, 91, 92, 100, 101, 102, 103, 105, 106 

Transportation companies 31, 83, 106 

International Fishery Exi)Osition at London, England 56, 269 

Introduction to the study of pictographs, by Garrick Mallery 47 

Introduction to study of tribal government, by J. W. Powell 47 

Invertebrates, department of 127,143,149,216,221 

Investigations by the Institution 11, 803 

Investigations by the United States Geological Survey 48, 49 

Invoices for exchanges, made in duplicate 78 

Iroquoian dialects, vocabulary and grammar of 47 

Iroquois, myths of the, by Erminnie A. Smith 46 

J. 

Jadite, collections of 15 

Japan, explorations in 21 

Japanese legation, paper by 188 

Johnson, S. H. , papers by, in Museum Proceedings 27 

Jordan, D. S. , collections made by 19 

Investigations of 18 

Papers by 27,188 

Jordan, D. S., and A. W. Bray ton, on the distribution of fishes of the Alle- 
ghany region of South Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee 22 



INDEX. 843 

, Page. 

Jordau, D. S., aud Charles A. Gilbert, papers by 188.189,190 

Jouy, P. L., paper by, iu Museum Proceedings 27 

Researches of 21 

K. 

Karlinski, F., letter from o7 

Keith, Mr., co-operation of 20 

Kent, Benjamin H., mounds in Putnam County, Georgia 770 

King, Clarence, Director of United States Geological Survey 9 

Klamath-English dictionary, by A. S. Gatschet 47 

Koebble, Albert, assistant in department of insects 14:5 

Kodiak, explorations in IG 

Krueger, A. , director of Kiel (Germany) Observal ory GC 

Kumlien, L., contributions to the natural history of Arctic America 22 

Knuhardt & Co. , co-operation of 89 

L. 

Labels used in National Museum 120 

Laboratory of natural history 7 

Laboratories iu National Museum, fitting up of 121 

Labrador, explorations in 13 

Language, evolution of, by J. W. Powell 4(3 

Indian, illustrations of the method of recording 46 

Lawrence, George N., papers by 97, 190 

Le Baron, J. Francis; gold, silver, and other ornaments found iu Florida.. .. 791 

Prehistoric remains iu Florida 771 

Le Conte, John, and George H. Horn, classification of the Colcoptera of 

North America 24 

Lectures in National Museum 10, 126 

Swan M. Burnett , 10 

W. H. Dall 10 

Eobert Fletcher 10 

Theodore Gill 10 

OtisT, Mason 10 

J. W.Powell 10 

C. y. Riley 10 

Lee, W. F., explorations by 21 

Leech, Daniel, corresponding clerk, Smithsonian Institution xx 

Legislature of New York applied for shad 53 

Library of the Institution 33 

Of National Museum 6,34,121,224 

Of Spencer F. Baird presented to Museum library 34 

Light, notes on 480 

Light-House Board, courtesy of 51 

Limitations to the use of some anthropological data, by J. W. Powell 46 

Lincoln, Hon. Robert T. , member ex officio xix 

Linguistics, American, bibliography of '■ 46 

Linguistic manuscripts iu the library of the Bureau of Ethnology 46 

List of foreign correspondents, by George H. Boehmer 19, 22 

Of contributors to the Museum in 1882 231, 263 

Of generic names employed in zoology and paleontology 27 

Of official publications sent to foreign Governments 107, 108 

Of publications of National Museum 122 

Lockington, W. N., paper by, iu Museum Proceedings 27 

London Fisherv Exhibition 19, 56, 269 



844 INDEX. 

• Page. 

Louisville, Ky., Southern Exposition at, Congressional act respecting 2G8 

Lucas, Frederick A. , papers by 190 

Lugger, O., paper by, in Museum Proceedings , 27 

M. 

McAdams, William, jr., mounds of the Mississippi Bottom, Illinois G84 

McCloud River station of Fisli Commission 54 

McDonald, Marshall, papers by 190, 191 

Experiments of, on fishes 1.'7 

McKay, C. L., collections made by IG 

Papers by, in Museum Proceedings 27 

McLean, J. J., collections 15 

Mackall, Charles, co-operation of 60 

MacLean, John, Regent x, xi, xix 

Member of Executive Committee xviii, xix 

On publishing scientific writings of Joseph Henry xii 

MacLean, J. P., remains on Blennerh asset's Island, Ohio River. 7.59 

Signal mounds of Butler County, Ohio 752 

Magnetism, terrestrial 422 

Mallery, Garrick, introduction to the study of pictographs 47 

On sign language among North American Indians 46, 47 

Mallery, G. , and A. S. Gatschet, ethnographic chart 47 

Mammals, department of 126, 131, 198 

Manuscript, linguistic, in the library of the Bureau of Ethnology 46 

Troano, a study of 46 

Marble, Hon. Edgar M., member ex officio xix 

Marine invertebrates, department of 127, 143, 216 

Duplicate specimens 144 

Marnock, Mr., discovery of new species 25 

Marsh, C. C, assigned to duty 42 

Marshall, Henry, taxidermist, National Museum 125 

Marshall and Agassiz ; list of generic names employed in zoology and paleon- 
tology 27 

Maryland, antiquities in Washington County 796 

Mason, John, specimens furnished to 156 

Paper by 191 

Mason, Otis T., abstracts from anthropological correspondence 826 

Lecture by 10 

On Indian industries 47 

Report on progress in anthropology 28, 633 

Massachusetts, Provincetown, shell-heaps near 799 

Mather, Fred., papers by 191 

Matthews, Washington, the art of weaving among the Navajos 47 

Navajo silversmiths 46 

Maxey, Hon. Samuel B., Regent x,xi, xix, 2 

Motion by xiii 

Maya and Mexican manuscripts 47 

Mechanics, notes on 461 

Meeting of Board of Regents xi, 2 

Meetings of scientific bodies 10 

American Institute of Mining Engineers 10 

Biological Society 10 

Lectures under the auspices of 10 

National Academy of Sciences 10 

National Dental Association 10 



INDEX. 845 

rase. 

Mei^s, General M. C, thanks tendered to 2 

Jlerccr beq uest , 40 

Merchants' line of steamers, co-oi)eration of 31,^0 

Merrill, George P., assistant, National Museum xx 

Metallurgy, department of 152 

Meteorological observations, by Alexis Cas^vell 21 

Meteorology, progress in, by C. Abbe 27,28,368 

Aeronautics *. 38G 

Anemometers, barometers, &c : 38G 

Atmospheric electricity 422 

Auroras 422 

Barometric pressure 420 

Climate 382,453 

Evaporation 41G 

Ground currents 422 

Halos 437 

Hydrology - 447 

Hypsometry 447 

Eainfall 410 

Refraction and mirage 437 

Solar radiation 413 

Special stations and work 365 

Storms 421 

Terrestrial magnetism 422 

Terrestrial temperature 413 

Winds 418 

Mexican and Maya manuscripts 47 

Mexico, explorations in ID 

Middleton, James J)., explorations by 44 

Mindeleff, Victor, explorations 45 

Prepared model of pueblo of Zuiii ^ 47, 125 

Miner, R. H., assigned to duty 42, 137 

Mineralogy, report on progress in. by E. S. Dana 523 

Chemical mineralogy 538 

Crystallography and physical mineralogy 535 

Discovery of new mineral localities 541 

General works on mineralogy 533 

New minerals 543 

Minerals, department of, in the Museum 151 

Mirage, notes on 437 

Miscellaneous collections published 22 

Mississippi Bottom, Illinois, mounds of the 684 

Mitchell, S. Weir, material furnished to 156 

Model, relief, of the pueblo of Zuiii 47, 125 

Mollusks and molluscoids 588, 589 

Department of, in the Museum 126, 139, 214 

Moore, M. A., paper in Museum Proceedings 27 

Morgan, Lewis H., death of 39 

Houses and house life of American aborigines 46 

Mortuary customs of the North American Indians 46, 47 

Moulton, J. H., collections made by 16 

Mounds, examination of 44 

In Carroll County, Illinois 683 

In Henry County, Ohio - 682 



846 INDEX. 

Pago. 
Mounds, examiuation of — Continued. 

In Putnam County, Georgia 770 

Of the Mississippi Bottom, Illinois G84 

Murdoch, Professor, researches by 15 

Museum. (See National Museum.) 

Museum of Hygiene 4:^ 

Muskoki confederacy, by J. W. Powell 47 

Mythology of the North American Indians, sketch of 4G 

Myths of the Iroquois, by Erminnie A. Smith 46 

N. 

National Academy of Sciences, meeting of 10 

Dental Association, meeting of 10 

National Museum IIO 

Accessions 12G, 195 

Accounts XVI, 123 

Appropriations for xvi, 3, 264,266 

Bibliography of publications 1G7 

Bulletins of 25,26 

Building 5 

Cases in 5, 119 

Committee, report of 2 

Department of antiquities 126, 127, 195 

Arts and industries 128 

Birds 126,131,201 

Chemistry 155 

Exploration and field-work 155 

Experimental physiology 156 

Fishes 126,136,205 

Fossil invertebrates 127, 149, 221 

Fossil plants 150 

Insects 127,142,215 

Marine invertebrates 127, 143, 216 

Mammals 126,131,198 

Metallurgy and economic geology 127, 152, 223 

Minerals 127,151,222 

Mollusks l'J6, 139,214 

Plants 225 

Reptiles 126,13.5,204 

Rocks and building stones 127,152,165,223,230 

Vivaria 157 

Duplicates and exchanges 123 

Electric service 125 

Fire-proof building, Congressional act respecting 264, 265 

Labels 120 

Laboratories 121 

Lectures 126 

Library 34,121,224 

List of contributors 231 

Natural history, laboratory of 7 

Number of visitors to 12G 

Officers and assistants of xx, 167 

Preparation of specimens 125 

Preservation of collections, acts of Congress respecting 264,267 

Proceedings of 27 



INDEX. 847 

Vase. 
National Museum — Continued. 

Property and supplies j 123 

Publications 121 

Report of assistant director of 119 

Report on operations of 44 

Room for library 6, 121 

Section of materia medica 225 

Specimens for distribution 52 

Storage and archives ' 121 

Storage for coal 6 

Uses the Armory building 6 

Navajo silversmiths, by Washington Matthews 46 

Navajos, the art of weaving among 47 

Naval cadets assigned to duty 41 

Museum of Hygiene 43 

Observatory, international exchanges, Congressional act respecting 265 

Navarro, J. N., co-operation of 89 

Navy Department, international exchanges, Congressional act respecting . .. 266 

Nebulie, notes on 277 

Necrology •^'>, 365 

Henry Draper 39 

George W. Hawes 35 

Mrs. Harriet A. Henry 35 

Joseph B. Herron 35, 38 

Lewis H. Morgan 39 

Joseph Duncan Putnam 39 

Nelson, Dr., collection of reptiles 20 

Netherlands American Steam Navigation Company, co-operation of 31, 89 

Newcomb, Raymond L., collections made by 14 

New Mexico, collections from 4 j 

Explorations in 18 

New York and Brazil Steamship Company, co-operation of 31, 89 

And Mexico Steamship Company, co-operation of 31, 89 

Ni'black, A. P., assigned to duty 42 

Nicaragua, explorations in ~^ 

Nicholls, Dr., collections made by 1" 

Nichols, Henry E., collections by 1^ 

Nicholson, W. L., in charge of hypsometrical map 27 

Nomenclator zoologicus, by Samuel H. Scudder 26, 122 

Norris, P. W., explorations by 44 

North America, geography of ., 352 

Tribes of, synonymy of the 47 

North American ethnology, Congressional act respecting 265, 266 

Contributions to ^^•'*^ 

Indians, mortuary customs of the 46 

Sign language among, by Garrick Mallery 46 

Sketch of the mythology of the 46 

North German Loy d Steamship Company, co-operation of 31, 89 

Northville, Mich., Fish Commission station ; ^54 

Null, James M., aboriginal structures in Carroll County, Tennessee 768 

Nushagak, explorations in ^"^ 

Nutting, C. C, explorations by 20,21 

Paper by •■ ^'"^^ 



848 INDEX. 

Pase. 

o. 

Ober, F. A., collections made by 19 

Obituary notices. (See Necrology.) 

Observations on cuiJ-shaped and other lapidarian sculpture in tbe Old World 

and America, by Charles Rau 40 

Oelrichs & Co ., co-operation of 89 

Officers and assistants xx, 167 

Official publications sent to foreign Governments 107-118 

Ohio, Butler County, signal mounds of '. 762 

Mounds in Henry County 682 

River, Blennerhasset's Island, remains ou 759 

Oldmixon, Dr., researches by 15 

Omahas, government of the, by J. Owen Dorsey 47 

Oregon, explorations in 17 

Ores, collection of 8 

Organic chemistry, not«s on 522 

Ornaments, found in Florida 791 

Ornithological publications ., 135 

P. 

Pacific Steam Navigation Company, co-operation of 31,89 

Paleozoic rocks, notice of 333 

Of Colorado 337 

Palmer, Edward, explorations 44,45 

Palmer, Joseph, chief modeler of the National Museum 125 

Palmer, William, assistant modeler, National Museum 125 

Panama Railroad Company, co-operation of 31,89 

Parker, Peter, assistant in department of fishes 137 

Parker, Hon. Pet^er, Regent X, xix 

Member of Executive Committee xviii,xix 

Pavey, Dr., explorations by 13 

Peale's portrait of Washington .' 43 

Pennsylvania Railroad, co-operation of 31 

Penobscot salmon, propagation of 53 

Periodicity of temperature and sun-spots 441 

Peters, C. H. F., acknowledgment to , .57 

Letters from 61,64,66,70,75 

Phseuogams, notes on 562 

Phillips, Barnet, paper by 192 

Photographic laboratories 7 

Work 7 

Photographs for Museum building 7 

Physics, report ou progress in, by G. F. Barker 28, 459 

Acoustics 470 

Electricity 489 

Heat . 473 

Light 480 

Mechanics 461 

Physiology, experimental, department of 156 

Vegetable , 552 

Pictographs, introduction to study of 47 

Picture writing, Central American, studies in 46 

Pilling, James C, bibliography of American linguistics 46 

Linguistic manuscripts in the library of the Bureau of Ethnology.. 46 

Research of 45 



INDEX. 849' 

Page. 

Pirn, Forvrood & Co., co-operation of 89 

Pirz, A., paper by, ia Museum Pioceediugs 27 

Planetoids, discovery of 29 

Plauets, notes on 28,303 

Plans for fire-proofing of Smithsonian building 4 

Plateau, F. M. , paper by, in Museum Proceedings 27 

Porifers, notes on 573^ 

Porter, J. Y., paper by, in Museum Proceedings 27 

Porter, President Noah, Eegent X, XIX 

Portrait of Washington 43 

Potomac Elver, Fish Commission work in 52 

Powell, Lieutenant, explorations by 15 

Powell, J. \V., Director of United States Geological Survey 9,47 

Explorations by 18 

In charge of Bureau of Ethnology 44 

Introduction to the study of tribal government 47 

Lectures of 10 

On limitations to the use of some anthropological data 46 

On the evolution of language 46 

Sketch of the mythology of the North American Indians 46 

The Mnskoki confederacy 47 

Wyandot government 46 

Prehistoric remains in Florida 771 

Prehistoric trephining and cranial amulets, by Robert Fletcher, U. S. A 46 

Preservation of collections, acts of Congress respecting ^.. .. 264,267 

Printing of Centennial Exhibit Report, Congressional act respecting 267 

Printing of Smithsonian Eeport fur 1882 ordered ii 

Proceedings of the National Museum 27, 121 

Progress, scientific record of 275 

Property and supplies of the National Museum 123 

Protochordates, notes on 605 

Protozoans, notes on 570 

Public documents, distribution of, Congressional act respecting 271 

Publications of the Bureau of Ethnology 46 

Publications of the National Museum 121, 122 

Bulletins 122 

List of 122 

Proceedings 121 

Publications of the Institution 21 

Annual report 27 

Contributions to knowledge 21 

Miscellaneous collections 22 

Pueblo of Zuiii, relief model of 47 

Pumpelly, E., analyses by ^ 

Putnam, Joseph Duncan, death of 39 

R. 

Eaflfo, M. , co-operation of 89 

Eailroad, extension of, to Armory building 6 

Eainfall, notes on 416 

Eathbun, Eichard, assistant curator, National Museum xx 

EepoTt of 144 

Papers by, in Museum Proceedings 27, 170 

Ran, Charles, curator, National Museum xx, 127, 167, 195 

Observations on cup-shaped and other lapidarian sculptures 46 

H. Mis. 2G 54 



850 INDEX. 

Page. 
Rail, Charles, curator, Notional Museum — Continued. 

Ou prehistoric fishing 1-23 

Anthropological papers 23 

Papers by 27, 170 

Ray, Lieutenant, explorations by 15 

Recalculation of the atomic weights, by F. W. Clarke 22 

Receipts of exchange parcels 31,32,52 

Receipts for the Smithsonian fund in 1882 XIV, xv 

for Armory building X vi 

" Fire-proof building, National Museum xvix 

" Furniture and fixtures xvi 

" International exchanges xvu 

" National Museum xvi 

" North American ethnology xvi 

" Polaris report xvu 

" Preservation of collections xvi 

Record of scientific progress 27,275 

Anthropology, O. T. Mason 633 

Astronpmy, E. S. Holdeu 277 

Botany, W. G. Farlow .')51 

Chemistry, H. C. Bolton 509 

Geography, F. M. Green 317 

Geology, T. S. Kunt 325 

Meteorology, C. Abbe 365 

Mineralogy, E. S. Dana 533 

Physics, 9. F. Barker 459 

Zoology, T. Gill 565 

Red Star Line, co-operation of 31,89 

Refraction, notes on 437 

Regents of the Institution x 

Annual report to 1 

Journal of proceedings of xi 

Resolutions by xi, 4 

Relief model of the pueblo of Zuni 47 

Remains, aboriginal, near Naples, III G86 

Ou Blennerhasset's Island, Ohio River 759 

In Florida 771 

In White River Canon 681 

On Wliitewater River, Indiana 728 

Report of assistant director. United States National Museum 119 

Of explorations in Central America 803 

Of the Executive Committee xi, xiv, 3 

Of the Secretary of the lustitution 1 

On National Museum 44 

On Smithsonian exchanges 31, 77 

Reptiles, department of 126, 135, 204 

North American, check-list of 122 

Researches and explorations 11 

Alaska 14 

Arctic Ocean 14 

Arizona 18 

California 17 

Central America 19 

China 21 

Commander Islands IG 



INDEX. 85r 

Pago. 
Researches and explorations — Continned. 

Eastern portioa of the United States 19 

Florida 18 

Greenland 13 

Interior of the United States 18 

Japan 21 

Kodlak 1(3 

Labrador 13. 

Lower California 18 

Mexico 19 

New Mexico 18 

Nushagak 16 

Oregon 17 

Saint Michael's 15 

South America 21 

Washington Territory 17 

West Indies 19 

Resolutions of Board of Regents xix, xir, xiii 

Accepting report of Executive Committee xi 

Appropriating the income of the Institution xi 

Granting allowance for Miss M. Connor xiii 

Referring report of the Secretary to the Executive Committee xii 

Relative to a new National Museum building xii, xiii 

Relative to publication of the scientific writings of Joseph Henry xii 

Relative to statue of Joseph Henry xi 

Respecting fire-proofing , 4 

Resolution of Congress. (See Acts and Resolutions.) 

Results of meteorological observations juade at Providcuce, R. 1 22 

Rhees, William J., chief clerk Smithsonian Institution xx 

Catalogue of publications of the Institution, by 23 

Eidgway, Robert, curator. National Museum xx 

Papers by 27,171-174 

Report of , 132 

Riggs, S. R., method of recording Indian languages 49 

Grammar and dictionary of the Dakota language 47 

Riley, Charles V., honorary curator, National Museum xx 

Lecture by - 10 

Private collection of 12G, 143 

Papers by 174-lt^3 

Ritchie, jr., John, letter from 7;i, 74 

Robertson, R. R., papers by 192 

Routine work of the Institution 11 

Royce, C. C, cession of laud by Indian tribes to the United States 46 

Rules relative to exchanges 81 

Rusby, H. H., collections from 18 

Ryder, John A., embryologist of United States Fish Commission 156 

Experiments of 157 

Papers by , 27, 192 

s. 

Safford, W. E., assigned to duty 43,144 

Schuermann, C. W., property clerk of the National Museum 123 

Schott, Charles A., arrangement of meteorological observations 22 

Schumacher & Co., co-operation of 89 

Scientific progress, record of 27, 275 



852 INDEX. 

Page. 

Scientific writings of Josepli Henry, resolution of Boarrl of Regents ....- xir 

Scudder, Samuel H., catalogue of scientific serials of all countries 24 

Nomenclator zoologicus 26^012 

Secretary, report of 1 

Secretary's report, appendix to 57 

Shallenberger, Hon. W. S., presents bill in House of Eepresentatlves for new 

building for United States Geological Survey xii 

Shell-heaps of Charlotte Harbor, Florida 794 

Near Proviucetowu, Mass 7'J'J 

Shells, art in, of the ancient Americans 46 

Sherman, General William T., Regent x,xi,xix 

Member of Executive Committee xviii, xix 

Motion by xi 

Shindler, A. Zeno, artist, National Museum l-Jo 

Accident to 157 

Shipping agents of exchanges 90, lOG 

Shufeldt, E. W., accident to 157 

In charge of collection of bird-skeletons 135 

Papers by 27,183 

Sign language among North American Indiaus, by Garrick MalUny 46, 47 

Signal mounds of Butler County, Ohio 752 

Signal Office, collections made by 12 

Simons, M. H., shell-heaps of Charlotte Harbor, Florida 704 

Silver, gold, and other ornaments found in Florida 701 

Smiley, C. \V., editor of Fish Commission Bulletins 139 

Smillie, T. W., photographic division of Museum 7 

Smith, Mrs. Erminnie A., researches of 45 

]My ths of the Iroquois 40 

Vocabulary and grammar of several Iroqnoian dialects 47 

Smith, John P., antiquities in Washington County, Maryland 706 

Smith, Professor, researches by 15 

Smith, Rosa, paper by £7, 19:2 

Smith, Rosa, and Joseph Swain, paper by 192 

Smith, Sanderson, and Richard Rathbuu, paper by 192 

Smith, S. B., in Museum Proceedings 27 

Smith, Sidney I., paper by 192 

Sociology, notes on (;49, (;')7 

Solar radiation, notes on 413 

South American geography 355 

South America, Explorations in 21 

Southern Exposition at Louisville, Ky., Congressional act respecting 268 

Specimens of natural history for distribution 52 

Cabinet of, offered to Museum b 

Preparation of 125 

Spies, Francis, co-operation of 69 

Sumichrast, Francisco, death of 19, 40 

Sun, notes on 286 

Sun-spots, notes on 44 1 

Statue of Joseph Henry xi, xiii, 1,267 

Statistics of exchanges 32 

Steamer "Fish Hawk" 51,52 

Steamship lines for Brazil, Texas, Florida, and Nassau, N. P., co-operation of. 31 

Stearns, R. E. C, collections made by 17 

Services of 139 



INDEX. 853 

Page. 

Stearns, Silas, collection made by 19 

Stearus, Wiufred A., collectious made by 14 

Stejucger, Leoubard, expedition of 10, 17 

Papers by 27, 193 

Stevenson, James, explorations by 18,45 

Catalogue of tbe collections of 46, 47 

Storage and archives in National Museum 121 

Storms, notes on 421 

Story, W. W., Henry statue by 1 

Street, Tbomas H., paper by 19 5 

Structures, aboriginal, in Carroll County, Tennessee 76S 

Studies in Central American picture writing, by E. S. Holden 46 

Study of pictograpbs, introduction to 47 

The manuscript Troano, by Cyrus Thomas 40 

Swan, James G., collections made by 17 

Paper by 1^3 

Synonymy of the tribes of North America 47 

T. 

Taconic rocks, notes on 331 

Takaki S., co-operation of ., 89 

Tanner, Lieut. Z. L., commanding steamer Fish Hawk Til 

Paper by 193 

Tarr, R. S., assistant in department of marine invertebrates 144 

Taylor, Hon. E. B., Regent xxi, xix.2 

Taylor, Frederick W, chemist, National Museum xx 

Report of 156 

Teller, Hon. Henry M., member ex officio xix 

Tennessee, aboriginal structures in Carroll County 76"^ 

Terrestrial magnetism, notes on 422 

Temperature, notes on 413 

Thallophytes, notes on 5-^' 

Thomas, Cyrus, a study of the manuscript Troano 46 

Examination of mounds 4.i 

On certain Maya and Mexican MSS 47 

Thompson deposit, act authorizing withdrawal of 271 

Todd, H. L., drawings of fishes 138 

Topographic work of the United States Geological Survey 48, 49 

Transfer of Centennial collection. Congressional act respecting "266 

Transmission of exchanges 32, 86 

Transportation companies transmitting exchanges 88 

Transportation of collection, appropriation for 8 

Treasury Department, transfer of Centennial collection. Congressional act re- 
specting 266 

Trephining, prehistoric, and cranial amulets 46 

Triangulations by the Uuited States Geological Survey 48,47 

Trias of Eastern North America 339 

Tribal government, study of 49 

Tribes of North America, synonymy of the 47 

Troano, manuscript, a study of '- 4b 

Trout, propagation of 54 

True, Frederick W., curator and librarian. National Museum xx, 121, 167, 224 

Papers by ••- 27,183 

Report on Library of Museum 34 



864 INDEX. 

Tuckahoe or Indian bread, by J. H. Gore 2:>, JS 

Turner, Lucien M., collections made by I'.l. 14 

Paper by 1'J3 

Report on Alaska 14 

U. 

Uriarte, H. de, co-operation of BO" 

V. 

Van Allen, George C, mounds in Henry County, Ohio G8i 

Vegetable anatomy, notes on , 'jrA 

Physiology, notes on 552 

Vertebrates, notes on 605 

Verrill, A. E. , papers by 193, 194 

Vienna (Austria), Imperial Academy at, letters from 58 

Virginia bonds xiv 

Visitors to National Museum 1'2G 

Vivaria, department of 157 

Vocabulary and grammar of several Iroquoian dialects 47 

Vulcanology, notes on 45G 

W. 

Waite, Hon. Morrison R., member ex officio xix 

President Board of Regents x,xi, xix 

Notice of death of President Garfield 2 

Walcott, Charles D., honorary assistant curator, National Museum xx 

Walker, S. T., explorations by 18 

Walpi, collections from 47 

War Department, international exchanges, act of Congress respecting 205,260 

Ward, Lester F., honorary curator. National Museum xx 

Guide to the flora of Washington and vicinity rj2 

Papers by, in Museum Proceedings 27, 183, 184, 185, 186 

Report of 150 

Washington City, Fish Commission work at 52 

Washington, George, portrait of 13 

Washington Territory, explorations in 17 

Weaving, the art of, among the Navajoes, by Washington Matthews 47 

Weights and measures, standard set of, for Institution 43 

Weld, George F., assistant in departmentof marine invertebrates 144 

Wells, J. G., collections made by 19 

Western Union Telegraph Company, co-operation of 23 

West Indies, explorations in 19 

White, Charles A., chief of the Artesian Well Commission 149 

Curator, National Museum xx 

Papers by 27, 1 86 

Report of 149 

White Cross Line for Antwerp, co-operation of 31 , 89 

Whitfield, Mr., collections made by 18 

Whitetish, propagation of 54 

White River Canon, ancient remains in 6^1 

Wilkinson, E., assigned to duty 42, 151 

Williamson, James M., mounds in Carroll County, Illinois 683 

Winds, notes on 41-i 

Wood's Hollj Mass., station of the Fish Commission 51,54 



INDEX. 855 

Page. 

"Worms, notes on • 576 

Wright, Peter, & Sons, co-operation of 89 

Wyandot government, by J. W. Powell 46 

X. 

Xantus, John, explorations by 13 

Y. 

Yarrow, Henry C, honorary curator, National Museum xx 

Check-list of North American reptilia and batrachia 25, li2 

Further contribution to the study of mortuary customs of the North Ameri- 
can Indians 46 

On mortuary customs 47 

Papers by, in Mu?eum Proceedings 186 

Y'eates, William S., actiuj; curator, Natioual Museum XX 

Z. 

Zeledon, Josd C, collection made by 20 

Co-operation of 20 

Zuni, collections from 47 

Grovernmeut of the, by F. H. Gushing 47 

Pueblo of, relief model of 47, 125 

Zoology, progress in, by Theodore Gill 28,565 

Arthropods 579 

Ccelcnterates 573 

Echinoderms 575 

Molluscoids 583 

Mollusks 589 

Porifers 573 

Protochordates 605 

Protozoans 570 

Vert«brate3 606 

Worms 576 

o 









;»j> .j> 









^ > > 
^ > :>> 

3 I> 3>> >3i^^ 




































3 :>;> 






3 J> 3> & C£> 
3 3 >:>>> 3> 
> o 3>>i-' ~:s» 

> 3 :^ji>^ 



3 5 3f > 3^» 



3 3 >> 



3pi> • 2»,:» )■)-»:>. 









» >>> -^ >=>^> 

<r ^^33 3>3 >>» 

'J> '-> ^^3> >X> >33> 
>^ 'J ^33.^J3fei ^>3^ 

?^ '> :3>33 3:x>- -aj-5:»»' 

'A ^"^ ^' 
.-^> 3^ J-:- 



3_>>33 



p •3C> ..>3> o-> '- 
J> ^ > 3 3>^> C 



3 >:> >>j. 



^ > -^ >3 ii> >^g> 
^2-33 3 330 

:^3 '33 >:)»]> 

^. >-'.-». j> 3J>i:> 

^ -^3 3»>> 
'3 S> 3»:i> 

.'3 3 >i>:> 









->^JS> -^Vo^^ ^^ 















^«i 









3 - 
e ^ 






' > s— 






:A^gS^ 









If- 






-> ^ ?C <^^^» 



» .-) ^^ ^- -^ --> ^:) 



ii¥ 












.>>:i> 






^ ^^^ >^^ ^^ 















_» 3 



e^i 






