h' 



p.R. 



ANNUAL IIEPOIIT 



OF THE 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



OF THE 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES. AND CONDITION 
OF THE INSTITUTION 



YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1905 



BEPORT 

OF THE 

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



of "^-y^ \^^ 

(jperV 



WASHINGTON: 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 
1906. 



United States National Museum, 

• Under direction of the Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, October 1, 1905. 
Sir : I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present 
condition of the United States National Museum, and upon the work 
accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ending 
June 30, 1905. 

Very respectfully, 

Richard Rathbun, 
Assistant Secretary, in charge of the U. S. National Museum. 
Mr. S. P. Langley, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



CONTENTS. 



Page. 

Letter of Transmittal iii 

Contents v 

General Considerations. 

As a museum of record 4 

As a museum of research 5 

As an educational museum. 6 

The new museum building 6 

Urgent needs of the museum 8 

Some important events of the year 9 

Su.mmary of the Operations of the Year. 

Appropriations and expenditures 11 

Buildings 12 

Additions to the collections 15 

General work upon the collections 30 

The exliibition collections 34 

Researches 37 

E.xplorations 47 

Distribution and exchange of specimens 50 

Visitors . 51 

Lectures and meetings ,53 

Correspondence and documents 54 

Publications • 54 

Library 58 

Photography 58 

Cooperation of the Executive Departments 59 

Expositions 59 

International Congresses ~ 60 

Organization and staff 62 

The Museum staff 63 

List of accessions 67 

List of publications Ill 

■ ■ V 



REPORT 

UPON 

THE CONDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM 
DURING THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1905. 

By Richard Rathbun, 

Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the U. S. National Museum. 

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 

The establishment of a museum for this Government, which was 
intended to embrace all of the national collections, was provided for 
in the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, founding the Smithsonian 
Institution, as follows: 

"Whenever suitable arrangements can be made from time to time for their reception, all 
objects of art and of foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history, plants, 
and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging to the United States, which may be 
in the city of Washington, in whosoever custody they may be, shall be delivered to such 
persons as may be authorized by the Board of Regents to receive them, and shall be so 
arranged and classified in the building erected for the Institution as best to facilitate the 
examination and study of them; and whenever new specimens in natural history, geologj-, 
or mineralogy" are obtained for the museum of the Institution, by exchanges of duplicate 
specmiens, which the Regents may in their discretion make, or by donation, which they 
may receive, or otherwise, the Regents shall cause such new specimens to be appropriately 
classed and arranged. 

The Smithsonian fund at the time it was turned over to the United 
States in 1838 amounted to about S515,000, but by 1846 interest had 
accrued to the extent of about S240,000 additional. The latter sum 
was made immediately available for the construction of a building 
and for other purposes incidental to the fiist equipment of the Insti- 
tution, but the principal, invested by the Government, was to 
remain intact, only the interest therefrom to be applied to future 
operations. For the period in question this endowment was, with 
perhaps one or two exceptions, larger than that of any other learned 
establishment in America, and Congress was led to believe that the 
income would be sufficient to meet all the requirements it had 
imposed. Events which soon followed showed, however, that this 
view was not justified, and in 1857, when the completion of the 
Smithsonian building rendered possible the transfer of the specimens 
from the Patent Office, Congress found it necessary to aid the Insti- 

1 



2 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

tution by small appropriations for constructing cases and caring for 
the collections, and some twenty years later the entire expense 
on this account was assumed by the Government. 

)t should be explained, however, that beginning as early as 1850 
important materials for a museum were being assembled by the 
Smithsonian Institution, at its own cost, through the activities of 
its assistant secretary, Prof. Spencer F. Baird, whose personal bent 
was toward the collection and study of natural history specimens. 
With the approval of Secretary Henry he put into operation exten- 
sive plans for accomplishing this purpose, which were soon yielding 
abundant returns. Professor Baird's own vacations were spent in 
field work. Officers of the Army and Navy and of other branches of 
the Government service, fishermen, fur traders, private explorers, 
and such powerful organizations as the Hudson's Bay Company and 
the Western Union Telegraph Company were enlisted in the work 
and rendered valuable assistance. The influence exerted by these 
beginnings has, moreover, been lasting and widespread, as shown in 
the extensive natural history operations of subsequent national and 
State surveys, the organization of the Bureau of Fisheries and 
Bureau of Ethnology, and the support given to scientific collecting 
by many other bureaus of the Government. 

The discussion of plans for the organization of the Smithsonian 
Institution, which devolved upon the first Board of Regents, led, in 
January, 1847, to the unanimous adoption of the following resolu- 
tion expressing approval of the museum feature as one of its impor- 
tant functions: 

Resolved, That it is the intention of the act of Congress estabHshing the Institution, and 
in accordance with tlie design of Mr. Smithson, as expressed in his will, that one of the prin- 
cipal modes of executing the act and the trust is the accumulation of collections of speci- 
mens and objects of natural history and of elegant art, and the gradual formation of a library 
of valuable works pertaining to all departments of human knowledge, to the end that a 
copious storehouse of materials of science, literature, and art may be provided, which shall 
excite and diffuse the love of learning among men, and shall assist the original investiga- 
tions and efl'orts of those who may devote themselves to the pui'suit of any branch of 
iv^_:r!odgc. - '■ . ..' 

In 1879, when most of the existing Government surveys, whose 
work included the collecting of specimens in the field, had been estab- 
lished, Congress deemed it important to practically reenforce the 
provisions of the act founding the Institution, in order that there 
might be no doubt as to the proper disposition of the material derived 
from these sources, by the following item in the sundry civil appro- 
priation act for 1880: 

AU collections of rocks, minerals, soils, fossils, and objects of natural history, archeology, 
and ethnology, made by the Coast and Interior Survey, the Geological Survey, or by any 
other parties for the Government of the United States, when no longer needed for investi- 
gations in progress shall be deposited in the National Museum. 



REPOKT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 6 

Although the name "National Museum" was sometimes used in 
the earlier reports of the Smithsonian Institution, it did not appear 
in any of the laws of Congress, until 1875. Its general emplojniient 
may be said to date from the time of the Philadelphia Centennial 
Exhibition of 1876, the first exposition in this country in which the 
Government participated, and the first to make known to vast num- 
bers of the people of the United States the existence of national col- 
lections at Washington, as well as new methods of installing and 
exhibiting museum materials, differing radically from the older 
cabinets of college or local museums, which had prevailed up to that 
period. After its close the Government exhibits brought back to 
Washington, together with the extensive gifts made to the United 
States by private persons and foreign governments, rendered neces- 
sary the early erection of a new and separate building, devoted 
entirely to museum purposes. 

The scope of the National Museum as defined by law comprises 
practically all branches of science and of the arts which admit of 
museum treatment. With exceedingly limited means for making 
purchases, and therefore almost entirely dependent as to the char- 
acter of its collections upon Government explorations, personal dona- 
tions, and exchanges, its different departments have had a very 
unequal growth. The subjects best represented are ethnology and 
archeology, geolog}", zoology, and bot-any. A fair beginning has 
been made in the exceedingly important branches of the industrial 
arts and American history, and scarcely more is required to place 
these two departments on a proper basis than sufficient room to dis- 
play the necessary collections, which are certain to be received, in 
greater part through gratuitous contributions, when it is known 
that the Museum is prepared to care for them. In the department 
of the fine arts the collection is still very small, but the subject is 
one which must sooner or later receive earnest consideration by the 
Government. 

The specimens in all branches are classified in two series — one, 
generally comprising the bulk of the material, being arranged for 
the purposes of scientific research and reference in laboratories and 
storerooms; the other, selected with regard to its general educa- 
tional value and public interest, and accompanied by descriptive 
labels, being displayed in glass-covered cases in the public halls. 
The duplicate specimens not required for exchanges are made up 
into sets for distribution to schools and colleges, as opportunity 
offers. Papers descriptive of the collections, both technical and 
semipopular, are published for gratuitous circulation to the extent 
of three or more volumes yearly, and, finally, the Museum has come 
to be regarded as a bureau of information in respect to all subjects 



4 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

with which it is concerned, the correspondence which tliis involves 
now constituting one of its heaviest tasks. 

The late Dr. G. Brown Goode di^dded the history of the Museum 
into three epochs, corresponding in a general way with successive 
additions to its purposes, which he described as follows: 

Fu-st, the period from the foundation of the Smithsonian Institution to 1857, during 
which time specimens were collected solely to serve as materials for research. No special 
effort was made to exhibit them to the public or to utilize them, except as a foundation 
for scientific description and theory. 

Second, the period from 1857, when the Institution assumed the custody of the "National 
Cabinet of Cm-iosities," to 1876. During this period the Museum became a place of deposit 
for scientific collections, which had already been studied, these collections, so far as con- 
venient, being exhibited to the public and, so far as practicable, made to serve an educa- 
tional purpose. 

Tliird, the present period (begimiing in the year 1876), in which the Museum has under- 
taken more fidly the additional task of gathering collections and exhibiting them on account 
of their value from an educational standpoint. 

During the first period the main object of the Museum was scientific research; in the 
second the establishment became a museum of record as well as of research, while in the 
third period has been added the idea of public education. The three ideas — record, 
research, and education — cooperative and mutually helpful as they are, are essential to 
the development of every great museum. The National Museum endeavors to promote 
them all. 

It is a museum of record in which are preserved the material foundations of an enormous 
amount of scientific knowledge — the types of numerous past investigations. This is 
especially the case with those materials that have served as a foundation for the reports 
upon the resources of the United States. 

It is a museum of researcli, which aims to make its contents serve in the highest degree 
as a stimulus to inquiry and a foundation for scientific investigation. Research is neces- 
sary in order to identify and group the objects in the most philosophical and instructive 
relations, and its officers are therefore selected for their ability as investigatoi's as well as 
for their trustworthiness as custodians. 

It is an educational museum, through its policy of illustrating by specimens every kind 
of natural object and every manifestation of human thought and activity, of displaying 
descriptive labels adapted to the popular mind, and of distributing its pul)lications and 
its named series of duplicates. 

AS A MUSEUM OF RECORD. 

The record collections of the Museum have had an unprecedented 
growth, due mainly to the rapid exploration and development of a 
rich and extensive country, under the liberal and progressive policy 
of the Government, though much material has been derived from 
other sources. The total number of specimens of all classes now 
in the Museum is above 6,000,000, but this includes a very large 
quantity of material which has not yet been studied. As fast as 
the latter is worked up, it is placed with the record series. 

The principal sources of the record as well as of the unclassified 
collections have been as follows: 

The earlier explorations carried on by or in conjunction wdth the 
Smithsonian Institution. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 5 

The United States Exploring Expedition around the worid from 
1838 to 1842, the North Pacific or Perry Exploring Expedition from 
1853 to 1856, and many subsequent investigations by the Navy. 

The acti^aties of the members of the United States diplomatic and 
consular service abroad. 

The Government surveys at home, such as the Pacific Railroad 
surveys, the Mexican and Canadian boundary surveys, and the sur- 
veys carried on by the Engineer Corps, the Signal Corps, and other 
branches of the U. S. Army. 

The explorations of the U. S. Geological Survey, the U. S. Bureau 
of Fisheries, several bureaus of the Department of Agriculture, the 
Bureau of American Ethnology of the Smithsonian Institution, and 
other scientific branches of the Government. 

Donations and purchases in connection with the several expo- 
sitions at home and abroad in which the Museum and Bureau of 
Fisheries have participated since 1876. 

Exchano:es with foreign and domestic museums and mth 
individuals. 

AS A MUSEUM OF RESEARCH. 

In ord^r to permit of their examination and study, as provided in the 
act of establishment, the collections of the Museum are, to the extent 
of its accommodations, arranged systematically and in a manner 
convenient for reference. Access to the reserve or study series, so 
called, consisting of the main body of the collections and as com- 
plete in all the groups as the accessions have made possible, is given 
to all properly qualified persons engaged in original research. The 
opportunities thus afforded are widely availed of, the Museum being 
AHsited every jear by many investigators, some of world-\^dde dis- 
tinction, coming from the scientific centers of Europe and other 
foreign countries, as well as from all parts of the United States, 
^laterial is also occasionally sent to representatives of other institu- 
tions having the means of pro\nding for its safe-keeping, when required 
in the working up of special subjects or for comparison wdtli their 
own collections. 

The custodianship of the collections being the first and most imper- 
ative duty devolving upon the scientific staff of the National Museum, 
its members find comparatively little time for advancing knowledge, 
though they are selected with special reference to their ability to 
identify" and classify the specimens under their charge, and in fact, 
every year prepare many important contributions. A number of 
assistants employed by other scientific bureaus have laboratory room 
in the Museum in wliich to conduct investigations on material kept 
here in their care, and in whose results the Museum shares. Many 
collections have from time to time been transferred to the Museum 



6 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

by the Geological Survey, the Bureau of Fisheries, the Department 
of Agriculture, and other branches of the Government in advance 
of their final working up, in order to provide for their safe storage 
and to secure the better facilities for study thus afforded. Under 
this arrangement the amount of research work carried on in the 
Museum buildings has been greatly increased. 

With practically no funds to expend in explorations, the members 
of the Museum staff are mainly dependent upon the opportunities 
offered by other Government bureaus and private expeditions for 
such occasional field work as is carried on. In this connection special 
researches may be conducted, though the chief advantage results 
from the acquisition of new and valuable material and a knowledge 
of the conditions under which it occurs in nature. 

AS AN EDUCATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The educational side of the Museum comprehends primarily the 
instruction and enlightenment of the visiting public by an extensive 
exhibition of representative specimens illustrating the different sub- 
jects, so installed and labeled that they may be examined and under- 
stood without special direction. Lack of room has prevented this 
feature from being fully carried out in recent j^ears, but better condi- 
tions will prevail upon the completion of the new building. Thi-ough 
the participation of the Museum in all of the expositions since 1876, 
the people in many parts of the country have also received the bene- 
fits of this educational system of exhibition, which has generally 
been produced on a large scale, and the formation of new museums 
has been greatly stimulated. 

Another popular educational feature, having for its purpose the 
promotion of scientific teaching, has been the distribution to schools 
and colleges tlii'oughout the country of duplicate specimens, properly 
identified and labeled, and put up in carefully selected sets. Several 
hundred thousand specimens have already been disposed of in this 
way. 

-Though mainly technical and most useful to the investigator, the 
publications of the Museum may be classed, in a general way, as 
belonging to its educational side, being the medium through which 
the nature and extent of its collections are made known. They con- 
sist of the Annual Reports, the Proceedings, and the Bulletins. 

THE NEW MUSEUM BUILDING. 

Just previous to the beginning of the fiscal year to which this report 
relates, or, to be more exact, on June 15, 1904, the work of excavatmg 
for the foundations and basement of the new building was begun. 
The ground was found to be firm and dry over nearly the entire site, 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 7 

thus furnishing exceptionally good conditions for the massive struc- 
ture to be erected. The excavation was completed during the sum- 
mer, a considerable undertaking, since the area covered is larger than 
that occupied by any other Government building in Washington 
except the Capitol. The laj^ing of the heavy concrete foundations 
immediateh' followed and was finished on November 9, 1904. 

By September 1 , however, the working plans had been sufficiently 
advanced to invite proposals for all the granite required, both for 
the exterior faces of the building and for the courses in the courts. 
There were nine bidders, though a larger number of quarries was 
represented, and their proposals were opened on October 1. Sam- 
ples of the granite accompanied the bids, and these were examined 
with reference to the durability of the stone as well as its fitness for 
best expressing the architectural design of the building and for secur- 
ing harmony with the generally acknowledged principle that the 
exterior walls of the public buildings in Washington should be of a 
light color. The material finally selected, with the approval of the 
building committee of the Board of Regents, was as follows: For 
the basement the warm gray, usually called pink, granite from the 
quarries at Milford, Massachusetts; for the first and second stories, 
which compose the greater part of the fronts, mcluding also the main 
south central feature to the roof of the dome, the pure white granite 
from the recently opened quarries at Bethel, Vermont; for the upper 
story, the white granite from Mount Airy, North Carolina. The two 
interior open courts, each measuring 128 feet square, will be faced 
with a light-colored brick, relieved by courses and window arches 
of stone. For the latter has been chosen the same variety of gran- 
ite from Woodstock, Maryland, that was used in the courts at the 
Library of Congress. Before the close of the fiscal year the quariy- 
ing and cutting of the granite, especially for the basement, was well 
under way. 

During the early part of the winter a narrow section in wood of 
the front of the building, to the full height of the stonework, was 
erected on the foundations for the purpose of studying the proportions 
as worked out on the plans. This resulted in a decision to increase 
the height of the building to the extent of 3 feet, which was accom- 
plished by raising the level of the basement floor Ih feet, and adding 
the same amount to the height of the basement. Among incidental 
advantages following this change was the opportunity for raismg 
the numerous pipe trenches, insuring a greater fall for the drainage 
system, and for obtaining a level grade line around the building with 
an architecturally better base course of stone. The change also 
permits the transfer of the lecture hall to the rotunda basement, 
removmg it from the center wing, which will become available for 
exhibition purposes. 



8 REPORT OF NATIOISTAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

Contracts were entered into during the winter and spring for the 
heavy steel framework for the main story floor and for much of the 
inside building materials which were soon to be required. 

URGENT NEEDS OF THE MUSEUM. 

The Museum's interests have been most retarded during the past 
two decades by the excessive crowding of its buildings, but this con- 
dition will soon be remedied in so liberal and effective a manner as 
to excite the pride of the whole country. In another direction, how- 
ever, there exists an almost equally important emergency, which 
has so far failed to be appreciated. It relates to the activities of 
the Museum, its maintenance, and its duties toward the Government 
and the public. The Museum is undermanned and the members of 
the staff are to such an extent underpaid that the force can not be 
held intact. It makes no difference how large, how small, or how 
crowded its buildings may be, the work must go on, and in such 
degree as it is neglected is the Museum dead and useless. To the 
ordinary mind a museum is a house filled with curiosities. A true 
museum of modern times is never such, and the Museum of this 
country has been honored by Congress with functions of a high and 
important character. As the custodian of the national collections, 
it is preserving material records secured through the expenditure of 
many millions of dollars. So interested have the people become in 
their own Museum that they have swelled these records to the extent 
of a large proportion of its contents. The general public shares in 
the benefits through the large and attractive, but at the same time 
instructive, displays made in the several exhibition halls. Educa- 
tional interests throughout the country are advanced through the 
distribution to schools and colleges and the smaller museums of 
the hundreds of thousands of duplicates released with the progress 
of investigations. But it should not be forgotten that the collec- 
tions here assembled and the researches here carried on form the 
basis of some of the most important economic achievements of the 
Government. 

The hundreds of thousands of visitors to the Museum obtain no 
idea of the real activities going on. They see only the attendants. 
They do not know that the three or four acres of floor and the 2,000 
exhibition cases are cleaned every day. They have no opportunity 
for learning that the display collections require unceasing care and 
are always changing, for their special benefit, upon the receipt of 
new material. They are not aware that behind the scenes, in labora- 
tories and storage rooms, there is a multitude of work in progress — 
work required by law, and work that advances both science and the 
public good. If only these facts could be fully comprehended, the 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY, V 

Miiseiini would undoubtedly receive that support from the Govern- 
ment which its history justifies and the promotion of its usefulness 
demands. 

SOME IMPORTANT EVENTS OF THE YEAR. 

The past year has been especially signalized by the amount of 
material added to the collections, which has ncA^er before been 
exceeded in any one year except at the close of the Philadelphia 
Centennial Exhibition. The bulk of this material was obtained at 
the Louisiana Purchase Exposition through the liberality of exhib- 
itors, both foreign and domestic, whose contributions amounted in 
the aggregate to over 30 carloads. Two or three of these carloads 
consisted of specimens pertaining to the ethnology of several coun- 
tries and to certain miscellaneous subjects, but the contents of 
all the remainder were illustrative of mineral resources, chiefly of 
the United States, and their manufacture. With the view of pro- 
viding for the oversight of the latter a new department of the Museum, 
entitled ■Mineral Technology was constituted under the curatorship 
of Dr. Charles D. Walcott, Director of the U. S. Geological Survey, 
who has also for a long period had an honorary connection with 
the Museum staff. There is at present no place in which such an 
extensive collection could be displayed, and it has therefore been 
stored in bulk pending the completion of the new building. 

Not taking into account the objects in mineral technology, since 
they could not be unpacked and counted, the total number of speci- 
mens received during the year amounted to about a quarter of a 
million. Next in importance to the donations at wSt. Louis was the 
generous gift hj Capt. John Donnell Smith, of Baltimore, of his pri- 
vate herbarium of over 100,000 plants, mainly from tropical America, 
and of his choice botanical library of about 1,600 volumes. Another 
benefactor was Dr. William L. Abbott, of Philadelphia, an accom- 
])lished naturalist, who for some seven or eight years has lived in the 
Far East, devoting his time to the collection of specimens and infor- 
mation in the fields of zoolog}^ and ethnology. The region he has 
covered, mainly the Malay Peninsula, Borneo, Sumatra, and many 
near-by islands, has heretofore been practically unrepresented in this 
Museum. ^Mention should also be made of the important field-work 
done in the Philippines, especially on the island of Mindanao, by 
Maj. Edgar A. Mearns, surgeon, U. S. Arni}^, who discovered a practi- 
cally new fauna on the upper slopes of Mount Apo. His valuable 
collection, presented to the Museum, contains many new forms which 
are now being studied. 

The collections in ethnology and archeology have been greatly 
enriched by explorations in the southwestern United States and by 
contributions from Japan, Australasia, South Africa, Mexico, Peru, 



10 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

and Argentina. The curator of birds, as the result of a trip to Costa 
Rica, brought back with him over 1,800 choice specimens — a notable 
addition to his division. From the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries were 
transmitted large quantities of fishes and marine invertebrates, in- 
cluding many types and many undescribed forms, obtained during 
recent explorations, and from the U. S. Geological vSurvey a large 
number of rock specimens, minerals, and fossils. 

Over 28,000 duplicate specimens were used in making exchanges 
and in the distributions to educational establishments, and above 
14,000 specimens were lent to specialists for study. 

Some changes were rendered possible in the exhibition halls by 
replacing certain of the older collections with recent accessions, 
especially on the subject of the ethnology of Malaysia and the Philip- 
pines. Two noteworthy additions were the cast of a sulphur-bottom 
whale, about 80 feet long, which has been suspended from the roof of 
the south hall, and a skeleton of the immense fossil Dinosaurian rep- 
tile, Triceratops prorsus, installed in the southwest court. 



SUMMARY OF 



THE OPERATIONS OF THE 
YEAR. 



APPROPRIATIONS AND EXPENDITURES. 

The amount appropriated by Congress for the maintenance of 
the National Museum during the year covered by this report was 
$267,580. In the same act an additional sum of S6,500 was made 
immediately available for transporting from St. Louis to Washing- 
ton the large number of exhibits presented to the Government. The 
appropriations for the regular expenses were the same as for the 
preceding year, except that the item for the purchase of specimens 
was omitted and the item for printing and binding increased by 
$8,000. There was also an increase of $180 in the amount allowed 
for the rent of workshops. The sum of $255,017.90 was expended 
from this appropriation up to July 1, 1905, leaving a balance of 
$19,062.10 to cover outstanding liabilities. Disbursements have 
also been made from the unexpended balance of the previous year 
amounting to $14,163.75, and from the balance for the year 1903 
amounting to $141.44. 

In the following statement the expenditures under each item of 
the appropriation for 1904-5 are shown. 

Appropriations and expenditures for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1905. 



Object. 



Appro- 
priations. 



Expendi- 
tures. 



Balance 

June 30, 

1905. 



Preservation of collections 

Furniture and fixtures 

Heating and lighting 

Building repairs 

Books 

Rent of workshops 

Postage 

Printing and binding 

Transportation of exhil its acquired from the Louisiana Pur 
chase Exposition 

Total 



8180,000.00 

22,500.00 

18,000.00 

15,000.00 

2,000.00 

4,580.00 

500.00 

25,000.00 

6,500.00 
274,080.00 



$173, 
19, 
16, 
13, 
1, 
4, 

24, 

1, 



354. 66 
730. 01 
530. to 
199. 10 
034. 04 
579. 92 
500.00 
824. 69 



86,645.34 

2, 769. 99 

1,469.40 

1,800.90 

965. 96 



255,017.90 



175. 31 

5,235.12 
19,062.10 



NAT MUS 1905- 



11 



12 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



Dishursements from unexpended balances of appropriations for the fiscal year ending 

June 30, WOJf. 



Object. 



Preservation of collections 

Furniture and fixtures 

Heating and lighting 

Building repairs 

Books 

Purchase of specimens 

Rent of workshops 

Total 



Balance 
June 30, 1904. 



Expendi- 
tures. 



$(), 139. 99 

3,431.98 

815. 58 

2, 468. 32 

772. 40 

1,482.27 

.08 



15,110.62 



3f5,941.00 

3,425.04 

761. 10 

2,414.98 

754. 08 

867. 55 



14, 163. 75 



Balance 

June 30, 

1905. 



$198. 99 

6.94 

54. 48 

53.34 

18.32 

614. 72 

.08 



946. 87 



From the unexpended balances of the appropriation for 1903 
disbursements were made as follows: Preservation of collections, 
$39.42; books, $31.02; purchase of specimens, $71, leaving bal- 
ances of $360.81, $18.74, and $279.18, respectively. These balances, 
with the unexpended balances of other appropriations for the same 
year, amounting in all to $787.20, have reverted to the T>easury. 

The appropriations for the regular expenses of the Museum 
during the year ending June 30, 1906, are the same as those for the 
preceding year, the items being as follows : 

Furniture and fixtures $22. 500 

Heating and lighting 18, 000 

Preservation of collections 180, 000 

Books, pamphlets, and periodicals 2, 000 

Building repairs . 15, 000 

Rent of workshops 4, 580 

Postage 500 

Printing and binding 25, 000 

Total 267, 580 

A special appropriation of $1,500,000 was made for continuing 
the construction of the new building for the National Museum. 

BUILDINGS. 

An account of the work done in connection with the erection of 
the new Museum building on the north side of the Mall has been 
given on a previous page. The excavation of the site, begun June 
15, 1904, was finished during the summer, and the laying of the 
heavy concrete foundations in the autumn. Before the completion 
of this work the contracts for the granite had been awarded, and 
contracts for other classes of material were let at intervals during 
the remainder of the fiscal year. The heavy snows which every- 
where prevailed during the winter interfered with quarrying and 
prevented the delivery of stone in sufficient quantities to begin build- 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 13 

ing operations until after the close of the year. There is every 
prospect, however, of better progress hereafter. 

In the matter of repairs to existing buildings, the roofs of the 
Museum building have, as usual, demanded most attention. Con- 
structed a quarter of a century ago at so low a cost as to necessitate 
the strictest economy in material and workmanship, they have given 
trouble almost from the beginning, and on a few occasions some of 
the main sections have threatened to collapse from the weight of 
snow. The temporary strengthening a few years ago of the sup- 
porting framework over the main halls has continued to be effective, 
but the covering, especially where of slate, has so far deteriorated as 
to act almost like a sieve during heavy rains. In the last report 
mention was made of an experimental trial in the direction of stop- 
ping the leaks by placing over the slate of the east hall a coating of 
asphalt, burlap, and slag. Having answered the purpose through 
one season, the corresponding roofs over the three other main halls 
were treated in 'the same manner during last year. The roofs of the 
rotunda and southeast pavilion were also covered with asphalt and 
burlap, the slag being omitted. 

The slate roof over the northeast pavilion was renewed with a bet- 
ter ([uality of slate. The window ventilators in the clearstories of 
the main halls were provided with gearing to permit of their being 
handled from the floor, some additional skylights were inserted over 
four of the ranges, and much of the metal work, as well as of the 
woodwork facing upon the roof, were painted. Several worn-out 
floors in the Museum building were replaced by cement, tiles, or 
wood, the men's toilet room was entirely renovated, and many wall 
surfaces defaced by leaks or time were touched up or repainted. 

The 20 large windows in the archeological hall, which have for 
some time been in such poor condition that a heavy storm might 
crush them in, were completely repaired, reglazed, and painted, a 
long and tedious work, since they are cut up into small panes set 
diamond shape. The workshops and storage sheds called for a small 
amount of repairs. 

The trenches under Ihe building, in which are located the steam 
pipes and electric wires, were thoroughly renovated, all dead wires 
being removed and the live ones placed in steel conduits. Those on 
the north side of the building were found to be exceedingly damp, 
caused by the seepage of water through the adjoining walls. This 
condition it has been arranged to correct by the construction of a 
cement platform or walk along the outside of the wall. 

In view of the crowded condition of the halls only a few exhibi- 
tion cases were constructed, but in order to accommodate new col- 
lections, of which many were received during the year, especially 
from the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, a number of cases of old 



14 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

patterns were remodeled to meet the requirements. The woodwork 
of the mahogany cases in the north hall was refinished, and that of 
the black cases in all the other exhibition halls was given a fresh coat 
of paint. The old pine alcove cases of the bird hall in the Smith- 
sonian building, which have been a constant source of trouble, were 
made as dust-proof as possible, and the public reading tables, 
formerly a feature of the exhibition halls, but temporarily removed, 
were refinished and replaced. 

To supply the increasing demands for storage facilities in all 
departments, of a character to permit of the convenient arrange- 
ment of specimens, cases to the number of 213 and drawers to the 
number of 1,032, besides storage racks and shelving, were constructed 
during the year. A quantity of old furniture was also remodeled 
for the same purpose. Minor items to be mentioned in this connec- 
tion are articles of furniture for the offices, including file and card 
catalogue cases; a large number of frames for the descriptive case 
labels in the exhibition halls; packing boxes for the distribution of 
duplicate specimens and for field outfits, and a considerable number 
of crates and cases for the storage in bulk of material for which at 
present there is no place among the classified collections. 

The heating of the Smithsonian and National Museum buildings 
and of the three small adjacent buildings on the Mall by the steam 
plant located in the basement of the Museum building was accom- 
plished more satisfactorily during last winter than ever before. 
Steam was first raised on October 8, 1904, and was discontinued on 
May 2, 1905, being maintained on an average about sixteen hours a 
day. The heating capacity in the exhibition halls of the Museum 
was increased by installing two 100-foot Bundy radiators in the ves- 
tibule at the north entrance and four additional ones on the east 
and west sides of the north hall. The steam and return pipes from 
the Smithsonian building to the western workshop were relaid in a 
more perfect manner, their old covering having caused a too rapid 
condensation of steam. 

The total amount of fuel used in the main furnaces was 830 tons 
of coal and 43 cords of wood. 

At the beginning of the fiscal year a new arrangement of telephones 
was adopted, whereby the cost of this service was very materially 
reduced without affecting its efficiency. As an additional precau- 
tion in the event of fire breaking out among the cases and other fur- 
nishings, six standard alarm boxes, of the pattern used in^the District 
of Columbia, were installed in as many different parts of the galleries 
in the Museum building. The system connects with the office of the 
superintendent, where the location of a fire would be immediately 
indicated by the number of the station. 



BEPOKT OF ASSISTANT SECRETAEY. 15 

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

The principal source of accessions during the past year was, as a 
whole, the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. The exhibition made in 
that connection by the Museum itself contained many important 
objects acquired through the Government appropriation for the 
exposition, which, at its close, were incorporated in the exliibition 
series here, exceptiTig such as were sent to the Lewis and Clark Expo- 
sition at Portland, Oregon. 

Besides these, however, and much more noteworthy, were the gifts 
made to the national collections by several foreign governments, by 
many States of the Union, and by a large number of individuals 
having exhibits at St. Louis. So extensive in fact were these contri- 
butions that they amounted in bulk to about 30 carloads, all of 
which were brought to Washington in apparent safety, though, in 
view of the crowded condition of the Museum, only a relatively small 
amount of the material could be cared for in the exhibition halls or 
with the study series, it being necessary to place the greater bulk of 
the collections in storage in the boxes in which the specimens were 
packed. In addition to specimens there were also about five car- 
loads of exhibition cases donated by exhibitors. 

The Department of Biology profited very little from these gifts, 
much the larger part being illustrative of ethnology, geology, and the 
arts and industries. As the collections did not reach Washington 
until late in the year and could only be partially unpacked and 
examined, it is quite impossible at this time to give even a satisfac- 
tory general account of them. 

Reference is made elsewhere to the establishment of a Department 
of Mineral Technology. The object in recognizing such a department 
at this time was that intelligent direction might be given to the selec- 
tion of objects at the St. Louis Exposition, where exceptional oppor- 
tunities existed for obtaining material relating to the subject. The 
spirit of liberality displayed by those having exhibits of tliis character 
resulted in donations to the extent of 25 out of the 35 carloads above 
referred to, representing many chfferent parts of the world, and com- 
prisir ^ the natural products, models or actual examples of the appli- 
ances of manufacture and the fuiished products in many departments 
of mineral industrj^. As it was understood that this material would 
have to go into storage, it was packed at St. Louis with this object in 
view, and, accordingly, no detailed inventory of the specimens can 
be made for some time. 

The Department of Geology received many important additions, 
especially in the way of large masses and pieces, for most of which 
appropriate places have already been found in the exhibition halls. 
The collections for the Department of Anthropology, next in extent 



16 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

to those for mineral technology, were exceedingly varied and inter- 
esting, since they illustrate the customs and industries of several peo- 
ples, and will richly supplement the existing exhibition series. 

The following brief and incomplete summary of the contributions 
from St. Louis must suffice for the present. 

From the exhibit of the government of the Philippine Islands there 
was obtained a large and comprehensive collection illustrating the 
arts and the social and domestic life of the natives of the Philippines, 
and the resources of the islands in agriculture, forestry, mining, and 
the fisheries. With this addition the Philippine collection of the 
National Museum probably becomes the most important and diver- 
sified of its kind in the country. Through the generosity of the Gov- 
ernment of Siam a large share of its very instructive and attractive 
exhibit at St. Louis was presented to the National Museum. This 
collection, illustrative of the arts and industries of the Siamese, is 
especially rich in the implements used in the manufacture of textiles, 
and in agriculture and the fisheries, the larger objects being repre- 
sented by models. It also contains a large series of mats, specimens 
in mineral technology, and the skins and heads of a number of native 
animals. Through the Japanese commission were secured the inter- 
esting exhibit of the Red Cross Society of Japan, which had been dis- 
played in the Imperial Japanese Pavilion; examples of the technical 
work of the higher schools, prehistoric implements, and a very 
extensive collection of mineral technology, comprising the exhibits 
of the Imperial Geological Survey and the Bureau of Mining, and of 
22 private exhibitors. Miscellaneous exliibits were also received 
from other countries, as follows: Great Britain: Chemicals and other 
articles used in the arts, illustrations, quarry and mining products, 
from 15 exliibitors; and publications and mining charts of the Geo- 
logical Survey of India. France: Contributions from 15 exhibitors 
in mineral technology, book illustrations, geographical maps, etc. 
New Zealand: Native woods and illustrations of the native people. 
Mexico: A large variety of ores and minerals presented by 60 difi'er- 
ent exhibitors, a series of maps of the Republic and works on ethnol- 
ogy. Brazil: A dugout canoe 57 feet long, two characteristic fisliing 
craft with their complete outfits, and ores and minerals from the 
States of Minas Geraes and Espirito Santo. Argentina: A collection 
of native woods. 

Besides the above, collections in geology and mineral technology, 
some of large extent and great value, were obtained from the Govern- 
ments or individual exhibitors of Germany, Italy, Portugal, Austria, 
Belgium, Canada, Cuba, and Peru. Especially noteworthy in this 
connection were the very complete exhibit of the Goldschmidt 
Thermit Company of Essen-Ruhr, Germany, illustrating the processes 
of chemical-welding and manufacture of steel-hardening alloys, and 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 17 

the Tonwerk Shippach exhibit of clays, metalhirgy, and crucibles. 
Much the greater bulk of material in geology and mineral technology, 
however, came from the exhibits of at least 12 States and 84 private 
exhibitors of the United States, by whose generosity the Museum 
becomes possessed of a substantial nucleus for the building up of 
its technical branch along important and usefid lines. All of these 
collections are important, and some were prepared at considerable 
expense. 

A few small purchases were also made at St. Louis. The principal 
one, from the Ceylon Commission, consisted of an exceedingly 
interesting collection, quite unique in its character and completeness, 
illustrating the important pearl fishery of Ceylon, and also the 
fisheries for the chank and beche de mer in the same waters. The 
products of these industries are represented by many specimens, 
inclucUng the shells and soft parts of the oyster with a few pearls, 
and specimens of the associated corals and starfishes, together with 
examples of all the appliances and boats employed, either of actual 
size or as models; the sieves, scales, and weights for sorting and 
valuing the pearls; the drill for boring; an- equipment for polisliing 
gems, etc. From the same commission there was also purchased a 
small but very instructive collection illustrating chiefly the native 
palm and bamboo industry of the island of Jaftna, oft' the northern 
end of Ceylon. 

Mention may here be made of a notable gift to the United States 
by the Government of China, consisting of a large oil portrait of the 
Empress Dowager of China executed by Miss Katherine A. Carl, 
which had been exhibited in the art department of the St. Louis 
Exposition. The presentation, which took place at the Wlute 
House with appropriate ceremonies, was made to the President by 
the Chinese minister resident in Washington. The painting, encased 
in its heavy and elaborately carved frame of camphor wood, was 
immediately transferred to the National Museum, where it is now 
installed. 

The number of accessions received by the Museum during the year, 
including only such from the Louisiana Purchase Exposition as 
could be placed on record before the close of the year, was 1,692, 
comprising approximately 245,384 specimens. Making allowances 
for the material used in exchanges and the preparation of educational 
sets, it is estimated that the total number of specimens now in the 
possession of the Museum is about 6,141,990, classified as follows: 
Anthropology, 986,964; biology, 4,409,135; geology, 745,891. 

The additions to the Department of Anthropology comprised 
10,862 specimens, obtained in large part through the medium of 
the St. Louis Exposition, as explained above, the countries mainly 
represented from this source being Siam, the Philippine Islands, 



18 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

Japan, New Zealand, Brazil, and Ceylon. Besides these the most 
noteworthy acquisitions in etluiology consisted of collections pre- 
sented by Dr. W. L. Abbott and Dr. Edgar A. Mearns, U. S. Army. 
Both of these gentlemen, whose names have been so often mentioned 
as benefactors, have a thorough appreciation of the true purpose of 
scientific field-work, and whatever is received from them can be relied 
upon to meet in all respects the requirements of research. Doctor 
Abbott's collection consisted of 755 objects from the islands off the 
southeastern coast of Sumatra and from the Mergui Archipelago of 
Lower Burma, selected as far as possible to represent complete 
ethnographic series of each of the peoples visited. The collection of 
Doctor Mearns comprised 134 objects from the Moros of Mindanao, 
where he had been stationed as chief surgeon with the army under 
Gen. Leonard Wood. Tlu"ough the kind offices of Baron P. Paum- 
gartten, chancellor of the Austro-Hungarian embassy in Washington, 
exchanges were arranged with Baron Ludwig Ambrozy of Vienna, 
from whom five complete peasant costumes of the Wallachians, of 
South Hungary, were received during the year. 

The more important American collections in ethnology were the 
result of tlu-ee Government investigations, one by the National 
Museum and two by the Bureau of American Ethnology. During 
his excavations in western Socorro County, New Mexico, in the 
summer of 1904, Dr. Walter Hough, assistant curator of ethnology, 
secured 863 specimens consisting of ancient sacrificial objects, stone, 
bone, and shell implements and carvings, pottery, basketry, bows, 
arrows, etc., from pueblos, cliff houses, and caves of a region inhabited 
by prehistoric people of Pueblo stocks. Dr. Ales Hrdlicka, assistant 
curator of physical anthropology, while on an expedition to Southern 
Arizona for the Bureau of American Ethnology, gathered several 
hundred specimens in ethnobotany, basketry, stone implements, 
pottery, etc., from among the San Carlos Apaches, the Mescalero 
Apaches, and the Pimas. The second collection from the Bureau of 
Ethnology, consisting of over 500 specimens, was the result of recent 
investigations at the pueblo of Zuiii by Mrs. Matilda Coxe Stevenson. 
It is rich in ceremonial objects, such as fetishes and paraphernalia of 
a character most difficult to obtain; ethnobotanical specimens, 
pigments, ceramics, agricultural implements, etc. Also interesting 
to note are a complete set of horse trappings of the South American 
Gauchos and a number of Philippine objects from the President of 
the United States; and an ancient basket shield and feather fur 
garment, from the Canyon de Chelly, Arizona, transmitted by the 
U. S. Department of the Interior. 

The division of physical anthropology received a large amount of 
material relating to the natural history of several races of man, 
especially the American Indians, Negroes, Slavs, and Filipinos. For 



EEPOET OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 19 

comparative studies there is also being assembled in this division a 
collection of the brains of animals, the principal accessions during 
the past year having come from the National Zoological Park, Mr. 
E. S. Scliinidt, of Washington, and Dr. W. L. Abbott. 

The most important additions in historic archeolog}^ consisted 
of 21 Arabic manuscripts and prints, presented by Dr. E. A. Mearns, 
U. S. Army, who obtained them among the Moros of Mindanao, and 
23 coins and IS pottery lamps and jars from the Orient, deposited by 
Hadji Ephraim Benguiat. 

The division of prehistoric archeology received two collections 
from Japan in exchange. One comprised 160 specimens of flint and 
obsidian arrow points, chipped and polished stone hatchets, and 
fragments of pottery, which had been exhibited at the Louisiana 
Purchase Exposition by the College of Science of the Imperial Japa- 
nese University; the other, 76 stone implements and ornaments, from 
]Mr. Y. Hirase. Other collections from abroad obtained by exchange 
consisted of 39 stone implements from North Australia, New South 
Wales, Victoria, and Tasmania, tlirough ^Mr. E. S. Anthonj^, of 
Hobart, Tasmania; 345 specimens of stone implements and frag- 
ments of pottery, mainly from kitchen-middens and caves in Cape 
Colony, through the Albany Museum, of Grahamstown, South Africa, 
and an important series of stone hatchets from Thuringia, Germany, 
and of bronze dress-ornaments, bracelets, finger-rings, and neck 
chains from Etruscan graves at Belmonti, Italy, through Dr. Max 
Vcrworn, of the University of Gottingen. Mr. H. W. Seton-Karr, of 
Wimbledon, England, presented two polished stone implements from 
Bundelkund, India. 

The greater number of important accessions in prehistoric arche- 
ologj" represented American countries. From the Bureau of Ameri- 
can Ethnology there were transferred a cache of 152 rhyolite flaked 
blades, found by Henry Rogers in 1893 in a crevice between two 
large rocks in the Pigeon Hills, near Hanover, York County, Pennsyl- 
vania; 20 large flint blades, part of a cache obtained from a mound 
in Montezuma Village, Pike County, Illinois; a collection of fhnt 
implements, hammer stones, flakeage, refuse of blade manufactures, 
etc., obtained by Mr. Gerard Fowke in aboriginal quarries and work- 
shops in Illinois, Tennessee, and Missouri, and about 750 stone 
implements and fragments of pottery, secured by Dr. Ales Hrdlicka 
in the ancient ruins of the San Carlos River Valley, Graham County, 
Arizona, on the grounds of the Rice Station Apache school, not 
heretofore explored. 

Of Mexican antiquities there were several accessions, including 
227 pieces of pottery, objects representing three different culture areas, 
constituting the Bauer collection; 13 casts of interesting stone 
objects, from the American Museum of Natural History; an ancient 



20 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

stone statue, from Dr. Carl Lumholtz; casts of three carved stone 
yokes, from the National Museum of Mexico ; five models of remark- 
able specimens of Aztec art, from Dr. Antonio Penafiel; casts of 
three sculptured panels from the "Temple of the Sun," Tikal, and of 
two lintels from the "Temple of Quetzalcoatl/' Lorillard City, both 
in Yucatan, from Desire Gharnay, Paris. From the Royal Museum 
of Ethnology of Berlin were obtained casts of carved stone yokes 
and figures, "palmas," carvings, images, etc., of Mexican and Peru- 
vian origin. 

A most interesting donation was a large collection of Inca and pre- 
Inca pottery and textiles brought together some years ago by Mr. 
Charles A. Pope, while residing in Peru, besides other ancient pottery 
and a stone ax from Colombia. Mr. Felix F. Outes, of Buenos 
Aires, presented 250 specimens of pottery and stone implements from 
Indian cemeteries and camping places in several districts of Argen- 
tina; while the Museo de la Plata forwarded, in exchange, a series of 
casts of South American stone objects, some with animal and other 
designs, elaborately worked out, forming striking examples of 
aboriginal art. 

Tliree of the working models of the Langley aerodrome, all of 
which have made successful flights, were placed on exhibition in the 
east hall, devoted to technology, being suspended from the frame- 
work of the roof above the level of the tops of the cases. They have 
naturally attracted much attention. 

The additions to the collection of watches and watch movements, 
both by gift and loan, have been many and interesting, acknowledg- 
ments being due to Mr. Frederick Leach, of New York; Mr. John 
Hansen and Mr. Carl A. Doubet, of Washington, and the Elgin 
National Watch Company. A sundial and gnomon cast in one 
piece, and bearing the date 1760, has been lent by Mr.W. F. Fisk, of 
Washington City. 

To the War Department the Museum is greatly indebted for the 
deposit of numerous pieces of ordnance, among them having been 
two examples of the United States Army magazine rifle of the model of 
1903, fu"st issued to the Army in January, 1905; a Ferguson breech- 
loading rifle, formerly belonging to Gen. John Watts de Peyster, a 
type used by at least one of the British regiments in the War of the 
Revolution; a gatling gun of the pattern used by the United States 
Army about 1870; a number of projectiles, such as were employed 
between 1860 and 1870, and a collection of antique and obsolete 
cannon and mortars, military rifles, carbines, and revolvers, of many 
makes, captured from the Spaniards and insurgents in the Philip- 
pine Islands. Other firearms obtained through loan and gift were a 
Chinese four-man gun, 8 feet 10 inches long, from Col. W. H. Carter, 
U. S. Army; a rare double-barrel, 20-shot revolver, of Irish make. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 21 

from jVIt. Ernst Moeckel, of Crookston, Minnesota; a pair of single- 
barrel pistols of ver}' fine workmanship, made by Crawley & Go., 
London, from Gapt. J-. T. Ord, U. S. Army; a pair of fine English 
flintlock, silver-mounted pistols, captured during the War of the 
Revolution, from Dr. G. W. Hickman, of Augusta, Georgia, and a 
vest pocket pistol, from ^Ir. Paul Beckwith, of the National Museum. 

The General Electric Gompany, of Harrison, New Jersey, donated 
a number of typical incandescent lamps, showing their development 
during the past ten years. 

There have been several important additions to the collection 
illustrating telegraphic invention and development, through the 
courtesy of the Delaware and Hudson Gompany; the Western 
Union Telegraph Gompany; Mr. A. E. Roome, superintendent of 
telegraphs of the Southern Pacific Railroad; the U. S. Weather 
Bureau; Gol. William A. Glassford, U. S. Army; Mr. Edward L. 
Morse, of Wasliington, District of Golumbia, and Mrs. Golumbia N. 
Pa^me, daughter of Gapt. O. W. Berryman, U. S. Navy, who made 
the surveys between Newfoundland and Ireland for the first trans- 
Atlantic cable. 

The division of graphic arts is chiefly indebted for its additions to 
the contributions of foreign exhibitors at the Louisiana Purchase 
Exposition, wliich are numerous and of great interest, but there has 
been no time as yet to classify and arrange them. The photograpliic 
section obtained two pictures taken by Daguerre. 

Among the noteworthj^ accessions in ceramics were a very beauti- 
ful and typical collection of glassware, prepared especially for the 
Museum b}^ Mr. Julian de Gordova, president of the L^nion Glass 
Works at Somerville, Massachusetts; a large green vase of Teco 
ware, of tasteful design and coloring, presented by the Gates Pot- 
tery Gompany, of Ghicago; several specimens of the pottery made 
by the Van Briggle Pottery Gompany, of Colorado Springs; a collec- 
tion of tj^pical Japanese and Chinese porcelains and pottery and of 
Japanese lacquer work, lent by Mr. Harold I. Sewall, of Washington. 

There were 13 accessions in the division of medicine, and the collec- 
tion of musical instruments was increased by 15 accessions. 

Of the 6 accessions in the division of liistoric religions, 1, con- 
sisting of 165 objects of Jewish ceremonial, deposited by Hadji 
Ephraim Benguiat, is especially noteworthy, both intrinsically and 
artistically. With the collections previously lent by the same well- 
known collector, the exliibit of Jewish ceremonial in the National 
Museum is now unrivaled in completeness and artistic merit. 

The number of accessions to the collection of histor}" amounted to 
89, comprising 768 objects, mostl}^ loans, many being of great value 
and interest. Among those especially worthy of mention are per- 
sonal military relics of the late Maj. Gen. Judson Kilpatrick, U. S. 



22 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

Army, from his widow and daughters; the uniform and articles of 
equipment of the late Alexander Macomb Mason (Bey), who, after 
Serving in the navies of the Confederate States and Chile and the 
navy and army of Egypt, held liigh civil positions under the Khe- 
dive, from Mrs. M. B. Wheaton, of Washington; the silver-mounted 
sword of Gen. Simon Bolivar, of Venezuela, given to him in 1828, 
and a sword of Gen. Jose Antonio Paez, presented to him by King 
William IV of England, from Mr. Jose Antonio Paez, of Staten 
Island; the fatigue uniform coat and cap worn by Capt. Charles V. 
Gridley, U. S. Navy, at the battle of Manila, from Mrs. Gridley; 
many examples of the wearing apparel of the Colonial period in 
Maryland, from Miss Bayard Smith, of Baltimore; and a collection 
of early wearing apparel, arms, coins, and other objects, from Gen. 
John Watts De Peyster, of New York. 

The Department of Biology as a whole received about 217,000 
specimens, the principal increases as regards number of specimens 
being in the divisions of plants, insects, and mollusks, though in 
other divisions the additions were no less important. 

The division of mammals received two collections from Dr. W. L. 
Abbott, the results of his own field work, the first consisting of 471 
specimens, coming from the west coast of the Malay Peninsula and 
adjacent islands and the Mergui Archipelago, the second of 517 
specimens from Banka, Billiton, and the Karimata Islands. They 
contain many species new to science. Next may be mentioned a 
collection presented by Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army, the product 
of his explorations in the Philippine Islands, cliiefly on Mount Apo, 
in southern Mindanao, which is sufficiently elevated to support a 
fauna largely distinct from that of the remainder of the island, as 
ma}^ be inferred from the fact that a study of the material disclosed 
6 new genera and 25 new species, which have been described by 
Doctor Mearns in the Proceedings of the Museum. Other note- 
worthy additions comprised specimens from Switzerland, France, 
and northern Italy, collected by Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr., and Dr. 
Leonhard Stejneger, of the Museum staff; from Sao Paulo, Brazil, 
through Mr. A. Hempel; from Japan, through exchange with Mr. T. 
Tsuchida; from the Kamerun district of west Africa, through Mr. 
G. L. Bates, and from Bewean Island, Java Sea, through Mr. C. G. 
Veth, American consular agent; a specimen of Potamogale velox, a 
rare African insectivore, through Dr. Paul Matschie, of the Royal 
Zoological Museum, Berlin; specimens from the Dismal Swamp, Vir- 
ginia, and the Adirondack region of New York, collected by Dr. W. L. 
Ralph. Many important species have also been obtained from the 
National Zoological Park. 

The additions in the division of birds comprised much of impor- 
tance, due, as in the case of mammals, to the receipt of several col- 



KEPOET OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 23 

lections from especially interesting regions. Most prominent was a 
series of 615 Philippine birds presented by Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. 
Army, and obtained by him on the islands of Mindanao, Dinagat, 
Basilan, Cagayan Suhi, and Sulu, the most noteworthy specimens 
coming from Mount Apo. The collection as a whole contains prob- 
ably three new genera, about 19 new species and subspecies, a num- 
ber of topotypes, and several other forms not previously represented 
in the Museum. Doctor Mearns also brought 3 fine specimens of 
the Nicobar pigeon as a gift from Maj. Gen. Leonard Wood, U. S. 
Army, wliich the latter collected on an islet near Mindanao and 
prepared himself. The W. L. Abbott collections contained 316 speci- 
mens of birds obtained in the Mergui Archipelago and on the islands 
of Banka, Billiton, and Karimata, between Sumatra and Borneo, 
which add several rare species to the Museum series. 

The Philippine Museum at Manila sent in exchange over 150 well- 
prepared skins, including topotypes of some recently discovered 
species. A specimen of the very rare Philippine monkey-eating 
eagle was presented by Mr. Fletcher L. Keller, and 2 specimens of 
the equally rare Celebes giant swift were given by Dr. Daniel G. Beebe. 
Mr. George A. Goss and Mr. H. D. Dodge, of Waterbury, Connecticut, 
donated a small collection from Mount Kinabalu, British North 
Borneo, consisting mainl}^ of topotypes of species described within 
the last ten years and also containing one new species. Another 
small but choice collection obtained in the interior of China during a 
geological reconnoissance by Mr. Bailey Willis and Mr. Eliot Black- 
welder, under the auspices of the Carnegie Institution, was contrib- 
uted to the Museum. 

A very important series of over 750 Costa Rican birds, contributed 
by the National Museum of that country, furnishes the curator, Mr. 
Robert Ridgway, with much desired material for his work on the 
Birds of North and Middle America. Mention should also be made 
of a collection of birds from Jamaica, obtained by Mr. W. R. Maxon, 
of the Museum staff, and one from South Carolina and New Hamp- 
sliire, presented by Mr. Nathan Clifford Brown, of Portland, Maine. 
Mr. Homer Davenport, of Morris Plains, New Jersej^, has generously 
continued to send specimens of rare pheasants, geese, etc. Among 
the specimens turned over b}^ the National Zoological Park a Cali- 
fornia condor and a cassowary are especially noteworthy. 

The additions to the section of birds' eggs, comprising 129 nests 
and 665 eggs, contained some interesting material, the most valuable 
coming from Mexico. The principal contributors were Dr. W. L. 
Ralph, Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army, Dr. J. C. Call, and the members 
of the Biological Survey of the Department of Agricultuie. 

The more important accessions in the division of reptiles were a 
collection of 561 specimens from Japan, Formosa, and adjacent 



24 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

islands, containing several undescribed species and a large number 
new to the Museum, obtained through Mr. Alan Owston, of Yoko- 
hama; 584 specimens from the Philippine Islands, including 4 new 
species, presented by Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army; 33 specimens 
from the Malay Peninsula and adjacent islands, the gift of Dr. W. L. 
Abbott; specimens from China, collected by Mr. E. Blackwelder, and 
donated by the Carnegie Institution; from France and Switzerland, 
collected by Dr. Leonhard Stejneger and Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr.; 
from Jamaica, collected by Mr. W. R. Maxon; from Guatemala, 
collected by Mr. Maxon and Mr. Robert Hay; from California and 
Indiana, transferred by the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries; from Mani- 
toba, presented by Mr. Ernest Thompson Seton; and from Louisiana, 
collected by Mr. Andrew Allison. 

The division of fishes received by transfer from the U. S. Bureau of 
Fisheries a large amount of material of exceptional value, as follows : 
A collection from Samoan waters, made in 1902 by Dr. D. S. Jordan 
and Prof. V. L. Kellogg, of Leland Stanford Junior University, and 
containing the types of 100 new species; an extensive series of 
specimens from the explorations of the steamer Albatross in Hawaiian 
waters in 1901-2, including many deep-sea forms and the types and 
cotypes described ; a great number of fishes resulting from investiga- 
tions on the Pacific coast of North America from Bering Sea to 
California, and on the Atlantic coast from Nova Scotia to Florida. 
Type specimens from other localities were also received from the 
Bureau of Fisheries and from Prof. C. H. Gilbert, of Leland Stanford 
Junior University. 

The Bureau of Fisheries was the largest single contributor to the 
division of mollusks, having transferred to the Museum, from the 
dredgings of the steamer Albatross on the coast of California in the 
spring of 1904, about 5,000 specimens, many of which are of special 
interest and value. Next may be mentioned an accession from the 
Biological Survey of the Department of Agriculture, consisting 
mainly of land and fresh-water shells from Texas, California, and 
Montana. Scientifically, the most important addition of the year 
was a series of about 1,500 specimens of Philippine shells from the 
collection of the late Herr Mollendorff, obtained by purchase, many 
of the species being cotypes. This acquisition will prove extremely 
useful in the future working up of material from the Philippine 
Islands, especially in view of the fact that many of Mollendorff's 
species were never figured and can, with difficulty, be identified from 
his descriptions. Among other noteworthy additions were about 
400 marine mollusks collected in Alaska by Dr. T. W. Stanton, of the 
U. S. Geological Survey; about the same number of mollusks and 
brachiopods obtained in the same region many years ago by Dr. W. H. 
Dall, and comprising numerous types of species described m the Pro- 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 25 

ceedings of the California Academy of Sciences; a small but interest- 
ing collection made in Central America by Dr. Edward Palmer, of 
the Department of Agriculture, containing a remarkable new genus, 
Hendersonia, and a number of new species; many nudibranchs from 
the coast of California, including 15 types of species recently described 
by the donor, Dr. M. F. McFarland, of Leland Stanford Junior 
cTniversity, in the Proceedings of the Biological Society of Wash- 
ington; some 300 specimens of shells from the Philippine Islands, 
j)resented by Brig. Gen. A. W. Greely, U. S. Army. From Mr. Henry 
Suter, of Auckland, New Zealand, there was received a pair of Trigonia 
margaritacea, in alcohol, containing the soft parts well preserved; 
from Mr. W. Moss, of Ashton-under-L^me, England, an interesting 
lot of small but attractive shells from the Loyalty and Lifu islands 
of the Indo-Pacific ; and from Mr. and Mrs. T. S. Oldroyd and Mr. 
C. H. Hansen, a quantity of material from the coast of California. 

While no single large collection w^as received during the year, yet 
the additions to the division ot insects were as a whole of average 
importance, comprising between 34,000 and 35,000 specimens from 
many parts of the world. It would be impossible in this connection 
to adequately note the principal accessions, but among the more 
important gifts and exchanges may be mentioned: Hymenoptera, 
from Maj. C. G. Nurse, of Quetta, India, and the Museo de Ciencias 
Naturales, Madrid, Spain; Cuban parasitic Hymenoptera, from 
Dr. George Dimmock, of Springlield, Massachusetts; Cuban beetles, 
from E. A. Schwarz, of the Bureau of Entomolog}^ of the Department 
of Agriculture; types and cotypes of New Zealand Cicadidse, from 
Dr. F. W. Goding, American consul at Newcastle, New South Wales, 
Australia; a collection of Chinese beetles, from Mr. Eliot Black- 
welder ; t\])es of Lepidoptera, from Mr. W. D. Kearfott, of New Jersey ; 
types and cotypes of bees, from Mr. J. C. Crawford, of the Bureau of 
Entomology; tyj^es and cotypes of RhipiphoridaB, from Mr. W. D. 
Pierce, of the Bureau of Entomology; Orthoptera, from Mr. F. B. 
Tsely, of Wichita, Kansas; and miscellaneous collections from Rev. 
Robert E. Brown, S. J., Manila; Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell, Boulder, 
Colorado; and Mr. A. N. Caudell, of the Bureau of Entomology. 

The division of marine invertebrates received, through transfers 
from the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries, 300 lots of foraminifera from the 
region about the Hawaiian Islands, the basis of a report to the Bureau 
by ^Ir. Rufus M. Bagg, jr. ; a duplicate set of the sea urchins obtained 
on the cruise of the steamer ^Z&aiross to the Panamic region in 1891, 
and described by Dr. Alexander Agassiz in the Memoirs of the Museum 
of Comparative Zoology; a large collection of crustaceans from the 
Albatross cruise of 1904 off the southern coast of California, which 
have been distributed to specialists for study, as noted under the head 
of " Researches," and the samples of ocean bottom taken on the same 



26 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

cruise. Some of the principal smaller accessions were as follows: 
From the Museum of Natural History, Paris, France, 7 cotypes of 
species of crabs, chiefly of the family Potamonidae described by Miss 
M. J. Rathbun, and cotypes of Cambarus digueti Bouvier, from Guana- 
juato, Mexico; from the Zoological Museum at Copenhagen, Den- 
mark, 4 species of Sphseromidse, a cotype of Uca oerstedi Rathbun, 
and a series of specimens, showing the different stages of growth of 
Sergestes atlanticus Milne Edwards; from the Museum of Compara- 
tive Zoology of Harvard University, 4 species of isopods new to the 
collections, 2 being cotypes of species described by Dr. Harriet Rich- 
ardson; from Prof. A. E. Verrill, of Yale University, fragments of the 
type specimens of 5 species of corals described by him; from the 
University of Pennsylvania, types of Tanais rohustus H. F. Moore; 
from the Carnegie Museum, cotypes of Camharus monongalensis 
Ortmann; from Prof. James H. Stoller, of Union College, 2 species of 
isopods new to the collection; from Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army, 
specimens from the Philippine Islands; from Dr. W. L. Abbott, 
specimens from the Malay Peninsula; from the U. S. Biological 
Survey, crustaceans from Mexico and Texas. 

To the helminthological collection were added 857 specimens, the 
most important accession consisting of a series of par^-sites from 
Egypt, sent by Prof. Arthur Looss, of the Medical School at Cairo. 

The past year has been especially noteworthy as regards the in- 
crease of the collection in the division of plants, the additions having 
been very much greater than m any previous year in the history of 
the Museum, embracing 750 accessions and 143,690 specimens. The 
greater part of this increase was due to the acquisition of the very 
valuable herbarium of Capt. John Donnell Smith, of Baltimore, which 
alone contained 100,889 specimens from different regions, but chiefly 
from tropical America. This large and important collection-, the 
work of many years in assembling, was most generously donated to 
the Smithsonian Institution by Captain Smith and now forms a part 
of the national collections. In connection with the plants, Captain 
Smith also presented his botanical library of about 1 ,600 volumes, as 
noted elsewhere. The next important contribution was by transfer 
from the U. S. Department of Agriculture of 13,965 specimens, 
8,963 of these constituting the herbarium of the Bureau of Forestry. 
These specimens came from many parts of the United States including 
Alaska, and from Greenland, Canada, Mexico, Guatemala, Europe, 
and India. The U. S. Bureau of Fisheries transmitted several hun- 
dred plants obtained in Alaska, Indiana, and Tennessee. The other 
accessions contained representatives of the flora of many different 
countries, more especially of the United States, but their number and 
variety preclude an adequate account of them in this connection. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 27 

Some of the larger collections were from the Philippines and from 
Jamaica and other West Indian Islands, Mexico, Chile, and British 
Columbia. The principal gifts, in point of number of specimens, 
came from Dr. Edward L. Greene, Mr. William E. Safford, Mr. F. V. 
Coville, Mr. M. B. Waite, Mr. E. S. Steele, Mrs. L. H. Earll, Mrs. 
Laura O. Talbot and Mr. F. J. Tyler, all of Washington, D. C, and 
Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army. 

The additions to the Department of Geology numbered 16,984 
specimens, of which 16,231 were paleontological. The division of 
systematic and applied geology acquired by gift through the Loui- 
siana Purchase Exposition an important series of ores of nonmetallic 
minerals from Brazil, a large collection of tin, copper, and gold ores 
from Siam, a fine series of crude and refined graphite from Ceylon, 
a large pedestal of Thessalian marble from the Verde Antico Marble 
Company of London, and a quantity of economic products from the 
State commissions of Colorado, Kentucky, Alabama, and New Mexico. 
A collection of rocks and ores from New Zealand was obtained in 
exchange from the Waihi School of Mines at Auckland. Mention may 
also be made of five large masses of zinc ores from Arkansas, five large 
slabs of onyx marble from Arizona and Wyoming, a large block of 
serpentine with veins of asbestos from Canada, a nugget of native 
copper with native silver from upper Michigan, a fine specimen of 
Alaskan tin ore, large masses of selenite and gypsum from Oklahoma, 
and of bauxite from Arkansas, a block of diatomaceous earth measur- 
ing 40 cubic feet from California, a large quantity of coquina from 
Florida, rocks of the Silverton quadrangle, Colorado, through the 
U. S. Geological Survey, and a nearly complete cone of a hot spring 
from southern Wyoming. 

To the division of mineralogy. Dr. W. S. Disbrow, of Newark, New 
Jersey, contributed a fine series of zeolites from New Jersey, as did 
also Dr. W. F. Hillebrand, of the U. S. Geological Survey. Other 
interesting additions of minerals consisted of specimens of pyrite with 
dodecahedral faces, and one of datolite from Westfield, Massachusetts; 
examples of the recently discovered thorianite; a fine beryl of 
unusual form and color from Utah, an exceptionally large nodule of 
josephinite, molybdenite from Cooper, Maine, and tourmalines from 
southern California. One meteorite of iron from Rodeo, Mexico, was 
received, and the following cut gems purchased for the Louisiana 
Purchase Exposition have been added to the Museum exhibition 
series: Australian matrix opals, California tourmalines, beryls from 
Connecticut, a fine specimen of peridotite from Arizona and a deep 
colored amethyst from North Carolina. 

The collections of fossil invertebrates in the division of strati- 
graphic paleontology were mainly increased through transfers from 

NAT MUS 1905 3 



28 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905, 

the U. S. Geological Survey, which consisted principally of large col- 
lections of Niagaran fossils from Tennessee, of Ordovician fossils from 
the slates at Arvonia, Virginia, and of Devonian and Carboniferous 
fossils from Colorado, the last collection having served as the basis 
oT Dr. George H. Girty's work on the Carboniferous formations and 
faunas of that State. A very valuable accpisition was the gift by 
Mr. E. O. Ulrich and Dr. R. S. Bassler of the type and figured speci- 
mens of 65 species, 25 being of Paleozoic origin and 40 Tertiary 
ostracoda. Among other important additions were 400 specimens 
of Cretaceous bryozoans from Denmark; about 70 species of corals 
from Germany ; a series of European Tertiary fossils ; Cretaceous and 
Tertiary fossils from South Carolina; Ordovician fossils from Ken- 
tucky, and the reverse side of the types of 8 species of fossil nsects 
from Mazon Creek, Illinois. 

The section of vertebrate paleontology received two large collec- 
tions from the U. S. Geological Survey, one made in the Wasatch 
Eocene of the Big Horn Basin, Wyoming, by Mr. C. A. Fisher, 
and containing remains of Coryphodon, PJienacodus, Eohippus, 
Crocodilus, and Oxysena; the other from the Oligocene of Oelrichs, 
South Dakota, and including remains of Merycoidodon, Hyracodon, 
Daphxnus, a Cameloid, Csenopus, Titanotherium, etc. Mr. A. G. Mad- 
dren, who visited Alaska on behalf of the Smithsonian Institution 
during the summer of 1904, brought back from the Yukon basin a 
collection of Pleistocene fossils, comprising the bones and teeth of 
Elephas primogeneus and of two extinct species of both the bison and 
the horse. Among other noteworthy material received were remains 
of Triceratops from .Elephant Butte, New Mexico, and from the 
collection at Yale University; and fossil fishes from Pennsylvania, 
Wyoming, and Brazil. 

In the section of paleobotany the most important additions were 
about 400 specimens from the States of Sao Paulo and Santa Cath- 
arina, Brazil, collected by Mr. I. C. White during an official explora- 
tion of the Brazilian coal fields, and presented by him to the National 
Museum ; about the same number of specimens from the higher beds 
of the anthracite series in the vicinity of Pottsville, Pennsylvania, 
from Mr. C. W. linger, of Pottsville; 70 specimens, including 9 new 
species obtained from the Upper Eocene at Kukak Bay, Alaska, by 
the E. W. Harriman expedition of 1889. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



29 



The approximate number of specimens received by the Museum 
during the year, and the total number in the possession of the Museum 
at the close of the year, are recorded in the following table: 



Department. 



Anthropology: 

Kthnology 

Historic archeology 

Historic religions 

Prehistoric archeology. 

Technology 

Graphic arts 

Medicine a 

History 

Physical anthropology. 

Ceramics 

Photography 

Music 

Biologj': 

Mammals 

Birds 



Birds' eggs 

Reptiles and batrachians. 

Fishes 

MoUusks 

Insects 



Marine invertebrates 

Helminthology 

Comparative any tomy 

Plants '. ' 143,690 

Forestry 

Geology: 

Physical and chemical 

Mineralogy 

Invertebrate paleontology 

Vertebrate paleontology 

Paleobotany . . 



Total 



Number 
of speci- 

m.'HS 
received 
in 1904^.5. 


Total. 


5,542 


485,998 


65 


2,403 


170 


2,939 


3,074 


390, 529 


371 


32,390 


415 


9,311 


613 


5,016 


768 


44,708 


196 


5,340 


216 


4,828 


8 


1,836 


6 24 


1,666 


2,008 


c 86, 653 


4,652 


140,878 


793 


65,923 


6 1,763 


c 48, 496 


5,295 


c 166, 796 


16,194 


c 978, 849 


37, 684 


1,620,321 


4,537 


525,728 


6 857 


c6,751 


6 65 


16,096 


143,690 


•^751,895 




749 


6 381 


c 80, 657 


372 


37,270 


c 15,000 


1 


6 231 


> 627,964 


"l.OOO 


J 



245,384 I 6,141,c 



a 1.887 specimens rejected as worthless from total of last year. 
6 Catalogue entries, 
c Estimated. 

The number of entries made in the catalogue books of the various 
departments was 33,123. 



30 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

The number of accessions received annually since 1881 is as follows: 



Year. 


Accession 

Nos. 
(inclusive). 


Numterof 

accessions 

during the 

year. 


1881 


9890-11000 
11001-12500 
12501-13900 
13901-15550 
15,551-16208 
16209-17704 
17705-19350 
19351-20831 
20832-22178 
22179-23340 
23341-24527 
24528-25884 
25885-27150 
27151-28311 
28312-29534 
29535-30833 
30834-32300 
32301-33741 
33742-35238 
35239-36705 
36706 38175 


1 111 


1882 


1 500 


1883 


1,400 


1884 


1885 (January to June) 


658 


1886 


1 496 


1887 


1,646 
1,481 
1 347 


1888 


1889.. 


1890 


1 162 


1891 


1 187 




1 357 


1893 


1 266 




1 161 


1895 


1,228 
1 299 




1897 


1 467 




1 441 


1899 


1 497 




1 467 


1901 


1 470 




38176-39584 1,409 
39585 41227 i R^s 


19C3 




41228-42930 
42931-44622 


1 703 


1905 


1,692 





GENERAL WORK UPON THE COLLECTIONS. 

It is difficult to differentiate between the several classes of work 
upon the collections since they gradate one into the other. The 
subjects of classification or research and the installation of the 
exhibition series are treated of under their respective headings. 
This chapter relates to the general care of the collections, the prepa- 
ration and preservation of specimens, their arrangement in reference 
or study series and in safe storage, their labeling, recording and 
cataloguing, the sorting out and packing of duplicates, all of which 
involve an endless amount of patient labor. 

Of the reserve collections in the two main buildings it may be said 
that, in a general way, they are in as fair and safe condition as the 
circumstances permit. In large part they are moderately easy of 
access, but the quarters in which they are stored are mostly crude, 
antiquated and dark, very inconvenient and very greatly over- 
crowded. It is, however, to be remembered that for a very large 
proportion of the national collections there is no room in the main 
buildings, and they have to be packed away in several insecure 
rented structures, which are already filled to the roof timbers and so 
compactly that no particular object could be found or removed. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 31 

Each lot of specimens as received is accessioned, and its contents are 
distributed to the several divisions to wliich they belong and in 
which they are subsequently cared for. They are cleaned and 
poisoned, if need be, and are catalogued chronologically under suc- 
cessive numbers, by which, combined with appropriate labels, they 
may always be identified and their history ascertained. After they 
have been studied and classified they are entered on catalogue cards, 
arranged in systematic order so as to constitute a descriptive list of 
the objects in each class, the basis of future research. This work 
progresses steadily in all the divisions, and naturally consumes a 
great deal of time. 

The above illustrates the processes with new collections, and 
their incorporation in the several series to which they belong. But 
there is another branch of work, equally necessary and fully as 
arduous, the maintenance of the collections, now grown to proportions 
far beyond the facilities for their accommodation. All of the several 
millions of specimens except those in general storage, are expected 
to be examined at least once a year to insure their continued safety. 
Alcohol is added to the jars and vials to replace that lost by evapora- 
tion, dried specimens are cleaned of insect pests, which are ever 
present, and a general house-cleaning takes place to remove the dust, 
dirt, and dampness which everywhere accumulate. This relates to 
practically all of the divisions, though with some kinds of collections 
the difficulty is much greater than with others. Following are some 
of the principal items of work under this heading: 

Probably in no former year have the reserve collections in the 
Department of Anthropology been so thoroughly overhauled and 
renovated. The collections in the extensive series of drawers in 
Eskimo hall have been entirely rearranged in systematic order, and 
a finding catalogue of their contents has been prepared. A large 
number of cupboards and frames with drawers have been installed 
above the wall exhibition cases in the Pueblo court for the storage of 
ethnological objects; the storage accommodations in the graphic 
arts court have been extended for the keeping of the Philippine 
collection, and the storage cases on the west balcony, with their 
contents, have been greatly improved. 

In the recently established division of physical anthropology there 
has been great activity, owing to the many accessions, and the 
necessity of overhauling the old collection, which had not for some 
years been given supervision. The material belonging to this divi- 
sion is of such a character as to require much attention, in the clean- 
ing of skeletons and crania, and the liquid preparation of the soft 
parts of the body. The quarters assigned for laboratory and storage 
purposes are altogether too small, and only by close crowding can 
the material already on hand be accommodated in the cases. 



32 REPORT (W NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

A gallery has been built and parti}' fitted up in the west-north 
range for the storage of historical niaterial, and the extensive collec- 
tion of portraits is now in process of arrangement and classification. 
The study series in graphic arts has been transferred to unit drawers 
and is also being rearranged and catalogued. 

In the di^'^sion of mammals 15 quarter unit cases were added for 
the storage of small skins^ but a larger number will soon be re({uired 
to. properly arrange this class of objects, and also the larger skins, 
many of which are now kept in ordinary boxes. The collection of 
mammal skulls comprises many thousands of specimens, for which 
the accommodations have been very crude and inadequate. The 
rearrangement of the large skulls, mentioned in last year's report, 
and of a majority of the small ones, has been completed. New 
cases have been provided for skulls of medium size, and before the 
close of another year all of the material of this character now on 
hand should be in excellent order for reference. 

The work of cleaning skulls, which requires much dexterity and 
patience, has been done mainly by contract instead of the employ- 
ment of a preparator for the purpose. The new method has proved 
much more economical and will be continued. The number cleaned 
was 9,595 as compared with 6,760 during the previous year. The 
entire collection of skulls was numbered and labeled. 

Sixty-eight large and medium mammal skins for the reserve series 
were tanned by contract. The taxidermist attached to the division 
made over about 60 small skins, which had been deteriorating, 
besides skinning 57 fresh mammals, making up a large number of 
flat skins, and cleaning and repairing 78 mounted heads belonging to 
the exhibition series. After extended experimentation a large tank 
was successfully constructed for extracting grease from skeletons b}' 
the use of naphtha and steam. It has been installed in the Zoological 
Park, in a place not resorted to by visitors. 

All the bird skins received during the year were catalogued, labeled, 
and distributed to their proper places in the study series, and the 
rearrangement of the birds of prey was nearly completed. The 
quarters occupied by this division for laboratory and storage are 
now especially overcrowded. The very extensive series of birds' eggs 
has been kept in excellent condition. 

The collection of reptiles and batrachians has for some time been 
undergoing a systematic rearrangement in order to make the speci- 
mens more accessible, and the entire study series is in a good state 
of preservation. 

In the division of fishes the majority of the large accessions was 
catalogued and much material labeled and installed. Four large 
zinc-lined tanks, of a special pattern, were constructed for the larger 
fishes, and to these were transferred the contents of seven barrels. 



REPORT OK ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 33 

besides many specimens from the smaller tanks. Twenty-five sets of 
duplicates, each comprising GO specimens, were put up for distribu- 
tion to educational establishments. A card catalogue of the contents 
of the many tanks of fishes is in course of preparation. 

The many accessions in mollusks required much attention from the 
assistants in this division in sorting, labeling, and cataloguing the 
specimens. About 9,000 entries w^ere made. A part of the land-shell 
collection was rearranged in accordance with modern classification. 

In the division of inspects much progress was made in the arrange- 
ment of all the orders, except the Rhynchota and a few minor orders. 

A special ca taloguer was employed in the division of marine inverte- 
brates for preparing the systematic card catalogue of crustaceans 
recently identified, the Hawaiian corals from the explorations of tho 
Bureau of Fisheries, the sea urchins from the cruise of 1891 of the 
Fisheries steamer Albatross, identified by Dr. Alexander Agassiz, and 
a large part of the sertularian hydroids, identified by Prof. C. C. Nut- 
ting. A number of improvements were made in the laboratory equip- 
ment. The rack S3"stem of installing specimens was adopted for the 
entire study series of the helminthological collections. This sj^stemi 
has been shown by experience to make the specimens readily accessi- 
ble and to permit the employment of unskilled persons in putting 
specimens in place. Seven hundred bottle racks w^ere purchased for 
this purpose, and a number of Marlatt slide cases w'ere also obtained 
for the microscopic mountings. 

In the division of plants 50 standard herbarium cases, 12 half-unit 
cases, and 15 special cases were added during the year. The entire 
set of cases now comprises 10,043 compartments or pigeonholes for the 
storage of mounted plants. With the exception of a portion of the 
lower cr}^3togams, the entire herbarium is now^ in insect-proof cases, 
and little trouble has been experienced during the year from plant 
pests. Herbarium sheets to the number of 28,088 were stamped and 
incorporated in the regular series, making the total number so treated 
since 1894, 274,475. Prior to their incorporation all plants are regis- 
tered in the regular chronological catalogue books, of which there are 
now 72, 39 being filled and 33 still open. The specimens currently 
received are still entered geographically, all Mexican plants being in a 
separate volume, all Alaskan in another, etc. This was impracticable 
for the older, unentered parts of the herbarium, wdiich are grouped by 
families. The number of plants mounted, partly b}' contract, partly 
by preparators, was 22,327. During the year the rearrangement of 
the herbarium in accordance wdth the system of Engler and Prantl 
progressed from family 246, Gentianacese, to family 266, Acanthaceae. 

The reserve collections in all the divisions of the Department of 
Geology are in fair condition, though the systematic card catalogues 
are still incomplete. In the division of geology proper the collection 



34 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

has grown so large that there is no longer storage space for it except in 
gross, in packing boxes, in unsafe buildings. In tliis division during 
the year over 3,550 specimens have been trimmed, labeled, and 
wrapped for the educational series of duplicates. 

In the division of stratigraphic paleontology the collections have 
heretofore been divided into an exhibition and a study or strati- 
graphic series. The stratigraphic series, in which the faunas of par- 
ticular horizons and regions are kept together, is naturally incom- 
plete, but growing rapidly. With the purchase of the Ulrich and 
Rominger collections it was decided to inaugurate a new series with 
these two collections as a basis, one in which the various groups of 
invertebrate fossils were arranged biologically. Up to the time of his 
resignation, September 1, Mr. Charles Schuchert, assistant curator of 
the division, was mainly occupied in the preparation of school collec- 
tions and in duties connected with the Louisiana Purchase Exposi- 
tion. For the school collections over 60,000 specimens were used, 
and made up into 500 sets, some of which have already been sent out. 

Mr. R. S. Bassler succeeded Mr. Schuchert, and during four months 
was occupied with the preparation, editing, and proof reading of the 
Bulletin on the type specimens in the collection. This also required 
t'le labeling and placing in final museum condition of the types of over 
1,000 species of invertebrate fossils, represented by over 5,000 speci- 
mens. Besides putting into final shape the various accessions of the 
year, all of the pelecypods and a considerable portion of the gastro- 
pods and brachipods of the biologic series have been registered, 
labeled, and numbered. They occupy 45 standard drawers and com- 
prise 2,294 species, represented by 16,710 specimens. The number of 
cards added to the systematic catalogue was 1,500. Thirty-four 
boxes of unstudied material were removed from storage and their 
contents classified and properly arranged. 

In the section of vertebrate paleontology a very satisfactory advance 
has been made in the appointment of two preparators and one assist- 
ant preparator, whose work has resulted in the completion of the 
mount of the skeleton of Triceratops, the first one ever prepared, and 
one of the most conspicuous additions to the exhibition series. A 
large amount of material stored in boxes has been overhauled and the 
collection partly systematized. 

The principal work in paleobotany has consisted in cleaning, assort- 
ing, and systematizing the collection, and in preparing card and type 
catalogues. 

THE EXHIBITION COLLECTIONS. 

A part of the Polynesian collection of ethnology, obtained mainly 
during early expeditions, which has been on exhibition in the north 
gallery of the west hall, was removed to one of the 1-aboratories for 
study and fuller identification, and in its place was installed a large 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 35 

representation from the Malaysian ethnological collection of Dr. W. L. 
Abbott, and the Philippine collection of Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army. 
The collection of l)asketry was rearranged, and eight recently pre- 
pared busts of Indians and some exceptionally fine examples of the 
work of the Northwest coast Indians haye been placed on exhibition. 
The latter consist of two large totem posts, four large caryed wooden 
slabs, and a large painted room partition from Alaska. The exhibits 
returned from the Louisiana Purchase Exposition were, as far as pos- 
sible, assigned places in the public halls, though it was necessary to 
put most of this material in storage. 

To the exhibition of historic archeology, which chiefly occupies the 
eastern end of the west hall, were added a collection of Biblical gems, 
coins of Bible lands, the oriental manuscripts of Mr. S. S. Howland, 
a Greco-Egyptian portrait of great interest, and seyeral papyri. In 
consequence of the addition of many articles of Jewish religious cere- 
monial, through the yaluable deposit made by ]Mr. Benguiat, the 
entire section included under tliis subject was rearranged, as was also 
the adjoining Mohammedan section. Additions inyolying changes 
in arrangement were also made to the Greco-Roman and Buddhist 
sections, and the display of amulets was reinstalled. 

Follomng the extensiye repairs recently made in archeological hall 
the entire exliibition collection of prehistoric archeology is being sub- 
jected to a thorough oyerhauling, which is not jet completed, and the 
hall is therefore still closed to the public. It is proposed to make 
this exhibit as attractiye as it is yaluable and interesting, though it 
must for a time remain cliiefly in the old-fashioned cases constructed 
oyer thirty years ago. The many stone mortars and soapstone yes- 
sels from California and the stone chairs from Ecuador haye been 
arranged on the tops of the wall cases. Recent accessions from Mex- 
ico and Central America haye replaced the collections from the 
ancient ruined pueblos of Arizona and New Mexico, which haye been 
remoyed to the Museum building. Of six new" cases installed in the 
center of the hall, four are deyoted to casts of large stone sculptures 
from Mexico and the other two to material from Brazil and the West 
Indies. 

Lack of space has made it impossible to deyelop an exhibition series 
in physical anthropology, but there are now ready for this purpose 
10 complete Indian busts, oyer 20 masks from which busts can be 
prepared, and photographs and skeletal material for representing all 
anthropological yarieties. 

The exhibits in technology haye been greatly enlarged and im- 
proyed, requiring the addition of a number of cases. The most note- 
worthy increases and changes haye been in the sections of electrical 
apparatus, firearms, and railroad appliances. The liistorical collec- 
tion of railroad locomotiye models was entirely rearranged. No 



86 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

changes were made in the hall devoted to the graphic arts, but in the 
gallery of ceramics the collection of purely artistic ware in porcelain, 
glass, lacquer, and metal work was arranged by countries in a series 
of separate cases along the west sideand the inner edge of the gallery. 

The historical collection which occupies the north hall has been 
maintained in good condition, the principal addition being a case 
assigned to the National Society of the Dames of 1846 for the 
exhibition mainly of relics of the war with Mexico. 

The most conspicuous additions to the exhibition collections in the 
Department of Biology resulted from the Louisiana Purchase Exposi- 
tion. This was especially the case in regard to the mammals, of 
which specimens of several large and interesting species hitherto either 
unrepresented or only poorly so in the Museum halls, were prepared 
for St. Louis in accordance with the latest advances in taxidermy and 
the preparator's art. Their transfer to Washington unfortunately 
found the mammal hall so overcrowded that many could be given 
only a temporary position, and for the most part without cases. The 
new additions consist of a polar bear, black bear, giraffe, hippopota- 
mus, zebra, gnu, musk ox, Sandbur stag, Olympic elk, and the cast 
of a sulphur-bottom whale. The great amount of labor entailed in 
securing and preparing the last mentioned object has been referred 
to in a previous report, and it may be stated that the result has much 
more than justified the effort. The whale, about 80 feet long, was 
grounded at a whaling station on the coast of Newfoundland, where 
a sectional mold was made of the exterior of the body and the entire 
skeleton removed. The cast, appropriately colored, is now suspended 
from steel trusses connected with the framework of the roof in the 
mammal hall. The skeleton was at the close of the year being 
installed in the adjoining hall of osteology. 

Besides the above, 35 mammals, mounted by the taxidermists of 
the Museum, were added to the exhibition collection. They con- 
sisted, besides a tiger, chiefly of rodents and other small forms from 
the African, Oriental, and Palearctic regions, including such impor- 
tant species as the large aquatic African insectivore, Potamogale, the 
Tasmanian marsupial wolf, Thylacinus, the jerboa, dormouse, mar- 
mot, Philippine Island rats, paradoxure, ermine, Java porcupine, etc. 
The South American forms comprised a paca, capabara, and aguto. 
All of these specimens were mounted separately, but chiefly with 
some indication of natural environment. The collection of heads of 
East African antelopes, on deposit from the Hon. William Astor Chan- 
ler, and other smaller heads placed with them, were thoroughly 
cleaned and repoisoned, and the panel to which they are attached 
was extended the entire length of the east gallery. The contents of 
the large east wall case were partly rearranged, and many temporary 
bases on which the specimens were mounted were replaced by perma- 
nent ones. 



REPOKT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 37 

The birds exhibited at St. Louis, mostly taken from the regular 
Museum series, were returned to their proper places, and the collec- 
tion of game birds, which now includes 10 groups, was reinstalled. 
Many specimens of valuable species which had been mounted long ago 
were also made over with very satisfactory results. 

In the range devoted to reptiles and fishes a few interesting addi- 
tions were made from the Museum exhibit prepared for St. Louis. 
They consist of casts of snakes, among the larger forms repre- 
sented being the python, rattlesnake, and boa, in special cases, and 
a fine set of models of deep-sea fishes. 

The American faunal exliibit of insects was nearly completed 
during the year, but the series of Lepidoptera shown at St. Louis 
and intended to be placed in the insect hall has been withheld from 
exhibition pending experiments looking to some provision for 
protecting their colors. The synoptic series of marine invertebrates, 
enlarged and improved for use at St. Louis, has been returned to its 
place in the west hall of the Smithsonian building. 

In the biological exhibit as a whole many new and revised labels, 
both for the specimens and the cases, were prepared and installed. 

In the hall devoted to systematic and applied geology a number of 
large pieces of interesting rocks and ores, obtained at the St. Louis 
Exposition, were added to the exhibition collection. The wall cases 
in the mineral hall were repainted and their contents, including the 
specimens of meteorites, were rearranged. The larger meteorites 
were also supplied with new descriptive labels. Lack of space pre- 
vents any material increase in the exhibit of invertebrate fossils, but 
the hall of vertebrate paleontology has received a most noteworthy 
addition in a complete skeleton of Triceratops frorsus, one of the 
large Dmosaurian reptiles of the Cretaceous period of the Western 
States. Tliis is the first preparation of this form yet made, and con- 
sists chiefly of the actual bones of the most complete specimen in the 
collection, supplemented by pieces from other specimens and by 
restorations in plaster. The skeleton measures 19 feet 8 inches m 
extreme length by 8 feet 2 inches high, and is mounted on a base of 
artificial matrix designed to represent the color and texture of the 
Laramie sandstone in which the remams of this animal are found. 
This unique and sti iking object is certain to attract very widespread 
attention. 

RESEARCHES. 

The systematic classification and arrangement of the collections 
which are so rapidly increasing from year to year demand a very 
large amount of scientific study and research, which the caretakers 
are expected to be qualified to carry on. The present staff is wholly 
inadequate in numbers to accomplish all that is required in this 



38 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

direction, especially since its time must be chiefly occupied in pro- 
viding for the safety of the collections, in maintaining the exhibition 
series, and in other routine and administrative duties. The research 
work accomplished each 5^ear has, however, always been creditable, 
both in amount and character, and diu"ing the past year it was 
especially noteworthy in several particulars. Much assistance has 
also been received at all times from outside, and a large proportion 
of the classificatory results have been secured through this means, 
specialists both in this country and abroad gladly taking advantage 
of the opportunity to advance their studies through the new material 
placed at their disposal. The researches of the year may be briefly 
summarized as follows: 

Doctor Hough has about completed a comprehensive report on 
the Hopi Indians of Arizona, based upon several years' experience 
among these interesting people. He has also begun upon a detailed 
study of the Pueblo material with which the Museum is very richly 
supplied, has continued his studies upon the primitive uses of fire, 
and has nearly finished a paper on the manufacture of pulque and 
palm wine. Of persons not connected with the Museum who made 
use of the collections in ethnology were Mr. Ole Solberg, of Christi- 
ania, Norwa}^, who spent some time in photographing the stone 
implements of Alaska for comparison with similar implements of the 
Eastern Eskimo preserved at Copenhagen; Mr. W. F. Andrews, of 
the U. S. Bureau of Immigration, and Mr. Charles S. Sloane, of the U. 
S. Census Office, who conducted inquiries to aid in the classification 
of immigrants entering the United States; Mrs. W. Markland Molson, 
of Montreal, who studied the imbricated basketry of the State of 
Washington and British Columbia, with the object of definitely 
locating the large collections by tribes, and Mr. George lies, of New 
York, who investigated the subject of survivals in invention. 

The collections in prehistoric archeology were extensively con- 
sulted by Dr. J. W. Fewkes, of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 
who has in preparation a report upon his recent explorations in the 
West Indian region. 

Dr. Ales Hrdlicka, assistant curator in charge of the division of 
physical anthropology, conducted investigations on the weight of the 
brain in man and animals, the behavior of the brains of mammals 
in various preserving solutions, the California mainland crania in 
the Museum collection, and the cranial fossae. A number of visiting 
Indians were also measured at the laboratory. 

In the preparation of the important work entitled ''Handbook of 
the Indians," soon to be issued by the Bureau of American Ethnol- 
ogy, very material assistance was rendered by several members of 
the Museum staff, especially Prof. O. T. Mason, Dr. Walter Hough, 
and Dr. Ales Hrdlicka. The Museum collections were also utilized 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 39 

by others in the same connection, as the basis both for descriptive 
matter and for illustrations. 

A description of the Howland collection of Buddhist religious art 
was prepared by Dr. I. M. Casanowicz, assistant curator of historic 
religions, and a catalogue of the collection of Grant relics, by Mr. 
Paul Beckwith, assistant curator of history. 

Mr. George C. Maynard, assistant curator of technology, continued 
his inquiries relative to early steam railroading in the United States, 
paying most attention to the historic locomotive Stourbridge Lion, 
which was brought to this country near the end of the third decade 
of the last century, and of which the principal parts are now preserved 
in the National Museum. Important records concerning this engine 
were obtained from several sources, but mainly from the Delaware 
and Hudson Company of New York, whose pioneer efforts in intro- 
ducing and establishing steam railroads are being worked up by Mr. 
Maynard as a contribution to this interesting subject. 

A new genus and species of sea lion, based upon a fossil skull from 
Oregon, was the subject of a paper by Dr. F. W. True, head curator 
of biology, who has also begun upon a revision of the American 
species of fossil cetaceans, of which he collected many specimens in 
Maryland during the year, and an account of the Museum collection 
of ziphioid whales. 

The assistant curator of the division of mammals, Mr. Gerrit S. 
Miller, jr., spent most of the year in Europe, mainly at the natural 
history museums of Paris, Berlin, and Leiden, and the British 
Museum in London, where he accomplished very important results 
in the direction of completing his work upon several large collections 
of the National Museum, which could not have been properly studied 
in any other way. The foreign museums named are very rich in 
type specimens from the Malayan and other Asiatic regions and 
from South America, with which it was desired to make comparisons, 
especially in regard to the extensive East Indian collections con- 
tributed by Dr. W. L. Abbott and to recently acquired material 
from tropical America. These investigations have greatly advanced 
the position of the National Museum as a place of research respecting 
oriental and other exotic mammals through the authenticity thus 
given to their classification. 

Besides his general work on the Abbott collections, not yet in final 
shape for printing, Mr. Miller prepared revisions of the Malayan 
tree-shrews, chevrotains, and squirrels, and a key to the genera of 
Viverridse and the civet family. He also completed a new classi- 
fication of bats, which has been in progress for two or three years, 
keys to all the genera being rewritten and diagnoses of nearly 60 
species prepared, and a revision of the South American free-tailed 
bats. While at Leiden Mr. Miller studied the principal museums 



40 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

there and made an important report upon their buildings, installa- 
tion, and administration. 

A study of the bats of the genera Glossophaga and Hemiderma was 
begun by Mr. Walter L. Hahn, aid in the division of mammals. 

The collections in this division were utilized by the Biological 
Survey of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, and specimens were 
lent for study to ^Ir. Knud Andersen, of the British Museum; Dr. Paul 
Matschie and Dr. M. Hilzheimer, of the Royal Zoological Museum, 
Berlin; M. Charles Mottaz, of Geneva, Switzerland; Dr. C. I. 
Forsyth Major, of the British Museum, London; Mr. Glover M. Allen, 
of the Boston Society of Natural History; Mr. Outram Bangs, of 
Boston; Prof. F. W. Putnam, of the Peabody Museum of Harvard 
University; Dr. John M. Ingersoll, of Cleveland, Ohio; and Dr. 
Franklin P. Mall, of Johns Hopkins University. 

Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army, on sick leave from the Philippines, 
spent about four and one-half months in this division, working up 
the material obtained by himself in those islands and completing the 
first part of his report on the mammals collected on the Mexican 
Boundary Survey. 

Volume 3 of Bulletin No. 50, entitled the Birds of North and Mid- 
dle America, by Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of birds, was com- 
pleted and published during the year, and about one-half of the 
manuscript for volume 4 was finished. The latter volume will com- 
prise the families of thrushes, mocking birds, starlings, weaver birds, 
larks, sharp bills, tyrant flycatchers, manakins, and chatterers. Mr. 
Ridgway also published descriptions of new species of birds from 
tropical America. During his visit to Costa Rica, elsewhere referred 
to, he made extensive studies on the collection of birds in the 
National Museum of that country, the results of which will be 
embodied in his work. 

The assistant curator of birds, Dr. Charles W. Richmond, continued 
the study and determination of the birds collected by Dr. W. L, 
Abbott on several islands off the west coast of Sumatra, and added 
several thousand cards to the general catalogue of genera and species 
of birds for reference purposes in the division. Three papers by him 
on nomenclature and a description of a swiftlet were published during 
the year. Mr. J. H. Riley, aid in the division of birds, was mainly 
employed in making measurements of specimens and compiling refer- 
ences for the use of the curator, but he also reported on a collection 
of birds from the islands of Antigua and Barbuda and on the birds 
of the Bahama Islands, the latter while serving as an assistant on 
the expedition of the Geographical Society of Baltimore. Mr. H. C, 
Oberholser, of the Biological Survey, completed studies on the birds 
obtained by Dr. W. L. Abbott in Kilimanjaro, East Africa, and has 



BEPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 41 

taken up other collections made by Doctor Abbott on islands in the 
China Sea and neighboring regions. 

The collections and opportunities for research offered by the 
division of birds were utilized by the Biological Survey, the com- 
mittee on nomenclature of the Ornithologists Union, Dr. Jonathan 
Dwight, jr., of New York, and Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army, the 
last mentioned giving much time to the identification of the Philip- 
pine birds of his own collecting. Among those to whom specimens 
were sent for study were Dr. J. A. Allen and Mr. Frank M. Chapman, 
of the American Museum of Natural History; Mr. Herbert O. 
Jenkins, of Leland Stanford Junior University, and Dr. Louis 
Bishop, of New Haven, Connecticut. 

Mr. Barton A. Bean, assistant curator of the division of fishes, 
identified the collection of fishes made by himself and others m 
Beaufort Harbor, North Carolina, in 1904; prepared papers on the 
history of the whale shark (Rhinodon) and the adult of the goblin 
shark {Mitsukurina) , and, conjointly with Dr. C. H. Eigenmann, 
of Indiana University, worked up the collection of Amazon River 
fishes made by Prof. J. B. Steere in 1901. The specimens of Characins 
belonging to the Museum and the small collection of fishes obtained 
in Patagonia some time since by the late Mr. J. B. Hatcher were turned 
over to Doctor Eigenmann for study and report. A number of speci- 
mens in several groups of fishes were sent to Leland Stanford Junior 
University for examination by Dr. C. H. Gilbert, Dr. J. C. Thompson, 
and Mr. E. C. Starks. Among many experts who have worked upon 
the collections of fishes in the Museum may be mentioned Dr* 
Theodore N. Gill, an associate of the Museum; Dr. B. W. Evermann 
and Dr. W. C. Kendall, of the Bureau of Fisheries; Dr. T. H. Bean, 
and Mr. E. W. Gudger, of the State Normal School, Greensboro, 
North Carolina. The investigations of Doctor Evermann had refer- 
ence mainly to the preparation of a joint report with Dr. D. S. 
Jordan on the fishes of Hawaii. Dr. C. H. Gilbert came to the 
Museum in June, 1905, with the expectation of remaining through 
the summer, for the purpose of working up the Pacific deep-sea 
fishes represented in the collection. 

Dr. William H. Ashmead, assistant curator of the division of insects, 
has been mainl}' occupied in finishing his work on the superfamily 
Formicoidea, or ants, Avith wliich will be completed his classification 
of the entire order Hymenoptera. His monograph on the North 
American Braconidse, on which he has been engaged for a number 
of years past, \vill next be taken up for completion. Mr. D. W. 
Coquillett, custodian of the Diptera, has spent much time in the 
preparation of a monograph of the North American mosc{uitoes 
(Culieidsp). More than forty papers by members of the staff of 
this division were published during the year. Specimens represent 



42 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

ing several groups of insects have been sent for study to a number of 
persons, including Sir George Hampson, of the British Museum, 
London; Mr. W. D. Kearfott, and Prof. Raymond Osburn, of New 
York City; Mr. Charles Schaeffer, of the Museum of the Brooklyn 
Institute; Mr. J. F. McClendon, of the University of Pennsylvania; 
Prof. A. D. MacGillivray, of Cornell University; Mr. W. A. Hooker, 
of Amherst, Massachusetts; Mr. Frederick Blanchard, of Tyngsboro, 
Massachusetts; Mr. E. C. Van Duzee, of Buffalo, New York, and 
Prof. H. C. Fall, of Pasadena, California. 

The revision of the land and fresh-water shells of North America 
north of latitude 49°, by Dr. W. H. Dall, curator of mollusks, men- 
tioned in the last report, was completed and in type at the close of 
the year, forming a paper of about 200 pages with two plates in 
the series of the Harriman Alaska Expedition. Among other papers 
finished by the same author were a review of the classification of the 
American Cyclostomatidfe, printed in the Proceedings of the Mala- 
cological Society of London, and reports on land and fresh-water 
shells collected in the Bahamas by Mr. Owen Bryant and on land 
shells obtained in central Mexico by Dr. Edward Palmer, printed 
in the Quarterly Issue of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. 

Work stated by Dr. Dall to be nearing completion includes the 
extensive report on the Pyramidellidae, begun some time ago, in 
joint authorship with Dr. Paul Bartsch; a paper on certain exotic 
Pyramidellidse lent by the Zoological Museum at Berhn, Germany, 
and reports on the mollusca collected by the Bureau of Fisheries 
steamer Albatross at the Hawaiian Islands and on the voyage of 
1905 to the southern Pacific Ocean under the direction of Dr. Alex- 
ander Agassiz. The total number of papers on recent mollusks 
published during the year by Dr. Dall was 12 and by Doctor Bartsch 
4. Mr. Ralph Arnold has continued his studies on the Pectinidae. 
In June, 1905, Doctor Bartsch visited Detroit, Michigan, and New 
Philadelphia, Ohio, for the purpose of consulting the large collection 
of Mr. Bryant Walker at the former place and that of Dr. V. Sterki 
at the latter. Both of these gentlemen have offered to furnish speci- 
mens for filling gaps in the Museum collection. 

The studies of Dr. James E. Benedict, assistant curator of marine 
invertebrates, on the Anomuran crustaceans were interrupted by 
his assignment to duties in connection with the Louisiana Purchase 
and the Lewis and Clark expositions. Miss M. J. Rathbun, also 
assistant curator, prepared for the Bureau of Fisheries a compre- 
hensive report on the Brachyuran and JMacruran crustaceans of 
Hawaii, containing descriptions of 80 new species, illustrated with 
24 plates and 78 text figures, and a report on the specimens of the 
same groups obtained during the Alaska salmon investigations of 
1903. She continued her investi!,!;ations ou the fresh-water crabs 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 43 

(Potamonidae), based mainly upon the collection of the Natural 
History Museum of Paris, the results being incorporated in the 
second part of her monograph, which is being published by that 
museum. She also described a new species of PinnofJieres from the 
collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Pliiladelphia, and 
published three other short papers. 

Dr. Harriet Richardson, collaborator, reported upon the Isopod 
crustaceans from Alaskan explorations of the Bureau of Fisheries, 
has nearly completed a manual of all the North American forms of 
this group, containing descriptions and figures of each species, and 
has prepared descriptions of a new genus and two new species of 
TanaidjB and of a new Livoneca from Panama. Dr. T. Wayland 
Vau^han, custodain, has continued his studies upon the collection 
of living stony corals, especially those recentl}^ obtained at the 
Hawaiian Islands, and has about completed a report on the latter. 
Prof. W. P. Hay, of Howard University, continued, as opportunity 
offered, his work on the craj^shes represented in the Museum, having 
in progress a comprehensive report upon the species represented. 

The collections of marine invertebrates were consulted by Dr. K. 
Mitsukuri, director of the School of Science of the Imperial Univer- 
sity of Tokyo; Dr. Carlos Moreira, of the National Museum of 
Brazil, Rio de Janeiro; Mr. C. A. Shore, of Johns Hopkins Univer- 
sity, and Dr. H. V. Wilson, of the University of North Carolina. 

The crustaceans collected by the Fisheries steamer Albatross in the 
eastern Pacific Ocean during the cruise of 1904-5 were deposited 
in the National ^Museum by the Bureau of Fisheries, with the arrange- 
ment that they be distributed to specialists for the preparation of 
reports for publication by the Bureau of Fisheries. The several 
groups have been assigned as follows: Decapoda, to Miss M. J. 
Rathbun, U. S. National Museum; Alpheidse, to Dr. H. Coutiere, 
Ecole Superieure de Pharmacie, Paris, France; Schizopoda, to Dr. 
A. E. Ortmann, Carnegie Museum; Stomatopoda, to Dr. R. P. 
Bigelow, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Isopoda, to Dr. 
Harriet Richardson, U. S. National Museum; Amphipoda, to Dr. S. 
J. Holmes, University of Michigan; Cumacea, to Dr. W. T. Caiman, 
British Museum; Cirripedia, to Dr. H. A. Pilsbry, Philadelphia 
Academy of Natural Sciences; Copepoda, to Dr. K. W. Genthe, 
Trinity College, Hartford, Connecticut; Ostracoda, to Mr. R. W. 
Sharpe, New Trier High School, Wilmette, Illinois; Pj'-cnogonida, 
to Dr. Leon J. Cole, Harvard University. 

The marine invertebrates from the Hawaiian Islands, obtained by 
the Bureau of Fisheries in 1891 and 1901 and by Mr. H. W. Hen- 
shaw, were sent to the same workers as the larger collection of 1902, 
as follows: Sponges, to Dr. F. Urban, K. K. Zoolo;;isches Institut, 
Prag, Austria; starfishes, ophiurans and holothurians, to Walter 

NAT MUS 1905 4 



44 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

K. Fisher, Stanford University; Actinians, to Dr. J. E. Duerden, 
University of Michigan; Stomatopoda, to Dr. R. P. Bigelow; 
Schizopoda, to Dr. A. E. Ortmann, and Alpheidse, to Dr. H. Coutiere, 
Paris, France. 

To Mr. Walter K. Fisher, of Stanford University, who has been 
studying the echinoderms of the Pacific coast and Hawaii, secured 
during recent expeditions of the Bureau of Fisheries, has been 
assigned the working up of the entire and very extensive collection 
of starfishes from the north Pacific Ocean in the possession of the 
Museum. This material has been derived from many sources, but 
is mainly the result of the explorations of the steamer Albatross, 
beginning in 1888. 

In addition to the above, through arrangements made in previous 
years, the pedate holothurians of the Museum collection are being 
worked up by Prof. Charles L. Edwards, of Trinity College; the 
apodal holothurians by Prof. Hubert Lyman Clark, of Olivet College; 
the hydroids by Prof. C. C. Nutting, of the University of Iowa; the 
parasitic copepods by Dr. Charles B. Wilson, of the State Normal 
School, Westfield, Massachusetts, and the free-swimming copepods 
by Dr. K. W. Genthe, of Trinity College. 

No investigations in helminthology have been conducted in the 
Museum, but from the researches in the Marine-Hospital Service 
by Dr. C. W. Stiles, in the Bureau of Animal Industry by Mr. B. H. 
Ransom, and elsewhere by others, the collections in this section are 
being rapidly increased and becoming of exceptional importance. 

The associate curator of the division of plants, Dr. J. N. Rose, in a 
paper entitled "Studies of Mexican and Central American Plants, 
No. 4," published in the "Contributions from the National Her- 
barium," has given descriptions of many new species, revisions of 
several genera, and notes on many rare forms. In conjunction 
with Dr. N. L. Britton, of the New York Botanical Garden, he 
completed a Revision of the Crassulacese of North America. His 
researches on the Cactacese have resulted in extensive additions to 
this branch of the collection, which seems destined to become the 
largest and richest in the world. The importance of the work on 
the CrassulaceaD may be judged by the fact that when the joint 
authors began upon their investigations 5 native genera and about 
120 species were recognized as belonging to the flora of North America, 
while at present the number of genera has been increased to 24 and 
of species to 283. In the beginning the Museum collection contained 
only about 80 species, and now it has 270 species, of which 115 are 
represented by actual types. 

Mr. W. R. Maxon, assistant curator, division of plants, has made 
good progress in the study of the ferns, having prepared and issued 
several papers on this group. During six months of the year he was 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 45 

transferred to the Department of Agriculture to assist in the cotton 
investigations in Guatemala, which gave him the opportunity to 
make an interesting collection of the plants of that country. In 
addition to editorial work, Mr. E. S. Steele spent much time in the 
identification of miscellaneous lots of plants, mainly sent to the 
Museum for that purpose by the Department of Agriculture; and 
Mr. J. H. Painter, appointed aid near the close of the year, gave 
some attention to the Mexican species of Meibomia. 

Gapt. John Donnell Smith, an associate in botany, reports that 
during the year he continued his studies of plants collected in Cen- 
tral America by himself and others at his instance. Cards were in 
course of printing for the seventh distribution of these plants and 
for Part VII of "Enumeratio Plantorum Guatemalensium necnon 
Salvadorensium Hondurensium Nicaraguensium Costaricensium quas 
edidit John Donnell Smith." The twenty-seventh continuation of 
his articles entitled " Undescribed Plants from Guatemala and 
other Central American Republics" was submitted to the Botanical 
Gazette for publication. 

During the year Dr. Edward L. Greene, also an associate in botany, 
began the preparation of an important paper under a grant from the 
Smithsonian Institution, to be entitled "Landmarks of Botanical 
History," which he expects to complete in the course of about two 
years. 

The total number of papers by the staff of the division of plants 
issued during the year amounted to 39. The collections in the 
division have been consulted by the botanists of the Department of 
Agriculture, by Dr. N. L. Britton and Dr. M. A. Howe, of the New 
York Botanical Garden, by Prof. E. L. Morris, of the Washington 
High School, and many others. 

Over 2,000 sheets of plants were lent for study to some eighteen 
institutions and specialists, the larger sendings having been to the 
Gray Herbarium, Cambridge, Massachusetts; the New York Botan- 
ical Garden; the Ames Botanical Laboratory, North Easton, Mas- 
sachusetts; the Arnold Arboretum, Jamaica Plains, Massachusetts; 
President Ezra Brainerd, of Middlebury College; Mr. B. F. Bush, of 
Courtney, Missouri; Doctor Fedde, of the Royal Botanical Museum, 
Berlin; Fr. Buchenau, of the Natural History Society of Berlin, and 
the Royal Botanical Gardens at Kew, England. 

The head curator of geology. Dr. George P. Merrill, has given much 
time to the preparation of two general papers, one a contribution to 
the history of American geology, the other a history of American 
public scientific surveys. The former was completed during the 
year and is in course of publication in the Annual Report for 1904. 
He also conducted observations on the origin of asbestiform ser- 
pentine and the weathering of building stone. 



46 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

Researches in the division of mineralogy were mainly confined to 
the study of the structure of meteorites by Air. Wirt Tassin, assistant 
curator, involving the devising of methods and apparatus for sepa- 
rations, new methods of analyses, and improvements in methods of 
photographing opaque objects under high powers. 

During the early part of the year the assistant curator of strati- 
graphic paleontology, Mr. R. vS. Bassler, then an assistant in the 
U. S. Geological Survey, completed reports on the paleontology and 
stratigraphy of the Ordovician rocks of the Lehigh Valley, Pennsyl- 
vania, and on the cement resources of the valley of Virginia, both 
of which are published by the Survey. During the same period he 
also prepared an article on the James types of Ordovician and Silu- 
rian bryozoa, which is now being printed by the University of Chicago. 
Subsequently he submitted to the Museum a paper on the Brj^ozoa 
of the Rochester shales, which are treated monographicalh^, the 
correlation of American and European Silurian strata being indi- 
cated. The monograph of American fossil Ostracoda by Mr. E. O. 
Ulrich and Mr. Bassler is still in course of preparation, little progress 
having been made during the year owing to the press of other duties. 
Mr. Bassler is also engaged upon a somewhat extended paper on 
the stratigraphy and paleontology^ of the valley of Virginia. 

The catalogue of type specimens of fossil invertebrates in the 
Department of Geology went to press before the close of the year. 

As explained in a previous report, the specimens of Paleozoic 
insects in the Museum collection were sent for study to Dr. Anton 
Hand irsch, of the K. K. Naturhistorische Hofmuseum of Vienna. 
His paper on this interesting material was received during the 3'ear 
and is being translated from the German under the supervision of 
Prof. Charles Schuchert, of Yale University. Other loans of fossil 
invertebrates for study purposes comprised specimens from the 
Devonian of Canada and representatives of Eurystomites virginiana 
Hyatt to Dr. John M. Clarke, of the New York wState Museum; 
specimens from the Alaryland Devonian and the stratigraphic series 
of New York Medina fossils to Prof. Charles Schuchert, of Yale Uni- 
versity, and the Troost collection of fossil crinoids to Miss Elvira 
Wood, of the U. S. Geological Survey. Among specialists who vis- 
ited the Museum were Mr. E. F. Burchard, Mr. S. H. Ball, and Mr. 
R. W. Stone, of the U. S. Geological Survey; Mr. L. N. Stephenson 
and Mr. W. F. Prouty, of Johns Hopkms University; Air. Walter 
Granger, of the American Museum of Natural History, Mr. T. H. 
Aldrich and Col. T. L. Casey. 

Dr. William H. Dall reports the completion by himself of a review 
of the relations of the Miocene beds of Maryland with other Ameri- 
can Aliocene and the Miocene of Europe, which was published in the 
Miocene volume of the Maryland State surve3\ A monograph of 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 47 

the fauna o! the Coos Bay Miocene Empire beds of Oregon is now in 
progress. 

The di\nsion of paleobotany, which contains the collections of 
both the Museum and the Survey, has remained, as heretofore, 
under the supervision of the paleobotanists of the U. S. Geological 
Survey. Prof. L. F. Ward completed his monograph on "The 
status of the Mesozoic floras of the United States, Part II," which 
will soon be issued by the Survey. Mr. David T\Tiite made exten- 
sive use of the Lacoe collection in the preparation of a report on the 
stratigraphic succession of the Pottsville floras in the basins of the 
Appalachian trough, while Dr. F. H. Knowlton was occupied with 
the flora of the Laramie group and with material from Alaska. 
The type-specimens of the genus Myrica were the subject of study 
by Mr. E. W. Berry, secretary of the Torrey Botanical Club, of Pas- 
saic, New Jersey, and the type specimens of the genera Eucalyptus 
and Casuarina by Mr. Henry Dean, president of the Linngean Society 
of New South Wales. 

EXPLORATIONS. ■ 

Members of the Museum staff have little opportunity to engage in 
field work, owing to the very limited funds available for the purpose, 
and all expeditions undertaken by them are naturally restricted to 
obtaming material not already represented in the collections. The 
principal sources of additions to the collections are the Government 
surveys and explorations, such as arc conducted by the Geological 
Survey, the Bureau of Fisheries, several bureaus of the Department 
of Agriculture, and the Bureau of American Ethnology, all of which, 
under the law, are required to deposit their collections ui the Museum 
as soon as they have been studied, though these transfers are often 
made without awaiting this result. 

Individuals collecting in a private capacity are sometimes among 
the most liberal contributors, and two such cases are especially note- 
worthy in the history of the past year. Dr. W. L. Abbott, whose 
generosity has so often been mentioned in these reports, continued 
his work in the Far East and has sent home large series of specimens 
in anthropology, mammalogy, and ornithology. Twenty-eight 
cases of ethnological objects, comprising his last shipment for the 
year, illustrate investigations on Sumatra, the Mergui group, and 
the islands of Nias and Engano. His studies in this subject have 
been extensive and exhaustive and the results naturally most instruc- 
tive and important. The field covered by his labors in collecting 
mammals and bii-ds included mainly the Malay Peninsula and adja- 
cent islands and the islands of Banka, Billiton, and Karimata, 
between Sumatra and Borneo, from w-hich he has sent many him- 
dreds of interesting specimens. 



48 REPORT OF NATIONAL MTJSEUM, 1905. 

Maj. Edgar A. Mearns, Surgeon, U. S. Army, stationed with the 
troops in Mindanao, gave largely of his time to collecting in the same 
lines as Doctor Abbott, and his collection, presented to the Museum, 
is very rich in ethnological objects of the Moros and in well-preserved 
specimens of the mammals and birds of this interesting region. 
Besides the large island. Doctor Mearns also visited Dinagat, Basilau, 
Sulu, and Cagayan Sulu. His most important discoveries of ani- 
mals were made on the upper slopes of Mount Apo, whose zoological 
novelties have been described elsewhere. 

Several expeditions sent out by the Bureau of American Ethnol- 
ogy have served to enrich the collections to a very material degree. 
Dr. Ales Hrdlicka, detailed by the Museum, spent about ten weeks 
among the Apaches and Pimas of southern Arizona and New Mexico, 
and while conducting physical and physiological studies of the Indian 
children and completing medical researches previously begun, found 
opportunity for making a large collection of aicheological and eth- 
nological objects. Continuing his researches to determine the 
range of Antillean culture, Dr. J. Walter Fewkes actively prosecuted 
his studies during the winter at the sites of ancient Totonac semi- 
civilization in the State of Vera Cruz, Mexico. Mrs. Matilda Coxe 
Stevenson spent the greater part of the year in continuing her inves- 
tigations among the Zuni Indians of New Mexico, in the course of 
which a large and valuable collection was made. 

On the 1st of June the assistant curator of ethnology. Dr. Walter 
Hough, took the field in Arizona and New Mexico to conduct the 
Museum-Gates Expedition of 1905, with the object of further deter- 
mining the distribution of the ancient pueblo peoples in the Tulerosa 
region, a work begun in 1903. This expedition promises a large 
collection. 

As elsewhere noted, the assistant curator of mammals, Mr. Gerrit S. 
Miller, jr., and the curator of reptiles, Mr..Leonhard Stejneger, spent 
most of the summer of 1904 in field investigations in Europe. After 
some collecting in the vicinity of Genoa, Italy, Mr. Miller proceeded to 
the region of the Alps for the purpose of instituting comparisons 
between the vertical distribution of life in that area with the life zones 
of the mountains of eastern North America. A large number of speci- 
mens, mainly of mammals, birds, reptiles, and plants, were secured, 
and many photographs were taken. Headquarters were established 
successively at Aix-les-Bains, Geneva, St. Cergue, Chamonix, Zermatt, 
Grindelwald, Vitznau, and Goschenen, from which places trips were 
made up the neighboring slopes. 

The head curator of biology, Dr. F. W. True, made a number of 
excursions near the close of the year to the Calvert Cliffs and points 
on the Patuxent River, Maryland, and also to Virginia, for the pur- 
pose of collecting specimens of fossil cetaceans and observing their 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 49 

mode of occurrence. Much new material was obtained at the Calvert 
Cliffs, some of which throws an important light on the relation of the 
American forms to those described from the Tertiary formations of 
Europe. 

In the autumn of 1904 Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of birds, pro- 
ceeded to Costa Rica, where he remained several months studying the 
collection of birds in the national museum of that country, collecting 
in various places to supply desiderata in the museum here, and inves- 
tigating the distribution and natural environment of many species. 
The results of this expedition have been of material aid to Mr. 
Ridgway in continuing his work on the birds of North and Middle 
America and also to the national collections. In the beginning recon- 
naissances were made in the San Jose Valley, on the surrounding 
mountains, and about Turrucares, on the Pacific Railroad, at Santo 
Domingo, the present terminus of the railroad, about the volcano of 
Poas, and at Pigres, an Indian village at the mouth of the Rio Grande 
de Tarcoles. At the latter place ten specimens were obtained of the 
rare humming bird, Arinia houcardi, previously only known from the 
single type-specimen. Later a trip was made to the hacienda Monte 
Redonde, on the south side of the Cerro de la Caudelaria. After the 
arrival of the collecting outfit, which had been delayed, Mr. Ridgway 
revisited Pigres, stopping at several places on the way from San Jose, 
and collected at Turrialba, on the railroad connecting with the Atlantic 
side; at Bonilla, a stock farm situated about 1,000 feet above the 
railroad; at Coleblanco, between the volcanoes of Irazu and Turrialba, 
elevated about 7,000 feet, and on the volcanoes themselves. The 
total number of specimens of birds obtained, not including those pre- 
sented by the national museum of Costa Rica, was 1,359. 

Birds and reptiles were collected in Jamaica and Guatemala by 
Mr. W. H. Maxon, of the division of plants. The division of birds 
was benefited by the explorations in China of Messrs. Willis and 
Blackwelder, in North Borneo of Mr. G. A. Goss and H. D. Dodge, 
and*on Kyska Island, Alaska, of Dr. J. Hobart Egbert, of the U. S. 
Coast Survey. The investigations in Cuba of Mr. E. A. Schw^arz, of 
the U. S. Department of Agriculture, and also custodian of the Coleop- 
tera in the Museum, resulted in the acquisition of a large and impor- 
tant collection of insects, especially rich in Coleoptera. Mr. H. S. 
Barber, aid in insects, collected extensively in the Dismal Swamp 
region in the spring. 

The explorations of the Bureau of Fisheries have added much mate- 
rial in the line of fishes and marine invertebrates. The most impor- 
tant expedition was by the steamer Albatross, which under the scien- 
tific direction of Dr. Alexander Agassiz made extensive investigations 
in the eastern Pacific Ocean between October, 1904, and March, 1905. 
The vessel touched at Panama, the Galapagos, Callao, Easter Island, 



50 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

Manga Reva, and Acapulco, making large collections especially of 
pelagic material between these points, the vertical tow net being used 
to a depth of 300 fathoms. A small amount of deep-sea dredging and 
shore collecting was also carried on. 

Mr. Barton A. Bean, assistant curator of fishes, made a collecting 
trip to Carroll County, Maryland, and Mr. Owen Bryant, of Boston, 
secured large numbers of mollusks at the Bahama Islands, which he 
shared with the Museum. 

Among botanical expeditions sent out by the Department of Agri- 
culture, two were under officers of that Department, who are also con- 
nected with the Museum; Mr. F. V. Coville, who visited Texas, Ari- 
zona, and New Mexico, and Prof. O. F. Cook, who w^as detailed to 
Guatemala. Mr. W. II . Maxon, assistant curator of plants, returned 
from his second trip to Jamaica in July, 1904, bringing a large number 
of specimens of plants. Dr. J. N. Rose, associate curator of plants, 
left Washington on June 21, 1905, for field work in Mexico, which will 
occupy liim during the summer. 

In cooperation with the U. S. Geological Survey and by direct 
detail from the Museum, three members of the staff of the Depart- 
ment of Geology were enabled to take the field for short trips. The 
head curator. Dr. George P. Merrill, visited Florida and the Thetford 
Mines region of Canada, securing good exhibition samples of coquina 
and of soft limestone from the former, and a fine large block of ser- 
pentine, with veins of so-called asbestos from the latter. The assist- 
ant curator of stratigraphic paleontology. Dr. R. S. Bassler, made 
explorations in Virginia, South Carolina, and Kentucky, during which 
he made extensive collections of fossil invertebrates, while Mr. C. W. 
Gilmore, preparator in vertebrate paleontology, collected in that line 
in New Mexico. Mr. A. G. Maddren, under a grant from the Smith- 
sonian Institution, spent the summer of 1904 in Alaska, mainly in 
search of remains of the larger mammals, found fossil in that region. 
The results of his expedition have been described under the heading 
of researches. • 

DISTRIBUTION AND EXCHANGE OF SPECIMENS. 

Of the regular series of duplicate specimens which are prepared, 
as the occasion offers, for the use of educational institutions, 34 sets 
of fishes, 31 of marine invertebrates, 46 of fossil invertebrates, and 
19 of material illustrating rock decomposition and soil formation, a 
total of 130, besides 60 special sets, containing from a few to several 
hundred specimens each, were distributed during the year. The 
total number of specimens so disposed of was 14,103, of which 9,573 
were biological, 4,248 geological, and 282 ethnological. Over a ton 
of mineral and rock fragments was also divided among 11 colleges, 
in lots of approximately 200 pounds each, for the use of students 
in blowpipe analysis. 



RKTOKT ()!• ASSISTANT SK(^RKTAKY. 51 

In making exchanges with scientific estabhshments and indi- 
viduals, for which a corresponding equivalent is received, 14,129 
duplicate specimens were used, in 224 lots, of which 156 were biolog- 
ical, with 9,61S specimens; 22 geological, with 3,637 specimens, and 
46 antlu'opological, with 874 specimens. A total of 14,615 speci- 
mens were also sent to specialists for stud}', in 139 lots, 119 })eing 
biological and 20 geological. References to many of these trans- 
actions will be found under other headings, but as an indication of 
the extensive relations of the IMuseum abroad it is interesting to 
note here the sources of foreign exchanges for the year. 

The establishments from which specimens were received were 
the British Museum of Natural History, London, England; the 
University Museum of Zoology, Cambridge, England; the Royal 
Botanic Gardens, Kew, England; the Museum of Natural History, 
Paris, France; the Royal Botanical Museum, Berlin, Germany; 
the Royal Zoological and Anthropological-Ethnographical Museum, 
Dresden, Germany; the University of Leipzig, Germany; the Zoo- 
logical Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark; the K. K. Naturhistorisches 
Hofmuseum, Vienna, Austria; the Museo de Ciencias Naturales, 
Madrid, Spain; the Ro^'al Botanical Garden, Calcutta, India; the 
College of Science, Tokyo, Japan, tlu'ough the Imperial Japanese 
Commission at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition; the Albany 
Museum, Grahamstown, South Africa; the ]\Iuseo Nacional, City 
of Mexico, Mexico; the Museo de la Plata, La Plata, Argentina; the 
Museo Paulista, Sao Paulo, Brazil, and the Museo Nacional, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil. 

The individuals were as follows: M. Jean Miguel, Barroubio, 
Herault, France; M. Pissaro, Paris, France; M. F. Canu, Ver- 
sailles, France; Dr. Max Verworn, of the Universit}- of Gottmgen, 
Germany; Prof. G. ^I. R. Levinsen, of the University of Copen- 
hagen, Denmark; Dr. J. Matiegka, of the University of Prague, 
Austria; Dr. Gustav Mayr and Baron Ludwig Ambroz}', Vienna, 
Austria; Prof. S. Brusina, Zagreb, Croatia; Mr. Robert Meusel, 
Ujpest, Hungary; Mi-. A. Berger, La Mortola, Italy; Rev. R. P. L. 
Navas, of the Colegio del Salvador, Zaragoza, Spain; Mr. T. Tsuchida, 
Misaki, Japan; Mr. Y. Hirase, Kyoto, Japan; Mr. Charles M. Maple- 
stone, Eltham, Victoria, Australia; Mr. E. S. Anthony, Hobart, 
Tasmania; Mr. H. Pittier, San Jose, Costa Rica; vSenor Don Anas- 
tasio Alfaro, director of the Museo Nacional, San Jose, Costa Rica, 
and Mr. F. H. Wolley Dod, Millarville, Alberta, Canada. 

VISITORS. 

The visitors to the ]\Iuseum building during the year numbered 
235,921, an increase of 15,143 over the previous year, and an aver- 
age daily attendance of 753. The Smithsonian building was visited 



52 



KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



by 149,380 persons, 5,392 more than the previous year, the daily 
average being 477. 

The following tables show the attendance by months during the 
past year and for each year since 1881 : 

Number of visitors during tke fiscal year 1904-5. 



Year and month. 



1904 
July 

August 

Septemlser 

October 

November 

December •. 

1905 
January 

February 

March 

April 

May 

June 

Total 

Average daily attendance 



Museum 
building. 



14, 716 
21, 473 
22, 553 
19, COl 
14,268 
13,211 

10, 699 
12, 273 
49, 100 
26,074 
17, 947 
14,006 



235, 921 
753 



Smithsonian 
building. 



9,174 
14,625 
14,114 
12,741 
8,881 
7,680 

6,368 
7,175 
31, 081 
16,087 
11,611 
9,243 



149,380 
477 



Number of visitors to the Museum and Smithsonian buildings since the opening of the former 

in 1881. 



Year. 


Museum 
building. 


Smithsonian 
building. 


1881 ... 


150,000 
167,455 
202, 188 
97,661 
205,026 
174,225 
216,562 
249,665 
374,843 
274,324 
286,426 
269,825 
319,930 
195, 748 
201,744 
180, 505 
229, e06 
177,254 
192, 471 
225,440 
216,556 
173,888 
315,307 
220,778 
235, 921 


100, 000 


1882 


152, 744 


1883 ... 


104,823 
45,565 


1884 (half year) 


1884-85 a 


105,993 


1885-86 


88, 960 


1886-87 


98.552 


1887-88 


102,863 


1888-89 a ■. . . 


149, 618 


1889-90 


120,894 


1890-91 


111,669 


1891-92 


114,817 


1892-93 a 


174, 188 


1893-94 


103,910 


1894-95 


105, 658 


1895-96 


103, 650 


1896-97 a 


115,709 


1897-98 


99,273 


1898-99 


116,912 


1899-1900 


133, 147 


1900-1901 a 


151,563 


1901-2 


144, 107 


1902-3 . 


181, 174 


1903-4 


143,988 


1904-5a 


149,380 






Total 


6, 553, 348 


3,019,157 







o Years of Presideutial inaugurations. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 53 

LECTURES AND MEETINGS. 

The lecture hall was used for lectures and meetings during the 
year as follows: 

On March 9, 1905, the Hon. Andrew D. White, several times the 
representative abroad of the United States, both as minister and 
as ambassador, delivered the fii'st lecture under the Hamilton fund 
of the Smithsonian Institution, his subject being "The diplomatic 
service of the United States, with some hints toward its reform." 
A distmguished audience was present, the Secretary of the Insti- 
tution presiding. 

On March 25 the U. S. Naval Medical School held its annual 
commencement exercises here. The diplomas were presented to 
the graduates by the President of the United States, and addresses 
were made by Dr. W. H. Welch, of Jolins Hopkins University, and 
]Medical Director R. A. Marmion, U. S. Navy, the director of the 
school. 

The following Saturday afternoon lectures were delivered under the 
auspices of the Biological Society of Washington, the attendance 
ranging from about 300 to 600 : 

March 18, ''Diatoms: The jewels of the plant world," by Dr. 
Albert Mann. 

March 25, "Mosquitoes," by Dr. L. O. Howard. 

April 1, "Forest insects and their destructive work," by Dr. A. D. 
Hopkins. 

April 8, "Beneficial bacteria," by Dr. George T. Moore. 

April 15, "Bruno, the black bear; a strange story of the north 
woods," b}^ Mr. William L. Underwood. 

April 22, "The life of a whale," by Dr. F. W. True. 

The National Academy of Sciences held its annual session in the 
Museum building from April 18 to 20, the lecture hall being used for 
the public meetings and the office of the assistant secretarj'" for busi- 
ness purposes. 

On May 3 the American Institute of Mining Engineers held one of 
its sessions in the lecture hall. The delegates were received by the 
assistant secretary, who spoke of the relations of the Institute to the 
National Museum. Doctor Merrill, head curator of geology, dis- 
cussed the division of applied geology in the Museum, after which the 
members of the Institute visited the Department of Geology. 

Special facilities were afforded the delegates to the seventh session 
of the International Railway Congress and the Exhibition of the 
American Railway Appliance Association, held in Washington from 
May 4 to 15, 1905, to study the technological exhibits, some of which 
had been expressly assembled for the purpose, and an informal meet- 
ing of some of the delegates was held in the mineralogical labora- 
tory to discuss metallographic methods. 



54 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

On September 20, 1904, a special exhibition of electrical apparatus 
was arranged in the lecture hall for the convenience of the foreign 
electrical engineers, who were in the city as guests of the American 
Institute of Electrical Engineers. 

CORRESPONDENCE AND DOCUMENTS. 

There has been a large increase in the correspondence during 
recent years, as may be judged by the fact that, while five years ago 
the total number of letters written filled about 4,500 pages of letter- 
press, during last year nearly 8,000 pages were required for this pur- 
pos3, besides over 2,000 pages of memoranda bearing upon th > cor- 
respondence. This growth is chiefly due to the increased demands of 
the public for information on scientific subjects, and all requests of 
this character made in evident good faith are cheerfully complied 
with. This is in accordance with long-established custom for the 
diffusion of knowledge under the terms of the bequest of Smithson. 

In the Museum, however, this task has in many respects become 
onerous, in view of the relatively small force employed and of the 
fact that the time of both the scientific and the clerical staff is involved. 
Specimens in lots of a single object to several hundred are received 
for identification, the number of such lots during the year having 
been 1 ,051 . While the Museum has no facilities for making quantita- 
tive analyses, yet the qualitative examinations of the many mining 
products received annually generally suffice for the purposes of the 
sender. 

There has been a notable increase in the inquiries regarding 
museum administration, the building of cases, the installation of col- 
lections, their labeling, etc., indicating greater activity in museum 
work throughout the country and the establishment of new museums. 

A large part of the information furnished by the Museum is accom- 
plished through its publications, of which not less than 25,000 volumes 
and pamphlets were distributed from the office of correspondence 
during the year to institutions and individuals named on the regular 
mailing list, while about 18,000 additional publications were fur- 
nished in response to special requests. 

PUBLICATIONS. 

The publications of the past year comprised the Annual Report of 
the National Museum for 1903, issued May 17, 1905; the third vol- 
ume of Mr. Robert Ridgway's work on the "Birds of North and 
Middle America," issued December 31, 1904; part 4, of volume 8, of 
"Contributions from the National Herbarium," entitled "Studies of 
Mexican and Central American Plants, No. 4," by Dr. J. N. Rose, 
issued April 20, 1905, and volume 9 of the same series, entitled "The 
Useful Plants of the Island of Guam," by Mr. William E. Safford, of 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 55 

the Department of Agriculture. Most of the edition of volume 27 of 
the Proceedings was distributed in July, 1904, although a small num- 
ber of copies were sent out on June 30, the last day of the previous 
fiscal year. 

The Annual Report for 1903 contained, besides the administrative 
report of the assistant secretary and the reports of the head curators, 
with the usual appendices, a paper by the assistant secretary, entitled 
"The United States National Museum: An account of the buildings 
occupied by the national collections," and a translation from the 
German of three papers combined as one by Dr. A. B. Meyer, of 
Dresden, entitled ''Studies of the museums and kindred institutions 
of New York City, Albany, Buffalo, and Chicago, with notes on some 
European institutions." The paper by Doctor Meyer, so far as it 
related to the United States, was based chiefly on personal observa- 
tions during the summer and autumn of 1899. 

Volume 27 of the Proceedings is composed of papers numbered 
from 1350 to 1381, inclusive. Papers 1382 to 1406, inclusive, forming 
the greater part of volume 28 of the Proceedings, were published 
during the year, and it is expected that this volume will be completed 
during the summer of 1905. 

The third volume of Mr. Ridgway's work on the "Birds of North 
and Middle America" contains 821 pages and covers the wagtails 
and pipits, swallows, waxwings, silky-flycatchers, palm-chats, vireos, 
shrikes, crows and jays, titmice, nuthatches, creepers, wrens, dip- 
pers, wren-tits, and warblers. It is illustrated with nineteen plates. 
The manuscript for volume 4 is well advanced. 

The papers published as part 4 of volume 8, and volume 9 of the 
"Contributions from the National Herbarium," already mentioned 
by title, are among the most useful that have appeared in this series. 
There is considerable activity among American botanists in the 
study of Mexican and Central American plants, and Doctor Rose's 
contribution will no doubt be a welcome addition to the literature 
on this subject. 

The paper by Mr. Safford on the Island of Guam has elicited much 
favorable comment and is a very important contribution. Mr. 
Safford, until recently a lieutenant in the U. S. Navy, served as 
assistant governor of Guam from August, 1899, to August, 1900. 
He is, therefore, especially well equipped for preparing such a work, 
which includes an interesting account of the physical characteristics 
and natural history of the island, the character and history of its 
people and of their agriculture, and also a descriptive catalogue of 
the plants. 

These two papers are the only ones from the ''Contributions from 
the National Herbarium" available for distribution by the National 
Museum, excepting reprints of volumes 2 and 7, entitled, respectively, 



56 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

''Botany of Western Texas," by John M. Coulter, and "Systematic 
and Geographic Botany, and Aboriginal Uses of Plants," by Messrs. 
Coulter, Rose, Cook, and Chesnut. 

Owing to the continuous demand for certain papers issued in past 
years, the first editions of which had become exhausted, the following 
have been reprinted: "Cradles of the American Aborigines," by 
Otis T. Mason, from the Report for 1887; "The Extermination of 
the American Bison, with a sketch of its Discovery and Life History," 
by William T. Hornaday, from the Report for 1887; "The Expedi- 
tion to Funk Island, with Observations upon the History and 
Anatomy of the Great Auk," by Frederic A. Lucas, from the Report 
for 1888; "Fire-making Apparatus in the U. S. National Museum," 
by Walter Hough, from the Report for 1888; "White-line Engraving 
or Relief-printing in the Fifteenth and Sixteenth Centuries," by 
S. R. Koehler, from the Report for 1890; "Japanese Wood-cutting 
and Wood-cut Printing," by T. Tokuno, from the Report for 1892; 
"Contributions to Philippine Ornithology — Part I, A list of the 
birds known to inhabit the Philippine and Palawan Islands, showing 
their distribution within the limits of the two groups," by Dean C. 
Worcester and Frank S. Bourns; " Part II, Notes on the distribution 
of Philippine birds," by Dean C. Worcester, from volume 20 of the 
Proceedings. 

In addition there were also reprinted Parts B, G, D, E, F, J, K, L, 
O, P, of Bulletin 39, containing, respectively, directions for collecting 
recent and fossil plants, birds' eggs, reptiles and batrachians, insects, 
fossils, scale insects, dragon flies, stone flies, and May flies; and also 
notes on the preparation of rough skeletons, instructions for obtaining 
information concerning the aboriginal uses of plants, and directions 
for collectors of basketry. 

In the list of publications on page 111 will be found the titles of 
those papers published during the year which are based, directly or 
indirectly, on the collections of the Museum. The list includes 246 
titles, the number of authors represented being 90. The following 
table shows the subjects to which these papers relate: 



KEPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



57 



Classified list of subjects. 



Geology and mineralogy 

Paleontology 

Botany 

MoUusks 

Crustaceans 

Insects 



Arachnids 

Miscellaneous invertebrates. 
Fishes 



Reptiles and batrachians 

Birds 

Mammals 

General zoology 

Physical anthropology 

Archeology 

Ethnolog}' 

Photography 

Museum history and administration. 

Total 



Papers 

by 
museum 
officers. 



Papers 
by other 
investi- 
gators. 



Total. 



4 

19 

40 

15 

12 

47 

2 

18 

17 

6 

35 

7 

1 

5 

4 

4 

1 

9 



Permission was granted b}^ the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution during the year for printing the following papers, based 
on Museum material, in publications other than those under the 
control of the Institution, all of which, excepting one, were issued 
before June 30: 

Bassler, K. S.: 

Cement materials of the Valley of Virginia. Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. No. 260, 1904, 
pp. 531-544, figs. 23, 24. (June, 1905.) 
House, Homer D. : 

Notes on New Jersey violets. Bull. Torrey Botan. C-lub, xxxii, no. 5, May, 1905, 

pp. 253-260, pis. 16-18. 
Further notes on the orchids of central New York. (Not yet published.) 
Maxon, William R.: 

A new Asplenium from Mexico. Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, xxxi, no. 12, Dec, 1904, 

pp. 657, 658. (Jan. 9, 1905.) 
On the names of three Jamaican species of Polypodium. Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, 

xxxii, no. 2, Feb., 1905, pp. 73-75. (March 22, 1905.) 
A new Botrychium from Jamaica. Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, xxxii, no. 4, April, 

1905, pp. 219-222, pi. vi. (May 6, 1905.) 
Adenoderris, a valid genus of ferns. Botan. Gazette, xxxix, no. 8, May 20, 1905, 
pp. 366-369, text figs. 1, 2. 
Merrill, George P.: 

On the origin of veins of asbestiform serpentine. Bull. Geol. Soc. America, xvi, 1905, 
pp. 131-136. 
Stejneger, Leonhard: 

A snake new to the District of Columbia. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii, Feb. 21, 1905, 
pp. 75-78. 

Besides the publications, the editorial office has also had charge 
of all the miscellaneous printing for the Museum, a very consider- 



58 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



able task, since it includes many thousand labels, blanks, blank 
books, letter heads, etc. The total number of forms under this 
heading was 2,790 and the total number of items 355,413. 

LIBRARY. 

The library of the National Museum now includes 24,170 bound 
volumes and 38,643 unbound papers. The additions during the 
year consisted of 3,573 books, 3,048 pamphlets, and 563 parts of vol- 
umes. There were catalogued 1,952 books, 3,755 pamphlets, and 
12,216 parts of periodicals. The number of cards added to the 
authors' catalogue was 5,942, exclusive of 847 cards for books and 
pamphlets recatalogued. 

Fifteen sets of periodicals in which parts were missing were com- 
pleted wholly or in part. The total number of volumes bound was 
1,371, and by the close of the year several hundred additional vol- 
umes had been made ready for the bindery. 

The number of books, pamphlets, and periodicals borrowed from 
the general library amounted to 40,400, including 9,192 which were 
assigned to the sectional libraries. 

One sectional library, consisting of works relating to physical 
anthropology, has been added during the year, the list of these 
libraries being now as follows : 



Administration. 

Administrative assistant. 

Anthropology. 

Biology. 

Birds. 

Botany. 

Children's room. 

Comparative anatomy. 

Editor. 

Ethnology. 

Fishes. 



Geology. 

History. 

Insects. 

Mammals. 

Marine invertebrates. 

Materia medica. 

Mesozoic fossils. 

Mineralogy. 

Mollusks. 

Oriental archeology. 

Paleobotany. 



Parasites. 

Photography. 

Physical anthropology. 

Prehistoric archeology. 

Reptiles. 

Stratigraphic paleontolog}^. 

Superintendent. 

Taxidermy. 

Technology. 



PHOTOGRAPHY. 



In illustrating Museum objects, largely for reproduction in the 
publications and in copying plans, diagrams, etc., required in con- 
nection with the work of the Museum, there were made in the pho- 
tographic laboratory during the year 1,771 negatives, 322 platinum 
prints, 2,467 silver prints, 3,289 cyanotypes, 478 velox prints, 26 
bromide enlargements, and 103 lantern slides. The chief photog- 
rapher, Mr. T. W. Smillie, has also supervised most of the photo- 
graphic work for other bureaus of the Smithsonian, as well as for 
the parent institution, a special assistant for this purpose being 
employed under his direction. He was detailed in October, 1904, 
to make the official photographs of the Smithsonian exhibits at the 



EEPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 59 

Louisiana Purchase Exposition, and lias continued, as in previous 
years, to conduct the examinations in photography for the U. S. 
Civil Service Commission. 

COOPERATION OF THE EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS. 

The Museum has, as usual, received important assistance from 
several of the Departments and bureaus of the Government. Its 
relations to the Ignited States Geological Survey, the Bureau of 
Fisheries, the Biological Survey and Divisions of Entomolog}' and 
Botanj^ of the Department of Agriculture, and the Bureau of Ameri- 
can Ethnology, especially in regard to the transfer of collections, 
have been referred to elsewhere. 

Officers of the Army and Navy stationed in the new possessions 
have made several valuable contributions, and the Army ^ledical 
Museum has continued its cooperation in promoting the welfare of 
the division of physical anthropology. 

Special acknowledgments are due to the Qiuirtermaster's Depart- 
ment of the Army for many courtesies in connection with the trans- 
portation of specimens and outfits to and from distant points, and 
to the Treasury Department for the prompt admission and shi{)- 
ment to Washington of specimens received from abroad at several 
of the customs-houses. 

EXPOSITIONS. 

Louisiana Purchase Exposition. — The exhibits of the National 
Museum for this exposition were prepared under the general direc- 
tion of Dr. F. W. True, who represented the Smithsonian Institution 
and the ]Museum on the Government Board. Dr. Marcus W. Lyon, 
jr., was appointed to assist him in the capacity of chief special agent. 
The exhibits were classified under anthropology, biology, and geol- 
ogy, and were assembled under the supervision of the head curators. 
Prof. O. T. Mason, Doctor True, and Dr. George P. Merrill, respec- 
tively. A brief description of them was given in the Smithsonian 
Report for 1904. The exposition closed on December 2, 1904, and 
the exhibits were returned to Washington early in 1905, with the 
exception of those which it was decided to send to the Lewis and 
Clark Exposition. 

Lewis and CJarl- Exposition. — The bill providing for the celebra- 
tion of the one hundredth anniversary^ of the exploration of the 
Oregon country by Capts. Meriwether Lewis and William Clark 
was approved on April 13, 1904, and the sum of $200,000 was appro- 
priated for the expenses of a Government exhibit. The exposition 
opened June 1, 1905, to run for a period of five and one-half months, 
or until October 15, 1905. Doctor True and Doctor Lyon acted in 
the same capacities as for the preceding exposition. The sum of 

NAT MUS 1905 5 



60 REPOET OF NATIONAL MFSEUM, 1905. 

$12,000 and a rather small, but otlier\¥ise satisfactory, space in the 
Government building were allotted for the exhibits of the Institu- 
tion and Museum. These, in accordance with law, were selected as 
far as possible from the collections displayed at St. Louis, but a few 
other objects were added. Among the latter the most important 
were skeletons of a Dodo, of a Great Auk, and of an adult Piked 
Whale. 

The largest objects in anthropology sent from St. Louis were four 
of the models of ancient Mexican temples; and in geology, the res- 
torations of the extinct reptiles Triceratops and Stegosaurus. From 
the large game series the rhinoceros, lion, tiger, Norway elk, chamois, 
mouflon, and Marco Polo's sheep were selected for exhibition in 
Portland. The collections of birds and minerals -were arranged in 
wall cases, with light backgrounds, and presented an especially 
attractive appearance. 

The exhibits of the other bureaus of the Institution, and of the 
Institution itself, were substantially the same as at St. Louis, though 
the installation was necessarily modified to meet the requirements 
of the more restricted space. In the case of the National Zoological 
Park, however, the large aviary was abandoned, the work of the 
bureau being illustrated b}^ maps and photographs of the park and 
of the cages and other enclosures for animals. The reproduction of 
the children's room was also omitted for lack of space. 

INTERNATIONAL CONGRESSES. 

At the Sixth International Zoological Congress, held in Berne, 
Switzerland, from August 14 to 19, 1904, under the presidency of 
Prof. Th. Studer, the National Museum was represented by Dr. Leon- 
hard Stejneger, curator of reptiles and batrachians, Mr. Gerrit S. 
Miller, jr., assistant curator of mammals, and Dr. C. W. Stiles, custo- 
dian of the helminthological collections, all of whom w^ere also dele- 
gates on behalf of the United States Government. Doctor Stejneger 
served as one of the vice-presidents at the second general session, and 
Mr. Miller and Doctor Stiles in the same capacity at the fourth gen- 
eral session. The total number of delegates from the United States 
in attendance was 22, 6 of whom read papers, as follows: Prof. H. F. 
Osborn, of the American Museum of Natural History, ' ' Ten years' 
progress in the mammalian paleontology of North America" and 
" Evolution of the horse — Recent discoveries and studies;" Prof. W. 
B. Scott, of Princeton University, ' ' The mammalian fauna of the 
Santa-Cruz beds of Patagonia;" Prof. J. C. Merriam, of the University 
of California, "A new group of marine reptiles from the Triassic of 
California;" Prof. Bashford Dean, of Columbia University, "Some 
embryological evidence as to the position of Chimeera;" Dr. Charles 



REPORT OF ASSISTAISTT SECRETARY. 61 

S. Minot, of the Harvard Medical School, ''The changes in the animal 
cell during rejuvenation and severance/' and Dr. R. G. Harrison, of 
Johns Hopkins University, "New investigations and observations on 
the development of the peripheral nerves of vertebrates." 

Mr. William H. Holmes, chief of the Bureau of American Eth- 
nology, besides visiting some of the principal European museums 
in behalf of the National Museum, attended the Fourteenth Inter- 
national Congress of Americanists at Stuttgart, Germany, from 
August 18 to 23, 1904, as the representative of the Museum and Insti- 
tution and of the Government. Other official American delegates 
were the Due de Loubat, a patron of American archeological 
research; Dr. Paul Haupt, of the National Museum and Johns Hop- 
kins University ; Dr. Franz Boas, of the American Museum of Natu- 
ral History, and Rev. C. W. Currier, of the Catholic University of 
America. A number of papers were read dealing with questions of 
American history, ethnology, and archeology. Mr. Holmes presided 
at a meeting of the Congress on August 20, and on the same day deliv- 
ered an address on "Contributions of American archeology to the 
science of man." Dr. Franz Boas read a paper on the "Influence of 
the social foundation of the Kwakiutl Indians upon their culture;" 
and Rev. C. W. Currier one on "The Indian languages of the United 
States." The Smithsonian Institution presented to the Congress, 
through its representative, a set of 75 bound volumes relating mainly 
to American archeology and ethnology, published by the Institution 
and two of its bureaus — the National Museum and the Bureau of 
American Ethnology — as well as a set of photographs of American 
Indians, furnished jointly by the Bureau and the Museum. 

Dr. Paul Haupt, associate in historic archeology, was a delegate of 
the Smithsonian Institution and the National Museum at the Second 
International Congress for the General History of Religions, at Basle, 
August 30 to September 2, 1904, and again at the Fourteenth Inter- 
national Congress of Orientalists, held in Algiers during April, 1905. 
Dr. Cyrus Adler, of the Institution and Museum, acted as the repre- 
sentative of the United States on the committee on organization for 
the latter Congress. 

The Institution, the Museum, and the Government were repre- 
sented at the Second International Botanical Congress, held in Vienna, 
Austria, from June 11 to IS, 1905, by Mr. Frederick V. Coville, curator 
of the division of plants, Mr. William F. Weight, of the Department of 
Agriculture, also being present as a delegate from the Museum. 

Dr. Leonhard Stejneger attended, on behalf of the Institution and 
Museum, the Fourth International Ornithological Congress at Lon- 
don, from June 12 to 17, 1905, and will also act for the Institution at 
the Convention on the International Catalogue of Scientific Litera- 
ture to be held in London on July 25, 1905. 



62 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

The Institution was represented at the meeting of the International 
Congress on Education, held in St. Louis, from June 28 to July 1, 1904, 
by Dr. Marcus W. Lyon, jr., of the Museum staff. 

ORGANIZATION AND STAFF. 

Upon the completion of the new building, it is proposed to take 
advantage of the additional space afforded to reorganize and place 
upon a proper basis that branch of the Museum which is best compre- 
hended under the title arts and industries. The Louisiana Purchase 
Exposition, however, furnished such an exceptional opportunity for 
obtaining material illustrative of mineral technology that a depart- 
ment under this name was established in the autumn of 1904, in 
order that the selection of specimens at St. Louis might be judiciously 
supervised. Dr. Charles D. Walcott, Director of the U. S. Geological 
Survey, has accepted the curatorship of this department. 

Dr. Cyrus Adler has been made curator, and Dr. I. M. Casanowicz 
assistant curator of historic archeology, and Dr. Paul Haupt, of 
Johns Hopkins University, an associate in the same division. 

Four other associates, this being an honorary title, were also desig- 
nated during the year, as follows: In zoology. Dr. W. L. Abbott, of 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; in botany, Capt. John Donnell Smith, of 
Baltimore, Maryland; in mineralogy, the Rev. L. T. Chamberlain, of 
New York City, and in paleobotany, Prof. Lester F. Ward, for many 
years associate curator of the collection of fossil plants. 

Dr. J. N. Rose has been advanced to associate curator in the divi- 
sion of plants, and Mr. W. R. Maxon to assistant curator. Mr. J. H. 
Painter was appointed aid in the same division, and Mr. Homer D. 
House served in a like capacity during five months of the year. 

Dr. James E. Benedict, assistant curator of the division of marine 
invertebrates, has had direct charge of the exhibits in biology. 

Mr. Herbert S. Barber was made an aid in the division of insects 
to fill the vacancy caused by the transfer of Mr. R. P. Currie to the 
Department of Agriculture, and Mr. B. H. Ransom has been 
appointed assistant custodian of the helminthological collections. 
The appointment in 1903-4 of Mr. C. A. McKnew as aid in the division 
of fishes, and Mr. E. J. Horgan as aid in the section of birds' eggs, 
failed to receive mention in the last report. 

Mr. Charles Schuchert, assistant curator of stratigraphic paleon- 
tology, resigned during the year to accept the position of professor of 
paleontology in Yale University, and was succeeded by Dr. Ray S. 
Bassler, of the U. S. Geological Survey. Mr. W. H. Newhall, aid in 
the division of systematic and apphed geology, died on May 21, 1905, 
and his place has been temporarily filled by the appointment of Mr. 
W. O. Snelling. Vacancies in the section of fossil vertebrates were 
filled by the selection of Mr. James W. Gidley and Mr. Charles W. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 63 

Gilniore as preparators, and of Mr. Norman H. Boss as assistant 
preparator. 

Mr. David White, of the IT. S. Geolooical Survey, has been desig- 
nated associate curator of paleobotany in the place of Prof. Lester F. 
Ward, now an associate. 

Dr. Frederick W. True, head curator of biology, was designated the 
representative of the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum 
on the Government Board for the Lewis and Clark Exposition at 
Portland, Oregon, and Dr. Marcus W. Lyon, jr., chief special agent 
in the same connection. 

IVIr. W. I. Adams, chief clerk of the Bureau of International 
Exchanges, has been appointed disbursing agent of the Smithsonian 
Institution for its several bureaus, including the National Museum. 

LTnder the provisions of the act of Congress, approved March 3, 
1905, prohibiting the employment of volunteers by the Government, 
it has been necessary to discontinue the gratuitous services of Dr. T. 
H. Bean as honorary curator of fishes and Dr. B. E. Fernow as hon- 
orary curator of forestry, as these gentlemen are no longer connected 
with the Government service. It may also be mentioned in this con- 
nection that the title of ''honorary," as applied to curators and sub- 
ordinate positions on the scientific stafi", has been discontinued as 
superfluous, since hereafter all persons actively connected with the 
staft', whether paid from the appropriation for the Museum or not, must 
be in the employ of the Government. 

A list of the officers constituting the scientific and administrative 
staff follows: 

The Museum Staff. 

[June 30, 1905.] 

S. P. Langley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Keeper Ex-officio. 
Richard Ratiibun, Assistant Secretary, in charge of the U. S. National Museum. 
W. dkC. Ravenel, Administrative Assistant. 

SCIENTIFIC STAFF. 

Department of Anthropology: 

Otis T. Mason, Head Curator. 
Ditnsion of Ethnology: Otis T. Mason, Curator; Walter Hough, Assistant Curator; J. W. 

Fewkes, Collaborator. 
Division of Physical Anthropology: Ales Hrdlicka, Assistant Curator. 
Diirision of Historic Archeology: Cyrus Adler, Curator; I. M. Casanowicz, Assistant 

Curator. 
Division of Prehistoric Archeology: William H. Holmes, Curator; J. D. McGuire, 

Collaborator. 
Division of Technology: George C. Maynard, Assistant Curator. 
Division of Grafhic Arts: Paul Brockett, Custodian. 

Section of Photography: T. W. Smillie, Custodian. 
Division of Medicine: J. M. Flint, U. S. Navy (retired), Curator. 



64 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 

Department of Anthropology — Continued. 

Division of Historic Religions: Cyrus Adler, Curator. 

Division of History: A. Howard Clark, Curator; Paul Beckwith, Assistant Curator. 
Associate in Historic Archeology (Honorary): Paul Haupt. 
Department of Biology: 

Frederick W. True, Head Curator. 
Division of Mammals: Frederick W. True, Curator; Gerrit S. Miller, jr., Assistant 

Curator; Marcus W. Lyon, jr., Aid; Walter L. Hahn, Aid. 
Dimsion of Birds: Robert Ridgway, Curator; Charles W. Richmond, Assistant Curator; 
J. H. Riley, Aid. 
Section of Birds' Eggs: William L. Ralph, Curator; E. J. Horgan, Aid. 
Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: Leonhard Stejneger, Curator; R. G. Paine, Aid. 
Division of Fishes: Barton A. Bean, Assistant Curator; C. A. McKnew, Aid. 
Division of MollusTcs: William H. Dall, Curator; Paul Bartsch, Aid; William B. Mar- 
shall, Aid. 
Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, Curator; W. H. Ashmead, Assistant Curator; H. S. 
Barber, Aid. 
Section of Hymenoptera: W. H. Ashmead, in charge. 
Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, Custodian. 
Section of Diptera: D. W. Coquillett, Custodian. 
Section of Coleoptera: E. A. Schwarz, Custodian. 
Section of Lepidoptera: Harrison G. Dyar, Custodian. 
Section of Arachnida: Nathan Banks, Custodian. 
Division of Marine Invertebrates: Richard Rathbun, Curator; J. E. Benedict, Assistant 
Curator; Mary J. Rathbun, Assistant Curator; Harriet Richardson, Collaborator. 
Section of Helminthological Collections: C. W. Stiles, Custodian; B. H. Ransom, 
Assistant Custodian. 
Division of Comparative Anatomy: . 

Division of Plants {National Herbarium): Frederick V. Coville, Curator; J. N. Rose, 
Associate Curator; W. R. Maxon, Assistant Curator; J. H. Painter, Aid; Homer 
D. House, Aid. 
Section of Cryptogamic Collections: O. F. Cook, Assistant Curator. 
Section of Higher Algae: W. T. Swingle, Custodian. 
Section of Lower Algae. 

Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, Custodian. 
Associates in Zoology (Honorary): W. L. Abbott, Theodore N. Gill, C. Hart Merriam, 

R. E. C. Stearns. 
Associates in Botany (Honorary) : Edward L. Greene, John Donnell Smith. 
Department of Geology: 

George P. Merrill, Head Curator. 
Division of Physical and Chemical Geology (Systematic and Applied): George P. Merrill, 

Curator; W. O. Snelling, Aid. 
Division of Mineralogy: F. W. Clarke, Curator; Wirt Tassin, Assistant Curator. 
Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology: Charles D. Walcott, Curator; R. S. Bassler, 
Assistant Curator. 
Section of Vertebrate Fossils: 

Section of Invertebrate Fossils: Paleozoic, R. S. Bassler, in charge; Carboniferous, 
George H. Girty, Custodian; Mesozoic, T. W. Stanton, Custodian; Cenozoic, 
W. H. Dall, Associate Curator; Madreporarian Corals, T. Wayland Vaughan, 
Custodian. 
Section of Paleobotany: David White, Associate Curator; A. C. Peale, Aid; F. H. 
Knowlton, Custodian of Mesozoic Plants. 
Associate in Mineralogy (Honorary) : L. T. Chamberlain. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 65 



Department of Geology — Continued. 

Associate in Paleontology (Honorary): Charles A. White. 

Associate in Paleobotany (Honorary): Lester F. Ward. 
Department of Mineral Technology; 
Charles D. Walcott, Curator. 

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF. 

Chief of Correspondence and Documents, R. I. Geare. 

Librarian, Cyrus Adler. 

Assistant Librarian, N. P. Scudder. 

Disbursing Agent, W. 1. Adams. 

Superintendent of Construction and Labor, J. S. Goldsmith. 

Editor, Marcus Benjamin. 

Photographer, T. W. Smillie. 

Registrar, S. C. Brown. 

Property Clerk, W. A. Knowles. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS DURING THE FISCAL 

YEAR 1904-5. 

Except where otherwise indicated, the specimens were presented to the Museum or transferred in 

accordance witli law.l 



Abbe. Cleveland, U. S. Weather Bureau, 
Department of Agriculture: 4 mollusks 
{Pohjgyra albolabris var. major Binn.) 
from Mount Weather, near Bluemont, 
Va. (44153) ; 8 mollusks {LinnsEa and 
Planorbis); concretion of ocher and a 
fossil pebble (44270). 

Abbott, William L., Singapore, Straits 
Settlements, Malay Archipelago : 19 boxes, 
containing a collection of rare and valu- 
able mammals, birds, birds' nests and 
eggs, reptiles, mollusks, marine inverte- 
brates, skeletons of mammals and birds, 
brains of animals ; also ethnological mate- 
rial, collected in Singapore, Mergui 
Archipelago, German New Guinea, and 
Lower Siam (43017) ; large collections of 
natural history material and ethnological 
specimens from Banka, Billiton, and 
Karimata (44559). (See also under C. 
Boden Kloss.) 

Adkins, William H. (See under C'hicka- 
hominy Tribe.) 

Adler, Cyrus, Smithsonian Institution: 
Facsimile of Thomas Jefferson's Bible 
(44113). 

Afro-American Trading and Navigation 
Company, New York City (received 
through Department of Agriculture): 
Plant from East Africa (43586: deposit). 

Agriculture, U. S. Department of, Hon. 
James Wilson, Secretary. 

Biological Survey, C. Hart Merriam, 
chief. 132 birds' eggs and 21 nests, ob- 
tained in different sections of North 
America (42997) ; 2 crabs and 3 cray- 
fishes, collected by E. W. Nelson and 
E. A. Goldman at Tuxtla, Mexico 
(42999) ; 9 eggs of Mexican birds (43028) ; 
egg of Curassow, Crax glohicera, and 
nest of humming bird {Lampornis 
prevostii) (43131); 36 birds' eggs and 6 
nests, collected in Arctic America by E. A. 



Preble (43657); 5 mollusks, collected by 
E. A. Goldman in California (44021); 20 
mollusks from Texas, received through 
Vernon Bailey (44022); 300 fresh-water 
and land shells from Great Falls, Mont., 
through Vernon Bailey (44111); 2 cray- 
fishes from Sour Lake, Texas (44142); 
land and fresh-water mollusks, collected 
by J. H. Gaut at Sour Lake, Texas 
(44154) : 19 birds' eggs, collected in Lower 
Californa by E. A. Goldman (44281); 5 
birds' eggs and nest of Scissor-tailed fly- 
catcher, Milvulus forficatus, collected in 
Texas by J. H. Gaut (44284) ; 7 birds' eggs 
(44287): 12 land snails from Coronado 
Islands, near San Diego, Cal., collected 
by E. W. Nelson and E. A. Goldman 
(44377); nest and 4 eggs of Parula 
Warbler, Compsothlypis americana, col- 
lected by H. W. Henshaw at Glen Echo, 
Md. (44380) ; nest and 4 eggs of Grass- 
hopper sparrow, Coturniculus savannarum 
bimaculatus, collected in Nebraska by 
Merritt Cary (44401); 8 birds' eggs, col- 
lected in Lower California by E. W. Nelson 
and E. A. Goldman (44402); 40 land 
shells, collected in Texas by J. H. Gaut 
(44447); 5 cacti, collected in Texas by 
J. H. Gaut (44572); 45 shells from Pyra- 
mid Lake, Utah, collected by Vernon 
Bailey (44620). 

Bureau of Animal Industry, D. E. Sal- 
mon, chief. Skull of a fox terrier (43351). 

Bureau of Entomology, L. O. Howard, 
chief. 124 Lepidoptera and 25 Orthoptera 
fiom Cuba, collected by E. A. Schwarz 
(42944) ; isopod crustaceans (44122) ; sow- 
bug from Berkeley, Va. (44262). 

Bureau of Plant Industry, B. T. Gal- 
loway, chief. About 1,000 plants, reptiles, 
insects, birds' eggs, mammals, and fishes 
from Guatemala, collected by W. R. 
Maxon (44279). 

67 



68 



EEPORT OF NATIONAL "MUSEUM, 1905. 



'Weather Bureau, Willis L. Moore, chief. 
Set of marine repeaters, pocket relay, and 
Swift's lightning-cable arrester (43626) . 

Material deposited in the National Her- 
barium: 12 plants collected in Colorado 
by Miss E. Cathcart (42935); 4 plants 
collected in Oregon by C. V. Piper 
(42938): 8,963 plants of the late A. B. 
Langlois collection (43043); 31 plants 
from Colorado, collected by Miss E. Cath- 
cart (43171); 38 plants from Colorado, 
collected by Vernon Bailey (43181); 18 
ferns from Europe (43344); 3 plants col- 
lected by H. P. Chandler in California 
(43357) ; 2 plants from Indiana, collected 
by J. W. Whiteman (43369) ; plant from 
South Carolina, collected by J. S. New- 
man (43''70); specimen of Aristolochia 
from battles Wharf, Ala., received 
through R. H. True (43406); 2 plants 
from Mexico (43457); plant from Cali- 
fornia, collected by C. Hart Merriam 
(43506); 219 plants from Greenland 
(43565); 11 plants from Canada, obtained 
by John Macoun (43566); 411 plants 
from the herbarium of F. Lamson- 
Scribner (43589); 1,450 plants collected 
by David Griffiths in the southwest sec- 
tion of the United States (43650); 5 
plants collected in Washington by C. V. 
Piper (43682); 68 plants collected in 
Washington (43689); 20 plants from 
Texas (43764); 496 plants from Alaska, 
collected by C. V. Piper (43805); 3 plants 
from Oklahoma and New Mexico, col- 
lected by J. H. Gaut (43878); 513 plants 
collected by C. V. Piper in Oregon, Cali- 
fornia, and Arizona (43899) ; 4 specimens 
of Cactacese from California and Arizona, 
collected by W. T. Swingle (43938); 62 
plants collected by Chester Washburne 
in Alaska (43963); specimen of Juncus, 
collected by B. E. Fernow in New York 
(43964) ; 43 sheets of plants, collected by 
W. H. Osgood in Alaska (43966); 10 
plants, collected by A. and A. W. Greely 
in Alaska (43967) ; 2 specimens of grasses 
from Alaska (44010) ; orchid from Cascade 
Mountains (type oiListera caurina Piper) , 
from C. V. Piper (44086); 29 plants 
from California and Oregon, collected by 
C. V. Piper (44087) ; 9 plants from Oregon, 
collected by M. A. Crosby (44088); 3 
specimens of Cyperacese from California, 



collected by H. P. Chandler (44089); 6 
plants from North America (44090); 111 
plants from the District of Columbia and 
vicinity, collected by L. II. Dewey 
(44093); 26 sheets of Junci, collected by 
C. V. Piper and J. S. Cotton in Oregon and 
Washington (44118); 2 specimens of 
Carex, collected by Byron Hunter in 
Washington (44134); 384 plants from 
Canada, collected by E. A. Preble (44182) ; 
cactus from Texas, collected by J. H. 
Gaut (44201); 10 specimens of cacti from 
California, collected by W. T. Swingle 
(44202); 8 plants collected in Texas by 
J. H. Gaut (44312); 300 living cacti from 
Mexico, collected by Edward Palmer 
(44345); 2 plants from Alaska, collected 
by J. H. Egbert (44364); 54 plants 
from Desert Botanical Laboratory, Tuc- 
son, Ariz. (44400); 166 plants from E. 
Hackel, Gratz, Austria, from various 
localities (44431); 231 plants from E. 
Hackel, from various localities (44432); 
57 plants from D. J. Litwinon, St Peters- 
burg Academy of Sciences, collected in 
various localities (44433); 18 type speci- 
mens of plants from D. J. Litwinon, of the 
St. Petersburg Academy of Sciences, ob- 
tained in various localities (44434) ; plant 
collected by J. K. Small in Georgia 
(44466); 275 plants from various locali- 
ties, sent by E. Hackel (44509) ; 2 living 
plants, collected in Lower California by 

E. W. Nelson (44511); 51 plants, ool- 
lected in Canada by John Macoun (44521) ; 
5 plants, collected in the District of Co- 
lumbia and vicinity by E. S. Steele 
(44522); 13 plants, collected in Mexico 
by T. S. Brandegee (44523); 15 plants 
from Washington State, collected by J. S. 
Cotton (44524); plant from Arizona, col- 
lected by J. J. Thornber and D. Griffiths 
(44525); 4 plants, collected in Texas by 

F. J. Tyler (44526); 37 plants, collected 
by E. O. Wooton in Colorado and New 
Mexico (44527) ; plants collected in Wash- 
ington by C. R. Ball (44528); plant col- 
lected in Florida by S. M. Tracy (44529) ; 
plant from Washington State, collected 
by Messrs. J. H. Sandberg and J. B. Lei- 
berg (44530) ; 7 plants, collected in South 
Africa by W. M. Locgden (44531); 5 
plants, collected in Oregon by W. C. 
Cusick (44532); 14 plants, collected in 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



69 



Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona by David 
Griffiths (44533); 6 plants, collected in 
Texas by C. W. Warburton (44534); 87 
plants, collected in Washington and Ore- 
gon by Byron Hunter (44535); 5 plants, 
collected in Maine by J. C. Parlin (44536) ; 
specimen of fern, Ophiof/lossum vulgatum, 
from the District of Columbia (44571): 
received through Biological Survey 5 
cacti collected in Texas by J. H. Gaut 
(44752). (See also under Afro- American 
Trading and Navigation Company; A. J. 
Collier: A. A. Girault; J. H. Gaut; Ha- 
waiian Experiment Station; J. Jermy; 
Lloyd Brothers; Manila, Bureau of For- 
estry; J. B. S. Norton; A. Rea; E. T. 
Seton; F. W. Thurow; E. P. Van Duzee; 
H. Weigel.) 

AiTKEN, J. B.. Widnes, England (received 
through British Roj'al Commission at the 
Louisiana Purchase Exposition): Sam- 
ples of chemicals, etc. (44554: from the 
Louisiana Purchase Exposition). 

Albers, August, Cincinnati, Ohio (received 
through R. S. Bassler): 25 Ordovician 
fossils from Ohio and Kentucky (43531). 

Alcock, Maj. A. (See under Calcutta, 
India, Indian Museum.) 

Aldrich, Ch.^rles. (See under Iowa, His- 
torical Department of.) 

AujRiCH, T. H., Washington, D. C: 2 speci- 
mens of Somatogyrus loalkeriana Aldrich 
(from type lot) collected in the southern 
part of Alabama (44209). 

Alfaro, Anastasio, director, Museo Na- 
cional, San Jose, Costa Rica: 117 birds' 
skins from Costa Rica and Guatemala 
(43221: exchange); 7 birds' skins from 
Costa Rica (44592: gift); 636 birds' skins 
from Costa Rica (44609: gift). 

Allen, J. I., Columbus, Mont.: Indian hair- 
brush made from a strip of porcupine 
(43859). 

Allison, Andrew, Lake Charles, Belair, and 
New Orleans, La., and Bay St. Louis, 
Miss.: 77 plants from Louisiana (42937: 
collected for the Museum) : reptiles, 4 skins 
and skulls of mammals, and water lilies 
from Louisiana (42951: collected for the 
Museum); 5 mammals from Louisiana 
(42992: collected for the Museum); 317 
plants from Louisiana (43008: gift); 36 
birds' eggs (43029: collected for the Mu- 
seum). 



Altamirano, Fernando, Institute Medico 
Nacional, City of Mexico (received 
through J. N. Rose): "Walking-stick," 
Pseudosennyie truncata Caudcll (42955). 

Alter, N. Berton, Fort Hunter, N. Y.: 
Human bones and objects found in an In- 
dian burial place near Fort Hunter; also 
collection of prehistoric relics from village 
sites in the same locality (43533, 44495). 

Ambrosetti, Juan B. (See under Argen- 
tina Department of Agriculture.) 

Ambrozy, Ludwig, Vienna, Austria: Col- 
lection of Wallachian costumes and house- 
hold utensils from the southern part of 
Hungar}' (44098: exchange). 

American Institute of Architects, Wash- 
ington, D. C. (received through Glenn 
Brown, secretaiy and treasurer): Gold 
badge or pin of the American Institute of 
Architects (43501). 

American Museum of Natural History, 
New York City: 227 pieces of Mexican 
pottery, collected by William Bauer, 
L. P. X. (43630: purchase); 2 ants {Ma- 
cromischa elegans Wheeler) (43771 : gift) ; 
Peruvian textiles (43854: exchange); 
casts of objects in the American Museum 
(43893: exchange); 4 plaster busts of In- 
dians (44017: exchange); 4 crabs (44107: 
gift). 

American Record Company, New York 
City (through J. O. Prescott): 24 gramo- 
phone records made by native Hawaiians 
(44335). 

American Society of Civil Engineers, 
New York City (through Charles Warren 
Hunt, secretary): Badge of tlie society 
(43723). 

Ames, Oakes, North Easton, Mass. : Orchid 
{Lxlia alhida) from the Ames Botanical 
Laboratory (43638: exchange). 

Anderson, J. P., Lamoni, Iowa: Plant from 
Iowa (43299). 

Anderson, Rev. R. W., Eagle Pass, Tex.: 
2 Sphinx moths, or "Tomato-sphinx," 
Phlegeihontius (Sphinx) quinquemaculatus 
Haworth (43373). 

Andrews, A. H. Chicago, 111. (through Brig. 
Gen. T. E. Wilcox, U. S. Army, retired): 
Fossil wood from Chicago (43802). 

Angell, J. P., Pine Bluff, Ark.: Beetle 
{Calosoma scrutator Fabr.) (44444). 

Anthony, E. S., Hobart, Tasmania: 7 
chipped flints, finely chipped spearhead 



70 



EEPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



3 polished axes; dilly-bag, and chippings 
from New South Wales (43027: exchange). 

Archer-Burton, L. J. G., BeHin, Md. : Cop- 
per penny of Edward VII, 1902 (43144). 

Argentina, South America, Department 
OF Agriculture of (received through 
Juan B. Ambrosetti) : Samples of Argen- 
tine forestry collection (44594: from the 
Louisiana Purchase Exposition). 

Armstrong, R. B. (See under Treasury 
Department.) 

Ashcraft, G. B., Montreal, Canada: Plant 
{Epipactis viridijiora (Hoffm.) Reichb.) 
from the vicinity of Montreal (43098). 

Atkeison, Richie, Atkeison, Ala.: Wheel- 
bug, Prionidus irisiatus L. (43245). 

Atkinson, G. W., D. W. Cunningham and 
C. E. DooLEY, Charleston, W.Va.: ]\Ioon- 
shiner's still, with cap and worm, seized in 
the Flat Top Mountains of West Virginia 
(43856). 

Austin, George M., Wilmington, Ohio: 20 
specimens of Lichenocrinus from the Rich- 
mond group of Ohio (43837). 

Atme, L. H., U. S. con.sul. Para, Brazil: G 
eggs of Hoatzin, Opisthocomus hoatzin 
(43147); turtle-shaped pottery object 
from the island of Marajo, Brazil (43768). 

Babcock, Mrs. P. H., Hudson, Ohio: Basket 
made from long pine needles by an aged 
colored woman in South Carolina (43461). 

Bachtell, W. L., Joplin, Mo. : Large caicite 
crystal (42965: purchase); example of 
marcasite radiation (43349: gift). 

Bailey, M. A., New Orleans, La.: Luna 
TaoihjActiaslunalAnn. (44584). 

Bailey, Vernon, Department of Agricul- 
ture: 26 plants from Arizona, Colorado, 
New Mexico, and Texas (43152, 43205, 
43278, 43375, 43426, 43427, 43537). (See 
also under Department of Agriculture.) 

Bain, H. T. (See under J. Morgan Clem- 
ents.) 

Baker, C. F., Santiago de las Vegas, C\iba: 
120 cryptogamic plants from Nicaragua 
and California (43020: purchase); 46 
plants from California (43261 : purcha.se): 
39 Lepidoptera (43468: gift); 31 Diptera 
from Cuba (43569: gift) ; 38 shells from 
Cuba (43705: gift); 4 plants from Cali- 
fornia (43924: gift); crustaceans (44266: 
gift). 

Baker, C. F., Chicago Academy of Sciences, 
Chicago, III.: 3 pond snails, Linnsta auri- 



cularia, and 40 specimens of Vitrea drapar- 
rmldi from Chicago (44023). 

Baker, Fred., San Diego, Cal.: 2 marine 
shells from California and a marine shell 
from Japan (43266). 

Baldridge, Mrs. Maria, Los Angeles, Cal.: 
10 mollusks and 2 ostracods (43766) . 

Baldwin, J. E., Chadds Ford, Pa.: 2 com- 
posite plants, Troximon pomiferum Raf., 
from Pennsylvania (43761). 

Bales, E. N., Washington, D. C: Covered 
jar and a brass metric rule, obtained from 
the militaiy' pharmacy in the old walled 
city, Quartel Mesa, Philippine Islands 
(10349: loan). 

Ball, C. R., Washington, D. C.: 22 speci- 
mens of American willows (44048). (See 
under Department of Agriculture.) 

Ball, Mrs. Maide M. (See under Interior 
Department, U. S. Geological Surv'ey.) 

Ball, W. P. (See under Interior Depart- 
ment, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Bannon, T. M., Phoenix, Ariz.: 8 plants 
from Arizona (44152). 

Barber, A. W., Washington, D. C. : Wooden 
arrow shaft witli obsidian head (43894); 
coprolites from Mount St. Helen, Oregon 
(43901); 3 skulls and archeological ob- 
jects from the sand mounds of Florida 
(44219). (See also under Peter Rauler- 
son.) 

Barber, C. A. (See under W. L. McAtee.) 

Barber, II. S., U. S. National Museum: 
Plants and mollusks from Texas and in- 
sects from Virginia (42950, 43175, 44587: 
collected for the Museum; 44109, 44133: 
gift). (See also under R. P. Currie and 
E. A. Schwarz.) 

Barber, Manly D., Knoxville, Tenn.: 
Fresh-water and land shells (43737). 

Barbour, Thomas. (See under Museum of 
Comparative ZoologA^ Cambridge, Mass.) 

Barclay, J. C. (See under Western Union 
Telegraph Company.) 

Barlow, Gen. J. W., U. S. Army (retired), 
New London, Conn.: 445 birds' eggs from 
North America (42998). 

Barnes, William, Decatur, 111.: 92 insects 
(44269). 

Barrett, O. W., Porto Rico Experiment 
Station, Mayaguez, Porto Rico: 3 hymen- 
opterous parasites from Cemiostoma cof- 
feella (Chrysocharis Iknda Ashm.) (43216) 
3 chalcidoid flies (43677); 4 parasitic 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



71 



Hymenoptera (43977); parasitic Hymen- 
opleron {Chalcis annulata Fabr.) (43997). 
Bartsch, Paul, U. S. National Museum: 
60 raollusks from Iowa (43088: gift); 5 
specimens of prickly pear {Opuntia) from 
Illinois (44591 : collected for the Museimi). I 
Bassler, R. S., and E. O. Ulrich, U. S. 
National Museum and U. S. Geological 
Survey: Types of 40 species of Tertiary j 
ostracoda (43718). 
Bassler, R. S. (See under August Albers: 
Interior Department, U. S. Geological | 
Survey; R. R. Rowley; E. O. Ulrich). 
Bates, G. L., Galesburg, 111. : 30 small mam- . 

uials (43813: purchase). 
Bates, Mi-s. Margaret, Washington, D. C: 
Glass sponge {Euplectella). Received 
through O. T. Mason (44360). 
Baler, William. (See under American 
Museum of Natural History, New York 
City, and Smithsonian Institution, Bu- 
reau of ^Vinerican Ethnology.) 
Be.vch, Maj. William D., U. S. Army. 

(See under War Department.) 
Beax, B. a., U. S. National Museum: Fishes, 
cmstaceans, mollusks, and reptiles, col- 
lected for the Museum in the western part 
of Maryland (43077). 
Bean, George T. (See under Department 
of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fish- 
eries.) 
Beckwith, Paul, U. S. National ^hiseum: 
Moro mouth-harp, Igorot earring, and 
Kaffir bracelet (42969) ; United States .?10 
gold piece of the issue of 1893 (43064: 
exchange): gilt G. A. R. official badge 
used at the Boston encampment in 1904 
(43161); musical instnunent "zobo- 
phone " (43190) : English vest-pocket pis- 
tol (43388): printed portraits of promi- 
nent members of the Society of the 
S. A. R. (43398): 4 complete clips, from 
Cuba, of fixed ammunition for a Lee rifle 
(43580) : programme of ceremonies at the 
unveiling of the statue of Frederick the 
Great, November 19, 1904 (43623): Ro- 
man coin (44057); invitation to the inau- 
guration reception of President Grant and 
Vice-President Colfax, March 4, 1869 
(44248): Spanish Mauser rifle of Argen- 
tine pattern (44451). 
Beckwith, Thomas, Charleston, Mo.: 10 
photographs of the archeological collec- 
tion of the donor (43581). 



Beebe, D. G., Minneapolis, Minn.: 2 speci- 
mens of Celebes giant swift, Chsetura 
celebensis, a species rare in collections 
(43925). 
Beede, E. L., Drewsey, Greg, (received 
through George F. Kunz) : Opalized wood 
(43148) ; impure opal and other material 
(43405) : specimens of obsidian from Ore- 
gon (43742). 
Bemext, Clarence S., Philadelphia, Pa.: 2 
specimens of pyrite (showing dodecahe- 
dral planes), from Colorado, and a speci- 
men of datolite from Westfield, Mass. 
(44465). 
Bexar, Mrs. R. H., New York City : 2 Cock- 
roach parasites, Evania appendigaster 
Linn. (43135). 
Bender, Harry, Walters Park, Pa.: Pho- 
tograph of Frank Bender and his family 
(43219). 
Benedict, J. E., U. S. National Museum: 
Cmstaceans and insects from Vancouver 
Island, British Columbia (44285: col- 
lected for the Museum); crustaceans and 
diatoms from Portland, Greg. (44292: 
collected for the Museum); larvae of 
Caddis-flies and mosquitoes (44299: gift); 
isopods and shells from Portland, Greg. 
(44393: collected for the Museum); insect 
galls (44518: gift); invertebrates from 
Vancouver Island (44577: collected for 
the Museum). 
Benguiat, II. E., and Son, San Francisco, 
Cal.: Jewish ceremonial objects (10128: 
loan). 
Benguiat, IIad-ji Epiiraim, San Francisco, 
Cal.: Metal tray with Hebrew inscriptions 
(10177: loan). 
Bennett, B. J. (See under Thetford Mines, 

Quebec, Canada.) 
Berg, L., Custodian of the Department of 
Ichthyology, Zoological Museum of the 
Lnperial Academy of Sciences, St. Peters- 
burg, Russia: 2 parasitic Hymenoptera 
from Syr-Darya, Russian Turkestan 
(44226). 
Berger, a., La Mortola, Italy: 2 plants 

from Italy (43432: exchange). 
Berlin, Germany, Royal Botanical Mu- 
seum(Universitats-Institute) (received 
through A. Engler, director): 5 speci- 
mens of Pohjpodium setosum (Kaulf.) 
Mett, from Brazil (43528: gift); 4 plants 
I from Mexico (44081: exchange). 



72 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



Berry, S. S., Redlands, Cal.; 4 shells from 
California (42966). 

Besselievre, Sidney I., chief clerk, Bureau 
of Construction and Repair, Navy Depart- 
ment, Washington, D. C: 3 plans of the 
old frigate Constitution (44359). 

BiMEL-AsHCROFT JVIaNUFACTURING COM- 
PANY, Poplar Bluff, Mo.: 2 pieces of wood 
containing the larva of a "Golden-eyed 
fly," Chrysopa (43418). 

BiXBY, Maynard, Salt Lake City, Utah: 
Specimen of pink beryl from Dugway dis- 
trict, Utah (44059). 

Black, E. W., Soldiers' Home, D. C: Speci- 
men of fulgurite from near North Loup, 
Nebraska (42940). 

Blackburn, J. W., Washington, D. C: 
Snake, Cemo'phora coccinea, from Anacos- 
tia,D.C (43693). 

Blackford, C. M., Bivalve, Va.: Gall and 
lai"va of Gelechia gallse-solidaginis Riley 
(42954). 

Blackiston, a. H., Spokane, Wash.: Pot- 
tery from Chihuahua, Mexico (lOOSO: 
loan) ; 45 specimens of pottery and stone 
objects from Arizona, West Virginia, and 
Mexico (10287: loan). 

Blackwelder, Eliot, Morgan Park, 111.: 
20 birds' skins from Illinois, including a 
specimen of Kirtland's Warbler, Dendro- 
ica Tcirtlandi (43507); 448 beetles from 
China (43929). (See under Carnegie 
Institution.) 

Blake, Lady Edith, Kandy, Ceylon: 3 un- 
mounted photographs, 3 by 10, of native 
Veddos, Province of Una, Ceylon (43073). 

Blatchley, W. S., Indianapolis,. Ind.: 4 
Orthoptera (43469: gift); 2 Orthoptera, 
Xiphidiutn atfeniintum (43957: exchange). 

Blunt, H. W. (See under Miss Mary 
Giles.) 

Bogue, Ruth, Pomona, Cal.: 8 plants from 
Cal. (42933). 

BoNSALL, Sarah W., Philadelphia, Pa.: 
Basket made by Cassie Price, an inmate 
of the Pennsylvania Industrial Home for 
Blind Women (43912). 

Boone, Gossett. (See under Smithson- 
ian Institution, Bureau of American Eth- 
nology.) 

Boulenger, G. a. (See under London, 
England; British Museum, Natural His- 
tory.) 



BouviER, E. L. (See under Paris, France, 
Museum of Natural History.) 

Bowers, Samuel, Bisbee, Ariz.: 6 case- 
worms (43235). 

Bowers, Stephen, Los Angeles, Cal.: Al- 
bite, tourmaline, topaz, and quartz from 
near Ramona, San Diego County, Cal. 
(43722). 

Bowles, Rev. A. C, Gloucester, Mass.: 
Moths, Noctua clandestina Harris (43412). 

Bowman, J. J., Lancaster, Pa.: Single-bar- 
reled shotgun made by James Golcher 
(44513). 

Brackett, Mrs. Rose McHenry. (See un- 
der National Society of the Dames of 
1846.) 

Bradford, Alfred, Brightwood Park, D. 
C. : 32 hand-made horseshoe nails (43799). 

Bradford, G. M., Bay City, Mich, (received 
through David White): 18 fossil plants 
from Bay City (43902). 

Bradford, Miss M. M., Avery Island, Ala.: 
2 unfinished Chetimacha Indian baskets 
(43075). 

Bradford, Mrs. S., Charenton, La. (re- 
ceived through Smithsonian Institution, 
Bureau of American Ethnology): Plant 
from Louisiana (43012). 

Brandegee, T. S., San Diego, Cal.: 170 
plants from Mexico, collected by C. A. 
Purpus (43006); 4 plants (with photo- 
graphs) from Mexico (44519: exchange). 
(See also under Department of Agricul- 
ture.) 

Branner, J. C, Leland Stanford Junior 
University, Stanford University, Cal.: 6 
pliotographs of travertine quarries at 
Bagni, near Rome, Italy (44543). 

Braunton, Ernest, Waterman, Cal.: 31 
plants from California (42934; 43201a; 
43298; 43455; 43889a; 43896; 44308). 

Brazilian Commission at the Louisiana 
Purchase Exposition: Dugout canoe, 
fisherman's raft, fisherman's boat with 
sail, etc. (44419). 

Brearley, W. II., Tombstone, Ariz.: Plant 
(43420); 2 cacti from Arizona (43428). 

Bridges, T. M., Idaho Falls, Idaho: Imma- 
ture cockroach, probably N. holosericea 
Burmeister (44244). 

Bremley Brothers, Raleigh, N. C: Cole- 
optera, Neuroptera, Hemiptera, and Lepi- 
doptera (44146). 



a Exchange. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



73 



British Museum (Natural History). 
(Soo under London, England.) 

British Royal Commission at the Louis- 
iana Pltichase Exposition. (See under 
J. B. Aitken; Walter Carson & Sous; 
Chamber of Commerce; Chance & Hunt, 
Limited; H. C. Fairlie & Co.; Royal Geo- 
ijittphiea] Society; Sheppey Glue and 
Cliemical Works, Limited; South Metro- 
politan Gas Company, and Spencer Chap- 
man it Messel, Limited.) 

Britton. X. L. (See under New York Bo- 
tanical Garden.) 

Brit-ion, W. E., State entomologist. New 
Haven, Conn. : Types of mealy-winged fly, 
AIeyrod.es actese Britton, with larvte and 
pupj' (43797). 

Briits. J. H., Clinton, Mo.: 6 Carbonifer- 
ous fossil plants (43890). 

Brockway, William, Oaxaca, Mexico: 8 
plants from Mexico (43109). 

BROf)Ks, Allan, Okanogan Landing. Brit- 
ish Columbia: Cj'prinoid fish, with para- 
-iite — the larval form of the cestoid worm 
i Ligula simplicissima) , commonly found 
with these fishes (44448). 

Brooks, Luis, Santiago, Cuba: Head of a 
Cuban Long-eared owl, Asio stygius 
(44019). 

Brotherton, W. a., Rochester. Mich.: 
I'lants from Michigan (43279). 

Brown. A. J., Sulphur City, Ark. (received 
through M. W. Lyon, jr.): Fossil plant 
representing the species Lepidodendron 
nhovatum Sternberg, from the lower part 
of the Upper Carboniferous formation 
(434.54). 

Brown, Miss E. L., Landore, Idaho: Ho- 
inoptei'ous insect, Clostoptera xanihoce- 
phala Germar (42981). 

Brown, Glenn. (See under American In- 
stitute of Architects.) 

Brown, Mrs. John Crosby, Metropolitan 
Museum of Art, New York city: Violin 
and bow made by the Texcoco Indians of 
Mexico (44173) ; cast of Peruvian stone 
sjTinx (44462: exchange). 

Brown. Nathan Clifford, Camden, S. C; 
Portland, Me.; Graham, N. H.: 17 birds' 
skins from South Carolina (43933; 44155) ; 
35 birds' skins from Coos Coimty, N. H. 
(44617). 

Brown, Rev. Robert, Philippine Weather 
Bureau, Manila, Philippine Islands: Lepi- 
doptera and Odonata (43105); insects 



from the Philippine Islands (43125; 
43157); parasitic Hymenoptera (43513); 
hymenopterous parasite and a moth 
(43409) ; parasitic Hymenoptera, Hymen- 
optera. Diptera (43774: 44066; 44157; 
44362; 44515). 

Browne, Alice Key, Estate of (received 
through WiUiam D. Hoover, Trust Office, 
National Safe Deposit Savings and Trust 
Company, Washington, D. C. : 2 chairs of 
rosewood inlaid with brass, formerly the 
property of Chief Justice John ^larshall 
(44461). 

Brusina, S., Zagreb (Agram), Croatia, Aus- 
tria-Hungary : About 2,500 mollusks, a 
bird, and specimens of the crustacean 
Brachiella thynni (43458: exchange). 

Bryan, J. M., Dania, Fla.: Orchid from 
Florida (44126). 

Bryan, Capt. R. B., U. S. Army, Fort Grant, 
Ariz, (received through Brig. Gen. T. E. 
Wilcox (retired): 3 plaats from Arizona 
(43584). 

Bryant, Owen, Boston, Mass.: 3 specimens 
of Cceciloides acicula from Bermuda 
(43701); 7 specimens and 3 eggs of Py- 
ramidula striatella Anth., from Massachu- 
setts (44355; 44619); egg of Red-eyed 
vireo, Vireo olivaceus (44488). 

Bryant, Theodore, Wellington, British 
Columbia: Lepidoptera (44263). 

Buchanan, Charles H. (See under Mrs. 
J. P. Piatt.) 

Buchanan, W. R., Washington, D. C: 
White fetus (43393). 

BuLKLEY, L. C, Avalon, Alden Bridge, Bos- 
sier Parish, La.: Indian hematite plum- 
met or sinker (43145). 

Bunnell, Charles E.,Valdez, Alaska: Skull 
of Steller's Sea lion, Eumetopias juhata 
(44375). 

BuRMEisTER, W. L., Chicago, 111.; Stone axe 
from Davenport , Iowa (43239 : exchange) . 

BuscK, August. (See under Edward Mey- 
rick.) 

Bush, B. F., Courtney, Mo. : 10 specimens of 
grasses from Missouri (43440: gift); 12 
plants from Texas (43740: exchange); 511 
plants collected by J. Reverchon in Texas 
(44127: purchase); 25 plants from Arkan- 
sas (44291: gift). 

Bushnell, D. I. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of American Ethnol- 

ogy-) 



74 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



Butler, Charles M., Morenci, ]\Iich.: 2 
skins of Virginia rail, Ralliis virginianus, 
from Michigan (44320). 

Butler, F. W. A., Edgefield, S. C: Plant 
from South Carolina (43207). 

Button, Fred. L., Oakland, Cal.: 3 marine 
shells from San Pedro Bay, Cal. (43607). 

BuYSSON, Robert du, Paris, France : 4 Chal- 
cid flies from Ceres, Argentine Republic 
(44104). 

Calcutta, India, Indian Museum (received 
through Maj. A. Alcock, superintendent): 
Crab, Lambrus echinatus (43404: ex- 
change). 

Calcutta, India, Royal Botanical Gar- 
dens: 172 plants from India (43116: ex- 
change). 

California Academy of Sciences, San 
Francisco, Cal. : 225 plants from California 
(43015); plant from California (44197). 
Exchange). 

California State Mining Bureau, San 
Francisco, Cal.: Large mass of diatoma- 
ceous earth (44193: from the Louisiana 
Purchase Exposition). 

California, University of. Botanical Gar- 
den, Berkeley, Cal.: Plant from California 
(43178: exchange). 

Call, S. J., Steamer Thetis, Sausalito, Cal.: 
45 birds' eggs and a bird's nest from LTna- 
laska (44188). 

Cambridge, England, University Museum 
OP Zoology (received through S. F. 
Harmes, superintendent): 2 birds {Tur- 
nagra crassirostris) from New Zealand 
(44140: exchange). 

Canadian National Herbarium, Ottawa, 
Canada: 100 plants from Canada (43610: 
exchange) . 

Canby, W. M., Wilmington, Del.: 14 plants 
from the United States and Mexico 
(43031). 

Cannon, W. A., San Diego, Cal., and Tucson 
Ariz.: 9 plants and some seeds from Ari- 
zona and California (43431 ; 43477; 43521 ; 
43637). 
Canu, Mon. F., Versailles, France: About 
1,000 specimens (150 species) of Creta- 
ceous and Tertiary bryozoans (44065: ex- 
change) ; 300 specimens of fossil ostracoda 
(44351 : purchase) ; about 300 specimens of 
European Tertiary fossils (44352: pur- 
chase). 
Carnegie Institution, Washington, D. C: 



Collection of vertebrates from Eastern and 
Central China, collected by Mr. Eliot 
Blackwelder, under the auspices of the In- 
stitution (43892). 
Carnegie Museum, Pittsburg, Pa. (received 
through Douglas Stewart, assistant di- 
rector) : Model of the earliest type of pas- 
senger car used on the Pennsylvania Rail- 
road ; model of a passenger car used in the 
year 1857, with a section of track, and 
model of a car used by the Mohawk and 
Hudson River Railroad Company, with 
track (43055); (received through A. E. 
Ortmann), 3 cotypes of Crustacean, Cam- 
barus inonongalensis Ortm. (43684). 
Carson, Walter, & Sons, London, England 
(received through the British Royal Com- 
mission at the Louisiana Purchase Expo- 
sition) : Samples of colors, varnishes, sau- 
cers, plates (44559: from the Louisiana 
Purchase Commission). 
Cary, Merritt. (See under Department of 

Agriculture.) 
Case, A. B., Alamos, Sonora, ^lexico: 9 liv- 
ing specimens of Cactacese from Mexico 
(44569: purchase). 
Cashall, William C, Centralia, Kans. : Old- 
style bayonet (44356). 
Catiicart, Miss E., Cassells, Colo.: 4 plants 
from Colorado (42948; 42970). (See 
under Department of Agriculture.) 
Caudell, a. N., Department of Agriculture: 
300 insects from Ocean View, Va. (44251). 
(See under PI. G. Dyar.) 
Ceylon Commission at the Louisiana 
Purchase Exposition: 5 brass Ceylonese 
lamps (44416): Jaffna collection of ethno- 
logical specimens (44421); large collection 
of objects illustrating the pearl fisheries of 
Ceylon (44578); edible birds' nest, 2 birds 
and accessories (44600). Purchase. 
Chamber of Commerce (received through 
British Royal Commission at the Louisi- 
ana Purchase Exposition) : Photographs of 
people and scenery in Jamaica (44418). 
Chamberlain, E. B., Chamberlain Center, 
Me.: 356 plants from ]\Iaine and Rhode 
Island (43127; 43692: exchange). 
Chamberlain, F. M. (See under Depart- 
ment of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of 
Fisheries.) 
Chance & Hunt, Limited, Oldbury, Eng- 
land (received through the British Royal 
Commission at the Louisiana Purchase 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



75 



Exposition): Samples of chemicals, etc. 
(44553). 

' M.vxuLER. H. P. (See under Department 
'if -Vgriculture.) 

iiAPMAN, E. M., Washington, D. C: Skele- 
ton excavated near Tottenville, Staten 
Island, X. Y. (43952). 
iiickAHOMiNT Tribe (received through 
( 'hief William H. Adkins, Bradley's Store, 
Va.): Piece of old Indian pottery (43038). 

CHoi'TEAr, Pierre, St. Louis, Mo.: Silver 
medal struck in commemoration of the 
battle of Islinga (43617). 
iiRisT, H., Basel, Switzerland: Fern {Po- 
hj]miinm) from Brazil (43527). 

Christiani, Fritz, Washington, D. C. : Para- 
sitic wasp (Dasymuiilla orientalis Linn.) 
(44025). 

I iiRisTiE, Mrs. Cora A., Washington, D. C: 
Mexican and Norwegian ethnological ob- 
jects (43849). 

( iLLEY, Henry, U. S. Pension Office, Wash- 
ington , D. C. : Sword and scabbard of Jona- 
than Cilley, first lieutenant and adjutant. 
First Battalion, Forty-third U. S. Volun- 
teer Infantry (44007). 

Clapp, G. H., Pittsburg, Pa.: 3 cotypes of 
Oinphalina pUsbryiClapp from Wetumpka, 
Ala. (43251); cotypes of 2 species of 
mollusks (43652). ' 

Clare, B. W., Lordsburg, N. Mex. (received 
through Walter Hough): Samples of gold- 
copper ore from the Empire State Mining 
Company's mines, Cochise County, Ariz. 
(44567). 

Cl.\rk, H. W. (See under F. L. Ransome.) 

Clark, H. W. (See under Department of 
Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fish- 
eries.) 

Clarke, F. AV. (See under Isador Wise.) 

Clarke, John M. (See under Geological 
Surs'cy of New York.) 

Clements, J. Morgan, New York City (re- 
ceived through H. T. Bain): 17 specimens 
of Jurassic( ?) invertebrates from Cerro del 
Paso, Peru (43451). 

Clements, Percy. (See under Verde An- 
tico Marble Company.) 

Clowry-, R. C. (See under Western Union 
Telegraph Company.) 

Cockerell, Prof. T. D. A., Boulder, Colo.: 
Type specimen of hymenopterous insect 
(MutiUa cockerelli Melander) ; type speci- 
men of dipterous insect (Diplosis colora- 
nat mus 1905 6 



deJlaCkW.) and 30 other insects (43770); 
land, fresh-water, and marine shells from 
various localities (43875) ; 27 insects, in- 
cluding 3 types (44252). 

Cockle, J. W., Kaslo, British Columbia: 10 
moths and a moth larva (43958). 

CoLLADAY', W. E., Treasury Department, 
Washington, D. C: Larva of butterfly 
{Papilio troilus Linn.) (43268). 

Collier, A. J.. Washington, D. C. (received 
through Department of Agriculture): 12 
crj^togams from St. Matthews Island, 
Alaska (43442). 

Collins, F. S., Maiden, Mass.: 50 algse 
(43250): 50 plants (43903: purchase). 

Colonial Museum. (See under Welling- 
ton, New Zealand.) 

Commerce and Labor, Department of, 
Hon. Victor H. Metcalf, Secretarj'. 
Transferred from Bureau of Fisheries: 
Collection of fishes made by the steamer 
Albatross in the Straits of Magellan and 
northward (42990): crustaceans and mol- 
lusks collected by the Albatross in 1902 at 
the Hawaiian Islands, and in Alaska in 
1903 (43016) ; invertebrates and mollusks 
from the coast of California, collected !>}• 
the Albatross and transmitted by C. H. 
Gilbert (43026) ; types and cotypes of 
Hawaiian fishes collected by the Albatross 
(43076); 164 plants from Indiana col- 
lected b}^ J. T. Scovell (43123); specimen 
of angler {Lophius piscatorius) from near 
St. Johns, Newfoundland, and specimens 
of foraminifera from the Hawaiian Islands 
collected by the Albatross (43265); 82 
plants from Indiana (43331): alcoholic 
specimen of a three-legged frog (43363); 
type specimen of shark {C'atulus brunneus) 
taken in the Pacific Ocean, south of San 
Clemente Island, by the Albatross (43364) ; 
invertebrates transmitted from Woods 
Hole by Vinal N. Edwards (43397); rep- 
tiles and batrachians collected by B. W. 
Evermann in California (43439) ; 3 lizards 
and a frog, collected by J. W. Titcomb in 
South America (43486); 60 turtles from 
Lake Maxinkuckee, Indiana (43511); 4 
negatives of the monument erected to 
Captain Cook, the Hawaiian explorer 
(43512) ; received through B.W. Evermann 
33 turtles, 6 snakes, 18 frogs, 7 toads, a 
salamander, 28 crawfishes, and 131 mol- 
lusks, principally from the vicinity of 



78 



EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



Dawson, C. C, Canon City, Colo. : Piece of a 
Navajo blanket (44165). 

Day, C. L. (See under Interior Depart- 
ment, Office of Indian Affairs.) 

Day, David T. (See under Interior Depart- 
ment, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Deam, C. C, Blufl'ton, Ind.: Plants from 
Indiana and Guatemala (43301: gift); 
(43401: exchange); (43639: exchange); 
8 plants from Guatemala (44033: ex- 
change) : 43 specimens of Orthoptera 
(44158: gift). 

Deax, Bashford, Columbia Universit}-, 
New York City: Fishes from the Nile 
Kiver, Africa, collected by the Scnff Ex- 
pedition of Columbia University in July 
and August, 1899 (43618). 

Delaware and Hudson Company, Albany, 
N. Y. (received through T. W. Crowley, 
superintendent of telegraph): 2 Morse 
telegraph registers (43184: 43583). 

Demokidoff, K., St. Petersburg, Russia: 
53 Russian Hj^menoptera (43.567); speci- 
mens of 6 species of parasitic Hymenop- 
tera (43711); 37 specimens (7 species) of 
hymenopterous parasites (44361). 

Denton, E. S., West Point, X. Y.: 10 living 
plants (44475). 

Desert Botanical Laboratory, Tucson. 
Ariz. (See under Department of Agricul- 
ture.) 

Dewey, L. H. (Sec under Department of 
Agriculture.) 

Dickerson, Miss M. C, Providence, R. I.: 
Frogs from California (43824); batra- 
chians (44105). 

Dickinson, A. E., Maltby, Minn.: Fossil 
tooth (43104). 

Dickinson, G. V. (See under Elgin Nation- 
al Watch Company.) 

DiMMOCK, George, Springfield, Mass.: 56 
beetles from Cuba (44385); Iiymenopte- 
rous parasites (44445). 

DisBROw, W. S., Newark, N. J.: Minerals 
from New Jersey (44333: exchange). 

Ditmars, R. L., New York Zoological Park, 
N. Y. : Lizard, Sceloporus, from California 
(43576). 

(See under New York Zoological Park.) 

DoD, F. H. W., Millarville, Alberta, North- 
west Territory, Canada: 99 Lepidoptera 
(43809: gift); 65 moths (44138: ex- 
change). 

Dodge, Byron E., Davison, Mich.: Grooved 



stone ax (9510); 4 archeological speci- 
mens (9713); wedge-shaped stone, prob- 
ably a water-worn quartzite pebble 
(9887); 2 prehistoric stone implements 
from Michigan (10121: loan). 

Dodge, C. K., Port Huron, Mich.: 9 plants 
from Michigan (42973: 43003: gift; 
43209: exchange); 4 plants from On- 
tario (43231: gift). 

Dodge, G. M., Louisiana, Mo.: 3 Lepidop- 
tera (Thanaos) (43910); 3 butterflies 
(43981). 

Doll, Jacob, Brooklyn, N. Y.: 26 moths 
(43519: gift); 16 specimens of Lepidop- 
tera (44024: exchange). 

DoLLE, C. F., Cincinnati, Ohio: Crab-spider, 
Acrosoma gracile Walck (43078) . 

Donaldson, Mrs. Ll'cy Ord. (See under 
Mrs. M. M. Kempter and Capt. James T. 
Ord, U. S. Army.) 

Donxe, T. E. (See under New Zealand, 
Government of. Louisiana Purchase Expo- 
sition.) 

Dooley, C. E. (See under G. W. Atkinson.) 

Doolittle, a. a. (See under Department 
of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fish- 
eries.) 

DoR.MAN, Louis, U. S. Weather Bureau, 
Department of Agriculture: Ammonites 
from Linden, near Hanover, Germany 
(43348). 

Doubet, C. a., Washington, D. C: 5 watch 
movements (43913). 

Dougherty, 11. M., Charleston, S. C: Sam- 
ples of condemned stone intended for dry 
dock at Charleston (44622). 

Douglas James, New York City: Pottery 
bowl and specimen of Indian carbon- 
ized corn (43815). (See under H. J. 
Simmons.) 

Douglas, Mr., Curio Department, Boer War 
Company, Louisiana Purcliase Exposition: 
2 photographs of Kaffirs and album of 
photographs of ethnological objects 
(42977). 

Dow, Capt. J. C, Coast and Geodetic Sur- 
vey, Washington, D. C: Hindu double 
figurine of bronze, dredged from the bot- 
tom of New Harbor, Manila, Philippine 
Islands (44428). 

Dow, Mrs. Mary, Mount Vernon, 111 : Ab- 
normal egg of a hen (43061). 

DowELL, Philip, Port Richmond, N. Y.: 52 
plants from Maryland, Virginia, and vicin- 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



79 



ity, and from Staten Island, X. Y. (43183; 
44240: gift and exchange). 

Drake & Stratton Company, Washington, 
D. C. : 2 specimens of sihcified wood 
(43554). 

Dresden, Germany; Royal Zoological 
and Anthropological-Ethnographical 
Museum (received through A. B. Meyer, 
director): Cast of a large ax made of 
jadeite (430.50: exchange). 

DuBBs, W. II., Limeport, Penn.: Stone im- 
plement (43678). 

Dudley, J. H., Hoquaim, Wash.; Katydid 
(Tropidiachira xanthostoma Scudder) 
(43590). 

DuGEs, A., Guanajuato, Mexico: Eared 
trogon, Euptilolis neoxenu-<:, from Zuru- 
muato, Guanajuato, Mexico (430G2); 5 
plants from Mexico (43297; 43362); 
seeds of a plant from Mexico (43400); 
5 plants (43434; 43.504); insects (43661) 
Tanager {Piranga bidentaia) from Tepic 
(439.32). 

Duncan, W. J., Snelling, S. C: Long-eared 
owl, Asio wilsonianus (43578). 

DuRY, Charles, Cincinnati, Ohio: 9 insects 
(44317). 

DuTTOx, Clarence. (See under Interior 
Department, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Dyar, H. G., and A. N. Calt)Ell, U. S. Na- 
tional Museum: 260 insects from Florida 
(44225). 

Earll, Mrs. L. H., Chevy Chase, Md.: 489 
plants from various localities (4;^346). 

Eastwood, Miss Alice, San Francisco, Cal.: 
8 plants (42971); sedge, Cyperus virens 
Michx., collected by C. E. Jenney in Cali- 
fornia (43114); 6 living plants from Co- 
ahuila, Mexico (44003; exchange); fern 
{Pcllsea Wrighiiana), from California 
(44.574). 

Ebert, Maj. R. G., U. S. Army, Vancouver 
Barracks, Wash.: Plants from Vancouver 
and Washington (44076; 44196). 

Edwards, Col. C. R., U. S. .Vrmy. (See 
under War Department.) 

Edwards, J. J., Wailesboro, Ind.; 25 
archeological specimens (43715). 

Edwards, V. N. (See under Department 
of Commerce and Lal«)r, Bureau of Fish- 
erics.) 

Egbert, J. Hobart, U. S. Coast and 
Geodetic Survey, Washington, D. C: 
Collection of natural-history specimens, 



geological material, and a human skull 
from Kiska Island, Alaska (43808). (See 
under Department of Agriculture.) 

Egglestox, W. W., New York City; 350 
plants from northern New England and 
Quebec (44123; purchase). 

Eldridge, George H. (See under Interior 
Department, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Elgin National Watch Company, Chicago, 
111. (received through G. V. Dickinson); 
Small watch movement (43302). 

Ellis, E. B., Granite Company, Northfield, 
Vt. (received through T. Starrett) ; Speci- 
men of Bethel granite (43465). 

Emmons, Lieut. G. T., U. S. Navy, Prince- 
ton, N. J.; Arbutus-wood club used in 
killing seals, from western Vancouver 
Islands; and pouch with set of gambling 
sticks used by the Stikine River In- 
dians of British Columbia (44143). (See 
under Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of 
.American Ethnology.) 

Engler, a. (See under Berlin, Germany, 
Rojal Botanical Mu.seum.) 

Epps, Mi.ss Emily, City Point, Va.; Plant 
from India (43.571). 

Erving, R. M., Intervale, N. H.: 13 speci- 
mens of lower cryptogams from New 
Hampsliire (445.50). 

Eshnaur, Mrs. W. II., Terminal, Cal.; 3 
moUusks, Crepidida nivea, var. (Jottidi- 
amtii Dall, on Glottidia albida IM.s., from 
San Pedro, Cal. (442.56). 

EvERMAXN, B. W., Bureau of Fisheries, 
Department of Commerce and Labor: 
4 plants from California (43112). (See 
under Department of Commerce and La- 
bor, Bureau of Fisheries.) 

EwiN, J. L., Washington, D. C; Austrian 
letters-patent (43214). 

Fahnestock, Mrs. Louis,Washington, D. C; 
West .Vfrican Love-bird, Agapomis pul- 
laria (43834). 

Fairlie, II. C, & Co., Camelon, Scotland 
( received through the British Roj^al Com- 
mission at the Louisiana Purchase Expo- 
sition); Samples of chemicals, etc. 

(44556). 

Parish, W. F., Washington, D. C: Score of 
"My Blackbird," as sung by the donor 
(44026). 

Farlow, W. G. (See under Harvard Uni- 
versity, Cryptogamic Herbarium, Cam- 
bridge, Mass.) 



80 



REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



Farmville Lithia Springs Company, 
Farmville, Va.: Sample of lithia water 
from Farmville (42983). 

Faxon, Walter. (See under Museum of 
Comparative Zoology, Cambridge Mass.). 

Felix, J. (See under Leipzig, Germany.) 

Felt, E. P., State entomologist, Albany, 
N. Y.: Parasitic Hymenoptera (43951). 

Ferguson, A. D., Kingsville, Tex.: 5 living 
plants from Texas (43696). 

Ferguson, J. M., Kingsville, Tex.: 6 plants 
from Texas (43570, 43503); a cactus 
(Echinocactus) from Texas (43619). 

Fernald, H. T. , Amherst, Mass. : 3 cotypes 
of a dipterous insect {Entornobrya albicoUis 
Franklin) (44102).' 

Fernekes, Val., Milwaukee, Wis.: 28 moths 
(43453). 

Fernow, B. E. (See under Department of 
Agriculture.) 

Field Columbian Museum, Chicago, 111. 
(received through F. J. V. Skiff, director) : 
6 sections of silicified bones of a Dinosaur 
(44583: exchange). 

Fisher, C. A. (See under Interior Depart- 
ment, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Fletcher, James. (See under Rev. J. H. 
Keen.) 

Flower, F. G., Seattle, Wash.: Spider 
{Conarachne hrunneipes Banks) (43843). 

Foerste, A. F., Dayton, Ohio: Ordovician 
fossils from Kentucky (44289). 

Foster, Wilson, St. Louis, Mo.: Copy of 
"Gold Fields," a newspaper printed on 
asbestos fiber (44097). 

Fowke, Gerard. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of American Ethnol- 
ogy.) 

Fox, M., Vernon, Tex.: Toad, Biifo wood- 
housei, from Texas (43575). 

Fraile, M., Washington, D. C: Plants 
(43082, 43013). 

France, F. E., Platteville, Wis. : Cave mate- 
rial from a mound near Platteville (44265). 

Franceschi, F., Santa Barbara, Cal.: 2 
plants from California (44384). 

Frazier, A. H. (See under Winthrop, 
Gov. Beekman.) 

French Commission at the Louisiana 
Purchase Exposition (received through 
Mons. E. Terquem): Collection of illus- 
trations (44417). 



French, G. H., Carbondale, III.: 8 Lepidop- 
tera and 2 Odonata from the Philippine 
Islands (43270). 

Friedholm, A. G., Waco, Tex.: Cacti from 
Texas (43804). 

Fryett, W. S., Los Angeles, Cal.: Spring- 
tails or Podurids, of the genus Achorentes 
(43415). 

Fulcher, William, London, England: Sec- 
tion of an oak beam taken from the chapel 
of Newgate Prison, London, burned by the 
Gordon Rioters in June, 1780 (44395). 

FuRNiss, H. W. (See under Alvaro Gui- 
meraes.) 

Gaillard, Maj. D. D., U. S. Army, St. 
Louis, Mo. (received through Brig. 
Gen. T. E. Wilcox, retired): 2 plants 
{Larex occidentalis) from British Columbia 
(43196); plant from South Carolina 
(43305). 

Ganier, a. F., West Lafayette, Ind.: 5 
birds (43180). 

Gardner, W^. J., Washington, D. C: 41 
plants, collected by F. G. Taylor in Texas 
(43443). 

Garman, II., Agricultural Experiment Sta- 
tion, Lexington, Ky.: evening primrose 
(Anogra) from Kentucky (44483). 

Garrett, A. O., Salt Lake City, Utah: 
Aster {Petradoria pumila (Nutt.) Greene) 
from Utah (43113). 

Garroway, R. & T., Glasgow, Scotland 
(received through British Royal Connnis- 
sion at the Louisiana Purchase Exposi- 
tion): Samples of chemicals, etc., used in 
the arts (44452). 

Gates, E. D. (See under Gates Pottery 
Company.) 

Gates Pottery Company, Terra Cotta, 111. 
(received through E. D. Gates): Speci- 
men of Teco pottery (43222). 

Gatliff, J. II. (See under Henry Suter.) 

Gaut, J. H., Biological Survey, Department 
of Agriculture (received through Biolog- 
ical Survey): 3 unios from Indian Terri- 
tory (43194) ; 3 plants from Oklahoma 
(43462) ; living cactus from Texas (44034) ; 
3 living plants from Texas (44474). (See 
under Department of Agriculture.) 

Gee, N. Gist, Soochow, China: 2 nests of 
Swift {Tachornis infumatus and Micropus 
subfurcatus) (43930); 4 insects (43943). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



81 



General Electric Company, Harrison, 
N. J. (received through A. D. Page): 20 
incandescent lamps (43120); 17 incan- 
descent lamps with fittings and with 
shades for one (43304). 

Geological Survey of New York, Albam , 
N. Y. (received through John M. Clarke): 
2 models of the crustacean genus Hugli- 
millerla, showing the dorsal and ventral 
anatomy (43118). 

German Ambassador. (See under Smith- 
sonian Institution). 

Gibson, R. C, Agana, island of Guam; 
2 Jew's-harps (43421). 

Gilbert, Mrs. A. P., Logan, Okla.: A 
burrowing locust (Stenopehnatus ociilatns 
Scudder) (43423). 

Gilbert, C. H. (See under Department 
of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of 
Fisheries, and Lcland Stanford Junior 
University.) 

Gilbert, G. K., U. S. Geological Survey: 
Stone implement (43191). (Sec under 
Interior Department, U. S. Geological 
Survey.) 

Giles, Miss Mary, Ilagerstown, Md. (re- 
ceived through II. W. Blunt): Bond) 
found at the ford below Shepherdstown, 
W. Va., near Antietam (43494). 

GiRAULT, A. A., Paris, Tex.: 4 specimens 
of pteromalid hymenoptera and speci- 
mens of Apanieles (42958) (received 
through Bureau of Enlomolog}^ Deparl- 
men. of AgricuLure) ; Braconid hymenop- 
tera (43413). 

Girty, G. H., U. S. Geological Survey: 
2 eggs of snake (Diadophis), from Penn- 
sylvania (43376). (See under O. F. 
Hershey and Interior Department, U. S. 
Geological Survey.) 
Glassford, Maj. Willl^m A., U. S. ^Vimy, 
Signal Service: Morse telegi-aph relay 
(44145). 
Gleason, T. W., Bessemer, Ala.: Beetle 

{Phengodes hticollis Leconte) (44329). 
GoDiNG, F. W., American consul, New- 
castle, New South Wales: 48 specimens 
of Cicadidre and 18 miscellaneous insects 
(43.501): stone ax which belonged to 
the Ourimbah tribe, once located about 
40 miles south of Newcastle (44075). 
Goldman, E. A., Biological Survey, Depart- 
ment of Agriculture: 311 plants from 
Mexico (43023); 184 eggs of Mexican 



birds (43130); 60 plants from Mexico 
(43534). Purchase. (See under Depart- 
ment of Agriculture.) 

GoLDSBOROUGii, E. L. (See under Depart- 
ment of Commerce and Labor, Bureau 
of Fish(>ries.) 

GoLDscHMiDT Thermit Compaxy: A series 
of products and processes illustrating the 
use of mineral mixture (44580: from the 
Louisiana Purchase Conmiission) . 

Goldsmith, M., Newport, Ky.: Drawing on 
Ross paper, a lithogi'aphic di'awing and a 
specimen illustrating the three-color proc- 
ess (44163). 

GooDALL, O. B., Department of Commerce 
and Labor: Spider (ArgiopeargenteaYabv.) 
(43234). 

GooDE, Mrs. Sarah, Middletown, Conn.: 
Antique muff and collar (43706). 

Gordon, John, Smiths Ferry, Mass.: 3 
photogiaphs of archeological collection 
of the donor (43683: gift); 64 archeolog- 
ical specimens (43708: exchange). 

Gorman, Roger, Manila, P. I.: 2 brains of 
Filipino natives (44358: purchase). 

Gorman, R. W. (See under C. V. Piper.) 

Goss, G. II., Waterbury, Conn.: Insects, 
birds, birds' eggs, mammals, and mollusks 
from Mount Kina Balu, Borneo (43119). 

Gould, C. N., University of Oklalioma, 
Norman, Okla.: Sclenite and massive 
g^■psum from Taloga, Dewey Coun'.y, 
Okla. (44192: from the Louisiana Pur- 
chase Exposiaon). 

Government Laboratories. (See under 
Manila, P. I.) 

Graiiajistown, South Africa, Albany 
Museum (received through S. Schonland, 
director): Stone implements from South 
Africa (43544: exchange). 

Grant, C. V., Irving College, Tenn. (re- 
ceived through E. S. Steele): 3 plants 
i (43083). 

Grant, G. B., Pasadena, Cal.: Plant from 
California (42947). 

Gray, A. P., jr., Middleway, W. Va.: 
Hymenopterous insect {Thalessa lunator) 
(44386). 

Gray IIerbariuai, Harvard University, 
j Cambridge, Mass.: 2 plants from Brazil 

; and Guatemala (43169: exchange). 

Greely, a., and A. W. (See under Depart- 
ment of Agi-iculture.) 



82 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



Greely, Gen. A. W., U. S. Army, Chief 
Signal Officer, War Department, Wash- 
ington, D. C: About 300 marine shells 
from the Philippine Islands (43336). 

Greene, E. L., Catholic University of 
America, Washington, D. C: 21 plants 
from Australia, collected by Baron Ferd. 
von Muller (43230: gift); 585 plants 
principally from the United States (43273: 
gift); 3,688 plants (43407: gift); her- 
barium consisting of more than 60,000 
mounted sheets from various localities, a 
collection rich in types of new species and 
regarded as one of the most important 
private herbaria in existence. Doctor 
Greene's botanical lihraiy has also been 
deposited in the National Museum (43884: 
deposit) ; 88 plants from British Columbia, 
collected by J. Macoun (44183: gift). 
(See under S. B. Parisli.) 

Gridley, Mrs. A. E., Washington, D. C: 
Coat and cap of Capt. Charles V. Gridley, 
worn by him on board the U. S. Flagship 
Olympia just before the battle of Manila 
Bay, May 1, 1898 (43164). 

Griffin, Miss M. E., Smithsonian In.stitu- 
tion: Sword, belt, and bridle used by Col. 
Emeric Szabad during the civil war 
(43759). 

Griffiths, David, Department of Agri- 
culture: 3 plants from Arizona (43246: 
43280). (See under Department of Agri- 
culture.) 

Griggs, R. F., Victoria, Tex.: 6 plants 
from Texas (43088: exchange). 

Grigsby, a. D., Campo, Cal.: Specimen of 
hyacinth from Lone Jack Mine, San Diego 
County, Cal. (43452). 

Grinnell, Fordyce, Jr., Palo Alio, Cal.: 2 
type specimens of butterflies (43918); 25 
living larva? of moth {Illice nexa Bd.) 
(43984). 

Grinnell, Joseph, Pasadena, Cal.: 2 king- 
lets {Rerjuhis calendula cineraceus) (44234). 

Grout, A. J., Brooklyn, N. Y.: 25 mosses 
(43267); 30 North American mosses 
(44435). Purchase. 

Grubb, L. D., Wheeling, W. Va.: A beetle 
{Coptocycla aurichalcea) (44585). 

Grubbs, Dr. R. B., U. S. Army, Fort 
Wright, Wash, (received through Brig. 
Gen. T. E. Wilcox, U. S. Army, retired): 
Plant (Stapelia) from Washington (44260). 

GuDGER, E. M. (See under Department of 



Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fish- 
eries.) 

GuiMERAEs, Senor Alvaro (received through 
H. W". Furniss, American consul, Bahia, 
Brazil): Fossil fish (43695). 

GuLiCK, Addison, Cambridge, Mass.: 28 
pulmonale mollusks fi-om Bermuda 
(43330). 

Gunn, D. a., Waco, Tex.: 3 cotton boll 
weevils and an acorn weevil (43598). 

Hackel, E. (See under Department of 
Agriculture.) 

Hague, Arnold. (See under Interior De- 
partment, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Hahn, W. L., U. S. National Museum: 
Plant from Indiana (43485): small col- 
lection of mammals (43539: collected for 
the Museum.) 

Hamilton, A. (See under Wellington, New 
Zealand, Colonial Museum.) 

Hamilton, J. M., Cadereita, Queretaro, 
Mexico: Grasshopper {Dactylopus varie- 
gatus Thomas) (43738). 

Hamlet, Capt. O. C. (See under Treasury 
Department.) 

ILvmmerstein, H. L., Tsingtau, China: 
Marine mollusks from China (43663); 
echinoderms and mollusks (44083). 

Hancock, Prof. J. L., Chicago, 111.: Coccid 
insect from a pine tree (43224). 

Hanley, D. T. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of American Ethnol- 

Hansen, C. H., Tropico, Cal. (received 
through Otto Ileidenuinn): Isopod cru.s- 
tacean (Lwoneca rul(/aj-is Stimpson) from 
San Pedro Channel, taken from the gill of 
a fish (43258); 46 marine shells from 
California and 100 fossils from San Pedro, 
Cal. (43335). 

Hansen, H. J., Zoological Museum, Copen- 
hagen, Denmark: 9 crustaceans {Spsero- 
midit) (44379: exchange). (See under 
Copenliagen, Denmark.) 

Hansen, John, Washington, D. C. : 2 watch 
movements (43333). 

Hardison, J. A., Wadesboro, N. C: Frag- 
ment of a s?a-urcliin of the genus Oligo- 
porus from the subcarboniferous rocks 
(44323). 

Harmes, S. F. (See under Cambridge, 
England, University Museum of Zoolo- 
gy-) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



83 



Harper, R. M., College Point, N. Y.: 
Plants from Georgia (42956: gift; 43356, 
43926: purchase). 
Harrimax, E. H. (received through C. Hart 
Alerriani, Chief, Biological Survey, De- 
partment of Agriculture): Collection of 
fossil plants made b}^ the Harriman Ex- 
pedition in Alaska (42980). 
Harris, Mrs. H. M. S., Winchester, N. H.: 

A viola (43289). 
Harris, J. V., Ke}^ West, Fla.: 3 cocoons 
of spidei-s (Argiope trifasciata Forsk) 
(43429). 
Harris, W. A., Hartline, Wash.: Solpugid 
or jointed spider {Eremohates paUipes 
Say) (43099). 
Harrison, Miss Carrie, Department of 
Agriculture: Fern {Cardiomanes reni- 
forme) from the Hawaiian Islands 
(43338). 
Hart, C. A., Urbana, 111.: 2 dragon-flies 

(44250). 
Hartman, Carl, Austin, Tex.: 14 Hymen- 

optera (43379). 
Hartwell, M. V. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of American Ethnol- 
ogy-) 
Harvard University, Cryptogamic Her- 
barium, Cambridge, Mass. (received 
through W. G. Farlow): 88 fungi (43691: 
exchange). 
Harvey, Fred. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of American Eth- 
nology. ) 
Hasse, H. E., Soldiei-s' Home, Cal.: 4 plants 
from California (43094): 4 cacti from 
Arizona and California (43177); speci- 
men of Opimtia from California (43940); 
living plant from California (44002). 
Hassell, George, Cowiche, Wash, (re- I 
ceived through Edward Tobin): Diato- 
maceous earth from Yakima County, 
Wash. (43730). 
Hastings, G. T., Ithaca, N. Y.: 481 plants 

collected in Chile (43122: purchase). 
Hawaiian Experiment Station, Hono- 
lulu, H. I. (received through Department 
of Agriculture): 4 plants from Hono- 
lulu (43058). 
Hawley, Ashville D., Soldiei-s' Home, 
Washington, D. C: Mollusk {Pomaulax 
undosus Wood) from San Pedro, Cal. 
(43368). I 



I Hawley, E. H., U. S. National Museum: 
I Unmounted photograph of "The Black- 
bird"— a song (43306). 
Hedgcock, G. G. (See under P. L. Ricker.) 
[ Heidemann, Otto, Department of Agricul- 
ture: 7 mollusks from Aurora, W. V. 
(43117). (See under C. H. Hansen.) 
Heighway, a. E. (received through G. P. 
Merrill): 2 eggs and a bird's nest from 
Cuba (42996). 
Heller, A. A., Los Gatos, Cal.: 5 plants 
from California (42957: gift); 290 plants 
from California (43232: purchase); 3 
plants (43332: gift); 139 plants from Cali- 
fornia and Porto Rico (43602: purchase); 
5 specimens of a Stone-c-rop, Dudleya, 
from Lower California (44366: exchange) ; 
5 living plants from California (44477: 
gift). 
Hempel, .\dolf, Sao Paulo, Brazil: 78 
small mammals from Brazil (44545: pur- 
chase). 
Hendley, H. W., U. S. National Museum: 
Specimen of covellite from Albany De- 
velopment Company's mines, Albany 
County, Wyo. (44464). 
Henry, N. G., Interior Department, U. S. 
Geological Survey: 2 skulls found in In- 
dian graves at "Sand}' Hill," near Cam- 
bridge, Md. (44463). 
Hensen, John, Washington, D. C: 6 

watches (10171: loan). 
Henshaw, II. W., Bureau of American 
Ethnology, Washington, D. C: Spoon 
made from a Patella shell found in Kau, 
Hawaii (43921); sling-stone from Ilono- 
mou, Hawaiian Islands (43941); 2 Ha- 
waiian birdskins {Loxioides baillerii) 
(44373). (See under Department of Agri- 
culture, and E. E. Lyman.) 
Herixg, C. J., Paramaribo, Surinam, Dutch 

Guiana: Rattle from a snake (43146). 
Hersiiey, O. II. (received through G. II. 
Girty), University of California, Berke- 
ley, Cal.: Ordovician fossils (44315). 
Hester, L. G., Houston, Tex.: 5 copper 

coins (44427). 
Hickman, C. W., Augusta, Ga. (received 
through Mr. Nathan Spering, Philadel- 
phia, Pa.): Pair of pistols captured dur- 
ing the War of the Revolution from Gen. 
WiHiam Cunningham ("Blood}' Bill") 
of the British Army, near Mount Willing, 
S. C. , by Gen. Wilham Butler (9965) : loan. 



84 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



HiLDERSHEiM, Hanover, Germany (Die 
Direction des Roemer-Muscum) : Cast of 
ammonite {Pachydiscus seppenradensis) 
(43945: purchase). 

HiLLEBRAND, W. F. (See under W. A. 
Roebling.) 

HiNKLEY, A. A., Dubois, 111.: 300 land and 
freshwater shells from various localities 
in the United States (43253: exchange). 

HiRASE, Y., Kyoto, Japan: 76 ancient 
stone implements from Japan (43611 : ex- 
change). 

HocHDERFFER, Georgc, Flagstaff, Ariz.: 20 
plants, principally cacti, from Arizona 
(44184; 44215; 44242; 44310). 

Hodges, Commander H. M., U. S. Navy. 
(See under Navy Department.) 

HoLZiNGER, J. M., Winona, Minn.: 125 
mosses (43651); 26 mosses from North 
America (44151: purchase). 

Hoover, W. D. (See under Browne, estate 
of Alice Key.) 

HoEKiNS, F. H., Meeker, Colo.: Cretaceous 
fossils (43980). 

HoRGAN, E. J., U. S. National Museum: 
Bat, Lasiwus cinereus (42987: collected 
for the Museum); colored fetus (43543: 
gift). 

Horn, F. C. (See under Interior Depart- 
ment, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Hornung, J., Menlo Park, Cal.: About 
700 insects (43796); 2 nests of Tit {Psal- 
triparus minimus californicus) (44406); 
insects, spiders, reptiles, and batrachtans 
(44443); 5 birds' skulls from Menlo Park 
(44456); nest of a White-footed mouse, 
Peromyscus gambeli (44605). 

Hotelling, E. R. & Co., Albuquerque, 
N. Mex.: Specimen of carbonate of zinc 
(43810); specimen of gypsum (43956). 

Hough, W^vlter, U. S. National Museum: 
Ancient pueblo material, snail shells, cad- 
dis cases, geological material, plants and 
human bones from Arizona and New 
Mexico (42982: collected for the Museum); 
plant from the District of Columbia 
(43004: collected for the Museum) ; Nav- 
aho blanket from Ilolbrook, Ariz., 31 
pieces of ancient pottery from Hol- 
brook, and a copy of a Christian fish- 
lamp from Italy (43186: purchase); eth- 
nological specimens bought from the 
Klayoquot Indians of British Columbia at 
the Louisiana Purchase Exposition (43653 : 



purchase); fragments of bone, pottery, 
shell, and stone from Cahokia mound, 
East St. Louis, 111. (43654: gift); corals, 
sponges, etc., also nulliporcs, from the 
Philippine Islands, collected from Tri- 
dacna shells at the Philippine village, 
Louisiana Purchase Exposition (43959: 
gift) ; 2 specimens of crassulaceous plants 
from Arizona (44590: collected for the 
Museum). (See under B. W. Clare, and 
Van Briggle Pottery Co.). 

House, H. D., Washington, D. C: 29 
plants from New Jersey (42962: gift); 
54 plants from Maryland, Virginia, and 
vicinity (43247: exchange); 140 plants 
from the District of Columbia and vi- 
cinity (43274 : exchange) ; 25 plants from 
Maryland (43296: exchange); 3 cotypes 
of a species of morning-glory, Con- 
volvulus, from Colorado (43342: ex- 
change); 12 plants from New. Jersey 
(43360: exchange); 47 plants from va- 
rious localities in the United States 
(43446: exchange); 4 plants from New 
York (43577: exchange); 54 plants col- 
lected in New York and New Jersey 
(44035) ; 2 specimens of Isotria verliciUata 
(Willd.) Raf., collected in the District of 
Columbia (44313) ; 120 violets, collected in 
New Jersey and the District of Columbia 
(44368). 

House, Mrs. II. D., Oneida, N. Y.: 13 speci- 
mens of violets from New Jersey and New 
York (43081: exchange). 

Howard, O. W., Los Angeles, Cal.: 14 
plants (43229). 

Howe, Marshall A., Botanical Gardens, 
Bronx Park, N. Y.: Isopod crustaceans 
from the Bahama Islands (44246). 

Howell, A. II., Department of Agriculture, 
Wiishington, D. C. : 15 fresli-water shells, 
from Te.xas (43193). 

HoxiE, Walter J., Savannah, Ga.: Photo- 
graph of nest and eggs of Swainson's 
warbler, Helinaia sicainsonii (44459). 

HoYT, J. C, La Fayette, N. Y. (received 
through G. W. Stose): Weathered frag- 
ment of limestone (43745: loan). 

HoYT, Mrs. R. W., Fort Niobrara, Nel>r.: 25 
plants from Nebraska (43445). 

Hrdlicka, Ales, U. S. National Museum: 
Brain of a male Bontoc Igorot (43041: 
collected for the Museum); cerebellum of 
a Suyac Igorot (43042: collected for the 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



85 



Museum); brain of a male adult negro 
(43057: collefted for the Museum); l)rain 
of a Moro, and brain of a Tagalog (43287: 
collected for the Museum from the Philip- 
pine department at the Louisiana Pur- 
chase Exposition); received through Ed- 
ward Leaming, negative and enlarged 
mounted photograph of human bones 
with special anthropological features 
(43510: gift); specimen of Weaver bird, 
Amadina fasciata (0 (43747: gift); skele- 
ton and brain of a negro child (43780: 
collected for the Museum); 100 brains of 
animals, birds, etc. (43838: collected for 
the Museum) ; cactus from Arizona (43873 : 
collected for the Museum); 3 cacti from 
Arizona (43876: collected for the Museum); 
6 plants from Arizona (43888: collected for 
the Museum); specimen of Apache In- 
dian basket work (43895: gift); skeleton 
and brain of a negro child (43942: col- 
lected for the Museum); 12 plants from 
Arizona (44037; collected for the Mu- 
seum); 9 plants from Arizona (44(X)2: 
collected for the Museum); white fetus 
and skeleton of a male (44124: collected 
for the Museum); baskets, cradles, skull, 
and humerus from Arizona (44125: col- 
lected for the Museum); 23 plants, prin- 
cipally cacti, from Arizona (44129: col- 
lected for the Museum): portion of an 
olivine bomb from Talklai, Gila County, 
Ariz. (44135: gift); nest of Verdin, 
Auriparus faviceps (44206: gift); medi- 
cine and food plants used by the Apache 
and Pima Indians (44288: collected for 
the Museum); brain and skeleton of a 
white male infant (44301: collected for 
the Museum); archeological and ethno- 
logical objects, skeletons, plants, etc., 
from Arizona (44383: collected for the 
Museum); 12 plants from Arizona (44398: 
collected for the Museum). (See under 
Miss Margaret Nessl, James L. Perkins 
and Miss Minnie Schiffbauer.) 

HuBB.\RD, H. D., Washington, D. C: Steel 
metric rule, with case, also chart of Inter- 
national metric system (43817); chart of 
"Chinese Radicals" (the primitive svm- 
bols in the written language (43883). 

IIuGER, A. M., Hendersonville, N. C: In- 
dian club or battleax, arrow points, and 
chips, and a rattle of a snake (43103). 



HuNNER, Jonx, Spokane, Wash.; Diatoma- 
ceous earth from Washington (43845). 

Hunt, Charles Warren. (See under 
American Society of Civil Engineers.) 

Hunter, Byron. (See under Department 
of Agriculture.) 

Hurter, Julius, sr., St. Louis Mo.: Rep- 
tiles and batrachians (44350). 

Hyning, F. van, Des Moines, Iowa: 24 mol- 
lusks {Succinea) from the vicinity of Des 
Moines (44136). 

Ihering, H. von, Director, Museu Paulista, 
Sao Paulo, Brazil; Specimen of nephrite 
(43922). (See under Sao Paulo, Museu 
Paulista.) 

Imhok.st, Ferdinand, Los Angeles, Cal.; 8 
plants, 3 specimens of minerals, and an 
operculum of a large trochoid shell (Po- 
mavlax undosum) (44307). 

Imperial Japanese Commission at the 
Louisiana Putrchase Exposition. (See 
imder Japan, College of Science; Fuku- 
shima-Ken. School of Aidzu; Kioto Higher 
Girls' School; Life-Saving Society of 
Japan; Tokyo Higher Normal School; 
Red Cross Society and Welcome Society 
of Japan.) 

Indian Museu.m. (See under Calcutta, 
India.) 

IxGERSor.L, O. R., Washington, D. C: Skull 
of a Flathead Indian (10303: loan). 

Instituto Medico Nacional, Mexico, 
Mexico: Plant from Mexico (43456). 

Interior, Department of the: 

U. S. Geological Survey, Hon. Charles 
D. Walcott, Director; Fossil bones from 
Georgia and South Carolina, received 
through W. H. Dall (42985); received 
through David T. Day, specimen of tin ore 
from GaHney, South Carolina (43159); 
rocks from the Silverton quadrangle, Colo- 
rado, collected l)v Whitman Cross and as- 
sistants (43237); rocks and thin sections 
from Idaho, collected by George H. El- 
dridge (43345) ; -fossil wood, fossil plants, 
invertebrate and vertebrate fossils 
(43433) ; contorted jasper from Minnesota 
(43593) ; various minerals from California 
and South Dakota (43594); Ordovician 
fossils from Virginia (43606) ; rocks from 
the Black Hills of South Dakota, collected 
by J. D. Irving (43803) ; tooth of Ptychodus 
from near Vermilion, S. Dak., obtained 



86 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



by N. H. Darton (43861); fossils from 
Silurian rocks in the western part of Ten- 
nessee, collected by E. O. Ulrich (43944) ; 
fossil bones from Bighorn Basin, Wyom- 
ing, collected by C. A. Fisher (43982); 
fossil bones from near Elephant Butte, 
New Mexico, collected by WilUs T. Lee 
(43983) ; Carboniferous and Devonian fos- 
sils from Colorado and different areas, col- 
lected by G. H. Girty (43996) ; siliceous 
replacement of mud cracks fi'om Grave- 
town, Ga. (44018); molybdenite from 
Cooper, Maine, collected by George O. 
Smith (44056) ; Tertiary fishes and a Cre- 
taceous reptilian vertebra from the south- 
eastern section of South Dakota, collected 
by J. E. Todd (44074); sample of white 
marble sent to Survey by Pennsylvania 
Marble and Granite Co., West Grove, Pa. 
(44095); graphite from Bartow County, 
Ga. (44096); 275 thin sections of igneous 
rocks from the Highwood Mountains and 
Little Belt Mountains, Montana, col- 
lected by L. V. Pirsson and W. H. Weed 
(44171); weathered sandstone simulating 
fossil bones, collected by F. G. Plummer 
near Lapanza, San Luis Obispo County, 
Cal. (44170); vertebrate fossil I'emains 
from Colorado and Nebraska (44233); 
rocks from Mount Taylor, New Mexico, 
collected by Clarence Dutton and received 
thiough Whitman Cross (44235) ; duplicate 
petrographic material from various locali- 
ties (44255) ; specimens from Coon Butte, 
Arizona, from the High Sierra, California, 
and from Siberia, Alaska, and Oregon, col- 
lected by G. K. Gilbert (44283); rocks 
from Mount Stuart quadrangle, Washing- 
ton (44295) ; 3 grinding stones from Uma- 
tilla, Oreg., and a fragment of met ate 
from the western part of Utah, collected 
by G. K. Gilbert (44297); portions of jaw 
and several teeth of fo.ssil camel, col- 
lected by F. C. Horn from near Minidoka, 
Idaho (44304) ; 5,000 Niagaran fossils, col- 
lected by R. S. Bassler, near Newsom, 
Tenn., under the direction of E. O. Ulrich 
(44305) ; fossil bones from the eastern sec- 
tion of Washington, collected by Mr. F. G. 
Plummer (44363); vertebrate remains 
from the Triassic (Dolores) formation of 
Rico and Engineer Mountain quadrangles, 
Colorado, collected by parties under the 
direction of Whitman Cross (44394); 6 



igneous rocks from Yellowstone National 
Park, collected by Arnold Hague and as- 
sistants (44429) ; 18 dyke rocks from the 
Pawlet and Castleton quadrangles, Ver- 
mont, collected byT. Nelson Dale (44430); 
167 boxes of duplicate invt. Lebrate fossils, 
numbering about 100,000 (44458) ; 28 fos- 
sil plants from the coal measures in the 
vicinity of Beckley, W. Va., collected by 
Mr. W. P. Ball (25 specimens), and the re- 
maining 3 by Mrs. Maude M. Ball (44596). 
(See under Pennsylvania ^larble and 
Granite Company.) 

Office of Indian Affairs: Skeleton of an 
Indian, an ancient basket shield, and 
other objects from the ruins of Canon del 
Muerto, Arizona, collected by Charles L. 
Day (43740). 

International Onyx Company, Denver, 
Colo.: 5 slabs of onyx marble from Arizona 
and Wyoming (44187: from the Louisiana 
Purchase Exposition). 

Iowa, Historical Department of, Des 
Moines, Iowa (received through Charles 
Aldrich, curator): Large stone axe (10094: 
loan). Returned. 

Irvino, J. D. (See under Interior Depart- 
ment, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

IsELY, F. B., Wichita, Ivans., Indianapolis, 
Ind.: 94 specimens of Orthoptera (43218; 
43552). 

Jackson, A. V. W., division of Oriental lan- 
guages, Columbia University, New York 
Citj^: Sprigs of Ilaoma plant used in the 
sacred rites of the Parsees (43549). 

James, G. W., Syracuse, N. Y.: 2 sets of full- 
sized basketry designs (43254). 

Japan (received from the Imperial Japanese 
Commission at the Louisiana Purchase 
Exposition): From the College of Sci- 
ence, Imperial University, Tokyo, 4 cases 
containing prehistoric relics and archeo- 
logical map of Japan (44412: exchange). 
From Fukushima-Ken, School of Aidzu, a 
collection of Japanese lacquers (44413: 
exchange). From Kioto Higher Girls' 
School, Kioto, a collection of model Japa- 
nese costumes, etc. (44411: exchange). 
From the Life-Saving Society of Japan, 3 
framed charts (44423: gift). From the 
Red Cross Society, Tokyo, collection of 
Red Cross material (44415: gift). From 
the Higher Normal School, Tokyo, a col- 
lection of modem Japanese tools (44414: 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



87 



exchange) . From the Welcome Society of 
Japan, Tokyo, enlarged colored photo- 
graph in an embroidered frame of the 
famous gate of Xikko (44410: gift). 

Jefferis, Mrs. Saltillo, Coahuila, Mexico: 
2 specimens of Echeveria from Mexico 
(43887). 

Jenkins, Hubert O., Stanford University, 
Cal. : 8 birds' skins from California (44341). 

Jenkins, L. W., Peabody Academy of Sci- 
ence, Salem, Mass.: Stage whip (43490). 

Jenney, Ch.vrles E., Fresno, Cal: Two in- 
sects, Capaneus spurcus Stal., and Ilydro- 
philus triangularis Saj' (43502); insects 
of different species (43662) ; galls on leaves 
of Lupinus albifrons, produced by small 
flies of the family Cecidomyiidae (43948) ; 
6 species of insects (44223). 

Jermy, Juuus, San Antonio, Tex.: 126 
plants from Texas (43495; 43962; 44001: 
received through Department of Agricul- 
ture); 64 Lepidoptera (44070). 

Johnson, E. A., Modesto, Cal.: A homopter- 
ous insect, Chsteroptera erythrocephala 
Germar. (43087). 

Johnson, Julius, Marysville, Kans.: Min- 
erals, fossil bones, and arrowheads 
(44471). 

Johnson, J. (See under Xavy Department.) 

JoNHsoN, J. B., Manassas, Va.: Lizard, Eit- 
meces quinquelineatus, from Virginia 
(42939). 

Johnson, O. B., Seattle, Wash.: 21 Lej)!- 
doptera (43450). 

Johnson, R. S. (See under Department 
of Commerce and Labor. Bureau of 
Fisheries.) 

Johnston, Elizabeth Bryant, Washing- 
ton, D. C. : Painting of Gen. George Wash- 
ington (9610: loan). 

Jones, Mrs. LcRixT., Billings, Mont.: Wedg- 
wood vase (10371 : loan). 

Jones, McDuffee & Strattox Comp.\ny, 
Boston, Mass.: 6 historical plates showing 
the homes of Presidents Jefferson and 
Jackson, a statue of Capt. John Parker, 
Lexington, Mass., and portraits of Presi- 
dents Lincoln, Grant, and Roosevelt 
(44327). 

Jones, Marcus E., Salt Lake City, Utah: 6 
plants from Utah (43167; 44484). 

Jones, M. E., Chexy Chase Lake, Md.: 
Framed engraving of General Jackson 
(9640: loan). 



Jones, Miss Rachel, Dorsey, Md.: Katydid, 
Amhlycorypha ohhngifolla De Geer (43136) . 

Jordan, B. T., Victoria, Tex.: Living cactus 
from Texas (44397). 

Jordan, D. S. (See under Commerce and 
Labor, Department of, and Leland Stan- 
ford Junior University). 

Judge, James, assistant agent, division of 
Alaska fisheries. Department of Com- 
merce and Labor, St. George Island, 
Alaska: Skin of Flicker, Cohpfes auratiis, 
from Alaska { 43742) : 2 skeletons of Baird's 
beaked whale, Bemrdius bairdii, from St. 
George Island (43671). 

Karpeles, S. R., Washington, D. C: Skele- 
ton and brain of white fetus (43852). 

Kearfott, W. D., New York City: 12 type 
.specimens of moths (43592). 

Keen, Rev. J. II., Metlakatlah, British Co- 
lumbia (received through JamesTletcher) : 
Fishes, leeches, and newts (43187). 

Keller, F. L., Davao, Mindanao, Philip- 
pine Islands: Tree duck, Dendrocygna 
arcuata, and a monkey-eating eagle, 
Pithecophaga jefferyi probably the fifth 
known specimen (43779). 

Kellerman, W. a., Columbus, Ohio: 12 
cacti from Guatemala (44181). 

Kellogg, V. L. (See under Commerce and 
Labor, Department of, and Leland Stan- 
ford Junior University.) 

Kelsey, F. W., San Diego Commercial Col- 
lege, San Diego, Cal.: Specimens of 2 
species of Psephidea (43869): photograph 
of a turtle (44160). 

Kemptek, Mrs. M. M., Bloomfield, X. J. (re- 
ceived through Mrs. Luc}- Ord Donaldson) : 
Workbox owned by Mrs. Orel, wife of 
Gen. E. O. C. Ord, U. S. Army, and 
deposited by her granddaughter (10201: 
loan) . 

Kendall, W. C. (See under Department 
of Conunerce and Labor, Bureau of 
Fisheries, and Mrs. D. L. Cummings.) 

Kennedy, George G., Readville, Mass.: 
Specimen of Brachyodus trichodes from 
New Hampshire (43487). 

Kern, D. N., Allentown, Pa.: Roughly 
worked flints, hammerstones, arrow- 
points, etc., from village sites in Lehigh 
County, Pennsylvania (44016). 

Kew, London, England, Royal Botani- 
cal Gardens: 4 plants from England 
(43499; 43525: exchange.) 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



Keyser, E. W., Washington, D. C: 2 terra- 
cotta figurines found in graves at Tanagra, 
Boeotia, Greece (44039: exchange.) 

Kidder, Miss J., Berkeley, Cal.: Sphinx- 
moth, Ardonutus lucidus (43931). 

KiLPATRicK Collection, General Judson: 
Full-dress West Point cadet's coat, with 
sergeant's chevrons on sleeves (from Mrs. 
Julia Kilpatrick Rafferty); regulation 
(old) major-general's coat, with shoulder 
straps (from Mrs. Judson (Louisa V.) 
Kilpatrick): major-general's uniform 
dress coat, embroidered collar and cuffs 
(from Mrs. Kilpatrick); gold badge "40 
rounds" (pinned to major-general's dress 
coat) (from Mrs. Kilpatrick); Custer 
Cavalry badge (from Mrs. Kilpatrick); 
gold guidon badge (from Mrs. Kilpatrick) ; 
G. A. R. badge (from Mrs. Kilpatrick): 
major-general's epaulets (bullion) (from 
Mrs. Kilpatrick); buff silk sash with 
tassels (from Mrs. Harry H. (Laura Kil- 
patrick) Morgan; gold thread aiguillettes 
(from Mrs. Laura Kilpatrick Morgan); 
major-general's regulation sword belt, 
black velvet embroidered in bullion, no 
buckle (from Mrs. Julia Kilpatrick Raf- 
ferty); regulation sword belt, brown 
leather braided with gold bullion (from 
Mrs. Julia Kilpatrick Rafferty) ; baldrick of 
gold lace and leather, with pistol car- 
tridge box, gilt plate, chains, and lion's 
head (from Mrs. Laura Kilpatrick Mor- 
gan); major-general's chapeau (from Mrs. 
Kilpatrick); major-general's regulation ' 
white helmet, with chin strap (from Mrs. I 
Kilpatrick) ; black plume for helmet (from j 
Mrs. Julia Kilpatrick Rafferty); iron ] 
spurs (from Mrs. Laura Kilpatrick Mor- 

^ gan); photograph of the death chamber 
of Maj. Gen. Judson Kilpatrick (from Mrs. 
Kilpatrick); silver cord and tassels from 
the coffin of Major-General Kilpatrick 
(from Mrs. Kilpatrick) ; tortoise-shell comb 
belonging to the wife of General Kilpat- 
rick (from Mrs. Kilpatrick); lavender 
satin boots belonging to the wife of Gen- 
eral Kilpatrick: (from Mrs. Kilpatrick); 
tortoise-shell cardcase (with calendar and 
broken pencil) (from Mrs. Kilpatrick); 
tortoise-shell piu-se (cardcase and purse 
in one box) (from IMrs. Kilpatrick); piece 
of 5-inch gold lace (from Mrs. Kilpatrick) ; 
riding saddle (from Mrs. Marie Alice 



Tyler); service sword; gilt buttons from 
coat of General Kilpatrick (from Mrs. 
Laura Kilpatrick Morgan) (9673: loan.) 
Jeweled sword which belonged to the late 
Gen. Judson Kilpatrick (received through 
Mrs. Kilpatrick and Mr. Theodore F. Mar- 
garum) (9928: loan.) (See also under 
Mrs. Judson (Louisa V.) Kilpatrick; Mr. 
Theodore F. Margarum; Mrs. Harry H. 
(Laura Kilpatrick) Morgan; Mrs. Julia 
Kilpatrick Rafferty, and Mrs. Marie Alice 
Tyler). 

Kilpatrick, Mrs. Judson (Louisa V.). 
(See under Kilpatrick Collection.) 

Kjmball, D. S., Avon Park, Fla.: Pileated 
woodpecker, Ceophloeus pileatus, from 
Florida (43687). 

KixcAiD, Trevor, University of Washing- 
ton, Seattle, Wash.: 3 mollusks from 
Puget Sound (44132); 32 shells from 
Puget Sound (44539). 

Kirkaldy, G. W., Honolulu, Hawaii: Iso- 
pod crustaceans (43736). 

Kislingbury, J. P., Rochester, N. Y.: Arc- 
tic relics collected by the late Lieut. F. F. 
Kislingbury while connected with the 
Greely Expedition (44046). 

K. K. N.\TURIIISTORISCHES HOFMUSEUM. 

(See under Vienna, Austria.) 

Klages, E. a., Crafton, Pa.: Type speci- 
men of a species of Syntomidae (44224). 

Kline, J. ^[., Linden, Va.: Specimen of 
Corydalis comiitus L. (44450). 

Kloss, C. B., Johore Museum, Johore, Malay 
Peninsula : Skin and skull of a rat (43129) ; 
received through W. L. Abbott, skeleton 
of tiger and skins and skulls of 2 pigs 
(44020). 

Knight, James M. (See under Leadville 
Publishing and Printing Company.) 

Kr.vmer, W. v., Chambersburg, Pa.: Hindu 
temple medal, an interesting specimen of 
the medal sold to pilgrims at the shrine of 
Vishnu in India (44232). 

KuNZ, G. F., New York City: Crystals of 
thorianite from Ceylon (43729). (See 
under E. L. Beede.) 

Kunze, R. E., Phoenix, Ariz.: 53 plants, 
principally Cactacea;, from Texas and Ari- 
zona (43166;] 43182; 43198; 43208; 
43213; 43282; 43355; 43464; 43587; 
43591; 43605; 43950; 44243; 44309; 
44478). 

KwLiTT, A., Chicago, 111. : 15 moths (44137). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



89 



La Plata, Museo de la Plata, Argentina, 
South America (received through Fran- 
cisco P. Moreno, director): Plaster casts 
of 36 South ,\ineiican prehistoric objects 
(43840: exchange). 
Lacey, Howard, Kerr\i!le, Tex.: 2 deer, 2 

coyotes, and 1 wolf (44069). 
Lamb, D. S., Army Medical Museum, 
War Department, Washington, D. C: 
White and colored fetuses, brain of a fuU- 
grown negro, skeleton and brain of a white 
man, and 3 heads of full-blood negroes 
(43353; 43392; 43399; 43466; 43850; 
44221). 
Lamsox-Scribxer, F. (See under Depart- 
ment of Agriculture.) 
Langlois, a. B. (See under Department 

of Agriculture.) 
Lansblrgh, Max. (See under Charles 

Mades.) 
Lansdale, J. W., Washington, D. C: Con- 
cretion (44236). 
Lantz, D. E., Biological Survey, Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Washington, D. C: 
80 topotypes and two other examples of 
beetles, Cicindela nigrocxrula (44316). 
Lawrexce, W. a.. New York City: Illus- 
trated catalogue of arms and armor: Der- 
inger flintlock horse pistol (10002; 10.505: 
loan); 2 powderhorns (44494: gift). 
Leach, F., New York City: 11 watch move- 
ments (9785: loan). 
Leadville Publishing and Printing 
CoMPANT, Leadville, Colo, (received 
through James M. Knight, manager): 
Portion of the maxillary containing three 
of the large cheek teeth of a hoi-se, prob- 
ably a draft hoi-se (44597). 
Leaming, Edward. (See imder Dr. A. 

Hrdlicka.) 
Lee, a. p., Washington, D. C: Specimen of 

Kentucky sandstone (43613). 
Lee, Rev. D. C, Harbor Springs, Mich.: 
5 specimens of Chippewa quill work 
(44348: purchase). 
Lee, Sheridan. (See under George O'Don- 

oghue.) 
Lee, Willis. (Sec under Interior Depart- 
ment, U. S. Geological Surrey.) 
Leiberg, J. H. (See under Department of 

Agriculture.) 
Leipzig, Germany, Universfty of Lelp- 
ziG (received through J. Felix): About 
350 fossil corals (43069: exchange). 



Leland Stanford Junior University, 
Stanford University, Cal. (received 
through C. H. Gilbert): Samoan fishes 
collected by David Starr Jordan and L. V. 
Kellogg in 1802 (43870); cotj-pes of fishes 
{Coitus Tcazika and Julis musume), and a 
specimen of Afeleopus japonicus (43914); 
type specimens of fishes (Sielgidonotus 
hiifrons and Malacocottus Tcinkaidi) 
(44238). 
Le\lmon, J. G., Oakland, Cal.: Plant from 

Arizona (43860). 
Leon, Jesus Diaz de, Costado del Ex. Arzo- 
bispado Museo, Tacubaya, Mexico: 21 
species of Mexican mollusks (432G0). 
Lermond, N. W., Thomaston, Me.: 11 mol- 
lusks from the United States (43390). 
Lesiier, a. U., Berwick, Pa.: Cast of mas- 
todon tooth (43515). 
Levinsen, G. M. R., Zoological Museum, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, 
Denmark: About 400 specimens of Dan- 
ish Cretaceous bryozoans and miscella- 
neous specimens of brA'ozoan and ostracod 
washings (42968) ; Danish Cretaceous fos- 
sils (43781). Exchange. 
Lewton, F. L., Victoria, Tex., and Wash- 
ington, D. C: 118 plants, including cacti, 
from Texas (43212; 43383; 44213; 44259). 
Leys, Dr. James F., surgeon, U. S. Navy, 
Philadelphia, Pa.: Stone implements and 
geological specimens from Guam (44175). 
LiNDAUL, JosuA, Cincinnati, Ohio: 6 land 

shells, probably oriental (43252). 
Link, Henry A., Waterloo, Ind.: Fossils 
(43.588: gift): specimens of Devonian fos- 
sils (43702: exchange); 26 arrow points 
(43882: exchange): stone arrow points 
and geological specimens (44254: gift). 
Little, G. W., Glens Falls, N. Y.: Crowned 
pigeon, Goura coronata, native of New 
Guinea and the neighboring islands 
(42976). 
LITW^xoN, D. J. (See under Department 

of Agriculture.) 
Lloyd Brothers, Cincinnati, Ohio (re- 
ceived through Department of Agricul- 
ture): 3 mosses from Michigan (43199). 
Locke, Otto. New Braunfels, N. Mex.: 5 
cacti from Texas (43374); 3 plants from 
Texas (43441). 
LocKHART, H., jr.. Sonora. Mexico: Man- 
tispa-fly, Symphorasis signata Hagen 
(44442). 



90 



KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



London, England; British Museum 
(Natural History) (received through 
G. A. Boulenger): Specimens of fishes 
{Trichonotus setigeus and Hemerocates 
acanthorhynchus) and a small collection of 
Afi-ican fishes (44195) ; mammal skins and 
skulls (44438). Exchange. 

Long, M. C, Kansas City, Mo.: 15 ari'heo- 
logical objects (9609: loan). Returned. 

LoNGDEN, W. M. (See under Department 
of Agriculture.) 

LooMis, Rev. Henry, Yokohama, Japan: 
CoJeoptera, Lepidoptera, and Hemipfera 
from Formosa (43998). 

Lorain Steel Company, Lorain, Ohio: 
5 6-inch sections of typical rails col- 
lected at the Railway Appliance Exhibi- 
tion in Washington, D. C, May 13, 1905 
(44303). 

Loughborough, Mrs. J. H., Bethesda, Md.: 
2 leaf-shaped blades, part of cache found 
near Somerset, Montgomery County, Md. 
(43139). 

Lovett, Edward, Croydon, England: Col- 
ored woodcut of a "panorama view" of 
the Lord Mayor's show (43641). 

Lowe, H. N., Long Beach, Cal.: 7 brachio- 
pods from California (43793). 

LowRY, Lewis. (See under William Stewart 
Taylor.) 

LuGENBEEL, H. G., Berwvm, Md.: Snake 
{Ophiboliis rhombomaculatus) from near 
Berwyn (43378). 

LuMHOLTz, Carl, New York City: Ancient 
Mexican statue from Patzcuaro, Mexico 
(43885: purchase; L. P. X.). 

Lyman, E. E., Waialua, Oahu, Hawaiian 
Islands (received through H. W. Hen- 
shaw): 4 specimens of Amastra (Kauaia) 
rex, fi-om Konaluianni, Oahu (43670). 

Lyon, M. W., jr., U. S. National Museum: 
74 plants from Missouri (43978: col- 
lected for the Museum); fragments of 
pottery from Monks Mound, East St. 
Louis, 111. (43204: gift). (See under 
A. J. Brown; and Perkinson Construction 
Company.) 

Lyon, Victor W., Jeffersonville, Ind.: 
Specimens of Middle Devonian washings 
with bryozoans and ostracods (43018: 
exchange) . 

MacDougal, D. T. (See under New York 
Botanical Garden.) 

MacFarland, M. F., Stanford University, 



Cal.: Nudibranch mollusks from Monte- 
rey Bay (43825: deposit). 

McAtee, W. L., Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C: Lizard and eggs of a 
tree fi-og collected by C. A. Barber in the 
West Indies (44487). 

McCarty, J. E., Dublin, Tex.: Rocks from 
Texas (43788) ; specimen of garnet(44613) . 

McCormick, J. H., Washington, D. C: 
Pottery fragments from a mound near 
Mobile, Ala. (42941). 

McCormick, W. F. J., Cocoanut Grove, 
Fla.: (Arachnid, Ammotrecha cuhse Lucas) 
(43133). 

McElhose, Henry, St. Louis, Mo.: 60 
moths (43545). 

McGuire, J. D. (See under Rev. W. R. 
Savage, and Smithsonian Institution, 
Bureau of American Ethnology.) 

McLanahan, Mrs. S. C, Hollidaysburg, Pa.: 
Beetle (42979). 

McLean, John J., Wa.shington, D. C: 
Ethnological material from Ala.ska and the 
Pacific slope (10413: loan). 

McMiCKLE, C, Oswego, Kans.: Stone- 
grooved sinker (43217). 

McMuRTRiE, Daniel, medical director, U. S. 
Navy, and Mrs. McMurtrie, Washington, 

D. C: Japanese temple chair (44028). 
Macoun, John, Ottawa, Canada: Plants 

from British Columbia (44077). (See 
under Department of Agriculture, and 

E. L. Greene.) 

Maddren, a. G. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution.) 

Mades, Charles, Washington, D. C. (re- 
ceived through Max Lansburgh) : Pair of 
spectacles which belonged to Gen. John 
A. Sutter (43928). 

Madrid, Spain: Museo di Ciencias Natu- 
RALES (received through Ricardo Garcia 
Mercet) : 499 exotic Hymenoptera (43498: 
exchange) . 

Mall, Frank P., Anatomical Laboratory of 
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, 
Md.: Brains of 4 fetuses (43484); about 
40 fetuses (44523). 

Malone, J. G., Portland, Oreg.: 8 shells, 
probably representing species of Margari- 
tana (43669). 

Manila, P. I., Bureau of Forestry (re- 
ceived through U. S. Department of Agri- 
culture): 100 plants from the Philippine 
Islands (43741: exchange). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



91 



Government Laboratories: 991 sheets 
of plants collected in the Philippine 
Islands by E. D. Merrill (42964 : exchange) ; 
received through Hon. Dean C.Worcester, 
secretary of the interior, 155 l)irds' skins 
from the Philippine Islands, including a 
number of species new to the Museum 
colletion (44319: exchange). 

Maplestone, C. M., Eltham, Victoria, Aus- 
tralia: 84 species of Australian Tertiary 
bryozoans and specimens of washings for 
micro-organisms (43681 : exchange) . 

Margarum, T. F. (See under '' Kilpatrick 
Collection. '') 

Marlatt, C. L., Bureau of Entomology, 
Department of Agriculture, Washington, 
D. C: Siiake(Heterodon platyrhinofi), from 
Cleveland Park, D. C. (44486). 

Marshall, George, U. S. National Museum: 
Muskrat (44582). (See under E. S. 
Schmid.) 

Marshall, Robert, Washington, D. C: 4 
fossil bones taken fi'om the tunnel of the 
Pennsylvania Railroad, under Capitol Ilill 
(43541: exchange). 

Martin, H. T., University of Kansas, 
Lawrence, Kans.: Tertiary Patagonian 
shells (43366). 

Martin, J. P., Washington, J). C: nuig- 
nesite from Greenville, Canada (43402). 

Martin, William, New York City: 27 
flint arrow points from near Atlanta, Ga., 
and Tascosa, Tex. (44229). 

Martin, W. E., Springhill, Tenn.: 3 Wheel- 
bugs, Prionidus cristatus Linn. (43172). 

MAR^^N, Mrs. M. F., Manila, P. I.: Beetle 
(Gdontolabis alces Fabr.) (43158). 

Mason, O. T., U. S. National Museum: 10 
photographs illustrating electrical tat- 
tooing (43039). (See under Mrs. Mar- 
garet Bates.) 

Matiegka, Dr. 11., Prague University, 
Prague, Austria: 10 brains and 17 skulls 
of typical Slavs (43985: exchange). 

Matschie, Dr. Paul, Royal Zoological Mu- 
seum, Berlin, Germany: Skin and skull 
of rare insectivore {Potamogale velox) 
(43985: purchase). 

Maxon, W. R., U. S. National Museum: 
About 2,000 plants, also birds, insects, rep- 
tiles, birds' eggs and nests, and a small 
basket made in the parish of St. Eliza- 
beth, Jamacia (42994): specimen of 



Vitex agnus-castus L., from Maryland 
(43080) ; 3 plants collected in New York 
and the District of Columbia (43343); 
Tree-frog, Flyla pickeringi, from Mount 
Vernon, Va. (43437); 2 specimens of 
Selaginella apiis from New York (43508: 
gift); 6 ferns from the vicinity of Wa,sh- 
ington, D. C. (43636); 19 plants from 
Guatemala (44079); 28 cacti from Guate- 
mala (44179); 2 cacti ft-om Texas (44258). 
(All of the above were collected for the 
Museum.) "Guipil," a garment worn bj- 
Kekchi girls in Guatemala (44396: gift); 
egg of Worm-eating warbler, Helmitheros 
vermivorus (44548: gift). (See under 
Department of Agriculture.) 

Mayberry, H. H., Birmingham, Ala.: 2 
bullets and a coat button fi-om the battle- 
field at Franklin, Tenn. (43816). 

Maynard, G. C, U. S. National Muserun: 
Spreading-addei', Heterodon platyrJiinos, 
fi-om Rockville, Md. (43000). 

iL\YR, GusTAV, Vienna, Austria: 46 ants 
(44186: exchange). 

Mearns, Dr. E. A., U. S. Army, Manila, 
P.- 1.: 116 birds' skins, botanical speci- 
mens, beetle, coral, and beads from Min- 
danao and Sulu Islands, Philippine group 
(42932); skins of civets (43102, 43245); 
skins of a snake and a frog from the Phil- 
ippine Islands (43386); natural-history 
specimens from the Philippine Islands, 
including mammals, birds, birds' eggs, 
reptiles, ciiistaceans, mollusks, and other 
marine invertebrates, and plants, also 
ethnological and geological material 
(43557); specimen of bark of the Yucca 
fi-om California (43603); fishes from 
Mogi, Japan (43612): rocks from near 
Mojave, Cal. (43614): fossil wood from 
near Winslow, Ariz. (43615); 8 marine 
mollusks from Nagasaki, Japan (44354); 
"Hansen medal," conferred on Doctor 
Mearns by the College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, of New York (44357); Ijait 
basket of a Japanese fisherman of Mogi,' 
near Nagasaki, Japan (44376); scraps of 
Arabic manuscript (44460). (See under 
Maj. Gen. Leonard Wood.) 

Mearns, Louis Di Z., Circleville, Ohio: 
Birds and mammals from various local- 
ities in the United States (43835: de- 
posit); 14 birds' skins (43847: deposit); 



NAT MUS 1905 7 



- 92 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



2 eggs of Mexican Screech-owl, Megascops 
asio cineraceus (44207: deposit); 2 eggs 
of ^'ultu^e, Cathartes aura (44405: gift). 

Medsger, O. p., Jaooljs Creek, Pa., Arling- 
ton, N. J.: 6 specimens of Cassia from 
Penn.syivania (43153): plant from New 
Jersoj^"(433Gl). 

Mercet, Ricardo Garcia. (See under 
Madrid, Spain.) 

Merriam, Dr. C. Hart. (See under Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, and E. H. Harriman. 

Merrill, E. D. (See under Manila, P. I., 
Government laboratories.) 

Merrill, Dr. G. P., U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Specimens of serpentine, asbestos, 
and associated rocks and minerals from 
Thetford and Black Lake, Quebec, Can- 
ada (42943: collected for the Museum); 
specimen of silicon from the Carbide 
works at Niagara Falls, N. Y. (43284: 
collected for the Museum); 6 plants 
from Mexico (43294: collected for the 
Museum); 2 specimens of granite from 
quarries at Bethel, Vt. (43350: col- 
lected for the Museum); 4 specimens of 
granite from quarries at Milford, Mass. 
(43359: collected for the Museum) ; oolithic 
limestone fi-om Miama, Fla. (43989: col- 
lected for the Museum); shell limestone 
from Ocala, Fla. (43990: collected for the 
Museum) ; specimens of Coquina from St. 
Augustine, Fla. (44169: collected for the 
Museum) ; shell limestone from quarries of 
Standard Lime Company, Kendrick, Fla. 
(44176: collected for the Museum); 16 
specimens of granites, corundums, etc., 
from various localities in North Carolina 
(44566: gift): large specimen of weath- 
ered crystalline limestone (marble) from 
near Murphy, N. C. (44603: gift). (See 
under A. E. Heigh way, and Thetford 
mines, Quebec, Canada.) 

Merrill, Mrs. George P.: 31 seaweeds 
from Maine (43293). 

Merritt, W. a., Miami, Fla.: 14 birds' 
skins, turtle, frog, and crab from Florida 
(44172, 44191); 2 miscellaneous collec- 
tions of insects (44227). 

Metcalf, O. B., Black Range and Mesilla 
Park, N. Mex.: Plant from New Mexico 
(43095: gift); 655 plants from Mogollon 
Mountains region (43110: purchase). 
Meusel, Robert, Ujpest, Hungar}-: 88 
Hungarian beetles (43622: exchange). 



Mexico, Mexico, Nacional Museum (re- 
ceived through Don Francisco del Paso 3' 
Troncoso, director): Plaster casts of three 
Mexican stone yokes (43953: exchange). 
Meter, A. B. (See under Dresden, Ger- 
many, Royal Zoological and Anthropo- 
logical-Ethnographical Museum.) 

Metncke, O. M., Belfield, Va.: 125 plants 
from Virginia (43046 : exchange) . 

Meyrick, Edward, Marlborough, Wilts, 
England (received through August 
Busck): 400 Australian Tineina, inclu- 
ding several types and cotypes (44261). 

MroDLETON, F. B. (See under Victor Talk- 
ing Machine Company.) 

Miguel, Mons. J., Barroubio, near Aigues- 
Vives, Herault, France: Collection of pre- 
historic objects from France and- Algiers 
(43727: exchange). 

Miles, Miss Katherine, Brattleboi-o, "\^t. 
(received through James M. Tj'ler): Afri- 
can kaross (44116). 

Miller, A. M., Lexington, Ky. : Ordovician 
fossils (44064). 

Miller, Lieut. Edward Y., U. S. Army, 
governor. Province of Paragua, Puerto 
Princessa, P. I.: Ethnological material 
from Battak and 2 shells from Paragua 
(43240): ethnological specimens from the 
Philippine Islands (43288). 

Miller, Gerrit S., Jr., U. S. National Mu- 
seum: 7 living plants fi'om France (43054: 
collected for the Museum) : 14 plants from 
Europe (43168, 43275: collected for the 
Museum) ; topotype of Sorexfumens Miller 
(44614: collected for the Museum). 

Miller, Gerrit S., Jr., and Leoniiard 
Stejneger, U. S. National Museum: Col- 
lection of plants, crustaceans, mammals, 
birds, reptiles, batrachians, iasects, and 
mollusks from Europe (43260: collected 
for tbe Museum). 

Miller, Mrs. L. C, Salt Lake City, Utah: 
Fresh-water crustaceans (43203). 

Miller, Miss Virginia. (See under Na- 
tional Society of the Colonial Dames of 
America.) 

Millner, I. B., Morganton, N. C: Pack of 
illuminated playing cards from Sydney, 
New South Wales (43724). 

Minor, Thomas C, Cincinnati, Ohio: 4 
specimens of Coriscus (Nobis) ferns Linn. 
(43134). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



98 



Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, 
Mo.: 2 plants (43564; exchange): cactus 
(44047: exchange): hving plant from 
Mexico (44370: exchange). 
Mitchell, Miss E. G., U. S. National Mu- 
seum: 6 ci-ustaceans from the District of 
Columbia (44218). 
Mitchell, J. D., Victoria, Tex. : Salamander 

and leeches from Texas (43228). 
MoECKEL, Ernst, Crookston, Mmn. : 20-shot 

double-barreled revolver (44249). 
MoFFEiT, James P., Portland, Oreg.: 20 

arrowheads (48308). 
JloLEswoRTii, James P., Woodbme, Md.: 
Great Blue heron, Ardeo herodiatf, in 
immature plumage (43055). 
MooNEY, James. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of American Eth- 
nology.) 
Moore, Clarence B., Philadelphia, Pa.: 2 
skulls found in mounds on Tombigbee 
River, Washington County, .Ua. (44071); 
fragments of a skull from Moundville, Ala. 
(44231). 
Moore, J. Percy. (See under Pennsyl- 
vania, Univej'sity of.) 
Moors, Mr. (See under Brig. Gen. T. E. 

Wilcox, U. S. Army, retired.) 
Moreira, Carlos. (See under Rio Janeiro, 

National Mu.seum of Brazil.) 
Moreno, Francisco P. (See under La 

Plata, Argentina.) 
Morgan, E. L., Washington, D. C: Fetus 
of a negro (43726); brain and skeleton 
of a white fetus (44027). 
Morgan, Mrs. Harry H., (Laura Kilpat- 
rick). (See under Kilpatrick Collec. 
tion.) 
Morgan, Mrs. Laura Kilpatrick, Lucerne, 
Switzerland: Engraved plate from Gen. 
Judson Kilpatrick 's coffin, picture of 
General Kilpatrick when a boy, and a 
painting made by him diu-ing his boyhood 
(10336: loan). 
Morgan, Percy, Director, Waihi School of 
Mines, Waihi, Auckland, New Zealand: 
Rocks and minerals from New Zealand 
(44482: exchange). 
Morse, Edward L., Washington, D. C: 
Press-copy of a telegram sent by S. F. B. 
Morse to the State Department (44349). 
Morse, E. S. (See under Peabody Museum, 
Salem, Mass.) 



Morse, E. V., Lorain, Ohio: Specimen of 
Lepidodendron dypeatum Lesquereux 
from near Massillon, Ohio (43141). 
I Morton, J., Cosmopolis, Wash.: Water-bug, 
I Benacufs gnseus Say (43259). 
I Morton, William J., New York City: 
Original set of tickets in the Harvard 
Medical School, and original degree 'of 
M. D. from the Washington University of 
Maryland, belonging to the late Dr. W. F. 
G. Morton (43052); plaster bust of W. T. 
G. Morton, of Boston, Mass.,who in 1846 
introduced the use of ether as a general 
anesthetic (43S55). 
Moseley, E. L., Sandusky, Ohio: 21 plants 
from Ohio (43760, 44012); reptiles and 
batrachians from Ohio (44490). 
Moss, William, Ashton-uuder-Lyne, Lan- 
caster, England : 98 shells from Lifu Island 
(43769). 
Mowbray, Louis, St. George, Bermuda (re- 
ceived through M. Mowbray): Specimens 
of Branchiostoma (Ampliioxus) carihl^us 
(44084). 
MuDD, J. A., Hyattsville, Md. : Beetle, Mono- 

hammus titillator (44588). 
MtJLLER, Baron Ferd. von. (See under 

E. L. Greene.) 
MtJLLER, F. (See under New York Botan- 
ical Garden.) 
Municipal School of Science and Art, 
Carlisle, England. (See under H. W. 
Seton-Karr.) 
MuNRO, Neil Gordon, Yokohama, Japan: 
Collection of relics of the stone age (44334 : 
exchange) . 
MUSEO DE ClENCIAS Naturales. (See 

under Madrid, Spain.) 
MusEO DE LA Plata. (See under La Plata, 

Argentina, South America.) 
MusEO Nacional DE Mexico. (See under 

Mexico, Mexico.) 
Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cam- 
bridge, Mass. : (Received through Thomas 
Barbour) 2 batrachians from Panama 
(43960) ; (received through Walter Faxon) 
13 specimens of isopods (44565). 
Museum of Natural History. (See 

under Paris, France.) 
MusEU Paulista. (See under Sao Paulo 

Brazil.) 
Nack, Charles, Bahia, Brazil, South 
America: Fulgorid, a homopterous 



94 



REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



insect, Lauternaria {Fulcjora) servillei 
Spinola (43414) ; large. Erebiid-moth 
(44586). 

National Museum of Brazii,. (See under 
Rio Janeiro.) 

National Society ok the Colonial 
Dames of y\m erica (received through 
Miss Virginia Miller, custodian) : Candle- 
stick which belonged to Jessie Hough 
Wickersham, of Lancaster, Pa., and a 
leaflet from a book sent with others to 
General Washington at Brandywine for 
use in making gun wads (10048: loan). 

National Society of the Dames of 1846 
(received through Mrs. Rose McHenry 
Brackett).: Flag of Capt. Robert Fravel's 
company; gold watch; badge and a book 
containing constitution and by-laws 
(10242: loan). 

National Society of the Daughters of 
THE American Revolution: Revolu- 
tionary relics, including a seal presented 
by Mrs. Robert O. Bascoin, of Fort 
Edwards, N. Y.; lamp; nails; photo- 
graphs of ruins of Fort Ticonderoga; 
photographs of daughters of Revolution- 
ary soldiers; photograph of li fireplace at 
Crown Point, presented by Mrs. William 
W. Moore, Hands Cove Chapter, Shore- 
ham, Vt.; fragment of a dress, etc. , 
brick from Ann Story's cabin, presented 
by Mrs. Columbus Smith, Windsor, Vt. 
(10546: loan). 

Nattress, Rev. Thomas, Amherstburg, 
Ontario, Canada: Fossils from the bed of 
the Detroit River at Amherstburg(43387). 

Navas, Rev. R. P. L., Zai'agoza. Spain 
(received through R. P. C\irrie): 12 
specimens of European Chrysopida" and 
Hemerobiidrr (43772) ; 7 specimens of 
Tnchoftera and 2 Ant-lions (44167) 
Exchange. 

Navy Department (Hydrograpliic Office) 
(received through Connnander Harry M. 
Hodges, U. S. Navy): Pieces of pumice 
collected by Capt. J. Joluison, of the 
schooner Expansion (44119). 

Neal, L. a., Dallas, Tex.: Salamander, 
Chondrotus microsfomiis, from Texas 
(44407). 

Needhaii, James G., Lake Forest College, 
Lake Forest, 111.: Parasitic Hymenop- 
tera (43999). 



Nelson, E. W., San Diego, Cal.: 4 living 
plants from Lower California (44367). 
(See also under Department of Agricul- 
ture.) 

Nelson, Elias, Laramie, Wyo.: 21 plants 
(Antennaria) from the United States 
(43238: purchase). 

Nessl, Mi.ss Margaret, Talklai, Ariz, 
(received through Ales Hrdlicka): Stone 
ring from ruins and an arrow point from 
mesa near Rice Station school (44441). 

Nettleton, E. M., Welch, W. Va.: Fossil 
plants (43438). 

Neuwirtii, a., Washington, D. C: Silk 
badge of the World's Columbian Exposi- 
tion, 1893 (43936). 

Newman, J. S. (See under Department of 
Agriculture.) 

New York Aquarium, Battery Park, New 
York City: 2 .specimens of Rudd, Lencis- 
cus erythropthalmus (44408). 

New York Botanical Garden, Bronx 
Park, New York City (received through 
N. L. Britton, director): 47 plants from 
the West Indies (42963) ; plant from Kew, 
England (43001); plant from the Isle of 
Pines, collected by A. H. Curtiss (43053); 
237 plants from Colorado (43097); 104 
plants from Colorado (43479); 2 plants 
from Lower California (43520, 43540); 
about 50 cacti from the New York Garden 
(43620); orchid, Lselia alhida (43640); 
specimen of Sedum wootoni Britton 
(43988) ; 357 plants from the West Indies 
(44082) : plant from Long Island (44214); 
416 plants collected in Montana by D. T. 
MacDougal and V. K. Vreeland (44314); 
3 living plants (44371); plant from 
Mexico, collected by F. Miiller (44399). 
Exchange. 

New York Zoological Park, New York 
City (received through R. L. Ditmars): 2 
lizards (Phrynosoma hermandesi and P. 
oniafissimvm) from Mexico and Colorado 
(43792). 

New Zealand, Exhibit of the Govern- 
ment AT THE Louisiana Purchase 
Exposition (received through Commis- 
sioner-General T. E. Donne): Photo- 
graphs of Maori people and scenery of the 
country, also 2 stuffed specimens of 
Rainbow trout, Salmo iridens (44454). 

Nichols, Mrs. Ann, Laredo, Tex.: 26 cacti 
from Texas (43496: exchange). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



95 



XiciiOLSON, Miss Gkace, Pasadeua, Cal.: 
Basket made by the Porno Indians and 2 
unmounted photographs (43244). 

2^iCKERSON, W. W., Klamath Agency, Oreg. : 
Partly finished basket of the Klamath 
Indians (43036). 

NoGUCiii, HiDEYO, Copenhagen, Denmaik: 
Specimen of anticrotalic serum, prepared 
by the donor (42989). 

Norton, J. B. S., College Park. Md. (received 
through Department of Agriculture): 
Plant from Maryland (43084) : plant from 
Maryland, collected by K. 11. Pond 
(43S14); .specimen of Sescli Uharwfi.s from 
Maryland (44601). 

Nurse, Maj. C. G., Quetta, India: 10 
species of Indian Hymenoptera (43233). 

Nye, Will.\rd, jr., New Bedford, Ma.ss.: 
Crab {Planes minuiu.s) from Sakonnet 
Point, R. I. (43907). 

O'Donoghue, George, executive mansion, 
Porto Rico: Crab spider, Agastercantha 
tetracantha . found by Mr. Sheridan Lee 
(43710). 

Oehlert, D. p. (See under Paleontologia 
Universalis, Laval, Mayenne, France.) 

Offer, William C, Miami, Fla.: 2 speci- 
mens of shell limestone (44598). 

Oiierx, D. W., Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, Md.: Collection of rocks 
(43236). 

Ohm, F. (received through N. II. Darton): 
Pyrite from the Potomac formation at 
Eckington,D.C. (44217). 

Oldroyd, Mrs. T. S., Longbeach, Cal.: 
About 410 land and marine shells from 
Cuba and Florida (43276); shells from" 
San Pedro and Florida (43987). 

Oliver, G. W., Washington, D. C: Orchid 
{Hahenaria hlephariijloitis) (43121). 

Oliver, James, Chignik, Alaska (received 
through T. W. Stanton): 8 stone and 
bone implements from the shore of Chig- 
nik Bay (436.59). 

Orcutt, C. R., San Diego, Cal.: 31 plants 
from California and Lower California 
(43189: gift; 43281: exchange); 12 
plants from California and Mexico (43381: 
exchange) ; .skulls of lynx and badger, and 
plants (43416: exchange); skin of rattle- 
snake, Crotalus ludfer (43447: gift); 
specimen of Echinocadus from California 
(43877: exchange); plants and a speci- 
men of Porzana Carolina (44092: ex- 



change): about 50 specimens of Jiving 
plants from Mexico (44467: gift); 3 living 
plants from California (44537: exchange). 

Ord, Capt. James T., U. S. Armj^ (deceased) 
(received through Mrs. Lucj^ Ord Donald- 
.son, Bloomfield, N. J.): Collection of his- 
t(jrical and archeological specimens from 
Mexico and Porto Rico (10370: loan). 

Ortmaxx. A. K. (See under Carnegie 
Museum.) 

OsBURN, Raymond C, New York City: 
Dragonflies {Sympetrum madidum Hagen 
and Mesothemis callocata Hagen) (44068). 

Osgood, AV. H. (See under Department of 
Agriculture.) 

0.STERHOUT, G. £., New Wind.sor, Colo.: 
Plant from Colorado (43491). 

Oswald, William, Covington, La. : '" Congo 
snake," Amphiuma means (44381). 

OuTES, Felix F., Buenos Aires, Argentina, 
South America: 30 specimens of aborig- 
inal remains from the Argentine provinces 
of Entre-Rios, Buenos Aires, and Cor- 
rientes (43436). 

OwsTON, Alan, Yokohama, Japan: Rep- 
tiles and batrachians from Japan (43377: 
gift: 42967: purchase). 

Paez, Jose A., New Brighton, Staten Island, 
N. Y.: Sword of Gen. Simdn Bolivar and 
a sword presented to Gen. Jose .Vntonio 
Paez by King William IV of England 
(9906: loan). 

Page, A. D. (See under General Electric 
Company.) 

Page, L. W., Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C. : Sand-facetted quartz 
pebbles from Marthas Vineyard, Massa- 
chu.setts (43283). 

Paine, J. H., Los Angeles, Cal.: 6 mollusks 
from California (42975). 

Painter, J. H., U. S. National Museum: 3 
plants from Maryland (43211); 2 joints 
and 16 fruits of cactus (43473); 2 speci- 
mens of Polygyra thyroides from Chesa- 
peake Beach, Md. (44353). (See under 
Francis Pennell: J. N. Rose; and F. J. 
Tyler.) 

Paisley, R., Leakville, Va.: Cecropia-moth, 
Attacus cecropia (42959). 

Paleontologia Universalis, L^val, Ma- 
yenne, France (received through D. P. 
Oehlert, secretary): 2 valves of Volupia 
rugosa from Feoville, France (43574). 



96 



KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



Palaiek, Euwakd, Depart lueut of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D. C: 12 plants and 
specimens of Indian manufacture from 
Mexico (4306G: 4366G: gift); 500 plants 
from Mexico (43937 : purchase) ; 300 
land and fresh-water shells from Mexico 
(44108: gift). (Sec under Department of 
Agriculture.) 

Palmer, Joseph, U. S. National Museum: 
Jaw bone of a horse — used as a musical 
instniment by southern negroes (43467). 

Palmer, William, U. S. National Museum: 
Lizard, Eumeces, from Fairfax County, 
V'a. (43142: collected for the Museum); 6 
plants from Newfoundland and Virginia 
(43206: exchange); frog, Bana sylvatica 
(43391: collected for the Museum); 22 
plants from the District of Columbia 
(43474: collected for the Museum); 130 
plants from Oregon (44436: collected for 
the Museum); reptiles and batrachians 
(44470: collected for the Museum); 7 
starfishes from Victoria, British Colum- 
bia (44544: collected for the Museum); 
mannnals from Oregon (44562: collected 
for the Museum); 4 specimens of fossil 
coniferous wood from the bank of the Co- 
lumbia River, Bonneville, Oreg. (44564: 
gift); about 200 fresh-water and land 
shells from Portland, Oreg., and 15 birds' 
skins from Oregon (44576; 44579: gift); 
mummy of a rare bat from Mexico (44593: 
gift). 

Pammell, L. H., Ames, Iowa: 48 weeds and 
useful plants from Iowa (43600: exchange). 

Paris, France, Museum of Natural His- 
tory (received through E. L. Bouvier): 
3 crayfishes and 8 crabs (43092; 44236: 
exchange). 

Parish, S. B., San Bernardino, Cal.: 3 
plants from California (43079): Received 
through E. L. Greene, plant from Califor- 
nia (43154). 

Parlin, J. C. (See under Department of 
Agriculture.) 

Paso y Troncoso, Don Francisco del. 
(See under Mexico, Mexico.) 

Passmore Gem Company, Boston, Mass. 
(received through H. G. Webb, president): 
2 colored photographs of tourmalines 
found ^t Rumford Falls, Me. (43449). 

Pattee, Rev. C. R., Los Angeles, Cal.: 156 
marine shells from California (43748: ex- 
change). 



Paiton, Miss Julia C, Washington, D. C: 
25 plants from Tennessee and North Caro- 
lina (43210: exchange). 

Payn, Elias J., Olympia, Wash.: 9 marine 
mollusks from Puget Sound, Washington 
(43188) ; specimens of gold ores from 
Tredwell gold mine, Kittitas (bunty. 
Wash. (43243). 

Payne, Mrs. Columbia N., Washington, 
D. C: Case containing 14 .specimens 
showing the construction of the Atlantic 
cable of 1858 (10558: loan). 

Peabody Museum, Salem, Mass. (received 
through E. S. Morse): Carrying yoke, 
bow, quiver, and 18 arrows, shallow pot, 
small bottle-shaped vessel, violin and bow, 
2 specimens of boy's top, 2 dolls, brass 
dish, flint and steel, pack of cards, and pot 
for cooking rice, from Sumatra (44264: 
exchange). 

Peck, Frank L., Georgetown, Colo, (re- 
ceived through F. W. Crosby): Carbon 
residue from an iron cogwheel found in 
the Atlantic Shaft, U. S. Patent No. 162, 
Clear Creek County, Colo. (43419). 

Peckham, G. W., Milwaukee, Wis.: 2 moths 
(43034). 

Peeler, W. L., Goldfield, Nev. : 2 geological 
specimens from Nebraska (44091). 

Pennell, Francis, Wawa, Pa. (received 
through J. H. Painter): Specimen of 
Aristolochia clemafiiis Linn., from Penn- 
sylvania (43090); 23 plants from Penn- 
sylvania (44198; 44510; 44615). 

Pennsylvania Marble and Granite Com- 
pany, West Grove, Pa. (received through 
Interior Department, U. S. Geological 
Survey) : Sample of white marble (44095). 

Pennsylvania, University of, Philadel- 
phia, Pa. (received through J. Percy 
Moore) : 3 type specimens of Isopod {Ta- 
nais robusfus H. F. Moore) (43955). 

Pergande, Theodore, Department of Ag- 
riculture, Washington, D. C. : 3 specimens 
oiAmnicola from Piney Point, Md. (42974) ; 
crustaceans from Virginia and the District 
of Columbia (43262). 

Perkins, James L., Talklai, Ariz.: Stone 
ax from ruins near Rice Station School, 
received through Ales Hrdlicka (44439). 

Perkinson Construction Company, St. 
Louis, Mo. (received through M. W. Lj'on, 
jr.): Siliceous concretions (43162). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



97 



;rsox, W. C, Newport News, Va.: Speci- 
men of Loligo peali Les., from Mrginia 
(43220j. Returned. 

;tersox, Miss Evelyn, Long Branch, 
N. J.: Weaver bird, Munia ruhronigm 
(44239). 

lYSTER, Gen. John Watts de. (See un- 
der Smithsonian Institution, and War 
Department.) 

ORDTE, O. F., Rutherford, N. J.: Concre- 
tions (43517); specimen of datolite 
[43518). Exchange. 

[iLippiNE Commission at the Louisiana 
PuECHASE Exposition : Ethnographic 
collections from the islands, and also speci- 
aiens of lumber (4445; 44595). 
ERCE, E. W., Boise, Idaho: Case-bearing 
arva of Coleophora (44430). 
3RCE, W. D., Department of Agriculture: 
l\ types and cot3'pes of MyodUes solida- 
lenis, 2 types of Rhipiphorus acutipennis 
lud a type of Myodites minimus (43806). 
SRCE, Weight M., Claremont, Cal.: 6 
!ggs of Bewick's wren, Thryomanes 
lenicMi charienturus (44547). 
.SBRY, H. A., Philadelphia, Pa.: MoUusks, 
•iz : 15 specimens of Cerion iostomum Pfr., 
rom Cuba (43562) ; 5 specimens of AsJi- 
nunella rJiyssa hyporJiyssa Ckll., from New 
^lexico (43749) ; 20 specimeas of Polyyyra 
rom Texas (44321); 3 specimens of Cor- 
ij'cuZa from Japan (44257). 
»ER, C. v.. Department of Agiiculture, 
lYashington, D. C: 177 plants collected 
)y J. S. Cotton in Washington (43631); 
.37 plants collected in Oregon by R. W. 
jorman (43649); 95 plants from Wash- 
ngton (43572; 43688); 5 plants from 
rYashington, including 2 type-specimens 
ind a duplicate of a type (43765; 
14009); 53 plants collected by Mr. Piper 
md J. S. Cotton in Washington (44013); 
)rcliid from Cascade Mountains (type- 
iheet of Listera caurina Piper) (44086). 
See under Department of Agriculture 
md C. R. Waldi-on.) 

tssoN, L. V. (See under Interior De- 
)artment, U. S. Geological Survey.) 
iSARO, Mons., Paris, France: Specimens 
)f French Tertiary fossils (43731: ex- 
;hange) . 

TIER, 11., San Jose, Costa Rica, Central 
America, and Washington, D. C: 5 
)lants from Costa Rica (43463: exchange) ; 



5 specimens of cactus fruit from Panama 
(44080: gift). 

Plank, E. N., Decatur, Ark.: Plants from 
different sections of the United States 
(44570). 

Platt, Mrs. J. P., Washington, Conn.: In- 
dian blanket obtained by Charles H. 
Buchanan (44426). 

Plesner, Nicolay, Christiania, Norway: 
Dike rock and rutile ore from Lindviks- 
kollen Rutil mine, Krageroe, Norway 
(43634); specimen of potash feldspar 
from Smaalenene, Norway (44050). 

Plummer, F. G. (See under Interior De- 
partment, U. S. Geological Survey, and 
David White.) 

Pollard, Mis. E. B., Georgetown, Ky.: 
Wooden flute made by a California Indian 
(44115: exchange). 

PoMEROY, O., Alamogordo, N. Mex.: Frag- 
ments of pottery of the ancient pueblo 
type, also photographs of other pieces 
(43725). 

Pond, R. H. (See under J. B. S. Norton.) 

Pope, Mr. and ^Iis. Charles A., New York 
City: Examples of Inca textile work, rep- 
resenting nearly all the variations of 
ancient Peruvian weaving (43709) ; speci- 
mens of Inca pottery, constituting die 
remainder of the "Charles A. Pope col- 
lection" (43767). 

Pope, J. E. B., Washington, D. C: Plant 
(43005). 

Porter, Potter, Evansville, Ind.: 2 Ce- 
cropia moths (44517). 

Pratt, Miss Alice D., Marion, N. C: 5 
plants fi'om North Carolina (43354) . 

Preble, E. A., Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C: 6 pairs of snow- 
shoes (44452: purchase). (See under 
Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of Ameri- 
can Ethnology, and Department of Agri- 
culture.) 

Prescott, J. O. (See under American 
Record Company.) 

Price, B. J., Treasury Department, Wash- 
ington, D. C: Malleable nickel medal 
(44382). 

Pringle, C. G., City of Mexico, Mexico, and 
Burlington, Vt.: 17 plants from Mexico 
(42972; 43155; 44078; 44540). (See 
under Vermont, Herbarium of the Uni- 
versity of.) 



98 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, UtOf). 



Pkyok, F. K., Miuersvillc, I'tali; Specimen 
of psilomelane (43160). 

PuRPUS, C. A., San Diego, Cal., and City of 
Mexico, Mexico: 12 plants from Mexico 
(43021 : purchase) ; 59 plants from Mexico 
(43022; 43024; 43033: gift); 37 plants 
from Mexico (44520: purchase). (See 
also under T. S. Brandegec.) 

QuARTERMAN, George M., Nathan, Fla.: 
Larva of a species of Dictfhis. probably 
D. costatus (44245). 

QuARTERMAN, Mrs. J. K., Titusville, Fla.: 
4 eggs of Florida jay, ApheJocoma cyanea 
(44549). 

Kafferty, Mrs. Julia Kilpatrick. (See 
under " Kilpatrick Collection.") 

Railway Appliance Exhibition. (See 
under Continuous Rail Joint Company of 
America, Newark, N. J., and Lorain Steel 
Company, Lorain, Ohio.) 

Ralph, W. L., U. S. National Museum: 
Gray squirrel collected for the Museum 
(42986); batrachians from the District 
of Columbia (43115); 10 deer from New- 
York (43526); 122 birds' eggs and 37 
nests of North American species (43664) ; 
weasel (43685); Ruffed grouse, Bonam 
■itmbeUus (43713); 6 specimens of ruffed 
grouse, Bonasa umhellus (43735); about 
20 specimens of isopods from New York 
State (43916); 2 turtles (43968); 3 eggs 
of bald eagle, Haliseetus leucocephahis 
(44457); nest, 3 eggs and 17 birds from 
di^'erent parts of Noi'th America (44489). 
Gift. 

Ralph, W. L. and J. W. Daniel, Jr., Wash- 
ington, D. C: 14 birds' eggs and 5 nests, 
17 birds, 48 mammals, and 4 reptiles col- 
lected at Lake Drummond , Dismal Swamp , 
Virginia (44469). 

Ramstadt, Hanry, Jr., Chicago, 111.: Speci- 
mens of Lepidoptera (43846; 44268). 

Ransome, F. L., U. S. Geological Survey: 
Specimen of vanadanite from Globe, 
Ariz., collected by H. W. Clark (44568). 

Rastamji Edul.ii Dustoor Peshotan 
Sanjana, deputy high priest of the Par- 
sees, Bombay, India: Sudra, or Parsee 
religious garment, consisting of a linen 
dress (43536). 

Rathbun, Mis. C. S., Redondo, Los Angeles 
County, Cal.: Sea Pen (43459: exchange). 

Rathbun, Miss M. J., U. S. National Mu- 



seum: Isopods, shells, and insects from 
Lanesboro, Bei'ksliire Counfv, Mass. 
(43257). 

Raulerson, Peter, Tentie, FJa. (received 
ihrougli A. W. Barber): Steel chisel from 
a battledeld (Seminole war), near the 
mouth of Taylor Creek, Lake Okechobee, 
Florida (44220). 

Raymond, J. S., Marine-Hospital Service, 
Washington, D. C: Wood, bored by 
Limiwria lignorum, from the south Atlan- 
tic Quarantine Station (44159); 2 pieces 
of wood bored by Sphieroma and a piece 
of wood bored by Teredo from Hillsboro 
River, Tampa (44332); piece of wood 
with borings and crustaceans (44505). 

Rea, a., Tajique, Torrance County, N. Mex. 
(received through Biological Survey, De- 
partment of Agriculture) : Snake, Pituo- 
phis,ivom New Mexico (43396). 

Reed, Rev. Luther D., Jeannette, Pa.: 
Liturgy "The Choral Service Book" 
(43334^ 

Reeder, John T., Calumet, Mich.: Speci- 
men of copper with silver (44267). 

Renn, Paul, Fallon, Mont.: Cretaceous 
fossils (43717). 

Reverchon, J., Dallas, Tex.: 5 plants from 
Texas (44342). (See also under B. F. 
Bush.) 

Richmond, A. M., East Orange, N. J.: 
Button given to the guests at the sixtieth 
wedding anniversary celebration of Mr. 
and Mrs. Richmond (43911). 

Richter, Franz, Vienna, Austria: Grseco- 
Egyptian encaustic portrait from graves 
of Rubaiyat, Province of Fayiim, Egypt 
(43048: purchase, L. P. X). 

RicKER, P. L., Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C: 119 mosses from 
Maine and vicinity (43200: exchange); 
plant from New Mexico, collected by 
G. G. Hedgcock (43059: gift); 6 North 
American mosses (44085: exchange). 

RicKETTS, H., Globe, Ariz.: 15 living cacti 
from Ai-izona (44331: gift; 44493: ex- 
change). 

Ridgway, Robert, U. S. National Museum: 
3 birds' skins from the eastern United 
States (43656). 

Riley, J. H.,U. S. National Museum: Bat, 
Pipistrellus suhfiavus (43124: collected 
for the Museum); 25 birds' skins and 3 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS, 



9V) 



mainnial skins from Virginia (43553: 
gift): skin of Baltimore oriole, Icterus 
galhula (44508: gift). 
[NG, J. H., Ferndalo, Cal.: Skeleton and 
3 photogi'aplis of a Beaked whale {Berar- 
dius), stranded near Ferndale (43595, 
44491). 

[O Janeiro, Brazil, South America: 
National Museum of Brazil (received 
through Carlos Moreira): 25 crabs from 
Brazil (44286: rxchangc). 
OADiiousE, J. E., San Luis Obispo, Cal.: 
Living plant from Calif oinia (44437). 
OBBiNS, G. Collier, San Diego, Cal. (re- 
ceived through F. W. Crosby): Copper 
nugget from Lower California (43G21). 
3BBINS, K. H., Mena Ark.: Male Stag- 
beetle, Lucanus elaphus. Fabr. (44409). 
3BINSON, Seth B., New York City: Me- 
morial locket of Gen. George Washington 
(44164: deposit). 

OBiNSON, Capt. Wirt, U. S. Army, Fort 
Totten, N. Y.: 11 Lepidoptera, 3 Dip- 
tera, and an orthopterous insect (43269) ; 
Wheatear, Saxicola ananthe leucorkoa 
from Cuba, new to that island (44247) : 14 
Lepidoptera (44278). 
ocn A, Francisco Dias da, Ceara, Brazil, 
South America: Galls and parasitic Hy- 
menoptcra from Brazil (42991). 
ocKiiiLL, Hon. W. W., Washington, D. C: 
Musical instrument, lamp decorations, 
and a cabinet from China (44174). 
odgers, R. L. (See under Hon. Theo- 
dore Roosevelt.) 

OEBLiNG, W. A. (received through W. F. 
Hillebrand): 15 zeolites from Moores Sta- 
tion, N. J. (43596). 

OEMER-MusEUM. (See under Hilders- 
heim, Hanover, Germany.) 
OOME, A. E., superintendent of telegraph. 
Southern Pacific Company, San Fran- 
cisco, Cal.: 12 telegraphic insulators: 
one of the original telegraph keys us;^d 
in the first overland railroad telegraph 
lines on the Central Pacific Railroad; 
section of telegraph pole from the origi- 
inal telegraph line in the vicinity of Wads- 
worth, Xev. (43532). 

oosevelt, Theodore, President of the 
United States: Bombshell and minie 
balls from the battlefield of Atlanta, to- 
gether vnth a pamphlet and letter from 
Mr. Robert L. Rodgers relating to them 



(43694); outfit of a Brazilian horseman, 
consisting of' a saddle, bridle, halter, 3 
saddle blankets, lap robe, 2 girths, a bola, 
horn, and lasso (43704); penrack and 2 
penholders made from wood taken from 
the floors of the homestead of Abraham 
Lincoln at Springfield, 111. (43714); col- 
lection of ethnological objects from the 
Philippine Islands, including a net used 
by the natives to catch deer, aiguillettes 
(silver and silvt r cord) , 5 cockspurs, 
wooden cup and 2 die?, red woven silk 
sash with gilt tassL-ls, '' Borong," or native 
bolo, presented by "Momma" on behalf 
of the Samal Moros, and native sash, 
piews of native cloth from the same source 
(43839); 2 ash trays made from oyster 
shells taken from Bay Adam, Louisiana 
(43969). 

Rose, J. N., U. S. National Museum: 100 
plants, principally from Mexico (43044); 
100 plants (44011); 100 cacti (44128). 
Collected for the Museum. (See also 
under F. Altamirano.) 

Rose, J. N . and J. H. Painter,U. S. National 
Musemu: 276 plants from Pennsylvania 
(43091 : collected for the Museum). 

Rostroke, M., Scranton, Pa.: Aphideous 
gall (43137). 

Roth, Charles I., Bellingham, Wa.sh.: 2 
.specimens of sandstone from quarries 
at Bellingham (43604). 

RoTiiGEB, D. A., Leaksville, Va.: Beetle, 
Dynastes iityus Linn. (42960). 

Rowley, R. R., Louisiana, Mo. (received 
through R. S. Bassler): 200 Kinderhook 
brachiopods from Louisiana, Mo. (43460). 

Royal Botanical Gardens. (See under 
Calcutta, India; and under Kew, Lon- 
don, England.) 

Royal Botanical Museum. (See under 
Berlin, Germany.) 

Royal Geographical Society, London, 
England (received through the British 
Royal Commission at the Louisiana Pur- 
chase Exposition): Collection of framed 
illustratioas (44589). 

Royal Siamese Comjiission at the Louis- 
iana Purchase Exposition: Collection 
of lacquers, basketry, etc. (44420: pur- 
chase); snakes, birds' nests, mammals 
(44424: gift); ethnological objects illus- 
trating the social life of Siam (44425: 
gift). 



100 



REPORT OP NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



iloYAL Zoological and i^xjiKoroLOGi- 
cal-Etiinograpiiical Museum. (See 
under DresdriT, Germany.) 

KuTTER, Cloudsley. (Si'c luidcr Depart- 
ment of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of 
Fisheries.) 

Safford, William E., Department of Agri- 
culture, Washington, D. C: 1,070 plants 
(43163). 

Sandberg, J. 11., and J. B. Lelberg. (See 
under Department of Agriculture.) 

Sanders, B.L., Adamsvillc, Tcnn.: Nest of 
Orchard oriole, Icterus spiirius (44208). 

Sands, W. A., Auburndale, Fla. (received 
through N. R. Wood) : Dragonfly (44276). 

S.\o Paulo, Museu Paulista (received 
through H. von Ihering, director): 6 
skins and skulls of bats (42953: gift); 37 
specimens of Vespoides (43424: exchange). 

Sardeson, F. W., Minneapolis, Minn.: 
Specimen of the rare crinoid represent- 
ing the species Cremacrinus punctatus 
Ulrich from the Ordovician of Minnesota 
(43665: exchange). 

Sargent, R. H., Tombstone, Ariz.: 3 cacti 
(43965). 

Savage, Rev. William R., Blowing Rock, 
N. C. (received through J. D. McGuire): 
Unfinished ceremonial stone (43365). 

Schaeffer, Charles, Brooklyn, N. Y.: 2 
species of Vespoidea (43371). 

ScHALLER, W. T., Washington, D. C: 
Tom-malines from southern California 
(43476: purchase). 

SciUFFBAUER, Miss ^'IiNNiE, Talklai, Ai-iz. 
(received through Ales Hrdlicka) : Metate, 
rubbing stone and perforated stone disk 
fi'om ruins near Rice Station school 
(44440). 

SciiLECHTER, Mr. (See under Dr. K. 
Schumann.) 

ScHMiD, E. S., Washington, D. C: Parrot, 
Eclectus roratus, from the East Indies 
(43060); received through George Mar- 
shall, crab, Cardisoma (43085) ; 2 lizards, 
Phrynosoma and Anolis (43143) ; a golden 
pheasant, Chrysolophus pictus (43746). 

Schmidt, Peter, Zoological Musemn, Im- 
perial Academj' of Sciences, St. Peters- 
burg, Russia: 7 species of fishes, viz, 
Microstomus stelleri; Acanthopsetta nade- 
shuyi; Pseudoblennius elegans; Cottius- 
culus gonez; Podoihecus thompsoni: Chlcea 
aino and Hypoptychus dyhowskii (43086). 



ScHONLAND, S. (See under Grahanistown, 
South Afi-ica, Albany Musemn.) 

Schoolcraft, Mrs., Washington, D. C: 
About 100 plants from Mchigan (43300). 

Scureiner, Jacob, St. Petersburg, Russia: 
24 species of Hymenoptera (43352); 15 
Russian Hymenoptera (43568). 

ScHUBER, Mrs. E. W., Livingston, Mont.: 
150 plants from Selkirk Mountains, 
British Columbia (43976: purchase). 

ScHUCHERT, Charles. (See under Yale 
University Museum.) 

Schumann, K., Berlin, Germany: 1,646 
plants from South Africa, collected by Mr. 
Schlechter (43249: purchase). 

Schwab, E. H., Schulenburg, Tex.: Luna 
moth, Tropsea luna Linn. (44161). 

Schwarz, E. a.. Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C: 3,500 insects, chiefly 
Coleoptera, from Cayamas, Cuba (44106). 
(See also under Department of Agricul- 
ture, and R. P. Currie.) 

Schwarz, E. A., and H. S. Barber, U. S. 
National Museimi: 79 plants from Ai'i- 
zona (44036: collected for the Museum). 

Scott, J. G.,- Philadelphia, Pa.: Frond of 
Asplenium ebenoides, obtained by R. R. 
Scott (43448: exchange). 

ScovELL, J. T. (See under Department of 
Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fish- 
eries.) 

Scripture, E. W. 
Institution.) 

SCURLOCK, H. C, 
male skeleton 



(See under Smithsonian 



Washington, D. C: Fe- 
of a full-blood negro 
(43582); skeleton and brain of a full- 
blood negro woman (43616); skeleton of 
an adult negro (43778). 

Seal, W. P., & Son, Delair, N. J.: Cray- 
fishes and shrimps (44110). 

Senff Expedition. (See imder Bashford 
Dean.) 

Seton-Karr, H. W., London, England (re- 
ceived through Municipal School of Sci- 
ence and Art, Tidlie House, Carlisle, Eng- 
land) : Two neolithic polished stone imple- 
ments from Bundelkund, India (43489). 

Seton, Ernest Thompson, Cos Cob, Conn, 
(received through Biological Survey, De- 
partment of Agriculture, Washington, D. 
C): Two squirrel skins from Norway and 
skins and skulls of 3 rabbits from Kansas 
(42993) ; received through Department of 
Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisher- 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



101 



ccUection of batracliians IVoiu Maui- 
a (43801). 

LL, Harold L, Washington, D. C: 
lection of Japanese and Chinese pet- 
es and porcelains, and Japanese lac- 
rs; one piece of bronze, and one steel 
•rd guard (10548: loan). 
, C. H., Co^legeville, Pa.: 561 plants 
ected in British Columbia (43961: 
chase). 

3, S. (See under Washington State 
lege.) 

'EY Glue and Chemical Works 
MIXED), London, England (received 
jugh British Ro^-al Commission at the 
lisiana Purchase Exposition) : Samples 
;lues, chemicals, etc. (44558). 
dAN, Charles E., Lawrence, N. Y.: 4 
ill horsehair baskets made by the Fran- 
an nuns at Linares, Chile (43858). 
.IAN, Franklin, Jr., Department of 
iculture, Raleigh, N. C: 14 butter- 
; (43927). 

STRi, Filippo, Portici, Italy: Collec- 
is of parasitic Hymenoptera (43089; 
85; 43821). 

»NS, H. J., Galveston, Tex. (received 
)ugh James Douglas): 2 ivory beads 
id in ballast pits at the mouth of Clear 
;k, near Galveston (42988). 
R, G. P., Lock Haven, Pa.: Insect gall, 
Hrhytis seminator Harris, and a plant 
gelica) (44449). 
i'liARMACY, Andrews, X. C: Chrysalis 

butterfly (44608). 

, F. J. V. (See under Field Colmnbian 
ieum.) , 

, Earle. (See under South Carolina 
logical Survey.) 

,, J. K., New York Botanical Gar- 
, New York City: 7 cacti from 
•ida (43478). (See under Department 
agriculture.) 

, Miss Bayard, Balthnore, Md.: Sea- 
d, skin of sea eel or moray, Channo- 
sena vittata, from the coast of Cuba or 
nuda; and a collection of ethnological 
cts (44328: gift), collection of wear- 
ipparel of the Colonial period (10334: 

0- 

, George O. (See under Interior De- 
ment, U. S. Geological Survey.) 
, John B., New Brunswick, N. J.: 7 
isitic Hymenoptera (42936; 43093); 8 



authentic specimens of mosquito, C'ulex 
pretans Grossbeck, bred from typical 
larvie (44253). 

Smith, John Donnell, Baltimore, Md.: 2 
plants (43690) ; 2 plants from Guatemala 
(44064; 44180); specimen of Crescentia 
cujete L., from Guatemala (44199). (See 
under Smithsonian Institution.) 

Smith, Robert R., Devils Lake, Canada: 
Spider, Memnnena hatia Clerck (42978). 

Smith, Samuel, Bureau of Engraving and 
Printing, Treasury Department, Wash- 
ington, D. C. : 12 eggs of Colinus virgini- 
anus (43227). 

Smithsonian Institution, Mr. S. P. Lang- 
ley, Secretary: Commemorative medal of 
the fiftieth anniversary of the University 
of Wisconsin (43040). 2 horns from 
Italy; 2 wooden shoes and a bronze Egj^- 
tian statuette (43067); 2 fire-backs 
(43286); bowlder (shell), 5-franc 

piece, bronze medal, with the head of 
Napoleon on the obverse, and a shell 
(43309); 4 tombstones and a corner- 
stone of the colonial period, also a horse- 
shoe, evidently of the colonial period of 
New York (43408, 44608) ; Chinese coin 
sword ornament (43608); presented by 
Gen. John Watts de Peyster. Bronze 
medal struck in conunemoration of the 
Bi-Centennial Jubilee of the Berlin 
Academy of Sciences (43264): re- 
ceived through the German ambassador. 
Herbarium and botanical library, con- 
sisting of over 100,000 plants and over 
1,500 books (43791): received from 
John Donnell Smith. Phonogi'aph voice 
record of the Emperor of Germany, with 
copper matrix (43934): presented by 
E. W. Scripture, Phoenetic Laboratory, 
Berlin, Germany. 3 Langley aerodromes 
(44336). Bones of manmioth, horse, etc., 
from Alaska, collected by A. G. Mad- 
dren (44453). Bronze medal struck by 
the order of the court of common coun- 
cil to commemorate the visit of King 
Edward VII and Queen Alexandra to the 
city of London, October 25, 1902 (44497). 
Transferred from the Bureau of Ameri- 
can Ethnology, Mr. W. H. Holmes, chief: 
Cherokee pot, obtained by purchase 
from Gossett Boone, Cullowhee, N. C. 
(43106) ; discoidal chunky stone of qu artz- 
ite and a perforated tablet of slate. 



102 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MITSETTM, 190;") 



obtaiu^d from M. \ . iiaitwcll, Cliltou, 
Term. (43384); ethnological specimens 
illustrating researches on the heraldic 
system of the Kiowa Indians, collected by 
James Mooney, of the Bmvau, in Okla- 
homa and Indian Territory (43633); col- 
lection of flint imj)lem(>nts and (juarry 
rocks from Missouri, Tennessee, and Illi- 
nois, obtained by Gerard Fowke, of the 
Bvu-eau of Ethnology (43826) ; collection 
of Mexican relics, consisting of an obsidian 
knife from San Pablo, District Texcoco, 
Valley of Mexico; jadeite ornament from 
Xoxo, near Oaxaca, Mexico; decorated 
vase from Xoxo, and a small earthenware 
vessel, obtained by purchase through Mr. 
William Bauer, City of Mexico (43827); 
24 charm stones from an ancient lake bed 
in Sonoma County, Cal., obtained from 
L. W. Stilwell, Deadwood, S. Dak. (43828) ; 
ethnological objects from the Pu:blo In- 
dians, obtained by Mrs. M. C. Stevenson, 
of the Ethnological Bureau (43829); eth- 
nological objects obtained by Lieut. G. T. 
Emmons, U. S. Navy, Princeton, N. J., 
from the Indian tribes of the Northwest 
coast (43830); canoe models from the 
Indian tribes of the Northwest coast, ob- 
tained by E. A. Preble, of the Department 
of Agriculture (43821); 152 stone imple- 
ments from Pennsylvania, obtained from 
D. T. Hanley, Baltimore, Md. (43832); 
ethnological objects from the Indian tribes 
of the Northwest coast, obtained by 
John R. Swanton, of the Bureau of Eth- 
nology (43833) ; Kiowa buffalo shield ob- 
tained from Fred. Harvey, Albuquerque, 
N. Mex. (43851); Indian bones from Sew- 
all's Point near Norfolk, Va. , collected by 
J. D. McGuire, of the Bureau of Eth- 
nology (44230) ; 20 large flint blades, part 
of a cache from mound in Montezuma vil- 
lage. Pike County, 111., obtained through 
D. I. Bushnell and J. M. Wulfing, of St. 
Louis, Mo. (44560). (See under Mrs. S. 
Bradford.) 

Transferred from the National Zoological 
Parle, Dr. Frank Baker, superintendent; 
Skin of Angora goat, Capra hrrcus; skin 
of Wallaby {Macropus rufcollis bennetti) 
and skin of Bandicoot rat, Perameles 
(43310) ; Blue fox, Vulpes lagopus, hedge- 
hog {Erinaceus europseus), Little spotted 
skunk {SpUogale ringens%) (43311); 2 



Parsoulinches and an Anhinga {Anh'mga 
anhinga) (43312); specimen of Spider- 
monkey, Ateles (43313); Snake-bird, 
Anhinga anhinga, Flamingo, Phanicopte- 
run ruber, and Night heron, Nycticorax 
griseus (43314); Golden eagle, Aquila 
chryssetos. Wood ibis, Tantalus loculator 
and Anhinga, Anhinga anhinga (43315) 
Piuna {Felis concolor) (43316); Conge 
snakv, Amphiuma means (43317); 3 GraA 
wolves, Canis occidentalis (43318); Giant 
kingfisher, Dacelo gigas, Mountain part- 
ridge, Oreorfyj? pictus, and Cariama, Cari- 
ama cristata (43319) ; Black baboon, Cyn- 
opithecus niger, and a fox {Vulpes lagopus] 
(43320) ; Giant kingfisher. Green jay anc 
Anhinga (43321) ; White-throated capu- 
chin, and Baboon (43322) ; Ruffed lemur 
fox, lynx, and a puma (43323); fox, elk 
and Sooty mangaby (43324); Little blu( 
heron, Ardea cxrulea, California linnei 
and Bittern {Botaurus lentiginosus' 
(43325) ; 2 foxes {Vidpes lagopus) (43326) 
alligator {Alligator mississippiensis 
(43327); 3 Blue foxes (43328); 3 Blu( 
foxes and a Kit-fox (43329) ; Commoi 
aguti, Dasyprocta aguti, f-nd an Anhiugi 
(43488); Wild boar, Sus scrofa (43481) 
49 animals (43482); Piping crow, Gym 
norhina, and a Cuban tree-boa, Epicrate. 
angulifer ((43493) ; Rattlesnake, ibis, teal 
and 18 tropical cardinals (43538); Cyg 
nus olor and an unidentified bird (43547) 
Kinkajou, Cercoleptes candivolvulu 
(43548); Cassowary, Casuarius galeatu 
(43550); Green jay, Xanthoura luxuosi 
(43563); skins of Aix sponsa and Buh 
virginianus (43642) ; skin of Black lemur 
Phalanger {Phalangista fuliginosa) an( 
Black-footed jackal, Canis mesomela 
(43643); 4 specimens of Oanis ding 
(43644); specimen of Ateles geoffroyi 
Prong-horn antelope, Antilocapra ameri 
cana, and Harbor seal, Phoca vitulim 
(43645); Roe deer, Capreolus caprea 
Great horned owl, Bubo virginianui 
Acouchy {Dasyprocta acouchy) (43646) 
Sooty mangaby, Cercocebus fuliginosu 
(43647); Dingo {Canis dingo) (43660) 
.skin of Dasyurus (43668) ; Toucon (43672) 
Harbor seal (43673); skin of baboo; 
(43674); Urocyon cinerea argentaiu 
(43679); pigeon (43680); wood due: 
(43686); Harbor seal, Phoca vitvlin 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



103 



B97) ; tinamou (Rhynchotus mfescens) 
398); lion 43703); Cacomitl cat, 
is cacomitli (43720) ; Bittern {Botaurus 
iginosus) (43721); Ocelot {Felis -par- 
's) (43733); Tasnianian wolf, Thi/laci- 
cynoc£phalus (43750) ; Raccoon 
ocyon lotor) (43751); 2 Great horned 
s, Bubo virginianus, and Blue-winged 
I, Anus discors (43752); 2 Blue foxes 
753); Olive agouti, Dasyprocta acou- 

(43754); Bubo virginianus (43755); 
vk (43756); Nasua rufa, and a Jaguar 
lis onca) (43785); King parrakeet, 
"osmictus cyanopygius (43786); Roe 
r, Capreolus caprea and a Yellow- 
uldered amazon, Amazona ochroptera 
787); Calopsitfacus novx-hollandise, 
794) ; Common phalanger, Trichosurus 
pecula (43795); Virginia deer, Odo- 
eus virginianus (43818) ; Blue-fronted 
azon, Amazona aestiva (43819); Cuban 
rot, Amazona leucocephala (43820); 
IX {Lynx rufus maculatiis) (43841); 
■at blue heron, Ardea herodias, and 
sky duck. Anas obscura (43842); 2 
cimens of Capromys pilorides (43862) ; 
jeeimens of Capromys pilorides (43863); 
stern porcupine {Erethizon epixan- 
m), and a Jaguar (Felis onca) (43864); 
sky duck, Anas obscura (43865); Eyra 
, Felis eyra (43866); Cypromys pilori- 

(43867) ; Louisiana heron, Ardea tri- 
>/• ruficollis (43871); Serval {Felis 
ml) (43872) ; skin and skull of Felis 
a (43886); Cuban deer {Odocoileus), 
1 Black lemur. Lemur macaco (43904); 
lea herodias, and Ortalis vetula mc- 
lii (43905) ; Trichosurus vulpecula 
i906); Bridled wallaby, Onychogale fre- 
a (43915); Hutia {Capromys pilorides) 
\ Rat kangaroo (43946) ; Red-ruffed 
uu', Lemur varius (43947) : 2 speci- 
ns of Capromys pilorides (43991); 
)od ibis, Tantalus loculator, and Mute 
in, Cygnus gibbus (43992): Blaek- 
\[-d deer, Odocoileus columbianus 
1993) ; 2 Swamp wallabys {Macropus) 
1994; 44005); Mud Iwn {Fulica ameri- 
la) (44042) ; Sloth bear, Melursus ursi- 
? (44043); Aoudad, Oiris tragelaphus 
044); Scaled quail, CaUipepla squa- 
ia (44051); Banded rattlesnake, Gro- 
ts horridus (44052); Rattlesnake, Cro- 
is adarnankus (44053) ; Green-wing teal. 



Anas carolinensis (44054); 3 Lynx caracal 
(44099) ; American bittern, Botaurus lenti- 
ginosus (44100) ; Gopher {Testudo Carolina) 
and Pine snake, Pituophis melanoleucus 
(44101); Macaw, A>a macao (44112); 
Daubenton's curassow, Crax dauhentoni 
(44117); Canada lynx, Lynx canadensis 
(44120); Arabian baboon, Papio hama- 
dryas (44121) ; skin and skeleton of Bosel- 
aphus tragocamelus (44148); Snowy owl, 
Nyctea nydea (44149); Hamster (44150); 
Condor, Demoiselle crane and Golden eagle 
(44189); Green-winged teal, Anas caroli- 
nensis (44190); Rat kangaroo (44211); 
Pine snake, Pituophis melanoleucus 
(44222); Hawk and 2 sp; cimens of Tan- 
talus loculator (44271); Puffing lizard 
(44272); Marten, Mustela americana 
(44273); specimen of Boselaphus trago- 
camelus (44274); Louisiana heron, Ardea 
tricolor ruficoUis, and Gopher snake, Spi- 
lotes corais couperii (44275); Cacomistle, 
Bassariscus astutus (44337); Coyote {Ca- 
nis latrans) (44338); California par- 
tridge, Callipepla calif ornica and a parra- 
keet (44339); Little blue heron, Ardea 
cserulea and Amciiean bitt(>rn, Botaurus 
lentiginosus (44340) ; Australian Thick- 
nee , Oedicnemus grallarius (44388) ; 6 
Blue foxes (44389) ; Turdus musicus 
(44390); Boa {Boa constrictor) and a Dia- 
mond rattlesnake, {Crotnlus adamanteus) 
(44391); Vulpes lagopus and Mexican 
agouti, Dasyprocta tttexicana (44392) 
specimen of Capromys pilorides (44498) 
Buffalo {Bison americanus) (44499) 
Black baboon' {Cynopithecus niger) 
(44500); Cracticus torquatus (44512). 
(See also under E. L. Moseley.) 

Snyder, Dr. Elizabeth, Philadelphia, Pa.: 
Fragment of ancient fabric from Antelope 
Ruin, Caiioii del Muerto, Arizona 
(43857). 

SoMMER, Karl E., Care Westinghouse 
Electric Company, Pittsl)urg, Pa., J. G. 
Sommer, H. O. Sommer, and H. Otto 
Sommer,. Washington, D. C: Collection 
of relics of the battle of Gettysburg (9858: 
loan) . 

SoREE, Moses, Dillon, Mont.: Specimens of 
graphite (43492). 

South Carolina GEOLociUAL Survey, 
Charleston, vS. C. (received tlirough Earle 
Sloan): 25 lots of Cretaceous and Ter- 



104 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905, 



tiary washings for micro-organisms from 
South Carolina (44290: exchange). 

South Metropolitan Gas Company, Lon- 
don, England (received through British 
Royal Commission at the Louisiana Pur- 
chase Exposition): Samples of chemicals, 
etc. (44557). 

Southwestern Slate and ^Li.NUFACTUR- 
ING Company, Slatington, Ark. (received 
through A. Danville, secretary): 3 speci- 
mens of roofing slate (43514) . 

SowERBY & Fulton, London, England 
(received through W. H. Dall): Speci- 
mens of a new species of Rectklens from 
Ceylon (?) (42942). 

Spencer, Chapman & Messel, (Limited), 
London, England (received through Brit- 
ish Royal Commission at the Louisiana 
Purchase Exposition) : Samples of chem- 
icals (44555). 

Spering, Nathan. (See under C.W. Hick- 
man.) 

Sprague, Oliver H., Kendall, Wash.: 2 
specimens of Lysias orhiculata (43101). 

Squyer, Homer, Wibaux, Mont.: Minerals 
and fossils from Montana (44055). 

Stanton, T. W., U. S. Geological Survey, 
Washington, D. C; 12 specimens of 
echini and 200 marine shells from Alaska 
(43699) ; about 500 marine mollusks from 
Alaska (43812); 5 living plants (cacti) 
from Colorado and 5 specimens of cacti 
from New Mexico (44492, 44599). (See 
under James Oliver.) 

Stanton, W. A., Jesuit College, Mauresa, 
Spain, and also of the Philippine Weatlier 
Bureau, Manila, P. I.: 47 specimens of 
parasitic Hymenoptera (43009); 70 
specimens of Naiad mollusks from Wis- 
consin (43215). 

Starrett, T. (See inider E. B. Ellis 
Granite Company.) 

State, Department of: Portrait of the 
Empress Dowager of China (43970). 

Stead, David G., Department of Fisheries, 
Sydney, New South Wales: 4 photo- 
graphs of fishes (43072) . 

Stearns, Elmer, Modesto, Cal.: Cacti and 
seeds from California (43382, 43430, 
43444: gift and exchange). 

Stearns, R. E. C, Los Angeles, Cal.: Mol- 
lusk (Kennerleyia grandis Dall) from 
Santa Monica, Cal. (43295). 

Steele, E. S., Washington, D. C.: 430 



plants from the District of Columbia and 
vicinity (43919, 43063, 44204, 44296) . 
(See under Department of Agricuture 
and C. V. Grant.) 

Steinmetz, F. C, Dayton, Ohio: Chrysalis 
of a butterfly {Pajnlio or Danais) (44551). 

Stejneger, Leonard, and Gerrit S. 
Miller, Jr., U. S. National Museum: 
Collection of mammals, birds, reptiles, 
batrachians, plants, crustaceans, insects, 
and mollusks from Europe (43260: col- 
lected for the Museum) . 

Stephens, Frank, San Diego, Cal.: Fossils 
from California, Phacoideff vuftali Conrad 
(44212). 

Steuart, C. A., U. S. National Museum: 3 
sponges (43535). 

Stevenson, Mrs. M. C. (See under Smith- 
sonian Institution, Bureau of American 
Ethnology.) 

Stewart, Douglas. (See under Carnegie 
Museum.) 

Stewart, E. L., Starke, Fla.: 4 plants 
{Galadia elliottii) from Florida (44476). 

Stiles, Arthur, Victoria, Tex.: 10 living 
plants, 16 cacti, and 6 specimens of 
MamiUaria fi-om Texas (43897, 43954 * 
43986). 

Stilwell, L. W. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of American Eth- 
nology.) 

Stokes, Miss Caroline P., New York City, 
N. Y.: Desk used by Generals Grant and 
Lee at Appomattox on April 9, 1 865, and 
6 letters and clippings relating to the sale 
of the desk (43226, 43628). 

Stoller, James H., Union College, Sche- 
nectady, N. Y.: Specimens of the crusta- 
ceans Armadillidium quadrifrons Stoller 
and Ligidium longicaitdatum Stoller 
(43917, 43923). 

Stone, Witmer, Philadelphia, Pa.: 51 speci- 
mens of violets (43014: exchange). 

Stose, G. W. (See under J. C. Hoyt.) 

Stretch, Robert, West Seattle, Wash.: 
Hymenopterous parasites bred from 
cocoons of Apanteles (44300). 

Stuhr, F. a., Portland, Oreg.: Mounted 
specimen of pheasant {PJiasianus torqua- 
tus) from Oregon (44503) : snake {Charina 
lottce) (44616). 

SuTER, Henry, Auckland, New Zealand: 2 
alcoholic specimens of a mollusk {Trigonia 
margantacea Lam.) from Australia, col- 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



105 



ted at Port Western, Victoria, by J. H. 
tliff (44131). 

siTON, J. R. (See under Smithsonian 
stitution, Bureau of American Eth- 
logy.) 

GLE, W. T., Washington, D. C: 2 cacti 
m Arizona (44094) . (See under Dcpart- 
mt of Agriculture.) 

GLE, Mrs. W. T., Washington. D. C: 4 
ints from California (44306). 
OTT, Mrs. Laura O. Washington, D. C: 
lOut 300 plants, including the collection 
the late Miss Julia A. Wilbur (43435). 
siG, Mrs. Adolf, Washington, D. C: 8 
;s of Parrakeet {Myopsiffacus rnona- 
ts) (44618). 

,OR, C. B., Rae Town, Kingston, Ja- 
,ica: 5 birds' skins (Sicalis jamaicif) 
i a set of eggs of Bullfinch {Melopyrrha 
■lori) (44073). 

OR, Mrs. E. P., Thomasville, Ga.: 11 
nts (42949, 43516). 

OR, F. G. (See under W. J. Gardner.) 
OR, Rev. G. W., Wellington, British 
lumbia: 9 moths (44277). 
OR, W. E., Noriolk, Va.: Little Black 
il, Por?ana jamaicens~s (43403). 
OR, William Stewart, Madison, Va. 
ceived through Lewis Lowry): Loon, 
ivia imber), from Virginia (44374). 
lUEM, M. Em. (See under French Com- 
seion at the Louisiana Purchase Expo- 
ion.) 

'FORD Mines, Quebec, Canada (re- 
ved through B. J. Bennett, manager, 
1 collected by G. P. Merrill): Large 
ick of Serpentine with veins of asbes- 
■ (43263). 

BAUD, Curtis B., Manvel, Cal.: Bat 
vynorhinus macrotis pallescens) (43601). 
iPSON, C. W., Greenback, Oreg. (re- 
ved through F. W. Crosby): Gold ores 
m Greenback mine (43149). 
ISON, E. BuRSLEM, Miami, Fla.: Mass 
worm tubes from Florida (44130). 
ISON, G. M., Dunedin, New Zealand: 
;rustaceans {Anaspides) (43291). 
:nber, J. J. (See under Department 
Agriculture.) 

)ckmorton, C. W., New York City: 
rva of a "Golden-eyed fly," Chrysopa 
wicornis (43798). 

low, F. W., Harvester, Tex. (received 
•ough Department of Agriculture, 



Washington, D. C): 3 plants from Texas 
(43632); fishes (44546) ; Blue-tailed skink, 
Enmeces qmnquelin-eatus (44480). 

Thurston, C. O., Kingston, Pa.: 3 moths 
(44000). 

TiDESTROM, I., Washington, D. C: Fern 
(Lygodium) from Maryland (43339). 

TiTCOMB, J. W. (See under Bureau of Fish- 
eries, Department of Commerce and La- 
bor.) 

Tobin, Edward. (See under George Has- 
sell.) 

Todd, Prof. J. E. (See under Interior De- 
partment, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Tracy, N. B., Auburn, Me.: Specimens of 
minerals (43140); specimen.of lithia mica 
from the mines of the Auburn Tourmaline 
Company (43285) ; specimen of gold ore 
from the mines of the Androscoggin Mill- 
ing and Mining Company (43410). 

Tracy, S. M., Biloxi, Miss.: 517 plants from 
the Gulf coast (43126: purchase): 2 ferns, 
BotrycMum, from Mississippi (43341 : gift). 
(See under Department of Agriculture.) 

Trask, Mrs. Blanche, Avalon, Catalina Is- 
land, Cal.: 6 specimens of marine mol- 
lusks from Catalina Island (43241) ; 3 spec- 
imens of marine shells from Avalon and a 
specimen of seaweed (43700; 43920); 12 
specimens of Cerostoma nuttalli Conr., 
from Catalina Island and a specimen of 
Chiton (44038). 

Treasury Department (received through 
R. B. Annstrong, Assistant Secretary): 
Specimen of coral sand and 10 birds' skins 
from Lisiansky Island, Hawaiian group, 
obtained by Capt. O. C. Hamlet of the 
Revenue-Cutter Service (42984). 

Tressler, Dork, Meridian, Miss.: Beetle 
{Dyrmsies tilyus) (44015). 

Troschel, a. p., Chicago, TIL: 10 moths 
(44139). 

True, F. W., U. S. National Museum: Small 
collection of fishes and crustaceans from 
North Truro, Mass. (44322) ; 93 sheets of 
plants from Provincetown, Corn Hill, and 
Truro, Mass., small lot of insects from 
the same localities, and a small lot of ma- 
rine invertebrates from Corn Hill (44581). 

True, R. H. (See under Department of 
Agriculture.) 

TsuciiiDA, T., Misaki, Japan : Mammals from 
Japan (44563: exchange).. 



106 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MlISp:iTM, UK)."). 



Tucker, E S., University of Kansas, Law- 
rence, Kans.: 67 Colcoptcra (43271: ex- 
change) . 

Turner, II. W., Turlingua, Tex.: Specimen 
of Terlinguaito from Marfa and Mariposa 
Mining Company's mines (43995). 

Tyler, F. J., care Department of Agricul- 
ture, Wasliington, D. C: 248 plants from 
Texas, received tiirough J. H. Painter 
(43898) . (See under Department of Agri- 
culture.) 

Tyler, James M. (See under ^liss Katli- 
erine Miles.) 

Tyler, Mrs. Marie Alice. (See under 
"Kilpatrick Collection.") 

Uhler, Philip, Baltimore, Md.: 2 cotypes 
of Homoptera, namel}^, Tibicens cruenti- 
fera Uhler and T. Uaisdclli Uhler (44516). 

Ulrey', a. B., Los Angeles, Cal.: Sponge 
(44171). 

Ulrich, E. O., and R. S. Bassler, U. S. 
Geological Survey and U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Types of 25 species of fossils fig- 

• ured in the Illustration Sheet, Columbia 
Folio, No. 95, II. S. Geological Survey 
(43609) ; types of 40 species of Tertiary 
ostracoda (43718). 

Ulrich, E. O. (See under Interior Depart- 
ment, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Unger, C. W., Pottsville, Pa.: 245 fossil 
plants (43128; 43367); fossil fern mate- 
rial (43546). This collection of plants 
from the Coal Measures in the southern 
anthracite field replaces, in a large meas- 
ure, the types which were published by 
Leo Lesquereux in 1858, but have unfor- 
tunately been lost. Many of the speci- 
mens aie therefore especially valuable as 
topotypes. In connection with the col- 
lection, Mr. Unger has also furnished the 
National Museum with important Pale- 
ozoic data for the correlation of the series 
with the Coal Measvu'e groups in other 
regions. 

Union Glass Company, Somerville, Mass. 
Received through Julian de Cordova, 
president. Collection of art glass made 
by the company (43908). 

United States National Museum: The 
following models were made in the An- 
thropological Laboratory: Cast of bell of 
the first church erected in St. Louis 
(43185): casts of Zemes (43417); plaster 
cast (bronzed) made from a plaster cast 



reproduced from the death mask of Napo- 
leon I (43522) ; models of three Etruscan 
tombs (43555); 7 casts of stone imple- 
ments (43579); plaster casts of several 
prehistoric stone and pottery objects 
(43629); 2 plaster casts (one from the 
death mask t){ Napoleon I and the other 
from Iloudon's Washington (43675); 4 
busts of American Indians (43728) ; plas- 
ter casts of 20 stone implements from the 
northwestern section of the United States 
(43775) ; 6 plaster casts comprising a jade 
tablet from Nicoya, Costa Rica ; slate box 
made by the Haida Indians; effigy vase 
from Mexico; bear mother made by 
the Haida Indians, obsidian cutlass, 
painted burial vase (43783); 4 casts of 
"great stone ax" lent by the Historical 
Society of Iowa; also cast of a copy of 
double-grooved ax in D. T. Bushnell Col- 
lection (43789); models of English pitch 
pipe and Moki wooden flute (43800); 
copy of tenor horn, and a copy of an 
organ tuning pipe (bass) (43853); 2 mu- 
sical instruments (43868) ; copy in plas- 
ter of Keara vase in the Peabody Mu- 
seum (43881); cast of double-grooved ax 
(44030); model of temple of pyramids of 
Mitla (44031); cast of first bell used on 
the first church built in St. Louis (44045); 
manikin of a Sioux chief (44387) ; model of 
a light-house at Cleveland, Ohio (44481); 
model of John Bull locomotive train and 2 
models of the locomotive "Grasshopper" 
(44507). 

University' Museum, Ann Arbor, Mich.: 
Batrachians (44014). 

Valentine, Mrs. S. M., Flatbush, Brooklyn, 
N. Y.; Original daguerreotype of Da- 
guerre and a diorama painting "by Da- 
guerre (10150: loan). 

Van Briggle Pottery C'ompany, Colorado 
Springs, Colo.: 9 pieces of pottery, col- 
lected by Walter Hough at the Louisiana 
Purchase Exposition (44422). 

Van Duzee, E. P., Buffalo, N. Y.; Received 
throughDepartment of Agriculture. Speci- 
mens of 9 species of Australian Hemiptera, 
Pentatomidae (43909: exchange). 

Varker, Miss M. G., Long Island N. Y.: 
Plant and photographs of plant from Long 
Island (42995). 

Vassiliew, Ivan, Ministere de I'Agriculture 
e( des Doniivines, St. Petersburg, Russia- 



I.rST OF ACCESSTONS. 



107 



Parasitic Hymenoptera (43395: 43497; 
43716). 

Vaughan, F. E., New Haven, Conii.: 65 
arrowheads from ilichigan (43389) : 6 
arrowheads from Michigan or Arkansas 
(43757); 12 arrow points from Arkansas 
(44114). Exchange. 

Vaughan, T. Wayland, U. S. National 
Museum: 93 land and fi-esh-water shells 
from Louisiana (44621). 

Verde Antico Marble Company, London, 
England (received thi-ough Percy Clem- 
ents, secretary): 3 unpoUshed pieces of 
Thessalian marble (43773): one polished 
hollow pedestal, from the Louisiana Pur- 
chase Exposition (44294): and 6 three- 
inch cubes, all from the quarries at La- 
rissa, Greece (44602). 

Vermont, Herbarium of the University 
OF, Burhngton, Vt. (received through 
C. G. Pringle, ciu-ator): 222 plants from 
Europe and Mexico (44473 : exchange) . 

Verrill, a. E., Yale University, New Ha- 
ven, Conn.: 5 specimens of corals (3 of 
them fragments of types) (44293: ex- 
change). 

Verworn, ^Lix, University of Gottingen, 
Gottingen, Germany: 51 prehistoric stone 
and bronze objects from Germany and 
Italy (43784: exchange). 

Veth, C. G., U. S. consular agent, Padang, 
Sumatra: 28 skins and skulls of mam- 
mals (44147: purchase). 

Victor Talking Machine Company, Cam- 
den, N. J. (received through F. B. Middle- 
ton): Victor Fifth Talking ^Machine and 
28 Monarch records (44561). 

Vienna, Austria: K. K. Naturhistori- 
scHEs Hofsiuseltm (leccived through A. 
Zahlbruckner) : 200 plants (44235: ex- 
change). 

ViERECK, H. L., Philadelphia, Pa.: 4 co- 
types of hymenopterous instect (Halictus 
vierecki Craw.) (43836). 

Vreeland, V. K. (See under New York 
Botanical Garden.) 

Wagener, E. a., Adjuntas, p. R.: 5 ferns 
from Porto Rico (43340). 

Wailes, L. a.. New Orleans, La.: Manmial, 
reptiles, and seeds of plants (44067) ; fossil 
shell, Cyprxa mus, variety bicornis Soiref- 
by (44228). 

Waite, M. B., Washington, D. C: Plants 
from the northern part of lUinois (43762) ; 
NAT mus 1905 8 



specimen of Dudltyu from California 
(44203). 
Waldron, C. R., Agricultural College, South 
Dakota (received through C. V. Piper): 
22 plants from North America (43648). 
Waldron, L. R., North Dakota Agricultural 
College and Experiment Station, Agricul- 
tuial College, North Dakota: Spring- 
tails, genus Isotoma (43411). 
Wall, William A., Magnoha, Ark.: Mole- 
cricket , GryUotalpa borealis Burm . ( 43 1 38) . 
Wallingsford, W. W., U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Union veteran badge (43509). 
Walter, George W., Washington, D. C: 
"Original manuscript of the "Blackbird," 
as sung by "Sir. W. F. Parish (44072); 
sheet manuscript of "The Blackbird," as 
sung by Mi's. G. W. McMillan (44029). 
Warbltrton, C. W. (See imder Depart- 
ment of Agriculture.) 
War Department: 

Bureau of Insular Affairs (received 
through Col. C. R. Edwards, Chief): 
Copy of an "Album of Philip- 
pine tj^es — Christians and Moros'' 
(45051). 
Bureau of Ordnance (received through 
Brig. Gen. William Crozier. Chief): 2 
United States magazine rifles of 
the 1903 model, from the Spring- 
held Armory (43132); Gatling gun, 
wrought-iron Spanish gun, collection 
of artillery projectiles, also cannon, 
mortars, rifles, carbines, revolvers, 
etc., from the Rock Island Arsenal 
(44541: 44.542). 
Military Information Division (received 
through Maj.. William D. Beach, Gen- 
eral Staff): Breech-loading Fergu- 
son rifle, formerly owned by Gen. 
John Watts de Peyster (44501). 
Ward's Natural Science Establishment, 
Rochester. N. Y.: Invertebrates from 
Swan Island, Maine (gift); 24 bats from 
the oriental region (44604: purchase). 
Ware, Robert A.. Boston, Mass.: European 

ferns (43739). 
Washburne, Chester. (See under De- 
partment of Agriculture.) 
Washington State College. Pullman, 
Wash, (received through S. Shedd): 30 
specimens of building stones (43025: ex- 
change). 



108 



REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



Waters, C. E., Washington, D. C: 4 ferns 
(43635: exchange). 

Watkins, W. G., Placerville. Cal.: Fern, 
Cheilanthes cooperx, from California 
(43019). 

Watson Machine Company, Paterson, N . J. : 
Plant from East Africa (43585: deposit). 

Waugiital, Philii', Paradise, Ariz.: 2 skins 
and skulls of bats (43277). 

Webb, H. G. (See under Passmore Gem 
Company.) 

Webb, J. B., Standard Lime Company, 
Kendrick, Fla.: Cast of fossil shell from 
Kendrick (44162). 

Weber, L. R., Eureka Springs, Ark.: Speci- 
men of needle calcite (43558) ; 2 specimens 
of calcite from Arkansas (43719). 

Webster, Rev. E. H., Waiuku, Auckland, 
New Zealand: 2 mollusks (Paryphanta 
Jiochstetteri Pfr.) fi-om New Zealand 
(43030). 

Weed, W. H., U. S. Geological Survey, 
Washington, D. C. : Rock specimens from 
Minas Prieto, Sonora, Mexico (43303: 
deposit). (See under Interior Depart- 
ment, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Weigel, H., Reading, Pa. (received through 
Department of Agriculture): Plant from 
Pennsylvania (43197). 

Welch, Mr., Washington, D. C: 1,000 
pounds of granite from Milford, Mass. 
(43307). 

Wellington, New Zealand, Colonial 
Museum (received through A. Hamilton, 
curator): 17 mounted birds from New 
Zealand (44404: exchange). 

Werckle, C, Cartago, Costa Rica, Central 
America: 42 plants from Costa Rica 
(44008; 44185: 44344; 44346; 44479). 

Wertz, E. S. (no address given): Albumen 
print, made in 1873 (portrait of a lady) 
(42945). 
West, Lieut. Col. F., U. S. ^Vrmy, Oklahoma 
City, Okla. : Cactus from Texas, received 
through Brig. Gen. T. E. Wilcox, U. S. A., 
retired (44200). 
Western Colorado Academy of Sciences, 
Grand Junction, Colo.: 4 phyllopod crus- 
taceans (43256). 
Western Union Telegraph Company, 
New York City (received through J. C. 
Barclay, assistant general manager) ; pre- 
sented through the president, R. C. 
Clowrv): Relay used at Fort Sumter at 



the time of the siege, al.so home-made 
sounder, and a pair of "bear-trap" poles 
(43225). 
Wetherill, W., St. Louis, Mo.: Haida In- 
dian plate; 2 Ute saddle pockets; 2 Win- 
nebago carrying bags and a Zuni water 
jar (43879: purchase. L. P. X.). 
Wheaton, Mrs. Maria B., Washington, 
,D. C: Personal relics of Col. Alexander 
Macomb Mason Bey, known in Egypt as 
"Mason Bey," who was in the service of 
the Khedive for over thirty years, and 
who had the rank of colonel in the Egyp- 
tian army — Egyptian sword ; belt; sword- 
knot; 3 decorations; Turkish coin, and 
a photograph of "Mason Bey" (10027: 
loan). 

Wheeler, Charles S., Washington, D. C: 
Bond of North Carolina, late Confederate 
States (44496: exchange). 

Wheeler, D. B., Washington, D. C. : Snake, 
Agkistrodon contortrix, from Langley, Va. 
(44280). 

White, David, U. S. Geological Survey, 
Washington, D. C: Lichen from Cali- 
fornia, collected by F. G. Plummer 
(43176). (See under G. M. Bradford and 
I. C. White.) 

White, G. E., Anatolia College, Marsovan, 
Turkey: Anatolian pottery fragments 
(44514). 

White, I. C, Morgantown, W. Va. (received 
through David Wliitc): Fossil plant re- 
mains from the provinces of Sao Paulo and 
Sao Catherina, Brazil (43848); eruptive 
rocks from southern Brazil (43974). 

White, William C, Warm Springs, Va.: 
Long-sting, Magarhyssa atrata Fabr. 
(43156). 

Whiteman, J. W. (See under Department 
of Agriculture.) 

WiCKH.'iM, H. F., Iowa City, Iowa: 2 Hymen- 
optera (43223). 

Wilbur, J. A. (See under Mrs. Laura O. 
Talbott.) 

Wilcox, Glenn A.. Tucson, Ariz, (received 
through Brig.. Gen. T. E. Wilcox, U. S. 
Army, retired): 38 plants from Arizona 
(44311; 44324; 44365; 44575). 

Wilcox, Glover B., Los Angeles, Cal.: 
Harpoon toggle head, from near Nome, 
Alaska, (43758). 

Wilcox, Brig. Gen. T. E., U. S. Army (Re- 
tirecj), Washington, D. C: 4 plants frorn. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



109 



near Vancouver Barracks (43170); 5 
plants from Arizona, Nebraska, and Idaho 
(43248) ; 7 plants from Alaska, Arizona, 
and other localities (43272) ; 8 plants from 
various localities (43292) ; tusk of a mam- 
moth and bones of a specimen of Cervus 
warreni (43529): specimen of copper ore 
(43530); 10 cacti from Grand Canyon 
(44177); 5 cacti from Oklahoma (44178); 
cactus from Oklahoma, collected by Mr. 
Moors (44205) ; plants, principally cacti, 
from California and Arizona (44241); 
plant from Washington (44343). (See 
also under A. H. Andrews; Capt. R. B. 
Biyan, U. S. Army; Major D. D. Gaillard, 
U. S. Army; Dr. R. B. Grubbs, U. S. 
Army; Lieut. Col. F. West, U. S. Army; 
G. A. Wilcox; Col. W. D. Wolverton, U. S. 
Army.) 

Wilder, C. ^I., Riverside, Cal. : 3 plants from 
California (44538). 

Wilkinson, E., Mansfield, Ohio: Mollusk 
(Chlorostoma luctuosa Orb.) (42931); 7 
plants from Ohio (43358). 

WiLLCOx, Joseph, Philadelphia, Pa.: 57 
mollusks (Ainpullaria and Vhnpara) from 
Florida (43811); 120 specimens of Ampul- 
laria from near Lake Okechobee, Florida 
(44216). 

Williams, D. W., Jackson, Ohio: Catalpa- 
sphinx caterpillar (43032) ; 3 case-worms 
Thyridopteryx ephemersefomies Stephens) 
(43173). 

Williamson, E. B., Bluffton, Ind.: 24 mol- 
lusks, Unionidse, from Kentucky (43242) ; 
5 specimens of Unionidae from the South- 
em States (43337) ; about 10 crayfishes 
(44607). 

Williamson, T. M., Erie, Pa. : Photogi-aph of 
a wheel-lock pistol (43707 : exchange) . 

WiLLisoN, Mrs. A., Ramsey, Mo.: 2 human 
teeth (43560). 

Wilson, Hon. James. (See under Depart- 
ment of Agriculture.) 

WiNGATE Fkank, Woodside, Long Island, 
N. Y.: 2 plants (43002: exchange). 

WiNTHROP, Governor, Beekman, San Juan, 
P. R. (received through A. H. Frazier, 
secretary) : Tooth of a fossil shark, prob- 
ably representing a species of Carcharodon 
(43471). 

Wisconsin. LTniveesitv of. (See under 
Smithsonian Institution.) 



Wise, Isador (received through F. W. 
Clarke, U. S. Geological Surx^ey): Speci- 
men of carnotite in supposed fossil wood 
from Green River, Utah (43475). 

Wolfe, Mrs. J. C, Lodge Pole, Nebr.: 19 
flint chips (43676). 

Wolverton, Col. W. D., U. S. Army (Re- 
tired), Vancouver, Wash. (received 
through Brig. Gen. T. E. Wilcox, U. S. 
Army, Retired) : 2 photographs of spruce 
trees, Picea breweri (43776). 

Wood, Maj. Gen. Leonard, U. S. Army, 
Zamboanga, Philippine Islands (received 
through Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army): 
Male Nicobar pigeon, Calanas nicobarica, 
from a small island between ^Mindanao and 
Sulu (43655); 2 skins of Nicobar pigeon 
from the Philippine Islands (44318). 

Wood, N. R., U, S. National Museum: About 
85 bird lice and a mouse (43347) ; Kildeer 
plover, Oxyeckus vociferus (43394); male 
Ruffed grouse, Bonasa umbellus, with 
prominent black "ruffs," and pair of Bob- 
white, Colinus virginianus (43732): 
Weaver's shuttle (44144). (See under 
W. A. Sands.) 

Wood WORTH, F. A., Pacific Grove, Cal.: 2 
mollusks, types of recently described spe- 
cies (44058). 

WooDA/ORTii, V. M., Eckley, Oreg. : Speci- 
men of gold-bearing antimonial ore from 
the eastern side of Mount Bray, Coos 
County, Oreg., collected by F. W. Crosby 
(43071). 

WooTON, E. 0.,MesiIla Park, N. Mex.: 51 
cacti from New Mexico (43011; 43111; 
43165; 43179: gift); 20 plants from New 
Mexico (43045; 43096; 43151: gift); 24 
cacti from New Mexico (43939 : exchange) ; 
2 specimens of prickly pear (Opuntia) 
from New Mexico (43949: exchange). 
(See vmder Department of Agriculture.) 

Worcester, Hon. Dean C. (See under Ma- 
nila, Philippine Islands, Government Lab- 
oratories.) 

Worthen, C. K., Warsaw, 111. : White peli- 
can, Pelecanus erythrorhyncTius (44612: 
purchase). 

Wright, A. H., Cornell University, Ithaca, 
N. Y.: Snake from Ithaca (44502). 

Wright, W. G., San Bernardino, Cal.: 2 
snails, Limax maximus, from San Bernar- 
dino (43010). 



110 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



WuLFiNG, J. M. (See under Smithsonian In- 
stitution, Bureau of American Ethnology). 

WuRZLOW, H., Industry, Tex.: 10 living 
plants (44369; 44485). 

Wyman, Walter C, Chicago, 111.: George 
Washington medal (43202). 

Yale University Museum, New Haven, 
Conn, (received through Charles vSchuch- 
ert): Collection of Triceratops material 
(43074: exchange); series of Favosites for- 
hesi from near Waldron, Ind. (43422: 
gift); plastotype of PresfivicMa signata 
Beecher (43500: gift). 

Yeates, W. S., State geologist, Atlanta, Ga. : 
Specimens of prehistoric pottery and im- 



plements from a cave near McDaniel, 
Pickens County, Ga., and a leaf -shaped 
spearhead of chalcedony from Cherokee 
County, N. C. (43037). 

Young, Miss M. E., Alexandria, Va.: 2 hu- 
man teeth (third dentition at the age of 70 
years) (43480: exchange). 

Young, R. T., Boulder, Colo.: Reptiles and 
Ijatrachians from Colorado (43385). 

Zahlbruckner, a. (See under Vienna, 
Austria, K. K. Naturhistorisches Hof- 
museum.) 

Zoological Museum. (See under Copen- 
hagen, Denmark.) 



A LIST OF THE PUBLICATIONS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM 
DURING THE FISCAL YEAR 1904-5, INCLUDING PAPERS PUB- 
LISHED ELSE\A;^HERE which relate to the COLLECTIONS. 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE MUSEUM. 



ANNUAL REPORT. 



Annual Report | of the | Board of Re- 

. gents I of the | Smithsonian Institution, 

I showing I the operations, expenditures, 

and condition | of the Institution | for 

the I year ending June 30, 1903. | — ' 



Report I of the | U. S. National Museum. 
fSoal] Washington: | Government Print- 
ing Office. I 190.5. 

Svo., pp. I-XV, 1-646. pis. 69, text figs. 
120. 



BULLETINS. 



The Birds | of | North and Middle Amer- 
ica: ] A descriptive catalogue | of the | 
higher groups, genera, species, and sub- 
species of birds | known to occur in North 
America, from the | Arctic Lands to the 
Isthmus of Panama, | the West Indies and 
other islands | of the Caribbean sea, and 
the I Galapagos Archipelago. | By j Rob- 
ert Ridgway, | Curator, Division of Birds. 
I — I Part III. I Family Motacillidse— 
The Wagtails and Pipits, i Family lli- 
rundinidae — The Swallows. | Family Am- 
pelidse — The Waxwings. | Family Pti- 
logonatidfe — The Silk}- Flycatchers. | 
FamUy Dulidee— The Palm Chats. | 
Family Vireonidse | The Vireos. | Family 
Laniidae — The Shrikes. \ Family Cor- 
vidse — The Crows and Jays. | Family 
Paridse — The Titmice. ] Family Sir- 
tidfe — The Nuthatches. I Familv Cer- 



thiida- — The Creepers, j Family Troglo- 
dytida? — The Wrens. | Family Cinclidae — 
The Dippers. | Family Chamaeidse — The 
Wren-Tits. | Family Sylviidae — The 
Warblers. | — | Washington: | Govern- 
ment Printing Office | 1904. | 

Bulletin .50, Part III, S vo.. pp. I-XX. 
1-801, pis. I-XIX. 

Smithsonian Institution | United States 
National Museum, j Contributions | from 
the I United States National Herbarium 
1 Volume IX i — I The Useful Plants of 
the Island of Guam | with an introductory 
account of the | physical featm-es and 
natural history of the island, of the | 
character and history of its people, and | 
of their agriculture. [ — [ By William 
Edwin Safford. | [Seal] Washington: | 
Government Printing Office, j 1905. | 
s. vo., pp. 1-416, pis. T-LXX. 



PAPERS PUBLISHED IN SEPARATE FORM. 



IROM THE REPOIiT FOR 1903. 



Report upon the condition and progress of 

the U. S. National Museum during the 

year ending June 30, 1903. By Richard 

Rathbun. pp. 1-174. 
Report on the Department of Anthropology 

for the year 1902-3. By Otis T. Mason. 

pp. 51-60. 
Report on the Department of Biology for 

the year 1902-3. By Frederick W. 

True. pp. 61-82. 
Report on the Department of Geology for 



the year 1902-3. By George P. Merrill, 
pp. 83-90. 

The United States National Museum: An 
account of the buildings occupied by the 
national collections. By Richard Rath- 
bun, pp. 177-309, pis. 1-29. 

Studies of museum and kindred institutions 
of New York City, Albany, Buffalo, and 
Chicago, with notes on some European 
institutions. By A. B. Meyer, pp. 
311-608, pis. 1-40, figs. 1-120. 

Ill 



112 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



FROM VOLU-MK 28. FROCEEDINGS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



No. 1382. A treatise on the acarina, or 
mites. By Nathan Banks, 
pp. 1-114, figs. 1-201. 

No. 1383. Notes on Hawaiian reptiles from 
the island of Maui. By Rich- 
ard C. McGregor, pp. 115- 
118. 

No. 1384. Labracinus the proper name 
for the fish genus Cichlops. 
By Theodore Gill. p. 119. 

No. 1385. Note on the genus Prionurus or 
Acanthocaulos. By Theodore 
Gill. p. 121. 

No. 1386. Description of a new species of lish 
(Apogon evermanni) from the 
Hawaiian Islands, with notes 
on other species. By David 
Starr Jordan and John Otter- 
bein Snyder, pp. 123-126. 

No. 1387. Descriptions of new genera and 
species of Hymenoptera from 
the Philippine Islands. By 
William' H. Ashmead. pp. 
127-158, pis. 1, 11. 

No. 1388. On the systematic relations of the 
ammodytoid fishes. By Theo- 
dore Gill. pp. 159-163, figs. 
1-4. 

No. 1389. The dragonfhes (Odonata) of 
Burma and Lower Siani. — 1. 
Subfamily CalopteryginaB. By 
Edward Bruce Williamson, 
pp. 165-187, figs. 1-18. 

No. 1390. On the Liparis (Trismegistus) 
owstoni Jordan and Snyder. 
By Peter Schmidt, pp. 189- 
191, figs. 1, 2. 

No. 1391. On a collection of fishes made in 
Korea, by Pierre Louis Jouy, 
with descriptions of new spe- 
cies. By David Starr Jordan 
and Edwin Chapin Starks. 
pp. 193-212, figs. 1-11. 

No. 1392. The Mount Vernon meteorite. 
By Wirt Tassin. pp. 213- 
217, pis. Ill, IV. 

No. 1393. The scorpsenoid fish, Neosebastes 
entaxis, as the type of a dis- 
tinct genus. By Theodore Gill, 
pp. 219, 220, figs. 1,2. 



No. 1394. Note on the genera of synan- 
ceine and pelorine fishes. By 
Theodore Gill. pp. 221-225, 
fig.l. 

No. 1395. Cambrian Brachiopoda, with de- 
scriptions of new genera and 
species. By Charles D. Wal- 
cott. pp. 227-337. 

No. 1396. On the generic characteristics of 
Prionotus stearnsii. By Theo- 
dore Gill. pp. 339-342, figs. 
1-4. 

No. 1397. Three new frogs and one new 
gecko from the Philippine 
Islands. By Leonhard Stejne- 
ger. pp. 343-348. 

No. 1398. Descriptions of new species of 
tortricid moths, from North 
Carolina, with notes. By 
William Dunham Kearfott. 
pp. 349-364. 

No. 1399. Note on the sahnon and trout of 
Japan. By David Starr Jor- 
dan, pp. 365, 366. 

No. 1400. Descriptions of a new genus of 
Isopoda belonging to the family 
Tanaidfe, and of a new species 
of Tanais, both from Mon- 
terey Bay, California. By 
Harriet Richardson, pp. 367- 
370, figs. 1-13. 

No. 1401. A critical review of the literature 
on the simple genera of the 
Madreporaria Fungida, with 
a tentative classification. By 
T. Wayland Vaughan. pp. 
371-424. 

No. 1402. Descriptions of new genera and 
species of mammals from the 
Philippine Islands. By Ed- 
gar A. Mearns. pp. 425-460. 

No. 1403. On a collection of Orthoptera from 
southern Arizona, with de- 
scriptions of new species. By 
Andrew Nelson Caudell. pp. 
461-477, figs. 1-6. 

No. 1404. North American parasitic cope- 
pods belonging to the family 
Caligidai. Part I.— The Calig- 
idiB. By Charles Branch Wil- 
son, pp. 479-672, pis. v-xxix, 
figs. 1-50. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



118 



No. 1405. Notes on mammals collected and 
observed in the Northern Mac- 
kenzie River district, North- 
west Territories of Canada, 
with remarks on explorers 
and explorations of the far 



North. By R. MacFarlane. 
pp. G73-764, pis. xxx-xxxn , 
figs. 1, 2. 
No. 140G. Description of a new toad fi'oin 
Cuba. By Lconhard Stejne- 
ger. pp. 76.5-767, figs. 1-6. 



FROM BULLETIN 39. 

Part R. Directions for collecting information and specinxcii.s foi- phy.sical anthropology. 
By Ales Ilrdlickn. pp. [1H25], pis. i-vni. 

FKOM VOLUME 8 OF THE CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE NATION.XL HEKB.VRIUM. 

Part 4. Studies of Mexican and Central American plants. l>y .T. X. Rose pp. 281-339, 
pis. 63-72, figs. 14-19. 



CLASSIFIED LIST OF PAPERS BY OFFICERS AND COLLABORATORS OF 
THE MUSEUM, BASED WHOLLY OR IN PART UPON THE NATIONAL 
COLLECTIONS. 



GEOLOGY AND MINERALOGY. 

MERRILL, George P. On the origin of 
veins of asbestiform serpentine. 

Bull. Geol. Soc. America, xvi, March 10, 
. 1905, pp. 131-130, pis. 33, 34. 
De§cribe.s the mode of occurrence of the 
fibrous materi.al, and ascribes the formation 
of the vein cavities to shrinkage. 

Gold and its associations. 

Engineering and Mining Journal, lxxix, 
No. 2! , May 2.5, 1905, p. 992. 
Gives a list and brief description of collec- 
tion in the Department of Geology, National 
Museum, showing the association of gold with 
other minerals. 

Stone. 

Report on Mines and Quarries, Twelfth 
Census, 1902 (Washington, 1905), pp. 
785-83.5, 15 plates. 
The paper gives .statistics and u summary 
of the stone industry for 1902. 

TASSIN, Wirt. The Mount Vernon me- 
teorite. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvm, No. 1392, 
Feb. 23, 1905, pp. 21.3-217, pis. 3, 4. 
A description of the mass with the separa- 
tion and analysis of its mineral constituents, 
together with its approximate percentage 
composition. • 

PALEONTOLOGY. 

BASSLER , R . S. (See under E. O. Ulrich .) 

DALL, William Healey. The relations of 
the Miocene of Maryland to that of other 
regions and to the recent fauna. 

Maryland Geological Surreij, Miocene. 

Oct., 1904, pp. CXXXIX-CLV. 



DALL, William Healey — Continued. 

Reviews the relations of the beds in Mary- 
land with those of Virginia and of Europe, 
and concludes that the nearest allied European 
series is the Miocene of North Germany. The 
American material studied is largely in the 
National Museum. 

— Notes on the fossils of the Baha- 



mas. 



Science (new series), xxi, No. 532, Mar. 10, 
1905, pp. 390, 391. 
Abstract of address on the subject before 
the Geological Society of Washington Feb. 8, 
1905. 



- Volupiarugosa Def ranee. 
Paleontologia Unieersalis, Laval, 1905. 



A summary account, with figures, of the 
fossil shell above mentioned, of which cotypes 
were given to the Museum in exchange for the 
labor involved in preparing the above notice. 

GILL, Theodore. Extinct pediculate and 
other fishes. 

Science (new series), xx, No. 520, Dec. l(i, 
1904, pp. 844, 845. 
The Eocene Mount Bolca Hisfionotus bassani 
of Zigno has l)een recently renamed Histiono- 
tophorus bassani by C. R. Eastman and 
referred to the family Lophiidse. It is now 
contended that the extinct fish was nearly 
related to, and possibly congeneric with, the 
Pterophryne histrio, and consequently was a 
member of the family Antennariidx. 

Another Mount Bolca fish, named Crcnila- 
brus or Symphodus szajnochx, it is claimed, 
does not even belong to the same family as 
Crenilabrus or Symphodus. Its affinities 
appear to be rather with the Berychids, and 
a new genus (,Bradyurus) is proposed for it. 



114 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



KNO^VLTON, Frank Hall. Fossil plants 
from Kukak Bay. 

Harriman Alaska Expedition, iv, 1904, 
pp. 149-1(12, pis. xxii-xxxin. 
The collection from Kiikak Bay on the 
Alaska Peninsula, a little north of west from 
KadiakIsland,contained twenty-seven forms, 
nine of which are described by Mr. Knowlton 
as new to science. The beds from which the 
specimens were olitaincd are referred to the 
Upper Eocene. 

SCHUCHERT. Charles. On Siluric and 
Devonic Cystidea and Camarocrinus. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 

issue, n, pt. 2, Nov. 4, 1904, pp. 201-272, 

pis. 34-44, text, figs. 21-44. 
This important article is by far the most 
extensive paper on American Cystidea yet 
published and is practically a monograph of 
the Silurian and Devonian representatives of 
this class. Notes on the occurrence of these 
fossils, their preparation for study, and on 
the geologic section at the chief locality, near 
Keyser, W. Va., precedes the description of 
genera and species. Under the class Carpoi- 
dea the genus Anomalocystites and the two 
species A . cornutus and A.f disparilis are dis- 
cussed and figured. The Cystoidea proper are 
represented by 11 genera and 26 species, all of 
which are descrilied and figured in detail. Of 
these, two genera, Tetracystis and Trime- 
rocystis, are new, and 12 of the species are 
described for the first time. 

The article concludes with a discussion of 
the peculiar genus Camarocrinus in which 
the author conies to the conclusion that 
Camarocrinus "appears to be the float of an 
unknown crinoid that was held together after 
the death of the individual by the firmly inter- 
locked double walls of the exterior and inte- 
rior , while the crown and stalk dropped away..' ' 
Three species and one new variety of Camaro- 
crinus are described and figured. With the 
exception of two or three specimens, all of the 
material upon which this article is based is in 
the collections of the U. 8. National Museum. 

SMITH, George Otls. (See under David 
White.) 

TRUE, Frederick W. Diagnosis of a new 
genus and species of fossil sea lion from the 
Miocene of Oregon. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlviii, Quar. 
issue, III, pt. 1, May 13, 1905, pp. 47-49. 



ULRICH, E. O. 
Maryland. 



Miocene Hvdrozoa of 



Maryland Geol. Surr.. Miocene', 1904. 
pp. 43.3-438, pi. 121. 
In this chapter of the Miocene volume of the 
Maryland Geological Survey, the new genus 
Milleaster is instituted and the following new 
species are described: Milleaster incrustans, 
M.f subramosa, and Hydractinia multispi- 
nosa. 



ULRICH, E. O., and BASSLER, R. S. A 
revision of the Paleozoic Bryozoa. Part 
II. On the genera and species of Tre- 
postomata. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLvn, Quar. 
issue, n, pt. 1. No. 1470, Aug. 6, 1904, pp. 
1.5-5.^, pis. 6-14. 
As indicated by the title, this is a revision 
of the Paleozoic trepostomatous Bryozoa, a 
very abundant and important group of the 
Paleozoic fossils. Two new divisions are 
instituted for this order, namely, the Amal- 
gamata and Integrata, based on the minute 
structure of the zocecial walls. Whenever 
necessary the old genera are redefined or 
limited, while the following new genera are 
proposed: Orbignyella, Cyphotrypa, Stigma- 
tella, Rhombotrypa, Calloporina, and Ana- 
phragma. In order to illustrate the generic 
characters or to bring out new features other- 
wise, 35 species are described or figured. 

Miocene Ostracoda of Maryland. 

Maryland Geol. Surv., Miocene, 1904, 
pp. 98-139, pis. 35-38. 
In this chapter of the Miocene volume issued 
by the Maryland Geological Survey, the Ostra- 
coda of this State are treated monographic- 
ally. Forty new species and varieties are 
described and figured, distributed as follows: 
Cythere, 24 species and 6 varieties; Cythereis, 
1 species and 1 variety; Cytheridea, 2 species; 
Cytheredeis, 5 species, and Cytheropteron, 1 
species. 

Miocene Bryozoa of Maiyland. 

Maryland Geol. Surr.. Miocene, 1904, pp 

404-429, pis. 110-118. 

This chapter treats of the Miocene Bryozoa 

of Maryland. Twenty-nine species of Chilo- 

stomata and 3 of Cyclostomata are described 

and figured . 

VAUGHAN, T. Wayland. Anthozoa. 

Maryland Geol. Surr., Miocene, 1904, 
pp. 438-447, pis. cxxii-cxxix. 

Gives an account of the Miocene Madre- 
poraria of Maryland and Virginia. Astran- 
gia conradi is described as new. This paper 
contains several glaring misprints, the 
worst of which is the substitution of the 
family name Cyathophyllidae forCaryophyl- 
lidse. In the explanation of pi. cxxiii, the 
word abnormal has been changed to normal. 

A critical revievi^ of the literature on 

the simple genera of the Madreporaria 
Fungida, with a tentative classification. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvni. No. 1401, 
May 10, 1905, pp. 371-424. 
Reviews the previous work on the simple 
Fungid corals and proposes a tentative clas- 
sification. Four families, Fungiidae, Micra- 
baciidae (new) . Leptophylliidae (new name) , 
and Anabraciidae are recognized. The data 
concerning 12 genera were insufficient for 
referring them to any of the established fam- 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



115 



WAUGHAN, T. Wayland— Continued, 
ilies. The original description of each genus 
is given, wherever possible the type species 
was determined, and a historic sketch of the 
increase in the knowledge of the genus is given. 
AntiUoseris (p. 390 1, type species Turbino- 
seris cocsenica Duncan, and Physoseris (p. 
390), type species Trochosmilia insignis 
Duncan, are described as new. 

WALCOTT, Charles D. Cambrian Bra- 
cliiopoda with descriptions of new genera 
and species. 

Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., xxvni, No, 139.5, 
Feb. 17, 1905, pp. 227-337. 
In this paper Doctor Walcott continues his 
studies of the Cambrian Brachiopoda. lie 
deflnos 29 genera and subgenera of which the 
following are new: Otusia, Xisusia, Jame- 
sella, Eostrophomena, Orusia, Finkelnburgia , 
Loperia, Suantonia, Iphidella, Rustclla, Cur- 
ticia, Quebecia, and Schuchertina. Descrip- 
tions of many new species and varieties are 
given, and a number of old species are rede- 
scribed. 

WHITE, David. The seeds of Aneiniites. 
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 
issue, II, pt. 3, No. 1550, Dec. 10, 1904, 
pp. 322-331, pis. XL VII, XL VIII. 
This paper contains descriptions and fig- 
ures of a new type of seed — Wardia — found 1)y 
the author in organic connection with the 
fronds of a new species of Aneimites (includ- 
ing Adiantites of author's) described as A. 
fertilis. Associated with the seeds and frag- 
ments of fronds, though not yet seen in actual 
union with the latter, are small fragments of 
attenuated pedicils bearing very delicate, 
minute, dichotomous appendages, at the 
apices of which are thickened bodies re- 
garded as possible poUen-bearing organs of 
the Aneimites. Aneimites fertilis, which is 
the third of the Paleozoic fliieoid genera is 
found to be seed-bearing and the second to be 
discovered with seed and frond united, rep- 
resents a type of froiid not previously sus- 
pected of being other than a fern which, in 
fact, it exactly resembles. The discovery of 
the seeds shows it to be very distinct from the 
ferns and necessitates its reference to the 
Cycadofilices or Pteridosperms, where it is 
placed liy the writer in an order designated 
as the Lyginodendrales. The type-speci- 
mens are contained in the collections of the 
U. S. National Museum. 

Fossil plants (,f the group Cycado- 
filices. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 
issue, II, pt. 3, March 2, 1905, pp. 377-390, 

pi. LIII-LV. 

This paper summarizes the principal char- 
acters of the genera of Paleozoic fossil plants 
which within the last few years have been 
segregated l)y most paleobotanists as a group 



WHITE, David— Continued. 

called the "Cycadofilices." The fossils, con- 
sisting for the most part of silicified stems 
and petioles, exhibit structures combining 
characters of ferns, gymnosperms, and more 
particularly the Cycads. The aspect of the 
frond and the details of the pinnules arc es- 
sentially in agreement with those of ferns. 
The discovery reeently of seeds in connection 
with two of tlaese plants led to the recognition 
of the Cycadofilices as constituting a phykun 
known as the Pteridospermaphyta, most of 
the types being included in the Pteridosper- 
mese. The writer suggests the additional 
inclusion in the Pteridosperms of the genera 
TriphyUopteris, Eremopteris, Mariopteris, 
and most of the species included by Lcsque- 
reux in the genus Pseudopecopteris. The 
Cycadofilices or Pteridosperms are regarded as 
intermediate l:)etween ferns and cycads, but 
it is not urged that any of the fossil genera 
included therein represent links in the lineal 
descent of the modern Gymnosperms. On 
account of the great abundance in the Car- 
boniferous of Pteridospermic representatives 
which, in fact, characterize it, it is suggested 
that, instead of being called the epoch of 
crj-ptograms, the Carboniferous be designated 
the epoch of the Pteridosperms. 

Flora of the Brazilian coal meas- 
ures. 

Science (new series), xxi, 1905, p. 700. 
Notice of paleobotanical material collected 
by Dr. I. C. White from two localities in the 
states of Sao Paulo and Santa Catherina, 
Brazil. The evidence presented by the plants 
confirms the inclusion of southern Brazil in 
the Indo-Australo-.\frican or Glossopteris 
province, and tends to full}- corroborate the 
conclusion reached In* M. ZeiUer that the Bra- 
zilian coalfields are probably of latest Coal 
Measures age, or possibly Permian, their 
place being apparently in the Karharbari- 
Newcastle stage. 

WHITE, David, and SMITH, George Otis. 
The geology of the Perry Basin in south- 
eastern Maine. 

U. S. Geol. Surr., Professional Paper No. 
35, 1905, pp. 1-107, pis. i-vi. 
The Perry formation, consisting of brownish 
conglomerates, lying in irregular layers, un- 
conf ormably upon earlier formations, is shown 
by its fossil plants to be Upper Devonian age, 
referable in all probability to the Chemung 
stage. The belief in the existence of coal 
in the formation, although maintained^ for 
nearly seventy years, is not supported by the 
geologic or paleontologic evidence, and there 
is no basis for the hope of finding usable coal 
in any of the concealed parts of the Perry 
formation or the underlying rocks. Refer- 
ence is made to several specimens in the Lacoe 
collection as furnishing unpublished charac- 
ters in species of Archxopteris. 



116 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



WOOD, Elvira. On new und old Middle 
Devonic crinoids. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVII, Quar. 

issue, II, pt. 1, No. 1471, Aug. 6,1904, pp. 

50-84, text figs. 1-9, pis. 15, 10. 
This paper is devoted to a study of the speci- 
mens of Middle Devonian crinoids in the col- 
lections of the U. S. National Museum and 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The 
new genera Tripleurocrinus and Tylocrinus 
are instituted with T. levis, new species, and T. 
novus, new species, as the respective type spe- 
cies. Three new species of Megistocrinus are 
described and figured, while remarks upon 
known forms are given. Under the genus 
Dolatocrinus two new species are described, 
comjnents upon 10 other species of the genus 
made, and the new name Dolatocrinus wachs- 
muthi is proposed in place of Dolatocrinus 
lyoni Wachsmuth and Springer, the latter 
being preoccupied. In addition, comments 
upon G other genera and 7 species, notes upon 
calyx abnormalities, and a table showing the 
distribution of Devonian crinoids are given. 
All of the figured specimens are the property 
of the National Museum. 

BOTANY. 



(See under Joseph N. 



BRITTON. N. L. 
Rose.) 

COVILLE, Frederick V. Desert plants 

as a source of drinking water. 

Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 190.3 (1904), pp. 
499-505, pis. I, II, figs. 1-4. 

GREENE, Edward L. The Neckerian 
cactaceous genera. 

Leaflets, I, Aug. 25, 1904, pp. 50-52. 
An identification of the 4 obscure cactaceous 
genera of Necker's Elementa: (1) Cactus= 
Mamillaria and Melocactus; (2) Cirinosum= 
Cereus; (3) Carpophyllus^ Pereskia; (4) Phyl' 
lanthus= Opuntia and Phyllanthus. 

North American species of Aynar- 

eUa. 

Leaflets, I, Aug. 25, 1904, pp. 53-55. 
Recognition of Gilibert's Amarella &s dis- 
tinct from Gentiana; the known North Amer- 
ican species transferred, and the following 
new ones proposed: A. copelandi, calif ornica, 
lemberti, macounii, conferta, scopulorum, rev- 
oluta, cobrensis. 

Seven new Apocynums. 

Leaflets, i, Aug. 25, 1904, pp. 50-59. 
Description of A. dircrgcns and A. an- 
drewsii from Connecticut; A. calophyllum, 
A. teomentellum, A. oliganthum, A. myrian- 
thum from the Great Basin; and A . palustrc 
from California. 

Affinities of the Cichoriacese. 

Leaflets, I, Aug. 25, 1904, pp. 59-02. 
Discussion of the intimate natural relation 
between the CichoriaceiB and Lobeliacese. 



GREENE, Edward L. Some western 
buckthorns. 

Leaflets, i, Aug. 25, 1904, pp. 63, 64. 
Rhamnus fasciculata, R. ursina, R. castorea, 
R. cuspidata, R. obtusissima, new species from 
New Mexico, Arizona, and CaUfornias 

— A name explained. 

Torreya, iv, Nov. 21, 1904, pp. 173, 174. 
. riv^tion of Cholisma Raf., erroneously 
prini 'd Xolisma. 

New species of Ceanothus. 

Leaflets, i, Nov. 24, 1904 pp. 65-08. 
Ceanothus puberulus, C. myrianthus, C. 
mogollonicus , C. peduncularis , and C. macro- 
thyrsus, new species from New Mexico, Cali- 
fornia, and Oregon. 

The genus Pneumonanthe. 

Leaflets, i, Nov. 24, 1904, pp. 08-71. 
'I'ho author discusses Pneumonanthe as'dis- 
thict from Gentiana, and transfers to it such 
North American species as had not been 
named under Pneumonanthe. 

New plants from middle California. 

Leaflets, i, Nov. 24, 1904, pp. 7.3-80. 
New species of Lupinus, Lotus, Sidalcea, 
Silene, Aquilegia, Delphinium, Bistorta, Eri- 
ogonum, Sivertia, Castilleja, Pentstemon, 
Apocynum, Cryptanthe , Galium, Chrysotham- 
nus, 21 in all. 

Certain west American Cruciferse. 

Leaflets, i, Dec. 21, 1904, pp. 81-90. 
Breaking up the large Californian group of 
so-called Streptanthi into the following new 
genera: Euclisia, Pleiocardia, Mitophyllum, 
Microsemia, Mesoreanthus. Seven new spe- 
cies are proposed and described in the sevsral 
new genera. 

— Laothoe. 

Leaflets, i, Dec. 31, 1904, p. 90. 
Restoration of Rafinesque's name as long 
prior to the Chlorogalum of Kunth. The 6 
known species renamed under Laothoe. 



On certain Gentianaceie. 

Leaflets, i, Dec. 31, 1904, pp. 91-94. 
Swertia parallela, new species. Restoration 
of Rafinesque's Aloitis as a good segregate 
from Gentiana. Four new species are defined. 

Two new batrachia. 

Leaflets, i, Dec. 31, 1904, p. 95. 
Batrachium bakeri and B. pedunculare, both 
from California. 

Two new Sophiis. 

Leaflets, l, Dec. 31, 1904, p. 90. 
Sophia obtusa and 5. serrata, both from New 
Mexico. 

Diagnoses Aragallorum. 

Proc. Biol. Soc, Wash., xviii, Jan. 20, 
1905, pp. 11-18. 
Descriptions of 19 new species of Aragallus, 
the greater proportion of them from the 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



117 



GREENE, Edward L. — Continued. 

Texauo-Neo-Mexican region, a few from the 
district of Wyoming and Dakota, several 
from western Britisti America, and one each 
from the shores of Bering Sea and Hudson's 



Some west American red cherries. 

Ptoc. Biol. Soc, Wash., x^^n, Feb. 21, 
1905, pp. 55-60. 
Ten new species of Cerasus, 7 of them from 
California, 1 from each of the following: New 
Mexico, Oregon, Montana. 



Revision of Eschscholtzia. 

PiUonia, v, June 10, 1905, pp. 205-292. 
Sketch of the history of the genus, a general 
classification of the species, with full descrip- 
tions of all known at this date. 



— — New papaveraceous genus. 

PiUonia, v, June 10, 1905, pp. 293, 294. 
An account of the new genus Petromecon 
and of the 2 known species, both endemic on 
the Mexican Island of Guadalupe. 



A study of Dendromecon. 

Pittonia, V, .Tune 10, 1905, pp. 295-305. 
Revision of the genus, with descriptions in 
full of the 17 species, 14 of which are proposed 
as new. 

Suggestions regarding Sangitinaria. 

Pittonia, v, Jime 10, 1905, pp. 306-308. 
Proposed segregation of the S. canadensis 
of recent books into 6 species : 2 for the region 
of the Eastern States: 3 for the Southern 
States, and 1 for the upper Mississippi Valley. 
Three of the 6 are described provisionally as 
new. 

The earliest local flora. 

Plant World, viii, June 10, 1905, pp. 115-121. 
Sketch of Thalius's Silva HercjTiia, pub- 
lished at Frankfort on the Main, in the year 
1588. The genera now known as Trientalis 
and Eleocharis were first published in this 
book. 

Some Ptdea segregates. 

Torreya, v, June 27, 1905, pp. 99-100. 
Three new segregates from P. tri/oliata, 
namely, P. Carolina, P. obcordata and P. 
mesochora: the first from North Carolina, the 
second from Florida, the third from the upper 
Mississippi and region of the Great Lakes. 

HOUSE, Homer Dolliver. Some rare 
ferns of central New Jersey. 

Fern Bulletin, xn, Aug., 1904, pp. 80-82. 

A new violet from New England. 

Rhodora, vi, Nov., 1904, pp. 226-227, pi. .59. 
Description of a new species, Viola novae- 
angliae. 



HOUSE, Homer Dolliver- Continued. 

Reviews the pre-Linnaeaa history of this 
species, which proves to include at least the 2 
species of Linnaeus, Ipomoea alba and Con- 
volvulusaculcatus, comhined by him under the 
name of Ipomoea bona-nox, in 1762. The new 
combinations Calonyction aculeattim (L.) 
House, and C. album (L.) House are made. 

Two new species of Convolvulus from 

the western United States. 

Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, xxxii, 1905, 
pp. 139, 140. 
Describes Convolvulus ambigens and Con- 
volvulus interior as new species from Colorado. 

— Notes on New Jersey violets. 

Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, xxxn, 1905, 
pp. 253-260, pis. 16-18. 
Describes a new species, T7ofa stoneana and 
a new hybrid Viola brittoniana ■: cucullata. 

MANN, Albert. Diatoms, the jewels of 
the plant-world. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlviii, Quar. 
issue, in, pt. 1, No. 1578, May 23, 1905, 
pp. 50-58, 4 pis., 9 figs. 

^L\XON, William R. Notes on American 
ferns. 

Fern Bull, xii, Oct., 1904, pp. 101-103. 
A comparison of specimens with the types of 
Polypodium vutgare occidentale Hook. (1840) 
in the British Museum, indicates that the fern 
ranging from California to Alaska and known 
under this name and as P. falcatum Kellogg 
(1854) is an extremely variable species. The 
series should bear the name Polypodium occi- 
dentale (Hook.) Maxon. 

A new Asplenium from Mexico. 

Bull. Torrey Botan. CTm6, xxxi, Dec, 1904, 
pp. 657, 658, 1 text fig. 
Asplenium modestum, new species, is de- 
scribed from Chihuahua, Mexico. It is re- 
garded as an aberrant member of the group 
of ^4. lanceolatum. 

— On the names of three Jamaican 



-The nomenclature of Calonyction 

bona-nox. 
Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, xxxii, 1904, 
pp. 589-592. 



species of Polypodium. 

Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, xxxii, Feb., 
1905, pp. 73-75. 
Notes upon the long-continued misidentifi- 
cation of Polypodium myosuroides Swartz 
(1788). The name is restored to its original 
application and a related spiecies receives the 
name Polypodium delitescens Maxon. The 
new name Polypodium induens Maxon is pro- 
posed for P. saxicolum Baker (1877), not P. 
■mxicola SvfaTtz (1817). 

A new species of fern of the genus 

Polypodium from Jamaica. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xL^^l, Quar. 
issue, II, pt. 4, No. 1562, Apr. 5, 1905, pp. 
410, 411, pi. 57. 
Polypodium nesioticum Maxon, a rare 
simple-leaved new species from Jamaica, is 
described and figured. It is compared in de- 
tail with several allied species. 



118 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



MAXON, William R. A new Botrychium 
from Jamaica. 

Bull. Torrey Botan. Club, xxxii, Apr., 

1905, pp. 219-222, pi. 6. 

A description of Botrychium underwood- 

ianum Maxon, a new species, from Jamaica, 

allied to the Jamaican B. jenmian and the 

Mexican B. decompositum. 

Adenoderris, a valid genus of ferns. 

Botan. Gaz., xxxix, May, 1905, pp. 366-369, 
2 text figs. 
This genus proposed by John Smith in 1875 
is regarded as quite distinct from Polystichum 
and the diagnostic characters of both genera 
are discussed. Tlie genus comprises two spe- 
cies, which are here described and figured, vie: 
A. viscidula (Mett.) Maxon, and A. sororia 
Maxon, new species. 

ROSE, Joseph N. LenophyUum, a new 
genus of Crassulaceje. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 
issue, II, pt. 2, No. 1479, Oct. 10, 1904, pp. 
159-162, pi. 20, figs. 18, 19. 

Studies of Mexican and Central 



American plants, No. 4. 

Contrib. U. S. Nat. Herbarium, viii. No. 4, 
Apr., 1905, pp. 281-399, pis. 63-72, figs. 14 
to 19. 
Descriptions of many new species are given. 

■ and BRITTON, N. L. CrassulacesB 

[of North America]. 

North Am. Flora, xxviii, pt. 1 , May, 190.5, 
pp. 7-74. 
Contains descriptions of 4 new genera and 
many new species. 

SAFFORD, William Edwin. Smithsonian 
Institution. | United States National 
Museum, j Contributions | from the ] 
United States National Herbarium. | 

Volume IX I I The Useful Plants 

of the Island of Guam | with an introduc- 
tory account of the | physical features 
and natural history of the island, of the | 
character and history of its people, and | 

of their agriculture. | | By William 

Edwin Safford. | [Seal] | Washington: | 
Government Printing Office. | 1905. | 
8vo., pp. 1-416, pis. i-Lxx. 

SMITH, John Donnell. A description of 
Dracserm americana Doim. Sm., n. sp. 

Trees and Shrubs, by C. L. Sargent, i., 
1905, p. 207, pi. xcviii. 



ZOOLOGY. 

MOLLTJSKS. 

BARTSCH, Paul. A new Ashmunella from 
New Mexico. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 

issue, n, pt. 1, No. 1469, Aug. 6, 1904, pp. 

13, 14. 

Ashmunella townsendi is described from the 

neighborhood of Ruidoso, Sierra Blanca, 

Mescalero Indian Reservation, Lincoln 

County, New Mexico. 

Notes on the genus SonoreUa, with 

descriptions of new species. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 
issue, II, pt. 2, No. 1481, Oct. 10, 1904, pp. 
187-200, pis. xxviii-xxxni. 
In this paper the genus has been divided 
into four groups based upon nuclear char- 
acters, which are illustrated by enlarged 
photographic reproductions Nine new forms 
are described: S. ashmuni, nelsoni, goldmani, 
merrilli, dalli, mearnsi, ftsheri, baileyi, and 
baileyi orcutti. All species described up to 
date, except S. rowelli and S. lohri lioderma, 
are figured. 

A new species of Amp/iidromus. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar 
issue, II, pt. 2, No. 1486, Nov. 9, 1904, pp. 
292-293, pi. XLVI. 
Amphidromus gossi is described from Mount 
Kina Baloo, North Borneo. 

A new Philippine land shell. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 
issue, II, pt. 4, No. 1561, Mar. 28, 1905, 
p. 409, pi. LVI. 
Helicostyla mearnsi, is described from 
Mount Apo, Mindanao. 

DALL, William Heale\. On the relations 
of the land and freshwater mollusk-fauna 
of Alaska and Eastern Siberia. 

Popular Science Monthly, Feb., 1903, pp. 
362-366. 
Discusses the relations of the fauna, the 
subdivisions of the fauna in Alaska and the 
relative contributions to the Alaskan assem- 
bly of the different adjacent faunal regions. 

An historical and systematic review 

of the frogshells and tritons. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 

issue, II, pt. 1, No. 1475, Aug. 6, 1904, 

pp. 114-144. 

A review of the literature in regard to the 

Lamarckian genera Ranella and Triton and 

their subdivisions from the beginning. The 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



119 



DALL, William Healey — Continued. 

following new group-nanaes are proposed: 
Craspedotriton (coniolutus Bred.); Marsu- 
pina (crassa Dilhvyu); Chaamotheca {foliata 
Broderip), in the Ranellidse; and in the Sep- 
tidfe: Eugyrina (new name for Gt/rina Schu- 
macher); Paralagena (for Lagcna Morch); 
Tritonocauda (caudatus Gmelin): Turritriton 
(gibbosus Broderip): Tritoniscm (loroisii 
Petit); and in theColiibrariidfe: Maculotriton 
(bracteatus Hinds); \fonostiolum (swiftii 
Tryon); Caducifer (truncalus Hinds~i; Tfeni- 
oln (decollatus Sowerby), and Phrygiomurex 
(sculplilis Reeve). 

Note on Luciita {Miltha) cMldreni 



Gray, and on a new species from the Gulf 
of California. 

Nautilus, xvni, No. 10, Feb.. 1905, pp. 
110-112. 
In this note it is shown that L. cMldreni is 
a Brazilian species exclusively, and for the 
species of the Gulf of California, wrongly 
called childreni by Carpenter, the name of L. 
( Miltha) xantusi is proposed. The specimens 
are m the National Museum. 

New species of mollusks from Cali- 
fornia. 

Nautilus, XVIII, No. 11. Mar., 19(J.t, pp. 
123-125. 
The following new species are described: 
Leda amblia, MangeUa perattrnuata, Admete 
woodworthi. Erato albescens, and Scissurclla 
(Schizotrockus) kelseyi, all from Cahfomia. 
The specimens are in the National collection. 



An arrangement of the American 

Cyclostomatidse with a revision of the 
nomenclature. 

Proc. Malacolog. Soc. London, \i, March, 
1905, pp. 203-210. 
The whole group is reviewed, diagnoses 
given for the subdivisions, the subgenus Para- 
chrondria is proposed for Cistula Sowerby, 
not Say, and the genus Opisthosiphon for 
Chondropoma bahamensc Shuttleworth and 
its allies. These are shown to have an acces- 
sory opening to the whorl in the shape of a 
small tube behind the posterior angle of- the 
aperture. The material upon which the con- 
clusions rest is in the National Museum. 

Report on the land and fresh-water 



shells collected in the Bahamas in 1904 
by Mr. Owen Bryant and others. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls.. xLVii, Quar. 

issue, pi. n, pt, 4, April 27, 1905, pp. 

433-452, pis. LViii, lix. 

Mr. Bryant's collection is catalogued, and 

notes and descriptions of some new forms, 

either collected bj' him or from the collection 

of the National Museum are given. The new 

species are as follows: Cepolis smirna, C. 

androsi, Cerion glans obc.mm, Cerion watling- 

ense, C. inconspicuuw , and variety lacu- 



DALL, William Healey — Continued. 

norum, C. canonicum, C. variabile with vari- 
eties pupilla and Saurodon, C. brunneum, C. 
plegmatum, C. northropi, C. oweni and varie- 
ties reticulatum, incisum and vermiculum, 
Rhytidopoma euploca, and \'cronicella schive- 
ly:i' var. bahamensis. The new forms are 
figured, numerous species added to tlie known 
Bahaman fauna, and the liabit of forming an 
epiphragm by Planorbis during the dry sea- 
son, is noted. 

Note on the genus Aporema Dall. 

Nautilus, XVIII, No. 12, April, 1905, p. 143. 
Aporema proving to be preoccupied in In- 
sects by Seudder, the new name Panacea is 
proposed to take its place, witli the same type 
Pholadomya arata Verrill. 



Note on Trichodina Ancej'. 

Nautilus, XVIII, No. 12, April, 1905, p. 143. 

Trichodina Ancey, 1888, for an Achatinoid 

landshell being preoccupied by Trichodina 

Ehrenberg, 1830, the new name Petriola is 

proposed for the former. 

Fossils of the Bahama Islands, with 



a list of the uonmarine mollusks. 

The Bahama Islands, New York (Mac- 
millan & Co.), April, 1905, pp. 23-47; pis. 

XI-XIII. 

This paper, also issued separately, treats of 
the fossils of the Bahamas collected by the ex- 
pedition sent out by the Geographical Society 
of Baltimore, giving a list of stations with the 
fossils collected at each, descriptions of some 
new landshells, fossil and recent, a catalogue 
of the nonmarine fauna, fossil and living, a 
list of the marine fossils obtained, and a short 
account of the faima of the "salt pans" or 
lagoons. Some characteristic marine fossils 
and the new species of landshells are figured. 
The following are described as new: Cepolis 
agassizii, C. inaguana var. subandrosi, C. 
pharcida, Cerion eleutherx var. drupium, 
Cepolis exumana, C. gregoriana. C. duclosi- 
ana var. columbiana, and C. inaguana. Pha- 
coides pensylvanicus L., Codakia orbicularis 
L., Tellina radiata L.. Area occidentalis Phil- 
ippi, A. reticulata Gmelin, Cerion agassizii 
Dall, and Helicina rawsoni Pfeiffer, are also 
figured. 

Cotypes of the material described are in the 
National Museum. 

Two undescribed California shells. 

Nautilus, XIX, No. 2, June, 1905, pp. 14, 15. 
Murex (Phyllonotu.s) santarosana and Al- 
aba oldroydi from southern California are de- 
scribed as new, the types being in the National 
Museum. 

WHITE, Charles A. The ancestral origin 
of the North American Unionidse, or fresh- 
water mussels. 

Smithsonian ^fisc. CoZZs., xlviii, Quar. 
issue, pt. 1, 1905, pp. 75-88, pis. 26-31. 



120 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



WHITE, Chari,es A.— Continued. 

In this article the origin of the UnionidiE is 
traced and an explanation for their distribu- 
tion is given. The paper is illustrated by G 
plates, the originals of the figures lieing the 
property of the U. S. National Museum. 
Unio stantoni, new species, of the Laramie 
Group, is proposed for a specimen formerly 
referred to Unio danx Meek and Ilayden. 

CRUSTACEANS. 

DALL, William H. Harriman Alaska Ex- 
pedition. Crustacea, volume x. 

Science (new series), xx, No. 510, Oct. 7, 
1904, p. 463. 
Notice of the volume, including some ac- 
cour.i; of its contents. 

RATHBUN, Mary J. Descriptions of three 
new species of American crabs. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvii, Dec. 27, 1904, 
pp. 161,102. 
Three new species of crabs from Central 
America and Chile in the collection of the 
Zoological Museum at Copenhagen are de- 
scribed — Uca (trstedi, Pinnaxodes meinerti, 
Lophopanopeus nicaraguensis. 

A cotype of the first-named species is in the 
U. S. National Museum. 

Some changes in crustacean no- 
menclature. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvii, Dec. 27, 1904, 
pp. 169-172. 
These changes are necessitated by the dis- 
covery that several genera of Weber's "No- 
menclator entomologicus." 1795, have been 
ignored by subsequent authors. Alpheuis 
Weber and Ligia Weber are synonyms of 
Cancer Linnasus; Crangon Weber takes pre- 
cedence of Alpheus Fabricius; Homarus Weber 
may be used in its present sense, for the lob- 
sters; Parthenope Weber is equivalent to the 
later Lambrus of Leach; Daldorfia is proposed 
as a new generic name for Parthenope Fabri- 
cius; Euryala Weber= Corystes Latreille 1802; 
Idotea Weber is a synonym of Emerita Grono- 
vius. 

Les Crabes d'Eau douce (Pota- 

monidse). V par tie. 

Nouv. Arch. Mus. d'Hist. Nat., Paris, (4) 

VI, Dec, 1904, pp. 225-312, pis. 9-18, text 

figs. 1-37. 

A monographic account of the Potamonidae, 

based chiefly on the collection in the Museum 

at Paris, but embracing also those in 8 other 

large museums. 

Gives first some general consid:..tions on 
the systematic position of the family , notes on 
the development, ethology, uses, etc., with a 
table of distribution. 

The descriptive part deals with the 77 species 
of typical Potamon of which 29 are new: the 
plates, however, represent also the subgenera 



RATHBUN, Mary J.— Continued. 

Potamonautes, Geothelphusa, Perithelphusa 
and a portion of Parathclphusa , including 
many undescribed forms. 

Why not Paramaya? 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvill, Feb. 21 , 1905, 
p. 73. 
A plea for the use of a "plate name," Para- 
maya de llaan 1837, instead of Mamuiu Stel)- 
bing 1<)04. 

RICHARDSON, Harriet. A reply to cer- 
tain criticisms of Professor Giard respect- 
ing the Bopyrids. 

Comptcs Rendus Soc. Biol. Paris, lvi. No. 

19, June 3, 1904, pp. 856-858; Science 

(new series), XX, No. 497, July8, 1904 pp. 

51-53. 

A reply to critical review by Prof. Alfred 

Giard in Comptes Rendus Societe de Biologic, 

LVI, Apr. 22, 1904, pp. 591-594. 

Further changes in crustacean 

nomenclature. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wa.^h., xviii, ,lan. 20, If)05, 
pp. 9, 10. 
Proposes Idothea Fabricius 1776 for Idotea 
Fabricius 1798 and Ligyda Raflnesque 1815 for 
Ligia Fabricius 1798, the Fabrician genera 
having been .shown to be invalid by Miss 
Rathbun in a previous number of the Proceed- 
ings of the Biological Society of Washington. 

Isopods from the /Ylaska salmon 

investigation. 

Bull. Bureau Fisheries, xxiv, 1904, pp. 209- 
221, text figs. 1-10. (Feb. 18, 1905.) 
Fourteen species are enumerated, four of 
which are new, one, Holophryxus alaskensis, 
representing a new genus. Figures are given 
not only of the new forms but of Rocineta 
belliceps (Stimpson), R. angustata Richard- 
son, and of the first incubatory lamella and 
the sixth leg of various specimens of Bopy- 
roides hippolytcs. 

■ Descriptions of a new genus of iso- 

poda belonging to the family Tanaidte 
and of a new species of Tanais, both from 
Monterey Bay, California. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxviii. No. 1400, 
May 9, 1905, pp. ."i67-370, text figs. 1-13. 
Pancolus, a new genus, and P. californiensis 
and Tanais normani, new species, were col- 
lected at Monterey Bay by Dr. Harold Heath. 

WILSON, Charles Branch. Contribu- 
tions from the Biological Laboratory of 
the Bureau of Fisheries at Woods Hole, 
Mass. The fish parasites of the genus 
Argulus found in the Woods Hole region. 
Bull. Bureau Fisheries, XXIV, 190i pp. 115- 
131, 31 text figs. (Feb. 14, 1905.) 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



121 



WILSON, Charles Branch — Continued. 

Based partly on material in the U. S. Na- 
tional Museum which was described in detail 
in volume xxv of the Proceedings. 

New species of parasitic copcpods 



from the Massachusetts coast. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. n'ash., xviii, .Vpril 18, 
1905, pp. 127-132. 
Five new species from Woods Hole, Vine- 
yard Sound and Buzzards Bay; the types of 
3 species are in the I'. S. National Museum, 
and the types of the other two will probably 
be placed in the Museum. 

North American parasitic copepods 

belonging to the family Caligidse. Part 
I.— TheCaliginffi. 

Proc. V. S. Nat. Mus., xxviii, No. 1404, 
June 23, 190-5, pp. 479-672, pis. v-xxix, 
text figs. 1-50. 
This is ,the third paper in the series on the 
parasitic copepods of the National Museum. 
It deals with all the North American species 
of Caliginse. 23 in number, of which 13 are new; 
and 5 foreign species, of which 4 are new and 
one the type of a new genus. . Keys are given 
to all the known species. Besides the system- 
atic part the development of two species is 
traced, and the comparative anatomy of Cali- 
gus and Lepeophtheirus presented for the first 

time. 

INSECTS. 

ALDRICH, J. M. Smithsonian Miscellane- 
ous Collections | Part of Volume xlvi | 
t -'^ Catalogue of | North Ameri- 
can Diptera | (Or Two-winged Flies) | 
By J. M. Aldrich | [Seall | No. 1444 | 
City of Washington ] Published by the 
Smithsonian Institution | 1905. I 
8vo., pp. 1-680. 
ASHMEAD, William H. A new genus 
and some new species of Hymenoptera 
from the Philippine Islands. 

Can. Ent., xxx\T, No. 10. Oct.. 1904, pp. 
281-285. 
Describes a new Larrid genus, Thyreospher. 
and 8 new species, taken by Father Stanton in 
Manila. 

A new torj'mid from Utah. 

Ent. News, xv, No. 8, Oct., 1904, p. 302. 
Describes Torymus wickhami. 

■ Description of new genera and species 



ASHMEAD, William H. A hymenopter- 
ous parasite of the grape-berry moth. 

Can. Ent., xxxvi. No. 11, Nov., 1904, pp. 
333, 334. 
Describes and figures Thiimaris slinger- 
landana. 

On the discovery of lijr-insccts in the 



of rI_'^enoptera from the Philippine Is- | 
lands. 

Proc. V. L. Nat. Mus., xx■^^^, No. 1387, j 
Nov. 5, 1904, pp. 127-158, pis. I, ll. 
Two genera, Taftia and Stantonia. and 31 
new species of Hymenoptera are described. 
The paper terminates with a check list of the i 
species known to occur in the Philippines. \ 
Forty-six families, 1.35 genera . and 225 species 
are listed. i 



Philippines. 

Ent. News, xv. No. 10, Dec, 1904, p. 342. 
Describes Kradibia browni, a genuine fig- 
insect, and its parasite, Sycoryctes philip- 
pinensis. 

A new thrips from the PhiHppine 

Islands. 

Ent. News, XVI, No. 1, Jan., 1905, p. 20. 
Describes Coleothrips tibialis. 

New Hymenoptera from the Philip- 
pine Islands. 

Can. Ent.,xxyu. No. 1, Jan., 1905, pp. 3-8. 
Describes two new genera, Apterencyrtus 
and Brownius, and 12 new species. 

A new Pezomachus from Italy. 

Can. Ent., xxxvii, No. 4, Apr., 1905, pp. 
142, 143. 
Describes Pezomachus silvestrii. 

BANKS, Nathan. Two new species of 
caddice-fhes. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vi. July, 1904, p. 
140. 

Notes on the structure of the thorax 

and maxillae in insects. 

Proc. Ent. Soc, Wash., vi. July, 1904, p. 
149. 

BARBER, Herbert S. Notes on Thauma- 
toglossa {Axinoceru.'s) americana Jayne. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vii, No. 1, Jan., 
1905, p. 10. 

BUSCK, August. AristoteUa youngeUa, a 
correction. 

Can. £■n^.xxxvI,No. 3,Mar,,1905,p. 87. 

CAUDELL, Andreav Nelson. Some Or- 

thoptera taken at Moose Jaw, Assiniboia. 

Can. Enf.,xxx\'J. No. 8, Aug., 1904, p. 248. 

Orthoptera from southwestern Texas. 

Science Bull. Mus. Brooklyn Inst. Arts 
and Sciences, i. No. 4. Dec, 1904, pp. 
10.5-116, pis. VT-vn 

On a collection of non-saltatorial 

Orthoptera from Paraguay 

.Tourn. N. V. Ent. Soc. xn, 1904. pp. 179- 
188. 



■ A new species of the lorustid genus 

Amblycorypha from Kansas. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, xni. No. 1, March 1, 
1905, p. 50. 



EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



122 

CAUDELL, Andrew Nelson. On a col- 
lection of Orthoptera from Southern 
Ai-izona,with descriptions of new species. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvin, No. 1403, 
June 12, 1905, pp. 461-477, figs. 1-6. 
Two interesting niantids from the 

United States. 

Jour7i. N. Y. Ent. Soc, xni, No. 2, June, 
190.5, pp. 82, 83. 

Aplopus mayeri, new species. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc. xni, No. 2, June, 
1905, pp. 83-85. 

CHITTENDEN, Frank H. A species of 
the tenebrionid genus Latheticus in the , 

United States. _ i 

Journ. N. r. £nt.Soc.,xii, 1904, pp. 166,1b,. | 

On the species of SphenopTiorus 

hitherto considered as simplex Le Conte. 
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wa«?i.,vi, 1904, pp. 127-130. j 

On the species of Sfhenophorus re- j 

latedto p«rf«m.r Olivier, with descriptions 

of other forms. 

Proc. Ent. Soc Wash., vn, 1905, pp. 50-64. 

On the species of Splienophorus 

hitherto considered as placidus Say. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash.,vii, 1905, pp. 130-137. 

COQUILLETT, D. W. New Diptera from 

India and Australia. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. irasft., vi,No. 3, July,1904, 

p. 137. 

New North American Diptera. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. M'osft., vi,No. 3, July,1904, 

p. 166. 
Describes 4 new genera and 53 new species. 

New Culex from Australia. 

Ent. News,x\i, No. 4, Apr., 1905, p. 116. 

A new cecidomyiid on cotton. 

Can. Ent.,xxxvii, No. 6, June, 1905, p. 200. 
Describes Porricondyla gossypii from Bar- 
bados, West Indies, the larvse of which live 
beneath the bark of cotton plants. 
New nematocerous Diptera from 



North America. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, xin, No. 2, June, 
1905, pp. 56-67. 
Describes 41 new species. 

CURRIE, KoLLA Patteson. Dragon flies 
from the Kootenay district of British 

Columbia. 

Proc Ent. Soc. Wash., vn. No. 1, Jan., 
1905, pp. 16-20. 

DYAR, Harrison G. Two new forms of 

(Eneis Hubner. 

Proc Ent. Soc Wash., vi, 1904, p. 142. 



DYAR, Harrison G. Brief notes on mos- 
quito larvae. 

Journ. y. Y. Ent. Soc, xn, 1904, pp. 
172-174. 

The lai-va of Culex pundor Kirby, 

with notes on an allied form. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, xii, 1904, pp. 
167-174. 
Diverse mosquito larvaj that pro- 
duce similar adults. 

Proc Ent. Soc. Wash.. Vl, 1904. pp. 143, 144. 

Two notes on tineid moths. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, xn, 1904. p. 178. 

New North American Lepidoptera 

and synonymical notes. 

Proc Ent. Soc. Wash., vn, 1905, p. 29. 
Notes on synonymy and larvae of 

Pyralidse. 

Proc Ent. Soc. Wash., vii, 1005, pp. 158- 

160. 

Our present knowledge of North 

American Corethrid larvae. 

Proc Ent. Soc. Wa.fh., vn, 1905, p. 13. 
Remarks on genitalic genera in Culi- 

cidae. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wa.'ih.. Vii, 1905, p. 42. 

HEIDEMANN, Otto. Notes on North 
American Aradidae. 

Proc Ent. Soc. TT'asft.,Vl,1904,pp. 161-U». 

Description of a new Artasa from 

North America. 

Proc Ent. Soc Wo-tft., vn, 1905, p. 5. 

KEARFOTT, William Dunham. Descrip- 
tions of new species of tortricid moths 
from North Carolina, with notes. 

Proc U.S. Nat. Mas., xxviii. No. 1398, 
April 22, 1905, pp. 349-364. 
IVIARLATT, C. L. The discovery of the 
native home of the San Jos^ scale in east- 
ern China and the importation of its nat- 
ural enemy. 

Popular Science Monthly, August. 1904, 
pp. 306-317: 8 illustrations. 
This is a revised popular account of an ex- 
pedition to Japan and China for the purpose 
mentioned in the title, and brings rhr, results 
on the imported Asiatic ladybird, enemy of 
th° San Jose scale, down to the date of publi- 
cation. It IS practically a revision, with some 
additions, ot an account previously published 
in the Yearbook of the Department of Agri- 
culture for 1902 (1903). 
REHN , James A. G. Studies in the orthop- 
terous subfamilies Acrydiinae (Tettigoni- 
nje) Eumastacinae, and Proscopinse. 

Proc Acad. Nat. Sci. PUla., 1904, pp. 
65S-683. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



123 



STEVENSON, Earle C. The external par- 
asites of hogs, being articles on the hog 
louse (Hsematopinus suis) and mange, or 
scabies, of hogs. 

Bull. Bureau Animal Industrtj. U. S. 
Dept. Agric, No. 69, 1905, 44 pp. figs. 1-29. 
Descriptions and figures of Hssmtopinus 
suis, Sarcoptes scabiei sui.i, and Demode.rfolli- 
rulorum suis, based partly on Museum mate- 
rial, together with a complete synonymy and 
Inliliography of the first, and a. discussion of 
the three forms in their economic aspects. 

TITUS, E. S. G. Some new Osmiinae in 
the National Museum. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vi, No. 2, .\pril, 

1904, p. 98; Journ. N. )\ Kvt. Soc, xn. 
No. 1, March, 1904, p. 22. 

WILLIA]\ISON, Edward Bruce. The dra- 
gonflics (Odonata) of Burma and Lower 
Siam. 1. — Subfamily Calopteryginse. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. ^^us., xxvni. No. 1389, 
November 17, 1904, pp. 105-187, te.xt figs. 

1-18. 

AUACHNIDS. 

BANKS, Nathan. A treatise on the aca- 
rina, or mites. 

Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., xxvni. No. 1382, 
September 24, 1904, pp. 1-114, text figs. 
1-201. 

■ Arachnids from Cocos Island. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vii. No. 1, Jan., 

1905, p. 20. 



MISCELLANEOUS INVERTEBRATES. 

AGASSIZ, Alexander. Reports on an 
exploration ofl" the west coast of Mexico, 
Central and South America, and off the 
Galapagos Islands, in charge of Alexander 
Agassiz, by the U. S. Fish Commission 
steamer Albatros.s, during 1891, Lieut. 
Commander Z. L. Tanner, U. S. N., com- 
manding. XXXII. The Panamic deep sea 
echini. 

Mem. .Vus. Comp. Zool., Cambridge, 
XXXI, Nov. 1, 1904, pp. l-x, 1-243, pis. 112 
(in separate volume), text ligs. 319. 
The report deals principally with the mor- 
phological study of the tests of the species, 
which had been described in an earlier bulle- 
tin; followed by a discussion of the bathymet- 
lical and geographical range of the Pan.nmic 
and West Indian Echinid fann;e. 

ASHWORTH, J. H. The anatomy of Scali- 
hregma infatum, Rathke.a 

Quar. Journ. Micr. Sci., xlv (new series*, 
Nov. , 1901 . pp. 237-309, pis. 13-1 5. 
Includes a detailed description of the anat- 
omy, and also an account of the history, dis- 
"This title was accidentally 
NAT MUS 1905 9 



ASHWORTH, J. H.— Continued. 

tribution, habits, and general appearance of 
the species, Scalibregma inflatum, as well as a 
revision of the family Scalibregmidne and a j 
statement of its alTinities. Two new genera 
are described, Pseudoscalibregma and Ascle- 
rocfieilus. 

CLARK, Hubert Lyman. Contributions 
from the Biological Laboratory of the U. 
S. Fish Commission at Woods Hole, Mas- 
sachusetts. The echinoderms of the 
Woods Hole region. 

Bull. U.S. Fish Com., xxn, 1902, pp. 545- 
576, figs. 1-116 (Tune 25, 1904). 
The 24 species arc fully described and fig- 
ured. The best methods of preserving and 
studying echinoderms are given, and also a 
bililiograpny of the publications referred to. 

COE, Wesley R. Nemerteans of the west 
and northwest coasts of America. 

Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., xlvii. Mar., 1905, 
pp. 1-318, pis. 1-25, text figs. 1-62. 
A general work, dealing with anatomical 
and histological structures, development, dis- 
tribution, besides a systematic account of the 
genera and species. Eighteen species are de- 
scribed as new, and with one exception are 
represented by colored drawings. 

EDWARDS, Charles Lincoln. A quanti- 
tative study of Holothuria atra Jager and 
the reestablishment of Holothuria flori- 
dana Pourtales {=Holothuria mexicana 
Ludwig). 

Science (new series), xxi. No. ,532, March 
10, 1905, pp. 383-384. 
This is an abstract, presented before the 
.\merican Society of Zoologists, at the Second 
Annual Meeting of the Eastern Branch at 
Philadelphia, December, 1904, of an extended 
paper to be published elsewhere. It is based 
on statistical analyses of 138 specimens, 20 
from the Sandwich Island-Mozambique re- 
gion and 118 from the Floridia.-Caribbean re- 
gion. 

FISHER, Walter K. New starfishes from 
deep water off California and Alaska. 

Bull. Bureau Fisheries, .xxiv, 1904, pp. 
291-320. (June 10, 1905.) 
One genus, 2 subgenera, and 24 species are 
described, and one subfamily raised to family 
rank. The specimens were dredged by the 
steamer Albatross in .\laskan waters during 
the summer of 1903, and off the coast of Cali- 
fornia in the spring of 1904. 

KISHINOUYE, K. Notes on the natural 
history of corals. 

Journ. Imp. Fisheries Bureau, Tokyo, xiv 
No. 1, 1904, pp. 1-32, pis. l-ix, text figs. 
1-4. 
omitted from an earlier report. 



124 



REPORT OF "NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



KISHINOUYE, K.— Continued. 

Deseril)es the autozooiJ. siphonozooid, ccp- 
nenchym, spicules, gastro-vascular system, 
skeleton, mode of ramification, color and 
transparency of the skeleton, size, form, dis- 
tribution, growth, attachment, and commen- 
sals. The systematic part deals with 7 spe- 
cies, one of which is new. The type specimen 
of Corallium secundum Dana, which is in the 
U. S. National Museum, is reproduced from a 
photograph made in Washington. 

MARENZELLER, Emil von. Reports on 
the dredging operations off the west coast 
of Central America to the Galapagos, to 
the west coast of Mexico, and in the Gulf 
of California, in charge of Alexander Agas- 
siz, carried on by the U. S. Fish Commis- 
sion steamer Albatross, during 1891, Lieut. 
Commander Z. L. Tanner, U. S. N., com- 
manding. XXXIII. Stein- und Hydro- 
Korallen. 

Bull. Mus. Co77!p. Zoo/., XLHI, No. 2, Aug., 
1904, pp. 75-87, pis. 1-3. 
Twelve species are enumerated, of which 
one species of Madreporaria and two of Ily- 
drocoralla are described as new. 

Reports on the dredging operations 

off the west coast of Central America to 
the Galapagos, to the west coast of Mexico, 
and in the Gidf of California, in charge of 
Alexander Agassiz, carried on by the U. S. 
Fish Commission steamer Albatross, dur- 
ing 1891, Lieut. Commander Z. L. Tanner, 
U. S. N., commanding, xxxiv. La- 
gisca irritans, sp. nov., ein Symbiont von 
Hydrokorallen. 

Bull. Mu.i. Comp. Zool.,XLni,l<io. ^, Aug., 
1904, pp. 91-94, pi. 1. 
The Polynoid here described was found com- 
mensal with Stenohelia profunda Moseley and 
Errina macrogastra Marenzeller, at station 
3404. 

RANSOM, B. H. An account of the tape- 
worms of the genus Hymenolepis parasitic 
in man, including reports of several new 
cases of the dwarf tapeworm (//. nana) in 
the United States. 

Bull. 18 Hyg. Lab., U. S. Pub. Health & ' 
Mar. -Hasp. Serr., Sept., 1904, 138 pp., 
figs. 1-130. 
The tapeworms in question arc fully de- 
scribed and figured, and copious abstracts of 
all reported cases of their occurrence in man 
are given, iiicludin_g some 25 recent cases of 
Hymenolepis nana in the United States. A 
complete bibliography is added. 

a This title was accidentally 



RANSOM, B. H. Notes on the spiny- 
suckered tapeworms of chickens {Davai- 
nea echinobothrida {^Tienia hotrioplites) 
and D. tetragona). 

Bull. Bureau Animal Industry, U. S. Dept. 
Agric, No. 60, 1904, pp. ."55-69, figs. 41-52. 
Descriptions and figures are given by which 
the two forms in question, hitherto much con- 
fused, may Ijc clearly distinguished. Com- 
plete synonymy and bibliography are in- 
cluded. 

Manson's eye worm of cliickens (Oxij- 

spirvra mansoni), with a general review of 
nematodes parasitic in the eyes of birds. 
Bull. Bureau Animal Industry, U. S.De.pt. 
Agric, No. 6*, 1904, 54 pp., pi. 1, figs. 
1-40. 
A complete review, with descriptions, fig- 
ures, and bibliography of all the nematodes 
which have been reported parasitic in the eyes 
of birds, Oxyspirura mansoni being recorded 
for the first time in the United States. 

A new nematode {Gongylonema in- 

gluvicola) parasitic in the crop of chickens. 
Circ. Bureau Animal Industry, U. S. Dept. 
Agric., No. 64, 1904, 3 pp., figs. 1, 2. 
First report of the occurrence of a member 
of the genus Gongylonema in birds. The spe- 
cies in question is described and figured. 

The gid parasite {Coenuruscerebralis): 

its presence in American sheep. 

Bull. Bureau Animal Industry, U. S. Dept. 
Agric, No. C6, 1905, 23 pp., figs. 1-12. 
The first report of the occurrence of Coenu- 
rus ccrebralis in the United States. 

SCHULZE, Franz Eilhard. Amerikan- 
ische Hexactinelliden nach dem materiale 
der Albatross-Expedition. Ilerausgege- 
ben mit Unterstiitzung der Konigl. Preuss. 
Akademie der Wissenschaften. Mit einem 
Atlas von 19 Tafeln. Jena, Verlag von 
Gustav Fischer. 1899.o 
4to. pp. 1-126. 
Includes a notice of the hexaetinellids pre- 
viously known from America; a description of 
the genera and species (22 genera and 37 spe- 
cies, of which 6 genera and 24 species are new) , 
with chapters on classification and geograph- 
ical distribution. 

STEVENSON, Earle C. A new parasite 
{Strongylus quadriradlatus n. sp.), found 
in the pigeon. (Preliminary report.) 

Circ. Bureau Animal Industry, IT. S. 
Dept. Agric, No. 47, 1904,66 pp., figs. 
1-10. 
omitted from an earlier report. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



125 



STILES, Charles ^YARDELL. Illustrated 
key to the trematode parasites of 
man. 

Bull. 17 Hyg. Lab.. U. S. Pub. Health and 

Mar.-Hosp. Sere, Aug., 1904, G6 pp., 

88 figs. 

This paper contains analytical keys, 

generic, specific, and clinical diagnoses to the 

trematodes which infect man, tables of syn- 

onomy, indications to geographical and 

zoological distribution, and references to 

medical treatment and to the literature. 

WILSON, H. V. Reports on an exploration 
oft' the west coasts of Mexico, Central and 
South America, and oft' the Galapagos 
Islands, in charge of Alexander Agassiz, 
by the U. S. Fish Commission steamer 
Albatro.ss, during 1891, Lieut. Com- 
mander Z. L. Tanner, U. S. N., com- 
manding. XXX. The sponges. 

^fem. Mus. Tomp. Zoo/., xxx. No. 1, July, 
1904, pp. 1-K14, pis. 1-211. 
The collection of sponges described includes 
47 species and subspecies, belonging to the 
Hexactinellida, Monaxonida, and Tetractin- 
ellida. Thirty-three species and subspecies 
are new to science. In addition, some results 
of general biological interest are discussed. 

FISHES. 

BEAN, Bartox A. The fishes of the Ba- 
hama Islands. 

The Bahama Isla7id.s, The Maemillan Co., 
New York and London, 1905, pp. 289- 
325, pis. LiI-LXi. 
An article on the Fishes of the Bahamas, 
accompanied b_v ten colored plates, and form- 
ing a part of the work entitled ' " The Bahama 
Islands," edited bj- George B. Shattuek. 

GILL, Theodore. State ichthyology of 
Massachusetts. 

Science (new series), xx, No. 500, Sept. 9, 
1904, pp. 321-338. 
This was the subject of an address delivered 
at Woods Hole before the Marine Biological 
Laboratory on the evening of August 3, 1904. 
"Only the salient features of a long history 
are given." (1) A brief notice of the early 
historians is followed by (2) an explanation 
of some of the popular names of fishes and 
fuller accounts of the contributions to ichthy- 
ology of (3) William Dandridge Peck, (4) 
Charles Alexandre Lesueur, (5) Jerome Crown- 
inshield Smith, (G) David Humphrey Storer, 
(7) Theodore Lyman, (8) Spencer F. Baird, 
(9i G. Brown Goode and Tarleton II. Bean, 
and (10) Hugh M. Smith. In conclusion (11) 
attention is called to the number of fish 
estrays from tropical waters. 



GILL, Theodore. Lahracinus the proper 
name for the fish genus Cichlops. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvni. No. i:«4, 
Oct. 5, 1904, p. 119. 
The name Cichlops of Miiller and Troschel 

(1849) is precluded from retention by the 
application of the name to a genus of birds 
by Hodgson in 1844. Labracinun of Schlegel 

(1850) is revived in its place. 

Note on the genus Prlonuru.s or 



Acanthocaulos. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvni, No. l.'?8a, 
Oct. 5, 1904, p. 121. 
A new name (Acanthocaulos) was proposed 
by E. R. Waite in place of Prionurus of 
Lacepfede, supposed to have been first pro- 
posed in 1830 and preoccupied Ijy Prionurus 
of Ehrenberg in 1829. It has been proved that 
Lacepede published his name as early as 1804. 

The striped l)a.ss of the St. Law- 
rence. 

Forest and Stream, lxiii, No. 17, Oct. 22, 
1904, p. .348. 
In connection with a recent identification 
of the "Bar" of the St. Lawrence with the 
common striped bass (Roccus lineatus) it is 
questioned whether it is not rather the Roccus 
chrysops of the great lakes and interior 
waters. More information is required. 

On the systematic relations of the 



ammod3'toid fishes. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxviii, No. 1388, 
Nov. 12, 1904, pp. 159-103, text figs. 1-4. 
.\fter a notice of the views of previous 
authors respecting the affinities of the Sand- 
launces or Anunodytids, that family is 
claimed to be most nearly related to the 
Ilemerocoetids, and consequently to the 
group of Jugtilares. EmboUchthys is retained 
in the family and Cobitopsis far removed. 
The principal synonyms of the familj- are 
enumerated, and the genera Ammodytes and 
Ilyperoplus maintained for the northern 
forms. 

The sculpin and its habits. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 

issue, n, pt. 3, Jan. 31, 1905, pp. 34,S-3.59, 

pi. 49. 
Indications are given as to (1) the sources 
of information, (2) the characteristics of the 
family of Cottids and genus Jfyoxocephalus 
as well as vernacular nomenclature, and (3) 
the specific and sexual characters of the Myoi- 
ocephalus scorpio. The habits of the species 
are considered in sections devoted to (4) the 
localities it frequents, its food, and its utter- 
ances, (.5) the mutual relations of the sexes, 
(fi) its oviposition, and (7) its larval condi- 
tions. The concluding s"ction (3) liriefly 
notices the economical value of the fish. 



126 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



GILL, Theodore. The scorpa:>noid fish, 
Neo.sehastes entarAs, as the type of a dis- 
tinct genus. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvni, No. 1393, 
Feb. 15, 1905, pp. 219, 220, text figs. 1, 2. 
A Japanese Scorpanid having been referred 
by Jordan & Starks to the genus Neosebastes, 
a reexamination was made, which resulted in 
a new definition of the genus and the separa- 
tion from it of the N. entaxis as the type of a 
new genus named Sebastosemus. 

On the generic characteristics of 



Prionotus stearnsii. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxviii, No. 1396, 
Feb. 15, 1905, pp. 339-342, text figs. 1-4. 
An "examination of various species of 
Triglids " led to the recognition of two groups 
which differed so much from the genus Pri- 
onotus, to which they had been previously 
referred, as to seem worthy of generic or sub- 
generic distinction. One, typified bj' the 
P. stearnsii, was named Colotrigla, and the 
other, represented by the P. alatus, was 
designated as Fissala. 

Notes on the genera of svnanceine 



and pelorine fishes. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. .Afus., xxviii, No. 1394, 
Feb. 23, 1905, pp. 221-225, text fig. 1. 
An examination of the Synanceinse led to 
the recognition of four genera whose proper 
names were Synanceia {verrucosa), Erosa 
{erosa), Leptosynanceia {astrohlepa) , and 
TracMcephalus {uranoscopus); the Pelorinae 
(newly named Inimicinx) were divided among 
Simopias and Inimicus; Simopias was pro- 
posed as a substitute for Pelor (preoccupied). 
In an appended Note on Scorpaena frondosa 
that species is isolated as the type of a new 
genus named Phinopias. 

A new introduction to tlie study of 

fishes. [Review of the Cambridge Natural 
History, volume 7.] 

Science (new series) xxi, No. 539, April 
28, 1905, pp. 652-661. 
The seventh volume of the Cambridge 
Natural History is reviewed under nine sec- 
tions, treating respectively of (1) generalities, 
(2) Ileniichordata, (3) Urochordata, (4) 
Cephalochordata, (5) Pisciform Craniata, 
(6) Cyclostoniata, (7) Elasmobranchii, (S) 
Teleostomi, and (9) Methods. 

A new family is proposed for the leptocar- 
dian genus Amphioxides, and named Amphi- 
oxididse. 

The life history of the angler. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 

issue, n, pt. 4, May 6, 1905, pp. 590-516, 

pis. 73-75. 

(1) The characters of the family (Lophiidse) 

and genus (Lophius) to which the common 

Angler {Lophius piscatorius) belongs are 



GILL, Theodore — Continued. 

briefly noticed; (2) the popular names and (3) 
geographical range are then considered; 
habits are described in sections devoted to (4) 
the general behavior of the fish, (5) its food, 
and (6) its oviposition and embryology. 
Data follow respecting (7) its food value and 
the superstitions concerning it, (S) its rela- 
tions to other species of the family of Lophiids, 
and (9) its relations to the family of Anten- 
na riids. 



The tarpon and lady-fish and their 

relatives. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlviii, Quar. 
issue, vol. 3, pt. 1, No. 1576, May 13, 1905, 
pp. 31-46, pi. 17-21. 

The tarpon is considered as (1) a member of 
the family of Elopids and (3) a species of the 
genus Me.galops contrasted with (2) the 
species of the genus Flops; (4) the history of 
the popular names is indicated; its habits are 
noticed in sections devoted to (5) its range 
and appearance on the American coast, (6) 
its activity and food, (7) its breeding habits 
and size, and (8) its economic position. In 
conclusion, (9) a notice of the congeneric 
ox-eye herring ( Megalops cyprinoides) is 
given. 

The lady-fish, after a brief diagnosis of its 
family (.Vlbulids), is considered with refer- 
ence to (1) its range, (2) its food and manner 
of feeding, and (3) its early stages, from a 
translucent larval condition to the acquisi- 
tion of its mature characteristics. In a final 
section (4) its value as a food and game fish is 
adverted to. 

The gisu, or Pterothrissus gisu of Japan, is 
also briefly noticed. 

JORDAN, David Starr. Note on the sal- 
mon and trout of Japan. 

Proc. V. S. Nat. Mus., xxviii. No. Iii99, 
May 9, 1905, pp. 365, 366. 

and SNYDER, John Otterbein. 



Description of a new species of fish (Apo- 
gon evermanni) from the Hawaiian Islands, 
with notes on other species. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxviii, No. 1386, Oct. 
6, 1904, pp. 123-126. 

and STARKS, Edwin Chapin. On 



a collection of fishes made in Korea, by 
Pierre Louis Jouy, with descriptions of 
new species. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxviii. No. 1391, 
Feb. 23, 1905, pp. 193-212, text figs. 1-U. 

SCHMIDT, Peter. On the Liparis (Tris- 
h.egistus) owstoni Jordan and Snyder. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxviii. No. 1390, 
Nov. 29, 1904, pp. 189-191, text figs. 1, 2. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



127 



SXYDEE, John Otterbeix. (Sec under 
David Starr Jordan.) 



STAEKS, Edwix Ch^vpix. 
vid Starr Jordan.) 



(See under Da- 



REPTILES AND BATRACHIANS. 

McGregor, Richakd C. Notes on Ha- 
waiian reptiles from the island of Maui. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvni. No. 1383, 
Sept. 24, 1904, pp. 115-118. 

STEJNEGER, Leonhakd. A new species 
of lizard from the Riukiu Archipelago. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLvn, Quar. 
issue, n, pt. 2, No. 1487, Nov. 9, 1904, 
pp. 294, 295. 
Tahydromus dorsalis described as new spe- 
cies, p. 294; tj-pc U. S. N. M.. No. 341G2. 

■ Three new frogs and one new gecko 

from the Philippine Islands. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvin. No. 1397, 

Feb. 15, 1905, pp. 343-34S. 

Rana mearnsi (p. 343), Cornu/cr worcesteri 

(p. 345), Philantus woodi (p. 346), Lepidodac- 

tylus planicaudus (p. 348), are described as 

new species. 

A snake new to the District of Co- 



lumbia. 

Proc. Biol. Sac. Wash., xvm, Feb. 21, 1905, 
pp. 73, 74. 
Cemophora coccinea, from the vicinity of 
Anacostia. 

Description of a new toad, from Cuba. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xx^'ui. No. 1406, 
June 24, 1905, pp. 765-767, figs. 1-6. 
Bufo longinasus, new species (p. 765) ; type 
U. S. N. M., No. 27419. 

Batrachians and land reptiles of the 

Bahama Islands. 

The Bahama Islands, Geographical Soci- 
ety of Baltimore (New York, 190.5, The 
MacmiUan Co. ) , pp. 327-343. 
A general account of the herpetological 
fauna of the Bahamas, with a list of the spe- 
cies, critical remarks, and a discussion of the 
origin and the relations of the fauna to adja- 
cent regions. 

BIRDS. 

ALLEX, Glover il. Smiuuer birds of the 
Bahamas. 

Auk, xxn. No. 2, April, 1905, pp. 113-133, 
pi. I. 
An account of the birds observed by the 
writer during a visit to the Bahamas during 
July, 1904, with remarks on the distribution 
of birds in this group of islands. Sixty-four 
species were observed, of which Dryobates 
villosus piger (p. 124) is described as new. 



American Ornithologists' Union Committee 
on Nomenclature. Thirteenth Supple- 
ment to the American Ornithologists' 
Union check-list of North American 
birds. 

Auk, XXI, No. 3, July, 1904, pp. 411-424. 
AJisX of 44 rulings by the committee involv- 
ing changes in the nomenclature of the" Check- 
List," with a further list of proposed changes 
which are rejected. 

B-\JS'GS, OiTRAM. A correction of Bar- 
rows' record of Coccyzus pumilus from 
Concepcion del Urugua}'. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. M'ash.. xvii. Dec. 27, 

1904, p. 165. 

Two specimens of cuckoos recorded by Bar- 
rows as Coccyzus pumilus are found to be 
C. cinereus. 

Descriptions of .sevcji new subspe- 
cies of ^Vmerican birds. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvm, Juno 9. 1905, 
pp. 151-156. 
Crypturus soui mustelinus (p. 151) , Scarda- 
fella inca dialeucos (p. 152), Claravis pretiosa 
livida (p. 153), Geotrygon martinica digressa 
(p. 153) , Dacnis cayana callaina (p. 154) , CaJo- 
spiza lavinia cara (p. 155), and Phoenico- 
thraupis rubica confinis (p. 156) are described 
as new. 

BANGS, OuTRAii, and ZAPPEY, W. R. 
Birds of the Isle of Pines. 

Am. Naturalist, xxxix. No. 460, April, 

1905, pp. 179-215, text figs. 1-8. 

This paper is based mainly on a collection 
made in the Isle of Pines, Cuba, by W. R.. 
Zappey, but the authors have drawn on the 
records of Poey, Gundlaeh, and Cory, and 
from the unpublished notes of Palmer and 
Riley, for the purpose of giving a complete 
list of the birds of this island. The number 
of species here given is 120, of which the follow- 
ing are described as new: Ardea repens 
(p. 186), Grus nesiotes (p. 193), Saurothera 
merlini decolor (p. 199) , Prionotelus temnurus 
rescus (p. 204) , Myadestcs elizabeth retrusus 
(p. 208) , and Spindalis pretrei pinus (p. 213). 

(See also under John E. Thaver.) 



CLARK, Austin II. Pieliminary descrip- 
tions of three new birds from St. Vincent, 
West Indies. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvin. Feb. 21, 
1905, pp. 01-64. 
Holoquiscalus dispar (p. 61), Buteo antil- 
larum (p. 62), and Urubitinga anthracina 
cancrirora (p. 63) are described as new. 

A supposed specimen of the Yellow 



Warbler {Dendroica sestiva), from Gre- 
nada, West Indies. 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



CLuiVRK, Austin H. — Continued. 

Auk, XXII, No. 2, April, IGCo, pp. 212-214. 
A specimen in the National Museum collec- 
tion hitherto recorded as Dendroica xstiva 
is now identified as an immature male of D. 
ruficapilla. 

!MEAE.NS, Edgar A. Descriptions of a 
new genus and eleven new species of 
Philippine birds. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii, Jan. 20, 1905, 
pp. 1-8. 
The loUo'wing species, collected by the au- 
thor, mainly on Mount Apo, Mindanao, are 
described as new: Lconardia ivoodi (p. 2) , 
Pseudotharrhaleus griseipedus (p. 2), Bra- 
chypteryx mindanensis (p. 3) , Macronous 
mindanensis montanus (p. 4), ^Ethopyga 
boUom (p. 4), Cyrtostomus dmagatensis (p. 5), 
Anthrepfes cagapanensis (p. 6), Merula Vel- 
leri (p. 6), Gerygone rhizophorx (p. 7), Musci- 
capula montigena (p. 8) , and PardaUparus 
elegans mindanensis (p. S). Leonardia (p. 1) 
is a new genus of Timeline bird, from Moimt 
Apo. 

Note on a specimen of PitJiecophaga 

jefferyi Ogilvie-Grant. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviii, Feb. 21, 100.5, 
p. 7. 
Brief account of a specim.en of the rare Phil- 
ippine Monkey-eating Eagle received l)y the 
V. S. National Museum. 

Descriptions of eight new Philippine 

birds, with notes on other species new to 
the Islands. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvni, Feb. 21, 1905, 
pp. 83-90. 
Turnix suluensis (p. 83), Mascadirora 
langhornei (p. 84), Caprimulgus afftnis minda- 
nensis (p. 85), Phyllergates heterolxmus (p. 
86), Cephalophoneus suluensis (p. 80), Ilylo- 
terpe apoe.nsis (p. Sr>), Dicxum darao (p. 87), 
and Lamprocorax todayensis (p. 88), are de- 
scribed as new, and the generic name Leonar- 
dia is altered (p. 88) to Leonardina. Seven 
species additional to the Philippine avifauna, 
recently collected by the author, are briefly 
commented upon. 

Two specimens of Chsdura celebensis 

(Sclater). 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xviil, June 29, 
1905, p. 185. 
Note on two specimens r f the Giant Swift 
of Celebes, recently received by the National 
Museum from Dr. Daniel G. Beebe, and con- 
stituting the fifth and sixth recorded speci- 
mens of the species. 

NELSON, E. W. Descriptions of four new 
birds from Mexico. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvii, Oct. (i, 1904, 
pp. 151, 152. 



NELSON, E. W.— Continued. 

The following are described as new: Porzana 
goldmani (p. 151), Empidonax fulrifrons 
fusciceps (p. 152), Arremonops superciliosus 
chiapensis (p. 152) , and Telmatodytes palustris 
tolucensis (p. 152). 

Description of a new species of whip- 



poor-will from Mexico. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash. ,xvni, Mar. 31, 1905, 
pp. Ill, 112.^ 
Antrostomus notabilis (p. Ill) is described 
as a new species from TamauUpas. 

Notes on the names of certain North 



American birds. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvni, .\pr. 18, 1905 

pp. 121-12(1. 

Notes on the nomenclature of several North 

American birds, belonging to the genera Sula, 

Accipiter, Cathartes, and Tangarius (\ice 

Callothrus) . 

OBERHOLSER, H.^rry C. A monograph 
of the genus DendrocindaGv&y. 

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., for 1904, 
June 29, 1904, pp. 447-463. 
Twenty species of this genus are recognized, 
of which the following are new: Dendrocincla 
anabatina typheaip. 452) , D. enalincia fp. 454) , 
D. ridgn-ayi (p. 458>, D. meruloides aphanta 
(p. 460t, and D. homochroa acedesta (p. 462). 



- Description of a new Sylvietta. 
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii Qiiar. 
issue, pt. 3, Mar. 2, 1905, pp. 373, 374. 



Sylnetta rufescens ochrocara (p. 373), is 
described as a new subspecies from Damara 
Land. 

Notes on the nomenclature of certain 



genera of birds. 

Smithsonian ifisc. Colls., xlviii, Quar. 

issue. III, pt. 1, No. 1.579, May 13, 1905, 

pp. 59-68. 

Notes on 17 genera in which a change of 

name is required. \ list of the recognized 

species of each genus is given . New names are 

proposed as follows: Dyspetornis (p. 61), 

Xiphornis (p. 64) , Notiospiza (p. 64) , Hori- 

zillas (p. 65), Conopothf.ras (p. 66), Chari- 

tospiza (p. 67), Charitospiza eucosma (p. 67), 

and A mmospiza (p. 68'i. 

Description of a new genus and spe- 
cies of Trochilidse. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. It'osft., xviil, June 29, 1905, 
pp. 161,162. 
Aeronympha (p. 161), is a new genus, and ^. 
prosantis (p. 162) a new species, of humming 
bird. 

OSGOOD, Wilfred H. A biological recon- 
naissance of the base of the Alaska Penin- 
sula. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



129 



OSGOOD, Wilfred H.— Continued. 

Xorlh Am. Fauna, No. 24, Nov. 2.3, 1904, 
pp. 51-81. 
The "List of Birds" observed during ttiis 
reconnaissance numbers 137 species and sub- 
species, all fully annotated. 

RICHMOND, Charles W. Notes on the 
birds described by Pallas in the "Adum- 
bratiuncula " of Vroeg's Catalogue. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 
issue, n,pt. 3, No. 1548, Jan. 31, 1905, pp. 
342-347. 
In connection with this paper there was 
published a verbatim reprint of the "Adum- 
bratiuncula" of Vroeg's Catalogue, a scarce 
tract in which Pallas described 35 supposed 
new species of birds. Dr. Rictimond en- 
deavors to identify these birds and give their 
modern equivalents. 

The generic name of the willet. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash..\yui. Feb. 21 . 1905, 
p. 75. 
Note showing the name Symphemia, long 
used lortheAVillet, to be a synonym of Ereu- 
netes. Catoptrophorus of Bonaparte (1828) is 
suggested as the earliest generic name for this 
species. 

New generic name for the giant 

fulmar. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash.,x\lil, Feb. ll, 1905. 
p. 70. 
Macronectes is proposed in place of Ossi- 
fraga (preoccupied). 

Note on the synonymj' of Hxrnato- 

spiza sipahi. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. irasA., xviii, Feb. 21, 1905, 
pp. 75, 76. 
Mention is made of three overlooked names 
proposed for this species. 

— Description of a new s\viftlet from 



I RIDGWAY, Robert— Continued. 

the — higher groups, genera, species, and 
subspecies of birds | kno^\-n to occur in 
i North America, from the ] Arctic Lands to 
the Isthmus of Panama, | the West In- 
dies and other islands | of the Caribbean 
Sea, and the | Galapagos Archipelago. | 
By I Robert Ridgway, j Curator, Division 
of Birds. [ — | Part III. ] [Eight lines of 
contents] — | Washington: j Government 
Printing Office, j 1904. 

Bull. .50 (Part in) U. S. Nat.'Mus.,8vo,pp. 
[ i-xx, 1-801, pis. i-xi.x. (PubUshed Dec. 

31, 1904.) 
, This volume treats of 434 species and sub- 

species, divided among the following families: 
Motacillidae, Ilirundinidae, Ampelidse, Ptilo- 
gonatidse, Dulidfe, Vireonidse, Laniidaj, Cor- 
vidse, Paridse, Sittidse, Certhiida;, Troglody- 
tidse, Cinclidae, Chamaeidte, and Sylviidae. 
Outline drawings, showing the main charac- 
ters of the 72 genera embraced in .this part, 
are given in the 19 plates accompanying the 
: volume. 

The three parts of the work now published 
cover most of the Passeres, and deal with 
about 1,2.50 species and subspecies, or about 
two-fifths of the total number known to occur 
in North and Middle America. 

RILEY, J. H. Note on the generic names 
Bellona, Orihorhynchus, Chrysolampis , and 
FAilampis. 

Auk. XXI, No. 4, Oct., 1904, pp. 485, 486. 
Note on the generic n.imes applied to certain 
liununingbirds ^ficroll/ssa (p. 485) is a new 
name for Bellona Reichenbach (preoccupied). 

On the proper name of the tody of 



Mount Kina Balu, Borneo. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 
issue, II, pt. 4, No. 1.565, Apr. 5, 1905, pp. 
431,432. 
CoUocalia dodgei (p. 431 ) is described as new. 

RIDGWAY, Robert. Descriptions of 
seven new species and subspecies of birds 
from Tropical .\merica. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 

issue, II, pt. 1, No. 1467, Aug. 6, 1904, pp. 

112, 113. 

The following birds are described as new: 

Myadcstes genibarbis cherrici (p. 112), Catha- 

rus fuscator sanctx-martx (p. 112), Cichlhuer- 

minia coriji (p. 112) Cinclocerthia ruficauda 

tenebrosa (p. 112), Cinclocerthia ruficauda 

pavida (p. 113), Mimus gilvus guatemalensis 

(p. 113) , and Mimus gilvus tolimcnsis (p. 113) . 

The Birds 1 of | Nortli and Middle 
America: | A descriptive catalogue | of 



Jamaica. 

Auk. XXI, No. 4, Oct., 1904, p. 480. 
Todus todus is shown t<:i be the proper name 
for this species. 

Description of a new Myiarchiis 

from Grenada and St. Vincent, West In- 
dies. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. is- 
sue, II, pt. 2, No. 1478, Nov. 8, 1904, pp. 
275, 276. 
Myiarchus oberi nugator (p. 275 ) is described 
as new. 

Catalogue of a collection of birds 



from Barbuda and Antigua, Briti.sh West 
Indies. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 
issue, 11, pt. 2, No. 1478, Nov. 8, 1904, 
pp. 277-291. 
X list of 51 speeies and subspecies, with criti- 
cal remarks on several forms. The following 
are described as new: Cerchncis sparveria 
loquacula (p. 284 1, from Porto Rico; Coccyzus 



130 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



RILEY, J. H. — Continued. 

minor shelleyi (p. 285), and Dendroim subita 
(p. 2S9). 

On the correct name for the moun- 



tain thrush of the Ijesser Antilles. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvin, June 29, 
1905, p. 186. ! 

Note sho^^^ng Allenia apicalis (Ilartlaub) i 
to be the correct name for the species recently 
called A . montarui or A . albiventris. \ 

Birds of the Bahama Islands. | 

The Bahama Islands, Geographical So- 
cietj^ of Baltimore (New York, 1905, 
Macmiilan Co.), pp. 347-308. 
An account of the birds of the Bahamas, 
based mainly on collections and observations 
made by the author, while a member of the , 
expedition sent to the Islands by the Geo- [ 
graphical Society of Baltimore. The deriva- \ 
tion of the Bahaman avifauna is fully consid- j 
ered, and a complete list of the birds recorded 
from the Islands is added. 

STEJNEGER, Leonhard. The birds of 
the genus Cinclus and their geographical 
distribution. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 

issue, n, pt. 4, April 5, 1905, pp. 421-4.30. 

A brief essay on the origin, relationships, 

and geographical distribution of the Dippers, 

with a condensed synopsis of the 31 recognized 

forms. 

THAYER, John E., and BANGS, Outram. 
Tlie Vertebrata of Gorgona Island, Co- 
lombia. Aves. 

Bull. Mus. Comp. Zoo!., xlvi, No. 5, June, 
1905, pp. 91-98. 
Notes on sixteen species of birds obtained 
by W. W. Brown, Jr., on Gorgona Island, of 
which the foUowng are described as new: Sula 
etesiaca (p. 92), Urubitinga stibtilis (p. 94), 
Thamnophilus gorgonx (p. 95), Cyanerpes 
gigas (p. 9fl), and Careba gorgonse (p. 97). 

WILLIAMS, R. W., Jr. A preliminary list 
of the bii'ds of Leon County, Florida. 

Auk, XXI, No. 4, Oct., 1904, pp. 449-402. 
An annotated list of 150 species of liirds de- 
tected by the author in Leon County, Florida. 

ZAPPEY, W. R. (See under Outram 

Bangs.) 

MAMMALS. 

ALLEN, Glover M. Notes on Bahama 

rats. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvur. Fell. 21, 1905, 
pp. 65-72. 
Notes on the distribution and habits of 
.species. 

GOLDIVIAN, E. A. Twelve new wood rats 
of the genus Neotoma. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvin, Feb. 2, 1905. 
pp. 27-34. 



GOLDMAN, E. A.— Continued. 

Specimens l)elonging to the U. S. National 
Museum were, used for comparison. 

MacFARLANE, R. Notes on mammals 
collected and observed in the northern 
Mackenzie River district, Northwest Ter- 
ritories of Canada, with remaiks on explor- 
ers and explorations of the far North. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvin, No. 1405, 
June 22, 1905, pp. 073-764, pla. xxx- 
xxxiv, flgs. 1, 2. 

MEARNS, Edgar A. Descriptions of new 
genera and species of mammals from the 
Philippine Islands. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxviii, No. 1402, 
May 13, 1905, pp. 425-400. 
New genera: Urogale (p. 4.35), Podogymnura 
(p. 436), Bullimus (p. 450), Limnomys (p. 451), 
Tarsomys (p. 453), Apomys (p. 455). New 
species: Cynomolgus mindanensis (p. 428), 
Cynomolgus mindanensis apoensis (p. 429), 
Cynomolgus suluensis (p. 430), Cynomolgus 
cagayanus (p. 431), Pteropus lane.nsis (p. 432), 
Pteropus cagayanus (p. 433), Urogale cylin- 
drura (p. 435), Podoqym:vara truei (p. 437), 
Mus tagulayensis (p. 439) , Mus albigularis (p. 
440), Mus magnirostris (p. 441), Afus minda- 
nensis (p. 442), Mus zamboangx (p. 443), Mus 
IxClleri (p. 444), Mus todayensis (p. 445), Mus 
vulcani (p. 446), Mus rulcani apicis (p. 447), 
Mus pantarensis (p. 448), Mus commissarius 
(p. 449), Bullimus bagobus (p. 450), Limnomys 
sibuanus (p. 452), Tarsomys apoensis (p. 453), 
Apomys hylocaies (p. 456), Apomys petrxus 
\ (p. 458), Apomys insignis (p. 459). 

I 
! MERRIAM, C. Hart. A new sea otter 

from Southern California. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvii, Oct. 6, 1904, 

p. l.J9. 

A description of Latar lutris nereis, new 

I subspecies. Specimens belonging to the 

National Museum were used for comparison. 

MILLER, Gerrit S., Jr. Manunals of the 
Bahama Islands. 

The Bahama Islands, Geographical Soci- 
I ety of Baltimore (New York, 1905, Mac- 

j millan Co.) , pp. 371-384, pis. 2, 3. 

I An historical and descriptive account of the 

I mammals known to occur in the islands. 

TRUE, Frederick W. Smithsonian Con- 
tributions to Knowledge | Volume 
XXXIII. I The Whalebone Whales | of 
the I Western North Atlantic | compared 
with those occurring in European waters | 
with some observations on the species | 
of the North Pacific | By | Frederick W. 
True I Head Curator, Department of 
Biology, United States National Museum. 
I [Seal] I (No. 1414) | City of Washing- 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 



131 



TRUE, Frederick W.— Continued. 

ton I Published by the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution I 1904. 

4to., pp. I to VII, 1-332, pis. 1 to .50, text figs. 
1 to 97. (August 29, 1904.) 

GENERAL ZOOLOGY. 

STILES, Charles Wardell. Zoological 
pitfalls for the pathologist. 

Proc. N. Y. Path. Soc. X. )'.. 1904 (190.",), 
pp. 1-20. 
A general review of zoological errors of inter- 
pretation into which pathologists have fallen. 

ANTHROPOLOGY. 

PHYSICAL ANTHROPOLOGY. 

URDLICKA, Ales. Directions for collect- 
ing information and specimens for phys- 
ical anthropology. 

Bull. U. S. Nat. Mvs., No. 39, Part R, 

Nov. 3, 1904, pp. ri]-[2.5], pis. i-viii. 

Instructions to collectors of skeletal, brain, 

andemljryological material, and other ol)jects 

for physical anthropology, with color stand 

ards, after Broea. 

Two artificially deformed crania. 

Am. Anthropologist (new series), vi, Oct.- 
Dee., 1904, pp. 7.56-7,58. 

Head deformation among the Kla- 
math. 

Am. Anthropologist (new series), vii, 
Apr.-June, 1905, pp. 300-.3(il. 

Brain weight in vertebrates. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlviii, Quar. 
issue, HI. pt. ], No. 1.582, June 10, 1905, 
pp. 91-112, pis. xxxii, xxxiii. 
A collection of data obtained in the labora- 
tory of the Division of Physical Anthropol- 
ogy, IT. S. National Museum, on the absolute 
and relative weights of the brains of 48-5 ani- 
■ mals, received in the Division within two 
years; with a bibliography. 

The painting of human bones among 

the American aborigines. 

Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1904 (1905), pp. 
607-617, pis. I-lil. 

ARCHEOLOGY, 

CASANOWICZ, I. M. Identification of 
some Graeco-Egyptian portraits. 

Am. Anthropologist (new series), vi, No. 2, 
April-June, 1904, pp. 361-363. 
A discussion of the religious and artistic 
historical import and development of the 
Egyptian mummy portraits, and tne sup- 
posed identity of some of them with cameos, 
coins, etc., which represent royal personages. 



CASANOWICZ, I. M. The Wat Chang 
pagoda of Bangkok, Siam. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii. Quar. 
issue, II, pt. 2. No. 1483, Nov. 9, 1904, pp. 
273, 274, pi. I. 
Description of the structure, after a model 
in the U. S. National Museum, with a discus- 
sion of the significance \and' architectural 
development of this rehgious edifice in various 
Buddhist countries. 

HOLMES, W. H. Contributions of Ameri- 
can archeology to human histoiy. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 
issue, II, pt. 4, Apr. 5, 1905, pp. 412-420. 
Read before the Congress of Americanists at 
Stuttgart, Germany, Aug. 21. 1904. 

Notes on the antiquities of Jemez 

Valley, New Mexico. 

.4;?;,. Anthropologist (new series), vii. No. 
2, April-June, 1905, pp. 198-212, figs. 6-12. 

ETHNOLOGY. 

FEWKES, J. Walter. Porto Rican stone 
collars and tripointed idols. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 
issue, II, pt. 2, Oct. 10, 1904. pp. 16:>-186, 
pi. XXI-XXVII. 

HAWLEY, E. H. Sympathetic drums. 

Science (new series), xx. No. 518, Dec. 2, 
1904, p. 768. 
The film on the gourd resonator of African 
xylophones is thought to act as a sympathetic 
drum. 

HOUGH, Walter. Kava drinking as prac- 
tised by the Papuans and Polynesians. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii. Quar. 
issue, II, pt. 1. Aug. 6, 1904, pp. So-92. pi. 
XVII. 

MILLER, E. Y. The tugda, or rice planter 
of the Coyunos, Philippine Islands. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 
issue, n, pt. 3, No. 15.56, Mar. 2, 1905, pp. 
375-376, pis. LI, Lii. 
Describes and illustrates a very primitive 
method of rice planting suggestive of the mod- 
em grain drill. 

PHOTOGRAPHY. 

SMILLIE, Thomas W. Photographing on 
wood for engraving. 

Smithsonian Misc. Colls., xlvii, Quar. 
issue, II, pt. 4, May 6, 1905, pp. 497-499. 
A brief technical paper giving instructions 
in photographing on wood for engraving. 



132 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1905. 



MUSEUM-HISTORY AND ADMINISTRA- 
TION. 

ADLER, Cyrus. Exhibit of the United 
States National Museum in Historic 
Archeology at the St. Louis Exposition. 
Am. Journ. Archcol. (second series), ix, 
No. I, Jan.-March, 190.5, pp. 8G, 87. 

iLlSON, Otis Tufton. Report on the De- 
partment of Anthropology for the year 
1902-3. 

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1903, Sept. 2S, 1904, pp. 51-60. 

IklERRILL. George P. Report on the De- 
partment of Geology for the year 1902-3. 

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (V. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1903, Sept. 28, 1904, pp. 83-90. 

The new building for the National 

Museum at Washington, D. C. An ab- 
stract from the report of the Assistant 
Secretary relative to the plans finally 
adopted for the National Museum. 

Am. Geologist, xxxv, June, 1905, pp. 37S- 
385. 1 pi. 

MEYER, A. B. Studies of museums and 
kindred institutions of New York City, 
Albanj^, Buffalo and Chicago, with notes 
on some European institutions. 



MEYER, A. B.— Continued. 

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1903, .Tune 1, 1905, pp. 311-608, pis. 1-40, 
text figs. 1-120. 

RATHBUN, Richard. Report upon the 
condition and progress of the U. S. Na- 
tional Museum during the year ending 
June 30, 1903. 

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1903, Oct. 1, 1904, pp. 1-174. 

The United States National Museum: 

An account of the buildings occupied by 
the National Collections. 

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus'.), 
1903, May 15, 1905, pp. 177-.309, pis. 1-29. 

STILES, Charles Wardell. Report of 
the Division of Zoology of the Hygienic 
Laboratory. 

Ann. Rep. Surg. Gen., Pub. Health and 
Afar.-Hosp.Serv., 1903(^)04) , pp. 330-335. 
Contains, among other data, a list of addi- 
tions to the collections deposited in the U. S. 
National Museum by the Marine-Hospital 
Service. 

TRUE, Frederick W. Report on the De- 
partment of Biology for the year 1902-3. 

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1903, Sept. 28, 1904, pp. 61-82. 



o 



