/re-7^ 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE 
BOARD OF REGENTS OF 

THE SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION, 

SHOWING THE 

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND 
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION 
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30 

1925 




(Publication 2836) 



WASHINGTON 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

1926 



ADDITIONAL COPIES 

OF TUI8 rUBI.ICATlON MAY BE PROCURKD FROM 

THE SUPERINTENnKNT OF DOCUMENTS 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 

AT 

$1.50 PER COPY (CLOTH) 



LETTER 

FROM THE 

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

SUBMITTING 

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE 
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1925 



Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington^ December ^^, 1925. 
To the Congress of the United States: 

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the 
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents, 
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi- 
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 
ending June 30, 1925. I have the honor to be. 
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

C. D. Walcott, 

Secretary. 



CONTENTS 



Page 

List of officials xi, xii 

Tlie Smithsonian Institution 1 

Tlie establisliment 1 

Tlie Board of Regents 2 

General considerations 2 

Finances 4 

Researches and explorations 6 

Geological explorations in the Canadian Rockies 6 

Zoological explorations in AVestern China 7 

Botanical exploration in Panama and Costa Rica 8 

Archeological expedition to China 9 

Marsh-Darien expedition 11 

Additional assistant secretary 12 

Smithsonian radio talks 12,13 

Publications 14 

Ldbrarj'^ ! 15 

National Museum 16 

National Gallery of Art 18 

Freer Gallery of Art 20 

Bureau of American Ethnology 20 

International Exchanges 22 

National Zoological Park 23 

Astrophysical Observatory 24 

International Catalogue of Scientific Literature 24 

Necrology » 25 

Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum 28 

2. Report on the National Gallery of Art 48 

3. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art 57 

4. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology 60 

5. Report on the International Exchanges 75 

6. Report on the National Zoological Park 87 

7. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory 101 

8. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific Litera- 

ture , 107 

9. Report on the Library 109 

10. Report on publications 116 

V 



VI CONTENTS 

General Appendix 



Page 

The spiral nebulae and the structure of space, by Carl Wirtz 137 

Immensities of time and space, by A. Vibert Douglas 147 

Certain aspects of high-pressure research, by P. W. Bridgman 157 

Lightning and other high-voltage phenomena, by F. W. Peek, jr 169 

Chemical elements and atoms, by G. Urbain 199 

The manufacture of radium, by Camille Matiguon 221 

The chemistry of solids, by Cecil H. Desch 235 

Terrestrial magnetism in the twentieth century, by Daniel L. Hazard 243 

Some causes of volcanic activity, by Arthur L. Day 257 

Geology in the service of man, by W. W. Watts 271 

The yeasts : a chapter in microscopical science, by A. Chaston Chapman _ 297 
Tropical cyclones and the dispersal of life from island to island in the 

Pacific, by Stephen Sargent Visher 313 

Isolation with segregation as a factor in organic evolution, by David 

Starr Jordan 321 

The biological action of light, by Leonard Hill 327 

Animal life at high altitudes, by Maj. R. W. G. Kingston 337 

The nest of the Indian tailor bird, by Casey A. Wood 349 

The needs of the world as to entomology, by L. O. Howard 355 

From an egg to an insect, by R. E. Snodgrass 373 

The role of vertebrates in the control of insect pests, by W. L. McAtee__ 415 

Carnivorous butterflies, by Austin H. Clark 439 

The potato of romance and reality, by W. E. Safford 509 

The relation of geography to timber supply, by W. B. Greeley i_ 533 

The historical geography of early Japan, by Carl Whiting Bishop 547 

The excavations of the sanctuary of Tanit at Carthage, by Byron Khun 

de Prorok 5G9 

The Smithsonian Institution, by C. G. Abbot 575 

Sir Archibald Geikie, by Sir Aubrey Strahan 591 

Ned Hollister (1876-1924), by Wilfred H. Osgood 599 



LIST OF PLATES 



Lightning (Peek) : i^ase 

Plates 1-6 174 

Plates 7, 8 182 

Plates 9-11 190 

Radium (Matiguon) : 

Plates 1-4 234 

Volcanic Activity (Day) : 

Plate 1 258 

Plate 2 262 

Plates 268 

Life at High Altitudes (King- 
ston) : 

Plates 1, 2 348 

Nest of the Tailor Bird (Wood) : 

Plates 1-5 354 

Control of Insect Pests (Mc- 
Atee) : 
Plates 1-7 438 



The Potato (Safford) : Page 

Plates 1-12 532 

Timber Supply (Greeley) : 

Plates 1-3 546 

Early Japan (Bishop) : 

Plates 1-9 568 

Sanctuary of Tanit (de Pro- 
rok) : 

Plates 1-4 574 

The Smithsonian Institution : 

Plate 1 575 

Plates 2-9 576 

Plates 10-17 582 

Plates 18-21 586 

Geikie (Strahan) : 

Plate 1 591 

Hollister (Osgood) : 

Plate 1 599 

Plate 2 608 



ANNUAL REPORT OFITHE BOARD OP REGENTS OP THE SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION POR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1925 



SUBJECTS 



1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera- 
tions and conditions of the Institution for the year ending June 30, 
1925, with statistics of exchanges, etc. 

2. Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents, 
exhibiting the financial affairs of the Institution, including a state- 
ment of the Smithsonian fund, and receipts and expenditures for 
the year ending June 30, 1925. 

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the fiscal year ending 
June 30, 1925. 

4. General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous me- 
moirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Insti- 
tution, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. 
These memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1925. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 



June 30, 1925 

Presiding officer ex officio.— Cai^yin Coolidge, President of the United States. 

Chancellor.— W11.1.1AM Howard Taft, Chief Justice of the United States. 

Members of the Institution: 

Calvin Coolidge, President of the United States. 

Charles G. Dawes, Vice President of the United States. 

William Howard Taft, Chief Justice of the United States. 

Frank B. Kellogg, Secretary of State. 

Andrew W. Mellon, Secretary of the Treasury. 

John Wingate Weeks, Secretary of War. 

John G. Sargent, Attorney General. 

Harry S. New, Postmaster General. 

Curtis D. Wilbur, Secretary of the Navy. 

Hubert Work, Secretary of the Interior. 

William M. Jardine, Secretary of Agriculture. 

Herbert Clark Hoover, Secretary of Commerce. 

James John Davis, Secretary of Labor. 

Regents of the Institution: 

William Howard Taft, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor. 

Charles G. Dawes, Vice President of the United States. 

Reed Smoot, Member of the Senate. 

George Wharton Pepper, Member of the Senate. 

WooDRiDGE N. Ferris, Member of the Senate. 

Albert Johnson, Member of the House of Representatives. 

R. Walton Moore, Member of the House of Representatives. 

Walter H. Newton, Member of the House of Representatives. 

George Gray, citizen of Delaware. 

Charles F. Choate, jr., citizen of Massachusetts. 

Henry White, citizen of Washington, D. C. 

Robert S. Brookings, citizen of Missouri. 

Irwin B. Laughlin, citizen of Pennsylvania. 

Frederic A. Delano, citizen of Washington, D. C. 

Executive committee.— George Gray, Henry White, Frederic A. Delano. 

Secretary of the Institution. — Charles D. Walcott. 

Assistant Secretary. — C. G. Abbot. 

Assistant Secretary. — Alexander Wetmore. 

Chief clerk. — Harry W. Dorsey. 

Accounting and disbursing agent. — N. W. Dorsey. 

Editor.— W. P. True. 

Lihrarian. — William L. Corbin. 

Appointment cleric. — James G. Traylor. 

Property cleric. — J. H. Hill. 



XII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 192 5 

NATIONAL MUSEUM 

Keeper ex officio. — Charles D. Walcott, Secretary of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution. 

Assistant Secretary (in charge). — Alexander Wetmore. 

Administrative assistant to the Secretary. — W. de C. Ravenel. 

Head curators. — Walter Hough, Leonhard Stejneger, George P. Merrill. 

Curators. — Paul Bartsch, R. S. Bassler, T. T. Belote, Austin H. Clark, 
F. W. Clarke, F. V. Coville, W. H. Dall, Walter Hough, L. O. Howard, AleS 
HrdliCka, Neil M. Judd, Frederick L. Lewton, George P. Merrill, Gerrit S. 
Miller, Jr., Carl W. Mitman, Robert Ridqway, Waldo L. Schmitt, Leonhard 
Stejneger. 

Associate curators. — J. M. Aldrich, C. W. Gilmore, W. R. Maxon, Charles 
E. Resser, Charles W. Richmond, J. N. Rose, Paul C. Standley, David 
White. 

Chief of correspondence and documents. — H. S. Bryant. 

Disbursing agent. — N. W. Dorsey. 

Superintendent of buildings and labor.— J. S. Goldsmith. 

Editor. — Marcus Benjamin. 

Photographer. — Arthur J. Olmsted. 

Property clerk. — W. A. Knowles. 

Engineer. — C. R. Denmark. 

Shipper. — L. E. Perry. 

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 
Director. — William H. Holmes. 

FREER GALLERY OF ART 
Curator. — John Ellerton Lodge. 
Associate curator. — Carl Whiting Bishop. 
Assistant curator. — Grace Dunham Guest. 
Associate. — Katharine Nash Rhoades. 
Superintendent. — John Bundy. 

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 
Chief. — J. Walter Fewkes. 

Ethnologists. — John P. Harrington, J. N. B. Hewitt, Francis La Flesche, 
Truman Michelson, John R. Swanton. 
Editor. — Stanley Searles. 
Librarian. — Ella Leary. 
Illustrator. — De Lancey Gill. 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES 
Assistant Secretary (in charge). — C. G. Abbot. 
Chief clerk. — C. W. Shoemaker. 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

Superintendent. — William M. Mann. 
Assistant superintendent. — A. B. Baker. 

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 
Director. — C. G. Abbot. 
Aid. — F, E. Fowle, Jr. 
Assistant. — L. B. Aldrich. 

REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATES, INTERNATIONAL 
CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE 

Assistant in charge. — Leonard C. Gunnell. 



REPORT 

OF THE 

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

Charles D. Walcott 
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1925 



To the Board of Regents of the Sinithso7iian Institution: 

Gentlemen : I have the honor to submit herewith the customary 
annual report showing the activities and condition of the Smith- 
sonian Institution and the Government bureaus under its adminis- 
trative charge during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1925. The first 
27 pages of the report contain an account of the affairs of the Insti- 
tution, and in Appendixes 1 to 10 are given more detailed summaries 
of the operations of the United States National Museum, the Na- 
tional Gallery of Art, the Freer Gallery of Art, the Bureau of 
American Ethnology, the International Exchanges, the National 
Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the United States 
Regional Bureau of the International Catalogue of Scientific Litera- 
ture, the Smithsonian Library, and of the publications issued under 
the direction of the Institution. 

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

THE ESTABLISHMENT 

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of Eng- 
land, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of 
America, "to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of 
knowledge among men." In receiving the property and accepting 
the trust. Congress determined that the Federal Government was 
without authority to administer the trust directly, and therefore 
constituted an " establishment " whose statutory members are " the 
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of 
the executive departments,*' 

1 



2 ANNUAL BEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

THE BOARD OP REGENTS 

The affairs of the Institution are administered by a Board of 
Regents whose membership consists of "the Vice President, the 
Chief Justice, three Members of the Senate, and three Members of 
the House of Representatives, together with six other persons other 
than Members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the 
city of Washington, and the other four shall be inhabitants of some 
State, but no two of them of the same State." One of the Regents 
is elected chancellor by the board ; in the past the selection has fallen 
upon the Vice President or the Chief Justice ; and a suitable person is 
chosen by the Regents as secretary of the Institution, who is also 
secretary of the Board of Regents and the executive officer directly 
in charge of the Institution's activities. 

The following changes occurred in the personnel of the board 
during the year : The Hon. Charles G. Davv^es, as Vice President, be- 
came on March 4, 1925, a Regent of the Institution ex officio. Sena- 
tor Reed Smoot, of Utah, was appointed a Regent on December 2, 
1924, to succeed Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, deceased. Senator 
George Wharton Pepper, of Pennsylvania, was appointed a mem- 
ber of the board on December 3, 1924, to succeed Senator Medill Mc- 
Cormick, resigned. Senator Woodbridge N. Ferris, of Michigan, 
was appointed on March 11, 1925, to succeed Senator A. Owsley 
Stanley, whose term as a Regent expired with his retirement from 
the Senate. 

The roll of Regents at the close of the fiscal yeav was as follows : 
William H. Taft, Chief Justice of the United States, chancellor; 
Charles G. Dawes, Vice President of the United States; members 
from the Senate, Reed Smoot, George Wharton Pepper, Woodbridge 
N. Ferris; members from the House of Representatives, Albert 
Johnson, R. AValton Moore, AValter H. Newton; citizen members, 
George Gray, Delaware; Charles F. Choate, jr., Massachusetts; 
Henry White, Washington, D. C. ; Robert S. Brookings, Missouri ; 
Irwin B. Laughlin, Pennsylvania; and Frederic A. Delano, Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 

The past year marks a crisis in the affairs of the Institution. For 
several years past it has grown more and more difficult to stretch 
the income from its meager endowment sufficiently to cover the 
steadily increasing costs of even the limited amount of research 
which can be undertaken and of the administration of the eight 
growing Government bureaus. The cost of publishing is more than 
twice that of 10 years ago, which has resulted in materially de- 
creasing the output of Smithsonian publications. The research work 
of the Institution is now limited practically to the paleontological 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY d 

work of your secretary and the work on the solar constant of radia- 
tion under Doctor Abbot's direction, and both of these investigations 
are partially supported by private financial aid. The Institution 
has for several years been undermanned, and the ordinary running 
expenses are met only by the exercise of rigid economy. 

This condition has been recognized for some years, and attempts 
have been made from time to time to increase the endowment. But 
during the past year the situation has become acute, and it has been 
?-ealized that without a marked increase in the Institution's resources 
it would no longer be able to hold its place among the great research 
institutions of the present day, the annual income of several of which 
is greater than the Smithsonian's entire endowment. If allowed to 
go on under these circumstances, the Smithsonian, America's na- 
tional scientific establishment, which was the guiding light during 
the formative period of scientific activity in this country, and which, 
has been the parent of most of the present great scientific bureaus of 
the Government, would be relegated to second or third rank, and its 
world-wide reputation as a center of scientific efi^ort in America 
would rapidly diminish. 

With a definite realization of these facts, the administration of 
the Institution has concentrated during the year upon a direct effort 
to increase its resources, and by the close of the year several plans 
were under way and one definite step had been taken toward that 
end. An agreement Avas entered into with the William T. De Van 
Corporation, of New York, to issue a series of popular scien- 
tific books, to be known as the Smithsonian Scientific Series, a 
project similar in general plan to the Chronicles of America series, 
published by the Yale University Press, which proved so success- 
ful under Mr. De Van's direction. In the Smithsonian series it 
is intended to present in readable form, and profusely illustrated, the 
activities of the Institution and the bureaus under its direction in 
many branches of science. The series will consist of 20 volumes, and 
the following tentative titles of a few will indicate their nature: 

Sun-Rays in the Welfare of Man. 
Man's Origin and Development. 
Gems, Meteorites, and Stones. 
North American Indians. 
The Study of Our Seas. 
Birds and Their Ways. 

The preparation of manuscripts was well under way at the close 
of the year, and it is hoped that before very long the sale of these 
books will add materially to the Institution's annual income. Two 
other projects, each holding promise of a large increase of endow- 
ment, were under consideration, but final action had not been taken 
by June 30, and their discussion at this time would be premature. 



4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

However, it is believed that as a result of the conceited effort of the 
administration the outlook for the future is brighter regarding the 
possibility of increased resources for research and publication. 

FINANCES 

The permanent investments of the Institution consist of the fol- 
lowing : 
Deposited iu the Treasury of the United States $1,000,000.00 

CONSOLIDATED FUND 

Miscellaneous securities' etc., either purchased or acquired by 

gift; cost or value at date acquired 213,386.50 

Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott research fund, stock (gift) ; 

value 11. 520. 00 

The sums invested for each specific fund or securities, etc., ac- 
quired by gift are described as follows : 



Fund 



United 

States 

Treasury 



Consoli- 
dated 
fund 



Walcott 

research 

fund 



Total 



Avery fund-- - -- 

Virginia Purdy Bacon fund 

Lucy H. Baird fund.. 

Chamberlain fund 

Habel fund 

Hamilton fund 

Carohne Henry fund --- 

Hodgkins fimd, general - --- 

Hodgkins fund, specific 

Bruce Hughes fund - 

Morris Loeb fund - 

Lucy T. and George W. Poore fund.- 

Addison T. Reid fund 

Rheesfimd 

George H. Sanford fund - 

Smithson fund -.- 

Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott research fund. 



$14, 000. 00 



500.00 
2, 500. 00 



$32, 669. 55 

62, 272. 93 

1, 528. 09 

35, 000. 00 



116,000.00 
100, 000. 00 



500.00 

1, 223. 33 

37, 275. 00 



26, 670. 00 

11,000.00 

590.00 

1, 100. 00 

727, 640. 00 



13, 839. 90 
5, 814. 00 
14, 183. 14 
6, 639. 16 
357. 34 
615. 32 
1, 468. 74 



$11, 520. 00 



Total-- 1,000,000.00 



213, 386. 50 



11, 520. 00 



$46, 669. 55 

62, 272. 93 

1, 528. 09 

35, 000. 00 

500.00 

3, 000. 00 

1,223.33 

153, 275. 00 

100, 000. 00 

13, 839. 90 

5, 814. 00 

40, 853. 14 

17, 639. 16 

947. 34 

1,715.32 

729, 108. 74 

11,520.00 



1, 224, 906. 60 



The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts from the following 
donors : 

Dr. William L. Abbott, for botanical expedition to Haiti. 

The Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences, for expedition to southern Asia, 
Java, Australia, and Africa (Hrdlieka). 

National Academy of Sciences, for researches in paleontology. 

Research Corporation, for research work. 

Dr. Charles W. Richmond and Dr. William Schaus, for collecting expedition 
in China. 

Mr. John A. Roebling, for solar researches, etc. 

Mr. B. H. Swales, for purchase of specimens. 

The Institution has also received contributions from the following 
friends for the funds as listed below : 

General endowment fund : Miss Anne C. Hanson, Mr. R. B. Miller, Mr. R. S. 
Poor, Prof, M. V. Walker, and Mr. Hans Wilkens. 

Endowment campaign expense fund: Mr. Milton E. Ailes, Mr. Charles F. 
Choate, jr., Mr. Charles C. Glover, jr., Mr. Irwin B. Laughlin, and the Hon. 
William Howard Taft. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5 

Smithsonian Scientific Series : Mrs. Martha W. Bacon. Mr. Edward S. 
Harkness, Mr. Clarence H. Mackay, the Radio Corporation of America, and 
Mr. Samuel Rea. 

Freer Gallery of Art. — The invested funds of the Freer bequest 
are classified as follows: 

Court and grounds fund $278,825.50 

Court and grounds, maintenance fund 69,683.75 

Curator's fund 278, 825. 50 

Residuary legacy 2,676,232.75 

Sinking fund 222,658.75 

Total _.. 3, 526. 226. 25 

The practice of depositing on time, in local trust companies and 
banks, such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been con- 
tinued during the past year, and interest on these deposits has 
amounted to $1,610.15. The income during the year for current ex- 
penses, consisting of interest on permanent investments and other 
miscellaneous sources, amounted to $62,507.06; revenues and prin- 
cipal of funds for specific purposes, except the Freer bequest, 
amounted to $148,252.88; revenues on account of Freer bequest 
amounted to $231,073.64— aggregating $441,833.58. 

The di.sbursoments, described more fully in the annual report of 
the executive committee, were classed as follows: General objects of 
the Institution, $59,921.20; for specific purposes (except the Freer 
bequest), $128,334.53; and expenditures pertaining to the Charles L. 
Freer bequest, $184,190.26. The balance on hand on June 30, 1925, 
was $171,952.75. 

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the 
Government bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smith- 
sonian Institution for the fiscal year 1925 : 

International exchanges $49, 550. 00 

American ethnology 57, 160. 00 

International Catalogue of Scientific Literature 8,861.66 

Astrophysical Observatory 21, 580. 00 

Additional assistant .secretary 6,000.00 

Additional fire protection 8,500.00 

National Museum : 

Furniture and fixtures $21,800.00 

Heating and lighting 77,500.00 

Preservation of collections 434,482.00 

Building repairs 11,000.00 

Books 2, 000. 00 

Postage 450. 00 

547, 292. 00 

National Gallery of Art 20,158.00 

National Zoological Park 151,487.00 

Printing and binding 90,000.00 

Total 960, 588. 66 

76041—26 2 



6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

RESEARCHES AND EXPLORATIONS 

An important part of the Institution's work in increasing scientific 
knowledge is the exploration of regions imperfectly known to science. 
Although the limited funds of the Institution sharply restrict the 
number of expeditions which it is able to put in the field, neverthe- 
less it is often found mutually advantageous to cooperate with other 
agencies in field work, and the Institution thus has an interest in a 
considerable number of expeditions each j^ear. Many of them are 
conducted under the direct supervision of the heads of several of 
the bureaus under the Institution, and accounts of these will be 
found in the reports appended hereto on the National Museum, the 
Bureau of American Ethnology, and the Astrophysical Observatory. 
A few of the expeditions will here be described briefly, in order to 
give an indication of the nature of the work undertaken, 

GEOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS IN THE CANADIAN ROCKIES 

During tlie field season of 1924, your secretary carried on his usual 
geological woik in the Canadian Rocky Mountains, with the inten- 
tion of completing the reconnaissance begun some years ago of the 
pre-Devonian formations north of the Bow Valley. The weathei* 
was unusually unfavorable, and on 42 days out of the season it 
was very difficult and sometimes impossible to carry on the field 
work. The chief problem attacked was the determination of the 
proper classification of the great Lyell limestones. In order to 
.solve this it was necessary to find fossils in them, and during the 
past six seasons all such attempts were unsuccessful. 

A section was measured from Fossil Mountain, situated northeast 
of Lake Louise station on the Canadian Pacific Railway, eastward 
into Oyster Mountain, the main north and south ridge of which was 
found to be formed of the Lyell limestones. Two glacial cirques, 
named Cotton Grass and Tilted Mountain, cut deeply into this ridge, 
and in these the base of the Lyell formation was uncovered, as well 
as the shales and oolitic limestones of the underlying Bosworth 
formation. The brook running out of the glacial lake in the bottom 
of the southern cirque was followed over the ledges of Lyell lime- 
stone westward to Tilted Mountain Falls, where it drops into the 
canyon valley of upper Baker Creek. Everj'^where the hard, un- 
fossiliferous, light gray limestone was encountered, except near the 
edge of the cliffs above and east of the falls, where long narrow 
strips covered with grass and trees occur between the north and 
south ledges. An approach was made from the southern bank of 
the brook, and on a rounded, glaciated ridge of the gray magnesian 
Lyell liuiestonc there was found, interbedded in the Lyell, an out- 
crop of thin layers of a bluish-gray limestone which contained frag- 



REPORT OP THE SECRETARY / 

inents of Upper Cambrian trilobites. The next day these layers 
were traced back to the brook, and a little lower in the section we 
found two bands of shale and bluish-gray limestone which contained 
fossils. The lower of the two contained many fragments of trilo- 
bites, which were later identified as closely related to Upper Cam- 
brian Franconia trilobites from Wisconsin, and the upper band 
contained fossils of the same type as the fauna of the St. Lawrence 
member of the Trempeauleau formation of Wisconsin. Thus after 
a search occupying a portion or several field seasons, fossils were 
found which definitely located the Lyell limestones as of Upper 
Cambrian age. 

After the Lyell problem w^as definitely settled, further collections 
of fossils were made in the Ozarkian upper Mons limestones of 
Fossil Mountain, and later in the Mons formations of Wild Flower 
Canyon, which heads on Johnston Creek Pass. 

During the past eight seasons considerable progress has been 
made in the understanding of the pre-Devonian geological forma- 
tions and their faunas in the Canadian Rocky Mountains, but much 
I'emains to be done, particularly in the region between the Canadian 
Pacific Railway and the Arctic Ocean. 

ZOOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS IN WESTERN CHINA 

In my last report mention was made of the tragic ending of the 
Institution's collecting expedition in China conducted under the 
auspices of Dr. W. L. Abbott. Mr. Charles M. Hoy, in charge of 
the work, following a series of misfortunes, was stricken with a 
severe case of appendicitis, and died shortly after. In order that 
Hoy's work might be continued, his collecting outfit was transferred 
to the Rev. David C. Graham, who for a number of years has col- 
lected zoological material in the vicinity of Suifu for the National 
Museum. In 1923 he had carried out very successful collecting 
operations in the region about Tatsienlu, to the northwest of Suifu, 
and in May, 1924, plans Avere completed for an expedition to Song- 
pan, in the northern part of the Province of Szechwan, using Hoy's 
outfit. 

The distance from Suifu to Songpan was about 400 miles, and in 
order to keep down expenses Mr. Graham covered most of this 
distance on foot. His party, including carriers, skinners, and other 
helpers, reached Songpan on July 14, after a strenuous journey of 
22 days. In September Mr. Graham wrote as follows : 

The Songpan trip has been taken, and we are safely at Suifu with 50 boxes 
of specimens, most of whicli are about ready to be mailed by parcel post. 

This has been a harder and rougher trip than the one of Tatsienlu or any 
other previous trip. It is much harder to secure food and other necessities 
around Songpan than at Tatsienlu. There were times when we could pur- 



8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

I'Lase uo fruit, vegetables, eggs, or meat. At Songpan it was impossible to go 
west or north, where large mammals were found in abuntlance, so that the only 
place we could go was east to the Yellow Dragon Gorge. Even there we had 
to have an escort of six Chinese soldiers and had of course to pay all their 
expenses. * * * 

The reason we could not go north of Songpan or west of that place was 
that the Bolotsi aborigines are so savage and so inclined to murder and 
brigandage that the Chinese can not control them and are afraid of them, 
and tho officials could not protect us in those regions. Just before we returned 
from Songpan the Bolotsis attacked a company of Chinese soldiers, killed sev- 
eral of their number, stole several rifles, and drove the scared and defeated 
soldiers back to their barracks. I have not heard that the Chinese have 
dared to go into the Bolotsi country with a punitive expedition. 

The catch of mammals is not large. We are very sorry about this. It is 
due primarily to the fact that the mammal-catching districts around Songpan 
were closed to us. Yellow Dragon Gorge was a fine place for birds and 
insects, but a great festival had just been held there, in which aborigine and 
Cliinese hunters from all directions had joined in the chase, and woodcutters 
were busy in the woods cutting timber for the new temples that are being 
constructed. The mammals had been scared away. 

Mr. Graham also sent native collectors out to work in other 
rcorions, and regarding their work he says : 

This year's catch is bigger than that of last year. There are 50 boxes of 
specimens on hand, and I expect to send them off by parcel post as early as 
possible. Besides the 50 boxes just mentioned, there is the entire catch of the 
netter Ho for at least three months, who has been collecting about Beh Luh 
Din, Chengtu, and Kuanshien during the summer, and specimens now being 
secured by two collectors on Mount Omei, one at Shin Kal Si and one on the 
higher altitudes. 

The collections resulting from the season's work include about 
5.000 insects, notably two-winged flies, butterflies, and moths; 558 
birds, of which at least a dozen proved to be new to the Museum 
collections ; about 250 mollusks ; and a smaller number of mammals, 
fishes, reptiles and batrachians, earthworms, and plants. 

BOTANICAL EXPLORATION IN PANAMA AND COSTA RICA 

Mr. Paul C. Standley, associate curator of the division of plants. 
United States National Museum, engaged in botanical exploration 
during the latter part of 1923 and the first four months of 1924 in 
Panama and Costa Rica. The work in Panama was carried on with 
the cooperation of the government of the Panama Canal, and had 
for its purpose the collection of specimens and data for a report on 
the plant life of the Canal Zone which will be published later. 
Regarding the exploration in Panama, Mr. Standley writes : 

Part of November, December, and most of January were spent in botanical 
exploration in and near the Zone. Nearly all parts of this area were visited, 
and 7,000 numbers of plants wore obtained, repi'csented by about twice as 
many specimens. These collections are now being studied and have been 
found to contain a number of species new to science, besides many not col- 
lected previously in the area. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9 

The vegetation of the Zone is typical of that existing in Central America 
at low elevations, but it is here possible to study in close proximity the floras 
of the Atlantic and Pacific slopes, these floras being sharply difCerentiated in 
Central America because of differences in the climates of the two watersheds. 
The Pacific slope has well defined wet and dry seasons ; on the Atlantic slope 
there is usually plentiful moisture throughout the year. 

Although the original vegetation of the Isthmus of Panama has been greatly 
modified in many places because of long occupation by man, and especially 
because of operations incident to the construction and management of the 
canal, there remain near the canal extensive areas of virgin forest whose 
animal and plant life is of great interest. Advantage has been taken of this 
fact to establish recently a station for tropical scientific research on Barro 
Colorado Island in Gatun Lake, the island having been set aside for the pur- 
pose by the governor of the canal. Upon this island, largely as a result of 
the energy and enthusiasm of Mr. James Zetek, there has been constructed 
this year a laboratory building with accommodations for students, and trails 
have been cut to make the virgin forest, which covers several hundred acres, 
available for study. 

From Panama, Mr. Standley proceeded to Costa Rica, where he 
spent two and one-half months in botanical exploration and col- 
lecting. Costa Rica is, from a botanical standpoint, probably the 
richest part of the North American continent, and in the highland 
region, where a temperate rather than tropical climate prevails, the 
luxuriance and variety of the vegetation is extraordinary. Of the 
Costa Rica work, Mr. Standley reports : 

The collection consists of 8,000 numbers of plants, many of which will doubt- 
less prove to be new. Special attention was given to the orchids, of which 
about 1,500 numbers were obtained. These are now being studied by Mr. 
Oakes Ames, through whose interest the work in Costa Rica was undertaken. 
Of orchids Costa Rica possesses probably a larger number of species than 
any other portion of the American tropics of equal extent. Over 1,000 species 
have been reported from this small Republic, and it is certain that many 
more await discovery. While most Costa Ricau orchids, like those of other 
countries, have inconspicuous flowers, some, such as the Cattleyas, are of un- 
surpassed beauty. 

Visits were made to the Volcano of Poas, celebrated for its great crater, 
which contains a lake that erupts frequently ; to the Volcano of Turrialba, 
whose forests are noted for their wealth of ferns ; and to many other rich 
localities in the central highlands. 

A short visit to the comparatively arid Pacific coast proved that the flora 
of this part of Costa Rica is relatively meager and uninteresting. Several 
visits were made to the wet lowland forests of the Atlantic watershed, where 
the vegetation is even more luxuriant than in the mountains and the species 
are almost equally numerous. Little is known of the plants of the Atlantic 
lowlands of Central America, although it is probably that no other region 
will better reward exploration. 

AKCHEOLOGICAL EXPEDITION 'ro CHINA 

An expedition to China under the joint auspices of the Freer 
Gallery of Art and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, and directed 



10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

by Mr. Carl Whiting Bishop, associate curator of the Freer Gal- 
lery, conducted successful archeological investigations at I Chou, 
Province of Chihli, and at various localities in the Province of 
Shensi. To the southwest of I Chou, which is built upon the ruins 
of an ancient city, Mr. Bishop discovered parts of old earthen 
walls of considerable size, and to the east of the city were found 
groups of large mounds rising frojn the plain. These were exam- 
ined, and many fragments of pottery and tile collected on the sur- 
face of the mounds. A survey of the locality was made by airplane, 
in order to determine the extent and plan of the ancient site. 

Although the work of this expedition commenced during the 
previous fiscal year, it was continued into the present year; and, 
as no detailed account was given in my last report, I will quote a 
few paragraphs from the report of the curator of the Freer Gallery 
upon the work at Shensi : 

In Shensi the members of the field staff visited the Western Ilan (206 
B. C. — A. D. 25) capital of Ch'ang-an, securing sufficient data while there to 
make a fair reconstruction of the ancient city. In the same Province they 
insi)ected also two large mounds of the usual truncated pyramidal form, as- 
cribed to early Han emperors ; the supposed tomb of the Emperor Ch'in Shih 
Huang-ti (221-210 B.C.), and the tombs of the famous Emperor Han Wu 
Ti (140-87 B. C), and his General Ho Ch'u-ping. The tomb of Han Wu Ti 
is an unusually large one, measuring 278 yards at its base, and presents 
opportunities of great archeological interest, as does also that of General 
Ho Ch'u-ping, where Mr. Bishop saw not only the well-known stone figure 
of a horse trampling on a recumbent warrior but examined also several other 
partially exposed stone sculptures of- the early Han in-riod. Photographs and 
scale plans of several of the tombs and temples in this vicinity were made. 

The first actual excavation work conducted by the exiKnlitiou was begun 
in the spring of this year at Yii-ho Chen, about 17 miles west of Hsin-yang 
Chou, in the Province of Honan. This specific undertaking has an added sig- 
nificance archeologlcally, in tliat it is the first work of the kind to be con- 
ducted in China by any foreign Government in cooperation with the Chinese 
authorities. At Yu-ho Chen two tombs of the Han dynasty (206 B. C— A. D. 
221 ) were excavated ; the work revealed intei'e.sting data on ancient tomb 
construction, and brought to light Chine.se cultural objects dating from pre- 
historic times to the Han period. Specimens in metal, stone, and pottery 
were found in the tombs ; chariot fittings, mirrors, and arrow points of bronze ; 
one or two gold rings ; cast-iron implements ; a stone ax, and parts of stone 
doors and lintels ; a jade chisel ; slate arrow-heads, and a number of pieces 
of ancient i)Ottery — some intact, some fragmentary — among them a kind of 
glazed jxjttery which, if it be of Han production, is a type hitherto scarcely 
known to us. 

In August the Yu-ho Chen finds were exhibited for one day, under Mr. 
Bishop's direction, at the Historical Mu.seum in Peking ; between 5,000 and 
0,000 visitors attended the exhibit. 

In the early autumn Mr. Bishop, together with Doctor Barbour, professor 
of geology at Peking University, and Doctor Tegengren, a Swedish mining 
geologist, examined a mound in Peitaiho, on the Gulf of Chihli, which dis- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 11 

closes evidences of what Mr. Bishop believes to be a Ilan dynasty naval base 
or fortress, one of three which are said to have been built at that time, and 
of vvhlih two only have been located. 

MAKSH-DARIEN EXPEDITION 

An expedition under the auspices of Mr. R. O. Marsh explored 
during a part of 1924 the little-known Isthmus of Darien, in 
Panama. A number of men representing several institutions and 
various branches of science accompanied the expedition at the invi- 
tation of Mr. Marsh, the Smithsonian Institution being represented 
by Mr. John L. Baer, who was particularly interested in the 
anthropological phase of the work. This expedition, like that of 
Mr. Hoy mentioned in last year's report, had a tragic ending, so 
far as the Institution was concerned, for while the party was pro- 
ceeding up the Chucimaque River Mr. Baer was taken suddenly 
ill, and, although hurriedly transported to the coast, he died within 
a few days. 

A brief report of the work of the expedition, written by the head 
curator of anthropology of the National Museum, reads in part as 
follows : 

The route followed was from Balboa to San Miguel Bay, through Darien 
Harbor, and up the Tuyra River to the village of Real. There a change was 
made to smaller boats and the Rio Chucuuaque ascended to Yavisa, near which 
a permanent camp was established. A visit was made to the Choco Indians, 
who occupy the middle river valleys above tidewater, and to the Cuna, who 
live in the higher river valleys and mountain district. The Choco have a 
local government, live in large, well-built community houses, and subsist on 
rice, bananas, plantains, corn, and yucca. They are expert fishermen, diving 
into deep pools and catching certain kinds of rock fish in their hands. Their 
religion is a fonn of primitive belief in the influence of good and bad spirits. 
Mr. Marsh observes that they are a happy, careless, childlike people, friendly 
if well treated, very Polynesian-like, wearing breech-cloths, but decorated with 
beads, silver earrings, and wrist bands, and wreaths of gay flowers. 

The Cuna have a higher culture than the Choco, are monogamous, have 
hereditary chiefs, families have separate houses, and large houses are used 
for tribal meetings and ceremonies. They raise long-staple tree cotton, dye 
and weave cotton into cloth and hammocks, grow corn, plantains, bananas, 
yucca, coffee, chocolate, and sugar cane. They are adepts with the bow and 
arrow and blowgun. 

The party proceeded up the Chucunaque River with great difficulty, owing 
to barriers of drift logs, at last reaching the Cunas Bravos, who were regarde<l 
as hostile. The Cunas Bravos are agriculturalists and exhibit a lower degree 
of culture than the Cunas of the lower river. The chief of the Cunas Bravos 
spoke good English, having as a young man shipped at Colon on an English 
vessel, and in 12 years had sailed over half the world. It was at this point 
that John L. Baer became 111. 

Activities were next transferred to the San Bias Indians, who inhabit a 
long stretch of the north coast of Panama. These Indians, wlio number 
approximately 40,000, have always kept aloof from the white man, realizing 



12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

that contact with other races would work their undoing. Amicable relations 
were established with them and many interesting specimens of their arts and 
industries were collected for the National Museum. The San Bias Indians 
have an advanced social organization, with a ruler who could perhaps be prop- 
erly classed as a king. Through the San Bias, Mr. Marsh came in contact with 
hundreds of " white Indians " whose presence in Panama has been known 
for a long time but who have not been examined by scientific observers. 
Individuals brought by Mr. Marsh to the United States have been carefully 
examined and tentatively stated, before field studies go more fully into the 
matter, to present a form of albinism. 

ADDITIONAL ASSISTANT SECRETARY 

For several years there has been recognized the need of an addi- 
tional assistant secretary to relieve the pressure on the Institution 
of administration of the eight Government bureaus, several of which 
have developed rapidly in recent years. This need was laid before 
Congress, and in the last appropriation bill provision was made for 
the new position. After a thorough study of the qualifications 
needed for the position, Dr. Alexander Wetmore was appointed on 
April 1, 1925, as Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 
with general supervision of the National Museum, the National 
Gallery of Art, and the National Zoological Park. 

Doctor Wetmore graduated from Kansas State University in 1912, 
having specialized in biology. He carried on post-graduate studies 
in biology at George Washington University, receiving the degree 
of M. S. in 1916 and Ph. D. in 1920. Since 1910 he has served in 
the Biological Survey, Department of Agriculture, first as agent, 
then as assistant biologist, and finally as biologist, with official sta- 
tion at Washington, D. C. 

During Doctor Wetmore's connection with the Biological Survey 
he conducted numerous investigations dealing with birds and mam- 
mals, and in 1923 directed the U. S. S. Tanager expedition which 
engaged in general scientific exploration of islands in the Pacific. 

On November 18, 1924, he was appointed superintendent of the 
National Zoological Park, where he exhibited unusual administrative 
ability, and on April 1, 1925, he was installed in his new position. 

SMITHSONIAN RADIO TALKS 

In my last report there was described the beginning of a series 
of radio talks by the Smithsonian Institution in cooperation with 
station WRC of the Radio Corporation of America, as an addition 
to the Institution's established methods of the diffusion of knowl- 
edge. The entire matter was placed in charge of Mr. Austin H. 
Clark, curator of echinoderms in the National Museum, and under 
his able and enthusiastic direction the series of talks was a distinct 
success, as attested by calls and letters from many listeners. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13 

On October 2, 1924, the series of talks Avas begun again, with 
increased scope, and between that date and May 14, 1925, twenty- 
eight 15-minute talks were presented to the radio audience under 
the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution through station WRC, 
four of these having been broadcast jointly with stations WJY and 
WJZ of New York City, thus considerably extending the audience. 
Ten of these talks were given by members of the staff of the Insti- 
tution, the other 18 having been given by scientists representing 
other establishments selected by and presented under the auspices 
of the Smithsonian. A list of the talks given during the year 
follows : 

SMITHSONIAN RADIO TALKS (1924-1925) 

October 2, 1924. Life in the Sea. Mr. Austin H. Clark. 

October 16, 1924. Wonders of the Deep Sea. Capt. Frederick B. Bassett, 
hydrographer of the Navy. 

October 22, 1924. Curious Plants. Dr. F. V. Coville. 

November 8, 1924. What the Ocean Means to Us. Lieut. Commander George 
E. Brandt, aid to hydrographer of the Navy. 

November 13, 1924. Indian Cliff Dwellings. Dr. J. AValter Fewkes. 

November 20, 1924. Living Lamps. Mr. Austin H. Clark. 

December 11, 1924. The Ocean Bottom. Dr. George W. Littlehales, hydro- 
graphic engineer. Navy Department. 

December 25, 1924. What Standards Mean to Us. Dr. Fay C. Brown, assist- 
ant director, Bureau of Standards. 

December 30, 1924. How Trees Grow. Dr. D. T. MacDougall, director, 
Desert Botanical Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution, Tucson, Ariz. 

December 31, 1924. Why the Earth is a Magnet. Prof. W. F. G. Swann, 
Yale University. 

January 3, 1925. Tree Rings and Climate. Dr. A. E. Douglass, University 
of Arizona. 

January 8, 1925. The Sun and the Weather. Dr. C. G. Abbot. 

January 22, 1925. The Weather. Prof. W. J. Humphreys, United States 
Weather Bureau. 

January 29, 1925. Mysteries of Bird Migration. Dr. F. C. Lincoln, United 
States Biological Survey. 

February 5, 1925. The Ocean's Food Resources. Mr. Lewis Radcliffe, Dep- 
uty Commissioner of Fisheries. 

February 12, 1925. What Other Peoples Eat. Mr. Austin H. Clark. 

February 19, 1925. What the Earth is Made Of. Dr. Henry S. Washington, 
Carnegie Institution. 

February 26, 1925. Habits of Ants. Dr. William M. Mann, Bureau of Ento- 
mology. 

March 12, 1925. Fish as Food. Mr. Lewis Radcliffe, Deputy Commissioner of 
Fisheries. 

March 19, 1925. How Some Wasps Live. Mr. S. A. Rohwer, Bureau of 
Entomology. 

March 26, 1925. The Work of the Coast and Geodetic Survey in Saving Life 
find Property at Sea. Col. E. Lester Jones, Director Coast and Geodetic 
Survey. 

April 2, 1925. Mosquitoes and Other Bloodsucking Flies. Mr. Raymond C. 
Shannon, Bureau of Entomology. 



14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

April 9, 1925. Lizards aiul Tlioir Kiu. Miss Doris ^[. Cochran. 

April 16, 192r>. Fij,'litiiii,' Plant Diseases by Breediuf? New Plants. Dr. W. A. 
Taylor, Chief, Bureau of Plant Industry. 

April 2.3, 1925. Our Fisheries. Hon. Henry O'Malley, Commissioner of Fish- 
eries. 

April 30, 1925. The Geodetic Work of tlie United States Coast and Geodetic 
Survey. Col. E. Lester Jonas, Director Coast and Geodetic Survey. 

May 7, 1925. Chiggers, Ticks, and Fleas. Dr. II. E. Ewing, Bureau of Ento- 
mology. 

May 14, 1925. Butterflies. Mr. Austin H. Clark. 

This Smithsonian radio series has proved to be an excellent means 
of disseniinatin*^ authentic scientific information, and Mr. C'lark 
had already begun at the close of the fiscal year to arrange the 
program for the coming year. It is intended to increase not only 
the scope of the talks, but also the audience to be reached by 
exchanging material with Westinghouse station WBZ, of New 
England. 

Plans were under way also, near the close of the year, for a distinct 
series of radio talks on the National Zoological Park, to be presented 
by the superintendent of the park and others who have a special 
Imowledge of certain groups of animals shown in the pai'k. It is 
expected to begin this series in October, 1925. 

PUBLICATIONS 

A total of 155 volumes and pamphlets were issued during the year 
by the In.stitution and the Government bureaus under its adminis- 
tration. Of the.se, 171,805 copies were distributed, including ilij'I 
volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowl- 
edge, 24,008 of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 20,825 
volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Annual Reports, 0,102 
special Smithsonian publications, 104,596 volumes and separates of 
the various series of National Museum publications, 7,354 publica- 
tions of the i>ureau of American Ethnology, 08 volumes of the 
annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, 44 reports on the Harri- 
man Alaska expedition, and 1,057 reports of the American Historical 
Association, 

The publications of the Institution constitute its principal means 
of carrying out one of its main piu'poses, "'the diffusion of knowl- 
edge among men." With the 11 distinct series now issued, a very 
wide field of readers is reached, as in addition to the technical 
papers, intended for use by scientists and students, a semipopular 
account of progress in all branches of science is presented to the 
general reader in the appendixes to the annual reports of the Institu- 
lion. As explained in last year's report, these reports have since 
the war been issued over two years late. Last year, however, funds 
were provided to enable the Institution to bring them up to date 



BEPOET OF THE SECEETABY 15 

bv issuing two reports in one year, and this has now been accom- 
plished, the report for 19-23 having been received from the printer 
in June. 1S!>*25, and the 19-24 report promised for delivery in October. 
19-25. This is probably as nearly on time as the reports can be 
issued, owing to their complicated nature, which involves the assem- 
blin«^ of material from foreign as well as American sources and the 
submitting of proof to some 30 authors in all parts of the world. 

AUotmenfs for printing. — The congressional allotments for the 
printing of the Smithsonian report to Congi-ess and the various 
publications of the Government bureaus under the administration 
of the Institution were practically used up at the close of the year. 
The appropriation for the coming year ending June 30. 1926. totals 
$90,000. allotted as follows: 

Annual Eeport to the Congress of the Board of Regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution S12. 5t>0 

National Museum -12. 500 

Bureau of American Ethnology 25. 600 

National Gallery of Art 1,200 

International Exchanges 300 

Internatiunal Catalogue of Scientific Literature 100 

National Zoological Park 300 

Astrophysieal Observatory 500 

Annual Report of the American Historical Association 7. Oc"^' 

Committee on printing and puhlication. — The Smithsonian advis- 
ory committee on printing and publication considers and makes 
recommendations concerning all manuscripts offered for publica- 
tion. It also assists in determining the publication policy of the 
Institution and endeavors to insure the most etficient administration 
of all funds for printing and binding. During the year five meet- 
ings were held and To manuscripts acted upon. A vacancy was cre- 
ated in the personnel of the committee by the death of Mr. X. Hollis- 
ter. superintendent of the National Zoological Park. Dr. Alexander 
Wetmore, who succeeded him as superintendent of the park, also took 
liis place on the committee. Upon Doctor Wetmore's appointment as 
an assistant secretary of the Institution, he in turn was succeeded 
on the committee by Dr. William M. Mann, the present superin- 
tendent of the park. The membership of the committee is as fol- 
lows : Dr. Leonhard Stejneger (chairman). Dr. George P. Merrill, 
Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, Dr. William M. Mann. Dr. Marcus Benjamin, 
Mr. Stanley Searles. and Mr. W. P. True, secretary. 

LIBRARY 

During the year the most important change in the staff of the 
Smithsonian library was the appointment of Mr. William L. Corbin 
as librarian. Mr. X. P. Scudder, assistant librarian in charge of the 
National Museum library for the past 38 years, died May 19. 1925. 



16 ANNUAL REPOET SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

The accessions to the libraries, exclusive of those to the library of 
the Bureau of American Ethnology, which is reported on by the 
chief of the bureau, totaled 12,537. The most outstanding gift of the 
year was the entomological library of the late Col. Thomas L. 
Casey, numbering about 4,500 volumes and pamphlets, chiefly on 
coleoptera, which will be deposited in the section of insects of the 
National Museum. 

The loans totaled 10,657. Special effort was made to supply re- 
quests for missing volumes or parts of volumes, and 2,009 were ob- 
tained. There were sent to the Library of Congress 7,287 publica- 
tions to be added to the Smithsonian deposit and 7,408 documents of 
foreign governments for the document division. Seven thousand 
one hundred and thirty-two volumes and pamphlets were catalogued 
and much general work was done on the collections, including a de- 
tailed investigation by the librarian of the needs of the library. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM 

By the action of the Congress in providing for the appointment of 
an additional assistant secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to 
have general supervision of the National Museum and certain other 
Government bureaus under administrative charge of the Institution, 
Dr. Alexander Wetmore was appointed to that office on April 1, 
1925. The application of the reclassification act resulted in the 
adoption of a more just salary scale for the scientific staff, and for 
the first time in many years every position in the Museum personnel 
was fiUed, the salaries previously available for certain positions 
having been too small to attract men properly equipped to hold 
them. The increase of $52,396 in the Museum appropriations over 
last year was sufficient to cover the larger salaries, but does not 
allow for proper advancement for efficient service, as provided in 
the reclassification act. Additional funds are urgently needed for 
this purpose and also for the normal expansion of the Museum, in- 
cluding the purchase of specimens, and for use in minor explorations. 

The Museum contributed during the past winter seven sj3eakers to 
the series of Smithsonian radio talks, organized last year under the 
direction of Mr. Austin H. Clark. This new field for the dissemina- 
tion of knowledge offers great possibilities. 

The Loeb collection of chemical types has made splendid progress 
under the direction of Mr. O. E. Roberts, jr., curator, 616 new speci- 
mens having been added to the collection during the year. 

The Museum received during the year 363,490 specimens, a slight 
increase over last year's accessions, and 1,232 additional lots of ma- 
terial were received for examination and report. A total of 23,244 
duplicate specimens were distributed as gifts to educational institu- 



EEPORT OF THE SECEETAEY 17 

tions or exchanged for specimens needed to complete collections in 
the Museum, and 33,966 specimens were distributed as loans to spe- 
cialists and students for study and identification. 

The accessions to the Museum collections in all its departments 
are described in detail in the report of the assistant secretary, Ap- 
pendix 1, and only a few of the outstanding gifts will be mentioned 
here. In the department of anthropology, the ethnological collec- 
tions were enriched by the addition of a unique series of objects illus- 
trating the material culture of the Indians of eastern Panama, re- 
sulting from the Marsh-Darien expedition, and by a collection of 
California Indian baskets bequeathed by the late Miss Ella F. 
Hubby, of Pasadena. In physical anthropology, a number of casts 
of the remains of early man were received, including several of the 
famous Trinil man of Java, Pithecanthropus erectus, from Dr. 
Eugene Dubois, and also much valuable skeletal material. The de- 
partment profited especially through explorations conducted by the 
Bureau of American Ethnology, and by the National Geographic 
Society under the direction of Mr. Neil M. Judd, which resulted in 
valuable additions to the collections. 

The most notable gift to the department of biology was the collec- 
tion of Coleoptera and mollusks bequeathed to the Museum by the 
late Col. Thomas Lincoln Casey. The beetles alone in this collec- 
tion are estimated at 90,000 specimens, representing 16,000 species. 
A wonderful store of rich material also has been added to the depart- 
ment in the large collections presented by the National Geographic 
Society as the result of expeditions in China by Dr. J. F. Rock and 
Mr. F. R. Wulsin, which include 4,500 specimens of vertebrates and 
68,000 plants. Additional collections from China have also been 
received from the Rev. D. C. Graham and Mr. A. de C. Sowerby. 

In the department of geology, the paleontological collections have 
been the chief beneficiaries, having received the results of your secre- 
tary's field work for the past four years, as well as collections made 
by Doctor Bassler, Doctor Resser, and Doctor Ulrich. The other 
divisions have all received valuable additions, including a number 
of interesting minerals contributed by Col. W. A. Roebling, and a 
crystal of the new mineral, afwillite, donated by Mr. Alpheus F. 
Williams. One of the most interesting exhibits is a crystal ball of 
unusual size and perfection, weighing 110 pounds and measuring 
1314 inches in diameter, shown through the interest of Mr. Worces- 
ter R. Warner and the courtesy of the Fukushima Co. (Inc.), New 
York. This ball is said to be the largest of its kind in the world 
and has attracted much attention from visitors. 

In the division of mechanical and mineral technology there was a 
slight falling off in the number of accessions received, principally 



18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

due to a lack of exhibition and storage space. Interesting additions 
Avere made, however, in the transportation section, including one 
early type of automobile, a Knox car, made in 1901, presented by 
Mrs. Lansing Van A'uken, of Watervliet, N, Y. 

The division of textiles, under which are administered also wood 
technology, organic chemistry, foods, and medicine, received over 
8,800 objects during the year, more than twice the number received 
last year. These included several series of industrial specimens 
illustrating the manufacture of rubber, sealing wax, and the prepa- 
ration and dyeing of furs; samples of silk, cotton, and wool fabrics 
for the textile collections: specimens of woods used in the furniture 
industry; and, for the public health exhibit, models and posters 
showing advances in sanitary science. 

The exhibits of the division of graphic arts have been greatly 
improA'ed during the past year by the addition of valuable new 
material and the rearrangement of the collections. Fourteen special 
exhibitions of prints in various media, mainly the work of con- 
temporary artists, were held and the two traveling exhibits prepared 
by the division were widely circulated among the art museums and 
graphic art organizations of the eastern part of the country. 

Among the objects of special interest added to the historical col- 
lections were a presentation sword, flags, uniforms, medals, and 
badges of the late Lieut. Gen. Nelson A. Miles; additional numis- 
matic material, including 800 publications on numismatics trans- 
ferred from the Treasury Department; and four portraits added 
to the portrait collection. 

The Museum participated in a number of field expeditions, de- 
scribed in the report on the Museum, appended hereto, which liave 
resulted in the addition of much valuable material in all of the 
departments of the Museum. The auditorium was in frequent de- 
mand by scientific and other societies and organizations for meet- 
ings and lectures. Visitors to the Natural History Building totaled 
557,016; to the Arts and Industries Building, 304,858; to the Air- 
craft Building, 52,787; and to the Smithsonian Building, 107,342, 
making in all a total of 1,022,003. This is the first time in the 
history of the Museum that the year's attendance has exceeded 
1,000,000 individuals. Five volumes and 70 separates were pub- 
lished as the result of Museum activities during the year, and 104,596 
copies of Museum publications were distributed. 

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

During tlie past year additions to the gallery collections were 
less than in previous years owing to the lack of exhibition space. 
The art works awaiting approval at the present time do not ex- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19 

ceed $100,000 in estimated value, Avhile, with a suitable art build- 
ing, it is thought that gifts and bequests to the value of a million dol- 
lars or more would be received annually. 

Work has been continued by Mr. Piatt on the preparation of 
preliminary plans for the proposed gallery building, made possible 
by the raising of $10,000 by private subscription as noted in last 
year's report, and the plans could now be made ready for the begin- 
ning of construction within six months. It is estimated that three 
years would be required to erect the building. The movement for 
such a building suffered a severe loss in the death of Senator Henry 
Cabot Lodge, who was deeply interested in the national collections 
of art and history. In 1924 he oifered in the Senate an amend- 
ment to the deficiency appropriation bill providing $7,000,000 for 
a gallery building to accommodate the collections not only of art 
but also those of American history now housed in the National 
Museum. 

The annual meeting of the National Gallery Commission was held 
on December 9, 1924. The report of the secretary mentioned the 
following action on problems considered at last year's meeting: 
The approval by the Board of Kegents of the commission's recom- 
mendation to include a division of historical architecture in the 
National Gallery of Art; the appointment of Mr. Charles A. Piatt 
as architect of the proposed gallery building; and the approval 
by the commission of the inclusion in the prospective gallery of 
collections of both American history and art. The question of the 
acceptance of works of art by correspondence was discussed, and 
it was resolved that hereafter a majority of the advisory committee 
be required to examine personally all works of art offered the gal- 
lery before making recommendation. Mr. Edmund C. Tarbell was 
selected to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mr. Edwin 
H. Blashfield. The annual election resulted in no changes in the 
officers or personnel of the commission for the coming year. Ap- 
preciation was expressed of the activities of the American Federa- 
tion of Arts and the Federation of Women's Clubs in behalf of the 
proposed new art building. 

Permanent accessions to the gallery during the year included seven 
paintings, several pieces of sculpture, and a collection of French and 
other art objects, part of the bequest of the late Hev. Alfred Duane 
Pell. Several loans were accepted and about an equal number with- 
draAvn during the year, and five paintings belonging to the gallery 
were lent for exhibition elsewhere. Four special exhibitions were 
held during the winter and early spring, catalogues for which 
were issued by the gallery. 



20 ANNUAL, REPOET SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

FREER GALLERY OF ART 

The year's work in the preservation of the collection included the 
remounting of a considerable number of prints, bringing the total 
number of objects in the print collection which have been put in 
final condition to over 1,000. Additions to the collection included 
a pastel by Whistler, an Indian bronze, Indian paintings, Chinese 
bronzes, a Chinese painting, and Near Eastern potter3^ A list 
of' the Freer Gallery collection of paintings, pastels, draw- 
ings, prints, and copper plates by and attributed to American and 
European artists, together with a list of original Whistleriana, was 
in press at the close of the year. 

Ninety books and periodicals and 127 pamphlets were added to 
the library. Several hundred photographs and a number of lantern 
slides were made and sold to persons requesting them. An increased 
number of requests have reached the gallery for translations of 
Chinese, Japanese, and Tibetan inscriptions, and for other informa- 
tion bearing on the work of the gallery. 

The total attendance for the year was 109,862. Of this number, 
131 used the study rooms to view objects not on exhibition or to 
consult reference works in the library. 

The gallery's archeological expedition in China was still in the 
field at the close of the year, and a condensed report on its work will 
be submitted later for publication in the Smithsonian annual ex- 
ploration pamphlet. 

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

The function of the Bureau of American Ethnology as defined 
by Congress is to conduct ethnological researches among the 
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii, including the excava- 
tion and preservation of archeologic remains. The results of these 
researches are published in technical monographs as well as in arti- 
cles of a more popular character, and reliable information regarding 
the American Indian is thus made available for students. The 
aboriginal Indian culture is rapidly disappearing through contact 
with the white man's civilization, and when the older men of the 
tribes who know the rites and customs of their fathers have passed 
away, much of the ancient lore will be lost forever. The bureau is 
recording as much as possible of this material before it is too late 
to secure it. 

An important Indian culture area is that of the southeastern 
United States, and the bureau has recently begun an archeological 
reconnaissance, so far as its resources will permit, in Florida, Ala- 
bama, Tennessee, and Mississippi. It is possible to reconstruct from 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 21 

historical sources the main outlines of this Gulf culture, but much 
more information is needed regarding the rituals, idols, ceremonial 
objects, and symbolism on pottery before we can form a complete 
idea of this interesting aboriginal culture. 

Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, chief of the bureau, spent several weeks 
in reconnaissance near Florence, Ala., where a number of interesting 
Indian mounds were located which will be submerged with the com- 
pletion of the Wilson Dam at Muscle Shoals. Mr. Gerard Fowke 
continued the excavation of two of these mounds, which yielded a 
considerable collection including rare copper ornaments, among the 
largest known from the Tennessee Valley. Doctor Fewkes also pre- 
pared during the year an illustrated report on a collection of archeo- 
logical objects from Youngs Canyon, near Flagstaff, Ariz., a region 
of great importance in determining the relationship of the various 
culture areas of the Southwest. 

During the past year, Mr. Earl H. Morris, under the direction 
of Doctor Fewkes, did necessary repair work on the famous tower 
of the Mummy Cave House in the Canj^on del Muerto, Ariz., which 
will go far toward preserving what is considered one of the finest 
examples of aboriginal architecture in the entire Southwest. 

Dr. John R. S wanton discovered further material bearing on the 
social and religious life of the Creek Indians, and embodied this 
information in papers now being prepared for publication. He 
also prepared a paper as a result of his recent study of the smaller 
culture centers within our present Gulf States, entitled " Culture of 
the Southeast " and a short report on the " Ethnology of the Chick- 
asaw," and he continued worlr on the now extinct Timucua language. 

Dr. Truman Michelson continued his studies of the Fox Indians, 
transcribing and translating a number of texts relating to their 
customs and beliefs. He also renewed his researches among the 
Algonquian tribes of Iowa, spending part of the summer in that 
State. 

During the year, Mr. John P. Harrington continued his work on 
the Burton Mound Indian village situated at Santa Barbara, pre- 
paring for publication the material resulting from last year's excava- 
tions in cooperation with the Museum of the American Indian, and 
carrying on additional excavations at the same site which have 
yielded much important material. In addition, he prepared a rejoort 
on the archeology of the Santa Barbara region along both historical 
and archeological lines. Mr. Harrington also made an exhaustive 
study of the language of the Tule Indians of Panama, eight of 
whom were brought to Washington by Mr. R. O. Marsh in October, 
1924, and remained until January, 1925, thus giving him an excellent 
opportunity for this investigation. 
76041—26 3 



22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

In May, 1925, Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt left Washington for Brantford, 
Canada, to resume his researches among the six nations, or tribes, 
of the Iroquois. With the aid of the two best Mohawk informants 
available, Mr. Hewitt made a free English translation of one of the 
most important of the ancient rituals, and took up the literary 
interpretation, revision, and textual criticism of previously recorded 
voluminous Iroquoian texts. An interesting resume of this work is 
presented in the report of the chief of the bureau which forms 
Appendix 4 of this report. Mr. Hewitt also visited the Chippewa 
of Garden River, Canada, and the Seneca in Missouri and Oklahoma. 

During the year, Mr. Francis La Flesche completed his paper on 
two versions of the child-naming rite of the Osage Tribe. In May, 
Mr. La Flesche visited the Osages and remained through June work- 
ing at the laborious task of properly recording the gentile personal 
names used by the full-blood members of the tribe and by some of 
the mixed bloods. Mr. J. George Wright, of the Osage Agency, 
cooperated in this work by giving Mr. La Flesche access to the 
records of his office. Mr. La Flesche collected during his stay in the 
region some interesting plants used as food or medicine among the 
Indians. 

Miss Frances Densmore continued her special research on the 
music of the Indians during the past year, resulting in the prepara- 
tion of five manuscripts comprising transcriptions of 69 songs, to- 
gether with the original phonograph records and analyses of the 
songs, which were purchased by the bureau for future publication. 
Miss Densmore's manuscripts included also one on the uses by the 
Makah Indians of 26 plants in food, medicine, and dyes. She took 
advantage of the presence in Washington of the group of Tule In- 
dians, mentioned before in connection with Mr. Harrington's study 
of their language, to make a study of their music. Their favorite 
musical instrument Avas found to be the " pan pipe " of reeds, and 
they also used another reed instrument known as the " mouth flute " 
that had not before been observed in primitive music. 

The publications of the bureau issued during the year consisted of 
two reports and one bulletin. Three other reports were in press 
at the close of the year. 7,354 copies of the publications of the 
bureau were distributed during the year. 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES 

The total number of packages handled by the exchange service 
during the year was 468,731, weighing 506,164 pounds, an increase 
in the number of packages over last year of 8,073 and a decrease in 
weight of 60,943 pounds, due to the smaller size of the packages of 
publications received for transmission through the service. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 23 

Fifty-eight full sets of United States official documents and 40 pai- 
tial sets are now sent regularly to depositories abroad. This is a re- 
duction of one full set from last year and an addition of two partial 
sets. At the request of New Zealand, a partial set is now being 
sent to the General Assembly library instead of a full one and the 
Stadtbibliothek of the Free City of Danzig has been added to the list 
of those receiving partial sets. The immediate exchange of the 
Official Journal has been entered into during the year with India 
and the Free City of Danzig. 

A committee of experts on the international exchange of publica- 
tions was called together by the committee on intellectual cooperation 
of the League of Nations at Geneva, July 17-19, 1924. Mr. H. W. 
Dorsey, chief clerk of the Institution, represented the Smithsonian 
on this committee. The committee recommended an additional 
protocol to the Brussels convention of 1886, enabling the states that 
are not yet parties to the convention to adhere thereto with reserva- 
ions. The committee also gave consideration to various other mat- 
ters looking to the improvement of the international exchange service 
and the extension of its activities. 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

I regret to have to record the death on November 3, 1924, of Mr. 
N. Hollister, for eight years the able superintendent of the park. 
Dr. Alexander Wetmore succeeded Mr. Hollister and served until 
April 1, 1925. On that date he was appointed an assistant secretary 
of the Smithsonian Institution, and Dr. William M. Mann, ento- 
mologist of the Department of Agriculture and widely known as 
an explorer in the interests of zoology and entomology, was ap- 
pointed superintendent of the park on May 13, 1925. 

The collection of animals in the park has been somewhat dimin- 
ished in value during the year by a number of deaths among the 
older animals. This loss has been offset to a certain extend by the ac- 
cession of 130 animals presented by various donors and 70 mammals 
and birds born or hatched in the park, but among the older stock lost 
were many valuable specimens that can be replaced only by purchase, 
and funds for this purpose are very limited. The more notable of 
the new gifts to the park included a splendid young male chimpan- 
zee, from Mr. Victor J. Evans, and a Bateleur eagle, an Abyssinian 
falcon, and two South American stone plover from Mr. B. H. Swales. 

The total number of individuals in the park collection at the close 
of the year was 1,620, 25 less than reported last year. The species 
represented, however, show an increase of 17 due to judicious selec- 
tion and purchase of small species offered for sale at moderate prices. 



24 ANNUAL EEPOET SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

The attendance for the past year was the highest the National. 
Zoological Park has even loiown, the number of visitors recorded 
reaching a total of 2,518,265. 

During the year the animal warehouse, construction of which was 
begun last year, was completed and put into service, a double bear 
cage of steel was erected, and many minor repairs were made on old 
buildings. In many instances these, even when carefully repaired, 
are poorly adapted to the present needs of the park and should be 
replaced by new ones that would not only safely and comfortably 
house their inmates, but would also better accommodate the great 
throngs of visitors to the collections. The buildings most urgently 
needed are a house for birds and one for reptiles. 

ASTKOPHYSICAL OBSERVATOKY 

Much progress has been made during the year in the study of 
the sun and its application to weather forecasting. Through the 
generous assistance of Mr. John A. Roebling, the experimental fore- 
casts by Mr. H. H. Claj'ton for the city of NeAV York, based on daily 
telegraphic reports from the observing stations in Chile and Arizona, 
mentioned in last year's report, were continued. Four papers have 
been issued in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, reporting 
in detail on the results of this work. While it is still largely experi- 
mental, the forecasts have certainly indicated a moderate degree of 
foreknowledge. A higher degree of accuracy in the solar measure- 
ments upon which the forecasts are based will undoubtedly lead to 
better results, and to this end the staff of the observatory is now 
engaged in completely revising the methods of observing, measuring, 
and recording the solar radiation. The station at Harqua Hala, 
Ariz., has been removed to Table Mountain, Calif., to obtain better 
atmospheric conditions and greater convenience of access. This 
transfer was made possible through the aid of Mr. Roebling. 

The director occupied the Mount Wilson station during the sum- 
mer and autumn of 1924. He continued work on the three projects 
outlined in last year's report with the following results: The solar 
cooker was greatly improved; measurements of atmospheric ozone 
were made with the Fabry type of apparatus ; and new devices were 
tried in stellar energy spectrum measurements which seem to open 
the way for great advances in that line. 

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC 
LITERATURE 

Attention is again called to the urgent need of financial assistance 
to enable the International Catalogue to resume publication of the 
17 annual volumes which for so many years were depended on to 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 25 

furnish references to the world's literature of science. Ever since 
war conditions made it necessary to suspend publication in 1921, 
it has been the hope that foreign political and financial conditions 
would improve sufficiently to enable the cooperating countries to 
again furnish the necessary funds through subscription as hereto- 
fore, but with the exchange rates of several of these countries now 
at a low^er lerel than ever before, it seems that this hope will be 
futile for some time to come. 

Although actual publication has ceased for the present, the organ- 
ization is in no sense bankrupt, for, according to an agreement made 
at the Brussels Convention in 1922, the regional bureaus continue 
their work of assembling current bibliographical data, thus keep- 
ing the organization working, and when publication is resumed it 
is believed that new subscribers will purchase the back issues of the 
catalogue now held in storage. It would be difficult to find an ob- 
ject more worthy of endowment than this unique international, 
cooperative undertaking, for no similar enterprise has ever filled 
the place occupied by the catalogue and no new organization could 
hope to gain the official recognition held by the International Cata- 
logue of Scientific Literature. 

NECROLOGY 

HENRY CABOT LODGE 

Henry Cabot Lodge, United States Senator since 1893 and Regent 
of the Smithsonian Institution for 22 years, died November 9, 1924. 
Born in 1850, Mr. Lodge was admitted to the bar in 1876, and dur- 
ing the early part of his career served as editor of the North Ameri- 
can Review and later of the International Review. He next served 
for two years as a member of the Massachusetts House of Repre- 
sentatives, and in 1887 was elected to Congress, where he remained 
until 1893. In this year began his career as a United States Sena- 
tor, to which office he was continually reelected until the time of his 
death, and the last term for which he was chosen to represent the 
people of Massachusetts would not have expired until 1929. 

Mr. Lodge was a very influential member of the Senate, having 
serve d as Republican floor leader from 1918 until the year of his 
death. In addition to his political activity, he was the author of 
many im])ortant historical works and essays. 

Through his long period of membership on the Board of Regents 
and his interest and active participation in the affairs of the Insti- 
tution, Senator Lodge had become a valued adviser, and his loss 
is keenly felt by the board and the officers of the Institution. 



26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

NfiD HOLLISTER 

Ned Hollister, superintendent of the National Zoological Park 
since October 1, 1916, and one of the foremost mammalogists of the 
world, died on November 3, 1924. 

Mr. Hollister was born at Delavan, Wis., November 26, 1876, where 
he received his education and began the study of zoology. From 
1902 to 1909 he conducted zoological field work for the United States 
Biological Survey in Texas, New Mexico, Alaska, British Columbia, 
Washington, Oregon, California, Utah, Nevada, Louisiana, and 
Arizona. In 1910 he began his connection with the Smithsonian 
Institution, being appointed assistant curator of mammals in the 
United States National Museum, which position he held until 1916 
when he was selected for the responsible position of superintendent 
of the National Zoological Park. 

In 1911, Mr. Hollister was a member of the Canadian Alpine Club 
expedition to explore the Mount Robson region of British Columbia 
and Alberta, and in 1912 he represented the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion on the Smithsonian-Harvard expedition to the Altai Moun- 
tains, Siberia and Mongolia. The results of Mr. Hollister's scien- 
tific work have appeared in the publications of the Institution and 
in various technical journals for many years. Besides over 100 
minor papers on zoological subjects, he w^as the author of a number 
of large works, including The Birds of Wisconsin (1903) ; Mam- 
mals of the Philippine Islands (1911) ; Mammals of the Alpine 
Club Expedition to Mount Robson (1913) ; East African Mammals 
in the United States National Museum (vol. 1, 1918; vol. 2, 1919; 
vol. 3, 1923.) This last is probably Mr. Hollister's greatest contri- 
bution to science, being a complete teclinical account of the great 
collections made in East Africa by Theodore Roosevelt, Paul Rainey, 
and other collectors. 

During Mr. Hollister's term of office as superintendent the Na- 
tional Zoological Park showed a steady growth and development, 
the collection of animals in the Park being greater in numbers and 
in scientific value than ever before, and the number of visitors to 
the park having increased steadily until it reached during the past 
year a total of over 2,500,000. It was largely through Mr. Hollis- 
ter's efforts that Congress a few years ago provided funds for the 
purchase of a frontage of 625 feet at the Connecticut Avenue 
entrance to the park, thus insuring for the future a dignified and 
appropriate approach. 

Mr. Hollister was a member of many scientific societies and editor 
of the Journal of Mammalogy. 



REPORT OP THE SECRETARY 27 

WASHINGTON 1. ADAMS 

Washington I. Adams, who was connected with the Institution 
from 1896 until his retirement in 1924, died at Watertown, Mass., 
April 19, 1925. Mr. Adams came to the Institution as chief clerk of 
the International Exchange Service, which position he held until 
1905 when he was appointed chief disbursing agent, a position he 
held until his retirement. Mr. Adams's duties and responsibilities 
were greatly increased in recent years due largely to the receipt of 
the Freer bequest of over $3,000,000. 

NEWTON p. SCUDDER 

Newton P. Scudder, assistant librarian of the National Museum, 
died on May 19, 1925, two months after his retirement from active 
service. Mr. Scudder was given an appointment as clerk in 1882 
and five years later was made an assistant librarian in the Museum, 
which position he held until his retirement on March 9, 1925. 

Mr. Scudder was born in Brooklyn, N. Y., in 1853, and graduated 
from Wesleyan University in 1879. His first work was with the 
Bureau of Fisheries, and under its auspices he made a trip to the 
halibut banks. As a result of this investigation two papers by him 
on "The Halibut Fishery, Davis Strait," and "The Salt Halibut 
Fishery," were published by the Bureau of Fisheries. Following 
this work, Mr. Scudder came to the Museum library, where he re- 
mained until his recent retirement. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Charles D. Walcott, Secretary. 



APPENDIX 1 
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the con- 
dition and operations of the United States National Museum for 
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1925. 

The appropriations for the maintenance of the National Museum 
for the fiscal year amounted to $584,792, an increase of $52,396 over 
the previous year. This increase, however, is more apparent than 
real so far as providing additional funds for the operation of the 
Museum is concerned, since $44,534 of the amount represented 
the sum required for increase of salaries from the inauguration 
of the schedules authorized by the reclassification act of 1923, which 
became effective July 1, 1924, while subsequent reallocations of 
employees by the Personnel Classification Board resulted in increas- 
ing salary allotments approximately $9,000 beyond the estimated 
amount. It thus transpired that the amounts available for actual 
operating expenses were less than during the previous year. More- 
over, the reclassification act had the effect of reducing the amount 
provided for printing and binding since increase in salaries in the 
Government Printing OfHce inaugurated under it resulted in 
increased cost in printing, thus reducing the production value of the 
sum allotted for that purpose to the Museum. 

Attention has been called repeatedly in these annual reports on 
operation to the great disproportion between the increase in the 
appropriations provided for the maintenance of the Museum and 
the increase in the size of its collections, as well as in the quantity, 
scope, and importance of its exhibition and research work and its 
service to the public at large. Through the unselfish efforts of the 
personnel and the practice of the most rigid economy it has been 
possible until now to maintain a high degree of efficiency, but the 
very fact of its steady growth will curtail the usefulness of the 
Museum as a factor in the field of science and education unless it 
can be assured of sufficient funds to cover its natural and proper 
expansion. There is urgent need now for additional funds for 
operation, and for reasonable sums for the purchase of specimens 
and for use in minor explorations. Rich additions to the collections 
are received each year through specimens deposited by Government 
agencies or presented by private donors. Definite gaps in all lines 
exist, however, that may be filled only by purchase of desirable 
28 



BEPOKT OP THE SECRETARY 29 

things or by small sums spent in field work to acquire them. Speci- 
mens actually needed are obtainable usually only at long intervals 
and if such opportunities are allowed to pass further chance to 
acquire them may be remote or uncertain. Highly desirable things 
offered at reasonable prices are refused nearly every week. The 
Institution should have available moderate funds that might be used 
for such purposes. 

Need of funds for exploration is also imperative since through 
this means only is it practicable to obtain data and information of 
importance in connection with many objects desired for the collec- 
tions. Definite research on the part of experts is often required to 
clear up doubtful points in source or relationship of many things. 

More and more each year the National Museum is approached 
for authentic information in a wide range of subjects not to be ob- 
tained elsewhere. Its vast collections of carefully arranged and 
classified specimens afford a full record of industrial, social, and 
esthetic progress as well as of painstaking and exhaustive research 
work in the natural sciences. In it are gathered the results of 
governmental activities and private donations aggregating many 
millions of dollars. The Museum collections serve as a foundation 
for the economic work of such great Government organizations as 
the Department of Agriculture, the Geological Survey, and others, 
and the members of the scientific staff assist materially in the work 
of these institutions through identification and report on the various 
objects with which they are concerned. To maintain its position of 
constantly increasing importance in the field of Government service 
and to fulfill its function as a truly national museum, it is absolutely 
necessary that adequate funds be provided for its proper main- 
tenance. It is sincerely hoped that its needs in this direction will 
be recognized and provided for by suitable appropriations. 

Final establishment of the salary schedules under the reclassifica- 
tion act brought the salaries paid to members of the scientific staff in 
the National Museum in most cases to a parity with those doing simi- 
lar work in other departments, and has thus in large part corrected a 
lamentable condition in which members of the staff were paid at 
rates established many years ago and which in modern circumstances 
had become wholly inadequate. The increased salaries available 
have allowed the filling of several vacancies that have existed for 
some time and to fill which there were no suitable candidates at 
previous rates of pay. Adjustments in allocation in certain posi- 
tions still remain to be made before the scale in force is just and 
equitable in all its features, as it is felt that the rates assigned in 
some positions do not correspond with the grades or emoluments 
applied to similar positions in other branches of Government service. 



30 ANNUAL REPORI: SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

The financial assistance accorded to members of the scientific staff 
has been greatly appreciated but attention is drawn to the necessity 
of keeping this matter in mind so that faithful service may be 
further rewarded. Provision is made in the reclassification act for 
increase in salary to the average amount in the various grades, pro- 
vided a suitable record of efficiency is maintained. Two surveys of 
efficiency of the entire staff have been made in accordance with regu- 
hitions laid down by the Personnel Classification Board, and in fur- 
ther accordance with the regulations of that board the ratings 
assigned have been transmitted to the staff. It is highly gratifying 
to record that with very few exceptions these ratings have been 
excellent and have been of such a degree that they warrant promo- 
tion. Under existing appropriations, funds for the proper advance- 
ment indicated are not available. The matter is earnestly recom- 
mended for serious consideration to the end that money may be pro- 
vided to make the necessary increase. Such action has been taken in 
other departments and it is sincerely desired to avoid falling behind 
in this respect as was the case under former salary regulations. 

Though not universally recognized as an element in educational 
activities, the National Museum fidfills a threefold function in that 
field. Through the care and preservation of its vast and inestimably 
valuable collections and their careful arrangement and classification, 
it affords a visual record of progress and development of our own 
and foreign peoples, of important advances in the history of our 
country, and of achievements in science, industry, and art. As a 
museum of research it affords opportunity to the trained specialist 
and to the serious student to pursue studies of all kinds with facili- 
ties not elsewhere obtainable. It is seen as a museum of education by 
the visiting public, who come to examine the many treasures in the 
exhibition halls, while through its publications, correspondence, and 
distribution of duplicate specimens it reaches thousands who are not 
so fortunate as to be able to visit its halls. It may be safely said 
that no textbook, work of reference, or encyclopedia of facts has been 
issued in this country in recent years that has not based some of its 
statements on information originating in the National Museum. 

As a modern feature for the dissemination of knowledge may be 
mentioned the radio program of the Smithsonian Institution organ- 
ized last year which has continued under the direction of Mr. Austin 
H. Clark of the Museum staff in cooperation with the broadcasting 
station WRC, Radio Corporation of America. In all, 28 talks, of 
15 minutes each, were given during the winter, 10 being by members 
of the staff of the Institution, including 7 from the Museum. Four 
of these talks were broadcast also by stations WJY and WJZ in 
New York City, reaching thus a broad audience. The talks, which 
began October 2, 1924, and were concluded on May 14, 1925, were 



BEPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3l 

delivered by 25 individual speakers. The subjects chosen came from 
a wide range in the field of science and proved highly popular as 
attested by the many letters received from listeners far and near. 
Some of them have been published in permanent form. Possibilities 
in the spread of authentic scientific information through this means 
are great, since in this way informational talks prepared in an inter- 
esting manner go out to an extended audience fully appreciative of 
what they hear. It is possible thus to present the newer facts and 
changing aspects of science in a manner unequaled by other means. 
As was anticipated when the Loeb collection of chemical types was 
placed under the special charge of a paid curator, splendid progress 
has been made. Through the activities of Mr. O. E. Roberts, jr., the 
curator, and cooperation on the part of many chemists and organiza- 
tions, 616 new specimens have been added to the collection during 
the year. The importance of such a collection is only just begin- 
ning to be realized, but the interest already taken in it by specialists 
in chemical research work in indicative of the important results 
eventually to be achieved. 

COLLECTIONS 

The results of the year show a most satisfactory growth in the 
collections, the total number of specimens received amounting to 
363,490, while additional lots of material received for examination 
and report numbered 1,232. The number of additions exceeds 
slight]^ the very high mark attained last year, while material for 
report also shows a slight increase. The increases are highly grati- 
fying and have brought a great amount of extremely valuable ma- 
terial to the collections. 

As in previous years, duplicate specimens were distributed as 
gifts to educational institutions or utilized in the making of ex- 
changes for specimens needed toward completing the collections. 
The material thus disposed of amounted to 231,244 specimens, of 
which 2,099 represent gifts. An additional lot of material, com- 
prising 33,966 specimens, was distributed in the form of loans to 
specialists and students for study and identification. 

The following resume of the more important accessions received 
during the year is submitted by the heads of the several depart- 
ments or divisions of the Museum : 

Anthropology. — The department of anthropology reports a year 
of satisfactory progress in all lines of its activities. 

In the division of ethnology there was received a unique series 
of objects illustrating the material culture of the Indians of eastern 
Panama as a result of the explorations of the Marsh-Darien expedi- 
tion cooperating with the Smithsonian Institution. This collection is 



32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

regarded as of such scientific interest that a special paper describing 
it has been prepared and submitted for publication. Another acces- 
sion of particular beauty and rarity was the remainder of the 
collection of California Indian baskets bequeathed by the late Miss 
Ella F. Hubby, of Pasadena. 

Among additions in American archeology may be mentioned col- 
lections from Town Creek, Ala., on the site of Wilson Dam, Muscle 
Shoals, and from Weeden Island, St. Petersburg, Fla., collected by 
Gerard Fowke and Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, respectively, and trans- 
ferred from the Bureau of American Ethnology. The first of these 
is especially valuable, since it comes from a locality that will be 
covered by water when impounded by the dam. 

The accessions in the division of Old World archeology include a 
copy of the Welsh version of the Bible from David W. Evans and 
numerous Egyptian and Graeco-Roman antiquities and ancient 
glassware loaned by Edward Sampson. 

In physical anthropology there were added several casts of the 
remains of the famous Trinil man of Java, Pithecanthro'pus erectus, 
received from Dr. Eugene Dubois, who has been engaged in ex- 
haustive studies of this highly important fossil. Also there has 
been received from the British Museum a cast of the skull found re- 
cently at Broken Hill in Rhodesia. Other important casts repre- 
sent remains of ancient man from Czechoslovakia. These will all be 
of great assistance in studies of ancient man. The Bureau of Ameri- 
can Ethnology transferred skeletal material from Florida, and the 
National Geographic Society presented important skeletons found in 
excavations at Pueblo Bonito and Pueblo del Arroyo, Xew IMexico. 
The Bufl'alo Society of Natural Sciences donated a collection of Iro- 
quois skeletal material collected in Erie County, N. Y. 

Mr. Hugo Worch lias added to the Worch collection of pianos 
four splendidly decorated harpsichords of the sixteenth and seven- 
teenth centuries. Miss Frances Densmore completed her stud}'^ of the 
collection of musical instruments and submitted a manuscript de- 
scriptive of it. 

The ceramic collection was augmented by a collection of English 
porcelain and glass, gift of Mrs. Frances Roome Powers. 

In art textiles, the valuable laces of the late Mrs. H. K. Porter 
were continued as a loan by her daughter. Miss Hegeman. By be- 
quest of the late Miss Emily Tuckerman, all specimens belonging 
to her on deposit in the Museum were made a gift. The Misses 
Long contributed several fine specimens of embroidery and lace. 

The department profited especially through explorations by the 
Bureau of American Ethnology, the National Geographic Society, 
and the Marsh-Darien expedition. Neil M. Judd, in charge of 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33 

tlie excavations carried on under tlie auspices of the National Geo- 
graphic Society at Pueblo Bonito, remained in the field for several 
months and secured excellent collections and highly important in- 
formation. Henry B. Collins, jr., conducted explorations at ancient 
village sites in Mississippi, where valuable studies have resulted 
from intensive work in the field. 

Biology. — Increase in the collections in the various divisions of 
this department have equaled and in some cases have excelled those 
recorded for the previous year. Of outstanding interest is the col- 
lection of coleoptera and mollusks that came to the Museum by 
bequest of the late Col. Thomas Lincoln Casey. The beetles alone 
in this collection are estimated at approximately 90,000 specimens 
representing 16,000 species of which 5,000 were described by Colonel 
Casey and are represented by the types. 

The large collections presented by the National Geographic 
Society as the result of expeditions in China by Dr. J. F. Rock and 
Mr. F. R. Wulsin include a total of over 4,500 specimens of verte- 
brates and 68,000 plants, a wonderful store of rich material that has 
added greatly to the representation from that area, for, in addition 
to a number of forms previQusl}'^ unknown to science, there are in the 
collection man}^ species not before represented in this institution. 
Additional collections from China have come through the continued 
efforts of Rev. D. C. Graham in western Szechwan, which have added 
vertebrates and valuable insects. China has been further represented 
in our accessions by material collected by A. deC. Sowerby, pre- 
sented through the continued interest of Mr. R. S. Clark. 

Mr. B. H. Swales has continued his important additions to the 
collections of birds by the purchase of a considerable number of 
species not previously represented including a number of rarities 
from Madagascar. Further acquisitions through the interest of Dr. 
Casey A. Wood have resulted in additional specimens from Fiji. 
Dr. Hugh M. Smith, now in Siam, has begun presentation of 
valuable material from a region almost unknown in our collections 
and has included among other things in his first sending a highly 
valuable lot of marine invertebrates. 

Valuable collections of fishes have come from the H. K. Mulford 
Co., of Philadelphia. Certain important specimens have been pur- 
chased for the collections of mollusks from the income provided 
for that purpose by the Frances Lea Chamberlain fund. 

In the exhibition halls there was installed a new group of Rocky 
Mountain goats prepared from material collected by Secretary and 
Mrs. C. D. Walcott; the case represents a family of four with an 
appropriate background of rockwork. A number of older mounts 
of other mammals have been replaced by material prepared by 



34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

modern methods and additions have been made to the collections 
exhibiting tlie local fauna. A second group not quite completed is 
that of the dik-dik, a diminutive anteloi^e from Africa. 

Geology. — Although a decrease is shown in the number of acces- 
sions and amount of material received in this department as com- 
pared with 1923-24, reference to earlier reports shows the present 
j'-ear to be an average one, with a total of 198 accessions, aggregating 
79,074 specimens. 

The paleontological collections are again the chief beneficiaries, 
notable among the acquisitions being the results of Secretary Wal- 
cott's field work for the past four years, as well as collections made 
by Doctors Bassler, Resser, and Ulrich in the summer of 1924. 
Gifts also materially increased the collections of invertebrate fossils, 
particularly those of the Mesozoic and Cenozoic periods, and one 
bequest added many thousands of specimens, including types. 

In vertebrate paleontology the most important acquisition is a 
series of footprints from Permian deposits secured by Mr. C. W. 
Gilmore from the Hermit Trail, Grand Canyon National Park, 
working under the auspices of the National Park Service. Dr. J. C. 
Merriam, of the Carnegie Institution,^ of Washington, who was 
instrumental in perfecting the arrangements under Avhicli this ma- 
terial was secured, supplemented it bj' additional specimens taken 
personally. The fossil cetacean collection has also been materially 
increased and is now thought to be probably the largest and best 
preserved assemblage of these forms in any American institution. 

A series of unusual forms of stalactites and stalagmites from 
Carlsbad Caverns, New Mexico, presented by the National Geo- 
graphic Society, permitted the installation of an important addition 
to the exhibits showing cave phenomena. 

In the field of applied geology the most important material re- 
ceived was that obtained by Assistant Curator Foshag while work- 
ing with a United States Geological Survey field party in New Mex- 
ico. Doctor Foshag also collected much mineralogical material 
needed for the study collections. A few striking exhibition speci- 
mens of ores were obtained from various sources. 

Col. W. A. Roebling was the chief contributor to the mineral col- 
lections, 6 accessions comprising 51 specimens being credited to him 
during the year. The most notable of these is a group of axinite 
crystals thought to be the largest of this mineral yet found. 

A crystal of the new mineral, afwillite, donated by Mr. Alpheus 
F. Williams, is of particular interest in being one of the type lot 
which consists of less than a pound of the material. Notable speci- 
mens for exhibition were furnished through Mr. F. L. Hess, of which 
a group of large wulfenite crystals from Mexico, and a mass of 
pink muiscovite and amblygonite from New Mexico are prominent 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 35 

Through the interest of Mr. Worcester R. Warner and the courtesy 
of the Fukushima Co. (Inc.), New York, the department of geology 
has been privileged to exhibit a crystal ball of unusual size and per- 
fection, weighing 110 pounds and measuring 131/4 inches in diameter, 
which is said to be the largest of its kind known. This has attracted 
much attention from visitors. 

Exchanges have added materially to the collections in all divisions 
of the department, both for exhibition and study, and a few objects 
have been acquired by purchase. Several additions have been made 
to the meteorite collection, consisting chiefly of fragments of mod- 
erate size, which, while important from a scientific standpoint, add 
little to the exhibits. A number of gems have been added to the 
Isaac Lea collection through the Frances Lea Chamberlain fund. 

Secretary Walcott continued his researches in British Columbia; 
Dr. R. S. Bassler, in Tennessee, in cooperation with the geological 
survey of that State; Dr. C. E. Ilesser, in the Rocky Mountain re- 
gion of the United States; and Dr. W. F. Foshag was detailed to 
accompany a geological survey party in New Mexico. Mr. C. W. 
Gilmore spent some weeks in the Grand Canyon National Park, 
under the auspices of the National Park Service. 

Work on the exhibits has been chiefly confined to cleaning and 
rearranging, no important changes having been made. In strati- 
graphic paleontology much time and effort have been consumed in 
expansion of the collections and in general cleaning and rearranging 
of the paleobotanical collections. The efforts of the force in verte- 
brate paleontology have been confined almost wholly to the prepara- 
tion of the huge dinosaur skeleton, collected last year, with satis- 
factory results. 

Research work has continued to the extent permitted by other 
duties. 

A7'fs and industries. — Growth in this department has been satis- 
factory in the main though hampered in many lines by crowding. 
Materials for accession are selected with great care, but so much 
that is wholly desirable is offered that available facilities for ex- 
hibition are greatly overtaxed. 

In the division of mechanical and mineral technology there was a 
slight falling off in the number of accessions received and a material 
decrease in the number of specimens catalogued during the year, due, 
primarily, to a lack of exhibition and storage space. This condition 
is aggravated more and more each year and will lead to further de- 
crease in the rate of acceptance of objects for the collection since 
now choice may be made only of things urgently required. 

In the transportation section one early type of automobile was re- 
ceived, a Knox car made in 1901, presented by Mrs. Lansing Van 



36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Auken, Watervliet, N. Y. Tlie signal section of the American Rail- 
way Association added to its series of specimens, showing develop- 
ments in railway signaling, IG objects that indicate some of the 
early efforts in block signaling. The Buda Co., of Harvey, 111., pre- 
sented a full-size gasoline automobile engine operated by an elec- 
tric motor specially arranged for exhibition. By pressing a but- 
ton it ma}'^ be put in operation, thus permitting study of many of 
the working parts in action. Mr. Henry Ford presented a specially 
prepared exhibit of the planetary transmission used in the Ford 
tiutomobile. As this is one of the distinctive types of automobile 
transmissions it will form an interesting part of an exhibit now 
under way designed to illustrate the various fundamental units com- 
posing the automobile. 

The Portland Cement Association, of Chicago, 111., through its 
local office, presented a full-size photographic copy, suitably framed, 
of the original patent on Portland cement granted by King George 
III to Joseph Aspdin in 1824. The presentation of this interesting 
paper was made in the presence of about 12 officials representing 
various departments of the Government interested in Portland 
cement and was accepted on behalf of the Museum by Secretary 
Walcott. The framed copy now hangs in close proximity to the 
exhibit on Portland cement in the division of mineral technology. 

The collections under the supervision of the curator of textiles, 
which, besides textiles, embrace wood technology, foods, animal 
products, organic chemistry, and medicine, Avere increased by many 
gifts and by transfer of material from other Government bureaus, 
amounting in all to over 8,800 objects. A statement concerning the 
most important of these follows : 

Series of industrial specimens illustrating many branches of 
rubber manufacture, the manufacture of sealing wax, and a model 
showing the preparation and dyeing of furs were added to the 
collections from the field of industrial chemistry. The textile col- 
lections were increased by gifts of fibers, yarns, silk and cotton 
dress and drapery fabrics, wool fabrics, mohair plushes, and machine 
embroideries; also many examples of modern handicraft. To the 
collections arranged to show the importance of wood and the indus- 
tries based thereon were added veneered panels of wood used in 
the furniture industry, showing the different kinds of finishes used, 
a series of specimens demonstrating the manufacture of lead pencils, 
and a large timber of Douglas fir to represent an important product 
of the forests of the Pacific Northwest. The collections added to 
the division of medicine were chiefly in the field of public health, 
and consisted of models and posters showing advances in sanitary 
science. Specimens of materia medica and numerous objects asso- 



REPOET OF TI-IE SECRETARY 37 

ciated with the history of medicine in America were among other 
additions to this division. 

Work of the devision of graphic arts continued mainly along lines 
developed in past years, and consisted of improving and completing 
existing series of specimens and the continuance of special exhibi- 
tions. Fourteen of the latter held during the year attracted favor- 
able attention. Valuable additions to exhibit materials have been 
received or promised as a result o"f these exhibits. 

One important new exhibit of microengraving has attracted much 
attention. It consists of " The Lord's Prayer " engraved on glass in 
a square space about ^3^0^ of an inch on a side, so arranged that 
it is viewed under a miscrope through the eye of a needle. The 
entire exhibit was prepared and presented by Alfred McEwen, of 
New York City. 

The exhibit of mezzotints has been completely rearranged, with 
additions of new specimens to the historical series and of two series 
of plates and prints to the technical set, so that it now presents a 
clear idea of the early and modern methods of engraving mezzotints. 

The collection illustrating methods used in printing for the blind 
has also been greatly improved by the incorporation of additional 
material which gives a clear idea of the method of making and print- 
ing the special plates required in this work and the manner in which 
the characters are read by the blind. 

Three Babylonian tablets about 4,000 years old, inscribed with 
cuneiform writing, acquired by purchase, have been placed with the 
exhibits on the history of writing where they make an interesting 
addition. Two of these of small size are of baked clay and represent 
a skillful form of writing. The other represents the effort of a 
schoolboy learning to write, and, while crude, is of considerable in- 
terest. Tablets of this latter kind are very rare, as they are of un- 
baked clay and were not intended to be permanently preserved. 

From Mr. B. M. Comerford, of Washington, D. C, were received 
four examples of the rare and beautiful art of fore-edge decorating, 
which consists of painting on the small portions of the leaves of a 
book that are exposed when the back is pushed out of normal posi- 
tion. The picture disappears when the book is closed. This art is 
said to have been originated by Samuel Mearne, who is reported to 
have practiced it as early as 1662. 

The aquatone process, which was mentioned in last year's report 
as a new and beautiful development among modern photomechanical 
processes, is now represented by an exhibit indicating the technical 
steps in the process of preparing and printing such a plate. This 
is the gift of William Edwin E,udge, of New York, and shows well 
the simplicity of the process and the beauty of the results obtained. 
76041—26 4 



38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

The two traveling exhibits prepared by the division have been out 
almost continuously, and have been shown by various art museums 
and f^raphic art or<ranizations in the eastern half of the country, 
including those in Milwaukee, Wis., Brooklyn, N. Y., and Houston, 
Tex., as well as many intermediate points. Four other smaller ex- 
hibits are being prepared, which likewise depict the technical side 
of graphic arts but on a smaller scale. These consist of 25 mats, 
measuring 14 by 17 inches, weighing approximately 30 pounds, that 
can be shipped by mail at very small expense. The larger exhibits, 
which weigh 320 and 430 pounds, respectively, are forwarded by 
express. 

The collection of photographs in the section of photography is 
becoming one of the most important public collections in the coun- 
try, due to the efforts of A, J. Olmsted, custodian, and Mr. Floyd 
Vail, of New York City. 

History. — The additions to the historical collections surpass both 
in number and scientific importance those received during the previ- 
ous year. The military collections have been increased by the addi- 
tion of a number of objects of special interest, among which are a 
presentation sword, flags, uniforms and accessories, and medals and 
badges owned by Lieut. Gen. Nelson A. Miles. The sword was pre- 
sented to General Miles in 1887 by citizens of the State of Arizona 
in recognition of his services in connection with the capture of the 
Indian chief, Geronimo, and his band of hostile Apaches. The 
medals and badges include the Congressional Medal of Honor and 
the badge of the Society of the Cincinnati. An object of special in- 
terest in this connection is a large heart-shaped shield of silver and 
bronze which was presented to General Miles by the officers of the 
Fifth United States Infantry. These objects have been received by 
the Museum from Mrs. Samuel Reber and ISIaj. Sherman Miles, 
United States Army. A number of presentation and service swords 
owned during the nineteenth century by Maj. Gen. Frank Wheaton, 
United States Army, have been presented to the Museum by Mrs. 
Frank Wheaton. From Gen. John J. Pershing was received a num- 
ber of military flags, maps, and posters, and the office desk and acces- 
sories which he used at the headquarters of the American Expedi- 
tionary Forces at Chaumont, France, during the World War. 

The naval collections have been increased by the addition of a 
sword and two uniform coats owned during the early part of the 
nineteenth century by Commodore Samuel Woodhouse, United 
States Navy, which have been presented by Dr. Samuel W. Wood- 
house, jr., and also by the transfer from the Navy Department of a 
series of 17 models illustrating the development of the United States 
Navy during the period fi'om 1776 to 1920. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 39 

Through the cooperation of the United States Treasury Depart- 
ment, a number of valuable United States and foreign coins and 
medals have been added to the numismatic collections. Of special 
interest in this connection has been the transfer from the Treasury 
Department to the Museum of about 800 publications, forming a 
highly useful library, on the subject of numismatics. 

The portrait collection was increased by the following additions: 
A portrait of Elizabeth Cady Stanton by Anna E. Klumpke was 
presented by the National American Woman's Suffrage Associa- 
tion; portraits of Gen. John J. Pershing and Marshal Ferdinand 
Foch were presented by the artist, Victor Perard. A portrait of 
President Warren G. Harding, by John Innes, showing the former 
delivering an address at Stanley Park, British Columbia, July 29, 
1923, was presented to the Museum by the National Press Club, 
Washington, D. C. 

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK 

The greater part of the material added to the collections during 
the current year w^as as usual derived from expeditions and ex- 
plorations under the auspices of private organizations and Govern- 
ment agencies. 

In biology the National Geographic Society was a large con- 
tributor through its expeditions in China, in the Arctic, and in this 
country. From the former extremely valuable and extensive col- 
lections, comprising some 68,000 plants, over 1,600 birds, 60 mam- 
mals, and other specimens, were received from the society's expedi- 
tion under Dr. Joseph F. Rock, principally from the Province of 
Yunnan. The bulk of the material collected by the society's expedi- 
tion under INIr. F. li. Wulsin, which has been referred to in previous 
reports, was received during the past fiscal year. It comprised im- 
portant and extensive collections of birds, mammals, reptiles, and 
fishes from inner INIongolia, the Alashan Desert, and Western Kaiisu, 
in the region of Lake Kokonor, northeastern Tibet, as well as from 
the Min Sha Range, which marks the boundary between the 
Provinces of Kansu and Szechwan. The specimens from this source 
are of particular importance, since they afford topotypes of numer- 
ous species described from Przevalski's famous exploring trip of 50 
years before. They also include important ethnological material 
from a region not heretofore represented in this institution. The 
collections from these sources supplement those made by Mr, R. S. 
Clark and Mr. Arthur deC. Sowerby in 1908-9 in Kansu, Thansi, 
and Shensi, and the important collections made during the past 
year by Rev. David C. Graham in Szechwan. The latter were 
secured on a difficult trip to Songpan and the Yellow Dragon Gorge, 



40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

and comprise many specimens new to the Museum. Incidental to the 
Arctic explorations undertaken for the National Geographic So- 
ciety in Berin<r Sea and Arctic America during the summer of 1924 
by Capt. R. A. Bartlett, and by Mr. D. B. Maciuillan in the Boirdoin 
in Greenland in 1924, some interesting zoological material was se- 
cured and presented to the Museum. In August, 1924, Mr. Paul C. 
Standley was detailed as a member of the Carlsbad Cavern expedi- 
tion of the National Geographic Society, his association in the en- 
terprise I'esulting in a collection of some 500 specimens of plants, 
many of species not previousl}'^ loiown from New Mexico. A popu- 
lar account of the vegetation of the Carlsbad Cavern region has 
been prepared for publication largely on the basis of this field 
work. Under the auspices of Mr. Robert S. Clark, several eastern 
Provinces in China were visited by Mr. Arthur deC. Sowerby. from 
whom extensive collections Avere received. Dr. Hugh M. Smith, 
who is at present fisheries adviser to the Siamese Government, for- 
warded interesting zoological material from that country. 

As a result of his visit to Haiti during the spring of 1925, Mr. 
Gerrit S. Miller, jr., of the Museum staff, secured a collection of 
the extinct vertebrate cave fauna as well as miscellaneous specimens 
of the living mammals, birds, reptiles, insects, and plants of the 
island. Doctor Bartsch continued his experiments with Cerions, 
through the assistance of the Carnegie Institution of Washington, 
his visit to the experimental colonies of these mollusks planted on 
the Florida Keys resulting in the addition of some 2,700 specimens 
to the collections. In addition, through the cooperation of the 
United States Coast Guard, he was able, with the assistance of Mr. 
W. B. INIarshall of the Museum staff, to do some dredging in the 
inner leads of Cape May and in the shallow waters off the coast 
of New Jersey, which resulted in adding quite a number of speci- 
mens from a region little explored. A survey of the fisheries of 
the Republic pf Salvador, undertaken by S. F. Hildebrand and 
F. J. Foster, of the United States Bureau of Fisheries, at the request 
and at the expense of the Salvadorean Government, resulted in the 
collection and subsequent transfer to the Museum of a large collec- 
tion of fishes and some crustaceans from the region referred to. 
Secretary Walcott's field work in the Canadian Rockies, in addi- 
tion to yielding important paleontological material, added a num- 
ber of valuable zoological specimens, some of which have been 
utilized in preparing a new exhibition group of Roclcy Moui.tain 
goats in the Mammal Hall of the Museum. As the result of the 
detail by the Department of Agriculture of Mrs. Agnes Chase, of 
the Bureau of Plant Industry, to field work in the eastern high- 
lands of Brazil, important botanical material was received for the 
National Herbarium. 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY 41 

Dr. William Scliaus, honorary assistant curator of insects, through 
personal efforts raised the sum of $50,000 for the purchase of the 
famous collection of Lepidoptera gathered by M. Paul Dognin, 
Wimile, France, comprising a series of specimens highly valuable 
for studies of these important insects. Doctor Schaus went to 
France to supervise the packing of this collection for shipment to 
the museum, where it has been received, although not in time to be 
included in more detail in report. 

The material secured by the Marsh-Darien expedition to Panama, 
referred to in last year's report, was received during the past year. 
It contained so much interesting ethnological material of a class 
not previously represented in our collections that it has been made 
the basis of a special report prepared by Mr. H. W. Krieger, curator 
of ethnology. Mr. Neil M. Judd, curator of American archeology 
in charge of the Pueblo Bonito expedition of the National Geo- 
graphic Society, secured important collections for the Museum, and 
equally important material was secured by Mr. Gerard Fowke 
under the auspices of the Bureau of American Ethnology from 
burial sites near Muscle Shoals, Ala., which will soon be covered by 
water impounded by the Wilson Dam. Doctor Fewkes, Chief 
of the Bureau of American Ethnology, assisted by Mr. M. W. 
Stirling, of the department of anthropology, conducted an explora- 
tion of ancient Indian mounds at St. Petersburg, Fla., which resulted 
in important finds and material valuable to the collections. Dr. 
Ales Hrdlicka, of the Museum staff, assisted by a generous grant 
from the Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences, left in March for 
an extended trip through the Far East, Australia, and South Africa 
for the purpose of observing at first hand a number of peculiar 
races of men and to collect data on various discoveries of ancient 
man. 

Under the auspices of the United States Geological Survey, Dr. 
W. F. Foshag, of the Museum staff, was enabled to make collections 
and to visit mineral properties in western Nevada where acquaint- 
ances made with mine owners and collectors will inure greatly 
to the benefit of the Museum. lie also collected a series of minerals 
from California. Short trips to various localities in Maryland 
were made by Mr. Earl V. Shannon, of the Department of Geology, 
in cooperation with the State geological survey, and to Connecticut 
through an arrangement wdth the geological and natural history 
survey of that State, which resulted in necessary additions to our 
collections. Aided by grants from the O. C. Marsh and Joseph 
Henry endowment funds of the National Academy of Sciences, 
Secretary Walcott continued his field work in western Alberta 
for the purpose of completing his reconnaissance of the pre-Devonian 



42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

formations north of Bow Valley, the main objects of this year's 
work being to determine the correct geologic horizon of the Lyell 
limestone. Many attempts to do this during the past six years 
resulted in failure, and it really seemed that these great lime- 
stone beds were barren of fossils. In measuring geologic sections 
in the Tilted Mountain Area, however, interbedded bluish-gray 
layers containing fragments of Upper Cambrian trilobites were at 
last found, which proved their correct geologic horizon. 

Dr. Charles E. Resser continued his field explorations of the Cam- 
brian and associated formations. Dr. R. S. Bassler, in cooperation 
with the geological survey of Tennessee, continued his work in that 
State, and at the same time made collections of Mississippian fossils 
for the Museum. Mr. Erwin R. Pohl was detailed for a short time 
to make collections from the celebrated Rysedorph conglomerate of 
northern New York, which resulted in a good series of fossils for the 
Museum. 

In coojDeration with the National Park Service, Mr. C. W. Gilmore, 
curator of vertebrate paleontology, visited the Grand Canyon Na- 
tional Park, Ariz., for the purpose of accompanying the Dolieny 
scientific expedition as an observer to investigate and make col- 
lections of fossil tracks exposed in the Coconino sandstone and to 
prepare an exhibit of the tracks in situ by the side of the Hermit 
Trail leading into the Grand Canyon. His trip was a most success- 
ful one in all of its aspects, a series of slabs some 2,000 pounds in 
weight and containing a splendid series of the fossil footprints being 
collected and shipped to the Museum. Dr. J. W. Gidley, of the geo- 
logical staff of the Museum, visited the region around Melbourne, 
Fla., on two occasions during the year and secured an interesting 
collection of fossils. He also visited Adele, Iowa, for the purpose of 
studying the geology of a formation in Avhich had been found certain 
human artifacts. Continuing the practice of previous years, Mr. 
Norman Boss made several short trips to the Calvert Cliffs along 
Chesapeake Bay in search of Miocene fossils. 

A movement which promises important results to the Museum was 
inaugurated in the summer of 1924, when the Secretary of the Navy 
invited the Smithsonian Institution to participate in a conference of 
representatives of the executive departments and scientific establish- 
ments of the Government of the United States for the purpose ol" 
formulating plans for a naval expedition to undertake investigations 
in oceanography. Mr, Austin Clark, Dr. AYaldo L. Schmitt, and Dr. 
Paul Bartsch, of the Museum staff, were designated as representa- 
tives of the Institution on this occasion, and at the close of the meet- 
ing Mr. Clark was chosen as representative of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution and its branches on an executive interim committee. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 43 

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPIVIENT 

The various buildings of the Museum have been kept in good con- 
dition throughout the year through minor repairs, which have con- 
sisted largely in painting Avails, ceilings, and floors, repairing cracks 
in plaster and cement surfaces, painting tin gutters and roofs, and 
work of a similar character. In the Arts and Industries Building 
new floors were laid in a few of the rooms and the ventilation im- 
proved. 

In the Smithsonian Building it was necessary to replace with 
beaded sheets the entire plaster ceiling of the main hall on the third 
floor, occupied by the Museum's division of plants. The work was 
done partly by contract and partly by the Museum force. 

Under a special appropriation for the purpose, four modern fire 
hydrants were installed under the direction of the District Commis- 
sioners in the Smithsonian Park. 

The cost of heating for the year was considerably less than during 
the previous year, due partly to the lower cost of coal and partly to 
the fact that for the first time in many years it was possible to 
secure coal from the New liiver fields, which is better adapted to the 
heating apparatus. During the year, 3,292 tons of bituminous and 
15.5 tons of anthracite coal were used. The total electric current 
generated during the year was 476,709 kilowatt-hours, at a total cost 
of 2.362 cents per kilowatt-hour, including labor, material, interest, 
and depreciation on the plant. 

A total of 346.3 tons of ice were produced during the year at a 
cost of $2,309 per ton. A new compressor lias been purchased which, 
with increase in the size of the condenser made during the year, will 
increase the capacity of the ice machine from 2 to 2i^ tons per day. 
Even with the cost of the new compressor included, the cost per ton 
of ice will be under the wholesale price paid for ice by the Govern- 
ment. 

During the year 18 exhibition cases and bases and 127 pieces of 
storage, laboratory, office, and other furniture were acquired by 
purchase and construction. Of the storage cases 11 were purchased 
and 116 built in the Museum shops, 

MEETINGS AND RECEPTIONS 

The Department of Agriculture was granted the use of the audi- 
torium on October 27, 28, and 31 for a series of lectures by Dr. 
Vernon H. Blackman, of the Imperial College of Science and Tech- 
nology in London, and on January 26 for a lecture on Agricultural 
Kesearch and the Community, by Sir Daniel Hall, scientific adviser 



14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

to the Minister of Agriculture in England, all lectures being open 
to department workers and others. Other bureaus of this depart- 
ment using the auditorium were the Forest Service for a series of 
five lectures extending from October to June, the Bureau of Agri- 
cultural Economics for an exhibition and talk on the evening of 
April 20 by Mr. L. M. Estabrook, and the Federal Horticultural 
Board on June 29 and 30, for public hearings on fruit and rose 
stocks and the white-pine blister rust (when room 43 was also used), 
and again on September 20 by the same board for a conference on 
the white-pine blister rust quarantine. The auditorium and all com- 
mittee rooms available were used for a national conference on utiliza- 
tion of forest products called by Secretary Wallace on November 19 
and 20. On the afternoon of Ma}^ 22, the department's post. Vet- 
erans of Foreign Wars of the United States, held memorial services 
in the auditorium in honor of the late Henry C. Wallace, and of the 
men of the Department of Agriculture who lost their lives in the 
World War. 

The Department of Commerce occupied the auditorium for the 
National Kadio Conference on October 7 and 8. 

Dr. Ales Hrdlicka, of the Museum staff, gave two courses of lec- 
tures on anthropology during the period from October 24 to Decem- 
ber 19 — Man's Origin, on Friday afternoons in the auditorium, 
and Man's Physical and Physiological Characteristics, on Monday 
afternoons in room 43. These proved highly popular and were well 
attended. 

Under the auspices of the School of Foreign Service, a series of 
12 lectures were given in the auditorium by Dr. Edmund A. 
AValsh, S. J., of Georgetown University, on Kussia in Revolution. 
These extended over a period from February 13 to May 15 and 
attracted much attention. 

Associations and societies using the auditorium and room 43 for 
their annual meetings were the American Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science, December 29 to January 3, and the American 
Society of Mammalogists, April 8 to 10. The American Surgical 
Association met in the auditorium May 4, 5, and G, and on the same 
dates the eighth annual meeting of the American Association for 
Thoracic Surgery was held in room 43. On the evening of Janu- 
ary 2 the division of insects of the Museum was thrown open to 
members of the Entomological Society of America and the Associa- 
tion of Economic Entomologists, who were in attendance at the 
meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Sci- 
ence. 

In addition to the foregoing the auditorium was used on various 
occasions by the Wild Flower Preservation Society, the Audubon 
Society of the District of Columbia, the District of Columbia Dental 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 45 

Society, Washington Society of Engineers, Washington Chapter of 
the American Association of Engineers, Practical Psychology Club, 
and the Boy Scouts of the third division. 

Among the scientific and other societies that met regularly in 
room 43 were the Anthropological Society of Washington, the Ento- 
mological Society of Washington, the American Horticutural So- 
ciety, and the Society for Philosophical Inquiry. Those using the 
room from time to time were : The Audubon Society of the District 
of Columbia during February and March for a series of talks by 
Dr. Alexander Wetmore ; the Helminthological Society of Washing- 
ton, when Prof. E, Brumpt, of the University of Paris, made an 
address; the Biological Society of Washington, for an address by 
F. Johansen; the Washington Chapter of the American Institute 
of Chemists ; the directors and assistant directors of municipal play- 
grounds; the Camp Fire Girls, and the Camp Fire Guardians; and 
the Garden Homes Association for addresses intended " to encourage 
people to own a home and garden." 

Mr. Chr. Thams, minister of the Prince of Monaco to France, 
on November 29 gave a lecture on the results of a journey under- 
taken into eastern Africa for the purpose of advancing the cause 
of conservation of wild life. The lecture was illustrated by a fine 
series of moving pictures impressive for their accuracy in revealing 
the habits of big game under natural conditions. 

At the request of the Air Service Officers Reserve Corps, pictures 
illustrating the flight around the world were shown in the audi- 
torium on the evening of April 8. 

On the evening of May 2 the auditorium was used for a private 
showing of the historical picture made for the Commission of Ee- 
lief in Belgium, before Secretary Hoover, who was chairman of 
that organization during the years of its operation from 1914 to 
1919. 

The auditorium was also used by the following: The Filipino 
Club of Washington, on the evening of July 3, for a meeting to 
celebrate the Fourth of July; El Club Cervantes, on the evening 
of December 20, to celebrate the centenary of the Battle of Ayacuchoj 
the decisive battle in South America's wars for independence ; Senor 
Don C. de Quesada, of the Cuban Embassy, on the evening of March 
28 to celebrate the ratification of the treaty of the Isle of Pines and 
in honor of the Spanish War Veterans; tlie Cornell Alumni Society 
of Washington for a musical recital by Prof. Vladimir Karapetoff, 
of Cornell University, on the evening of April 23. 

A national spelling bee w^as held in the auditorium on the eve- 
ning of June 17, under the auspices of the Courier Journal and 
Louisville Times, of Louisville, Ky. 



46 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

At the request of the Washington Chapter of the American In- 
stitute of Banking all of the exhibition halls on the ground, first, 
and second Hoors of the Natural History Building were opened on 
the evening of July 19 for a reception to the members of the In- 
stitute meeting in Washington at that time. 

A joint meeting of the Anthropological Society of Washington, 
the Washington Academy of Science, and the Art and Archieolog;y' 
I^eague, in conjunction with the Archa3ological Institute of xVmerica, 
was held in the auditorium on the evening of December 16, during 
which Count Byron Kuhn de Prorok gave a lecture on the " Carthage 
excavations, 1924," and "The dead cities of the Sahara." After 
the lecture a reception was held in the Art Gallery. 

As one of the features of the meeting of the American Association 
for the Advancement of Science, on the evening of December 29, 
members and their guests were received in the Art Gallery by the 
Secretary of the Institution and Mrs. Walcott, at whicli time the 
entire first floor of the building was open. On the evening of 
June 10, the halls on the first and second floors Avere opened for 
a reception to the delegates of the National Association of Credit 
Men attending the convention held in Washington from June 8 to 13. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

For the first time in the history of the Museum the total immber 
of visitors to the several buildings reached more than 1,000,000. 
These w'ere recorded at the several buildings as follows: Arts and 
Industries, 304,858; Natural History, 557,016; Aircraft, 52,787; 
Smithsonian, 107,342; a total of 1,022,003. 

The Museum published 5 volumes and 70 separate papers during 
the year while its distribution of publications amounted to 104,596 
copies of books and pamphlets. 

Additions to the library numbered 1,457 books and 1,894 pam- 
phlets, mostly obtained by exchange or donation. With the funds 
available, only a few books could be purchased. Important con- 
tributions which have not yet been catalogued are the bequest by the 
late Col. Thomas L. Casey of approximately 4,500 books and pam- 
phlets, mostly relating to Coleoptera, which were not entirely as- 
sorted until after the close of the year, and the transfer from the 
Treasury Department of 800 books and pamplilets relating to the 
science of numismatics. 

Through the operation of the reclassification act, which became 
effective July 1, 1924, the salary standards in the Museum, partic- 
ularly of the scientific staff, were materially improved and for the 
first time in many years every position in the Museum personnel was 
filled. The staff in the department of anthropology was completed 



KEPORT OP THE SECRETARY 47 

through the appointment of Mr. Herbert W. Krieger as curator 
and Mr. Henry B. Collins as assistant curator of ethnology. In the 
department of arts and industries Miss Aida M. Doyle was appointed 
aid to succeed Mr. Harry W. RabinoAvitz, resigned, and in the divi- 
sion of history Miss Hortense Hoad was appointed aid. 

In accordance wnth the special provision, included in the last 
appropriation act, creating a new Assistant Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian Institution to have general charge of the museum interests 
of the Institution, including the United States National Museum, the 
National Gallery of Art and the National Zoological Park, the pres- 
ent incumbent was honored with appointment to that office on the 
1st of April, 1925. 

The Museum lost two employees during the year through the 
operation of the retirement act, viz, Mr. N. P. Scudder, assistant 
librarian of the Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the Museum 
librar}^, and Robert Ghor, fireman. The only death among em- 
ployees on the active rolls of the Museum was that of Israel Free- 
man, a laborer, employed in the Museum over 15 years, who died on 
July 16, 1924. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Alexander Wetmore, 

Assistant Secretary. 

Dr. Charles D. Walcott, 

Secretary^ S?niths(y}vian Institution. 



APPENDIX 2 
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the 
affairs of the National Gallery of Art for the year ending June 
30, 1925. 

The activities of the gallery for the fifth year of its status as a 
separate administrative unit of the Smithsonian Institution cor- 
respond closely with those of previous years. The staff, which is 
limited to the director and the recorder, has been occupied during 
the year with the current work of the gallery; with the receipt, 
record, installation, and care of the collections, permanent and tem- 
porary; with the affairs of the gallery commission; with the devel- 
opment of an art library ; and with promotion of the gallery's diver- 
sified interests. Other cmplo3'^ees are : a stenographer, a gallery at- 
tendant, three watchmen, two laborers, two charwomen, and a 
carpenter who is assigned to the gallery by the National Museum 
when his services are required. 

Additions to the gallery collections have fallen short of the aver- 
age of previous years, the art works received by the Institution and 
awaiting approval by the advisor}'^ committee of the gallery com- 
mission not greatly exceeding a hundred thousand dollars in esti- 
mated value. This falling off is due, at least in part, to the shortage 
of exhibition space. Further important enrichment of the collec- 
tions must thus await the erection of a gallery building, since collec- 
tors seeking a final resting place for their treasures consider ver}- 
carefully their prospective installation and care. Mention may be 
made here of the fact that during the period between 1904 and 1924, 
the period during wdiich suitable exhibition space happened to be 
available in the museum buildings, accessions by gift and bequest 
averaged in value approximately half a million dollars per year. 
With a gallery building such as the nation should have, it is believed 
that a million or millions annually would be within reasonable ex- 
pectation. It is hardly within the range of possibility that a 
second benefactor will appear who is willing to present the Govern- 
ment with a building for his gift as did Mr. Freer, in order that the 
gift might be accepted. 

During the year much attention has been given to the prepara- 
tion of preliminary plans for a gallery building. Although Con- 
gress in 1921 set aside an appropriate site for a building, it was left 
48 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 



49 



(o the Institution to obtain funds necessary for the employment of 
an architect to prepare the preliminary plans. As the result of an 
appeal for this purpose by the Institution, $10,000 was raised by 
private subscription, and Mr. Charles A. Piatt was selected to pre- 
pare the necessary plans. During the winter of 1923-24 Mr. Piatt 
spent several months in Europe engaged in the study of the more 
important art galleries. The committee appointed by the Regents 
of the Institution to collaborate with Mr. Piatt on the plans, which 
included in its membership Henry White, chairman, Frederic A. 
Delano, Herbert Adams, Gari Melchers, J. H. Gest, and C. D. Wal- 
cott, met in the Regents' room on February 13, 1925, and Mr. Piatt 
presented the sketch plans, which he stated had been carried just 
far enough to be submitted for consideration by the Institution. 
Two hours were spent in examining the drawings, which comprised 
plans of the three floors, sections of the building, and a detailed 
drawing of the south front. Plans of a number of European gal- 
leries were submitted for comparison, and details of lighting and 
adaptation of space to the various requirements of the structure 
were considered. Mr. Piatt stated that if the regents desired to 
have the work proceed the plans could be ready for the beginning 
of construction within six months, and that if appropriations were 
made available, the building could be completed in three years. It 
was expected by Mr. Piatt that granite would be employed in the 
building. Questions of construction, employment of builders, and 
cost were discussed at length. Mr. Piatt stated that the building, 
which as planned is 300 feet in width by 500 feet in length, will 
contain 10,000,000 cubic feet of stonework, and that the cost will 
hardly fall short of $1 per cubic foot. The committee accepted the 
plans as entirely satisfactory and reported to that effect to the 
Regents of the Institution. 

The Piatt drawings were first published in an article which ap- 
peared in the American Magazine of Art, March, 1925, where they 
Avere accompanied for purposes of comparison by the plans of a 
number of the principal art museums of both Europe and America. 
It is expected that the Regents of the Institution will, at the proper 
moment, present these preliminary plans to the committees of Con- 
gress having the erection of Government buildings in charge, for 
their consideration. 

The death of Senator Lodge, a member of the Board of Regents 
of the Institution, who in 1924 offered in the Senate an amendment 
to the deficiency appropriation bill providing seven millions for a 
gallery building, leaves the movement without a militant head, but 
another will doubtless take his place since the urgent need of a 
building is now very generally recognized. The movement is re- 



50 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

garded as having much added strength as a result of the fact that, 
as indicated in the Lodge resolution, the building when completed 
is expet ted to accommodate the collections of American history as 
well as those of art. The historical collections are of great popular 
interest, occupying to-day 120,000 square feet of floor space in the 
Smithsonian and the tAvo Museum buildings — space urgently needed 
for the legitimate activities and vast collections of the several 
branches of natural science. 

MEETINGS OF THE GALLERY COMMISSION 

The annual meeting of the gallery commission Avas held in the 
Regents' room of the Smithsonian Institution, on December 9, 1924. 
The members present were: Gari Melchers, chairman, Herbert 
Adams, Joseph H. Gest, John E. Lodge, Frank J. Mather, jr., 
Charles Moore, James Parmelee, Edward W. Redfield, Charles D. 
Walcott, and William H. Holmes. 

The very important problem of the inclusion in the prospective 
gallery building of collections both of art and history, as indicated 
in the Lodge resolution, Avas given attention and the view prevailed 
that it would be advantageous, at least for a time, to have the two 
departments in the same building, although definitely separated. 

The question of the acceptance of works of art by the advisory 
committee through the medium of correspondence was raised, and 
after discussion it was resolved that hereafter, a majority of the 
advisory committee be required to personally examine the Avorks 
before making recommendation. As a result of this action and the 
impracticability of calling the committee to Washington for the 
consideration of works offered from time to time, the practice has 
been adopted of having all works of exceptionally high merit offered 
to the gallery accepted by the Smithsonian Institution for submis- 
sion to the advisory committee at the annual meeting of the com- 
mission or on occasions of particular importance, at especially called 
meetings of the committee. 

Mr. Edmund C. Tarbell Avas selected a member of the commis- 
sion to succeed Mr. EdAvin H. Blashfield, resigned, and his appoint- 
ment was recommended to the Board of Regents. Regarding the 
expiration of the three-year terms of three members of the commis- 
sion, Messrs. John E. Lodge, James Parmelee, and E. W. Redfield, it 
Avas decided to recommend to the Board of Regents the reelection 
of these members for the succeeding term of four years. The pres- 
ent members of the executive and advisory committees and the pres- 
ent officers of the commission Avere reelected for the year 1925. 

The Piatt plans for the proposed National Gallery Building AA^ere 
then presented by the secretary and were given careful considera- 
tion by the members of the commission. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 51 

The advisory committee of the commission met in the gallery 
December 11, Gari Melchers, Miss Leila Mechlin, and W. H. Holmes 
being present. The following works were given favorable consid- 
eration : 

Portrait of Hon, James R. Mann, by Gari Melchers. 

Three paintings, the gift of Miss Emily Tuckerman: Hindoo 
Merchants, by Edwin Lord Weeks; Landscape (on copper), by 
Herman Saf tleven ; and The Refectory, by Eduardo Zataagois. 

The personnel of the commission is as follows: Gari Melchers, 
chairman; Frank Jewett Mather, jr., vice chairman; William H. 
Holmes, secretary; Herbert Adams, W. K. Bixby, James E. Eraser, 
Daniel Chester French, Joseph H. Gest, John E. Lodge, Charles 
Moore, James Parmelee, A. Kingsley Porter, Herbert L. Pratt, 
Edward W. Redfield, and Edmund C. Tarbell. 

The executive committee is composed of Messrs. Moore, chair- 
man, Gest, Holmes, Mather, jr., Parmelee, and Walcott; and the 
advisory committee is composed of Messrs. Redfield, chairman, 
Holmes, secretary, Adams, Melchers, Piatt, Volk, and Miss Mechlin. 

Subcommittees are as follows : 

Committee on architecture, A. Kingsley Porter, chairman. 

Committee on ancient European paintings, Frank J. Mather, jr., chairman. 

Committee on prints, excepting the oriental, James Parmelee, chairman. 

Committee on sculpture, Herbert Adams, chairman. 

Committee on American paintings, E. W. Redfield, chairman. 

Committee on ceramics, Joseph H. Gest, chairman. 

Committee on oriental art, John E. Lodge, chairman. 

Committee on modern European paintings, Gari Melchers, chairman. 

Committee on textiles, no chairman at present. 

The personnel of special committees is as follows: 

On National Portrait Gallery, Herbert L. Pratt, chairman. 

On gallery building, Charles Moore, chairman. 

On raising fund for preliminary building plans, James Parmelee, chair- 
man, Charles Moore, Charles D. Walcott. 

On selection of architect for preliminary plans, Henry White, chairman, 
Herbert Adams, Frederic A. Delano, J. H. Gest, Gari Melchers, Charles D. 
Walcott, ex officio. 

On department of architecture, . 

On preservation of architectural gems, . 



ACTIVITIES or THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF ARTS AND THE FEDERATION 

OF women's clubs 

The work of the American Federation of Arts, in promoting the 
development of the national gallery, deserves appreciative mention. 
At its 1923 convention in St. Louis the following resolution was 
unanimously adopted : 

Whereas the United States is the only civilized nation which has no national 
gallery of art ; and whereas there is great need for a building to house our 



52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

national art collection which in the past few years has greatly increased in 
size and value through gifts and bequests of public-spirited collectors and 
individuals; and whereas, on account of the lack of space in which to exhibit 
such gifts, this channel of beneficence is now checked ; Be it 

Resolved, That the American Federation of Arts undertake a campaign of 
education and iiromotion throughout the United States, in order to acquaint 
the people of existing conditions, in the hope that it may be their will when 
the facts are known, that a sufficient sum be appropriated by Congress to 
erect a suitable building at the National Capital to house the national col- 
lections and to evidence to the world that we, as a people, recognize art to 
be a factor in our national life. 

Miss Leila Mechlin, secretary of the American Federation of 
Arts, states that the federation has at present 375 chapters or affili- 
ated organizations in all parts of the United States. The intention 
of the federation is to secure the cooperation of these organizations, 
and to interest a membership numbering several hundred thousand 
individuals in the gallery movement. 

Of like importance in the promotion of the national gallery are 
the activities of the Federation of Women's Clubs under the ener- 
getic direction of INIrs. Kose V. S. Berry, chairman of the art 
department of the federation. This great organization, whose ac- 
tivities extend to every State in the Union, seeks as one of its pri- 
mar}^ responsibilities to promote the cause of art, and especially to 
further art education in the most comprehensive manner. It seeks 
to have the world realize that the place given the arts of taste in a 
nation is an infallible test of the place that nation holds in the 
scale of civilization; it maintains that the promotion of these arts 
is thus a national responsibility. In its lecture courses and publi- 
cations it utilizes the national collections, taking occasion to la}' 
stress upon the humiliating fact that the American nation makes no 
adequate provision for the acquirement, care, and utilization of 
collections illustrating the world's achievements in the many 
branches of art, ignoring the example of all other civilized nations. 

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS HELD IN THE GALLERY 

An exhibit of exceptional interest held in the middle room of the 
gallery IMarch 3 to April 13 comprised 19 miniatures by Mv. Alyn 
Williams and 34 works of sculpture by Mr. Cecil Thomas, both 
exhibitors being Englishmen, although Mr. Williams spends much 
of his time in the United States. The exhibitors very generously 
prepared and had printed at their own expense a catalogue of tlie 
exhibits, copies of which were freely distributed. During the ex- 
hibit and for a short period thereafter Mr. Thomas was permitted to 
occupy one of the gallery spare rooms as a studio where he modeled 
two figure groups, The Duet and The Spirit of the Dance, the 
inspiration for which had come to him while in Washington. While 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 



53 



thus engaged Mr. Thomas was fortunate in having sittings for a por- 
trait bust by Sir Esme Howard, British ambassador to the United 
States. This work met witli gratifying approval and a replica in 
plaster Avas presented by the sculptor to the Smithsonian Institution 
at a dinner given in honor of Sir Esme by the Washington Branch 
of the English-Speaking Union, on May 13. Presentation was 
made by the presiding officer of the occasion, and it was accepted by 
Doctor Walcott, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, with 
appropriate words of appreciation. 

A collection of portraits in oil and various studies in other tecli- 
nique.s by Leo Katz of Vienna, Austria, was shoAvn in the two north 
rooms of the gallery January 10 to February 15, and the exhibit, 
comprising 35 items, proved of very special interest to the people of 
Washington. 

The gallery Avas fortunate in being permitted to place on vieAv 
from December 16 to February 15 a collection of art works in bronze 
and terra cotta, nine in number, mainly busts of important person- 
ages, by Mrs. Nancy Cox-lMcCormack. These Avere mounted on 
appropriate pedestals in the south room of the gallery and included 
busts of Benito Mussolini, Italian premier, in black marble, and 
Henry P. Fletcher, ambassador to Italy, in bronze. 

A collection of 72 water-color paintings of the scenery of the 
national parks of the Rocky Mountain and Pacific coast regions, bj' 
Gunnar Widforss, Avas exhibited in the middle room of the gallery 
December 10 to January 10. These paintings Avere vivid and highly 
realistic presentations of many remarkable subjects and attracted 
much favorable attention. 



THE IIEXIIY AVARD KANGER FUND 

As the paintings purchased during the year by the council of the 
National Academy of Design from the fund provided by the Henry 
Ward Ranger bequest are, under certain conditions, prospectiA^e 
additions to the national collection, the list, including the names of 
the institutions to Avhich they have been assigned, is given here : 



Title 



42. The Other Shore 

43. Nancy _ 

44. Their Son 

4,5. The Wood Cart 

46. A Reading 

47. Dawn 

48. The Prodigal Son 

49. Storm Birds 

50. Uelen 

51. Across the Valley". .. . 

76041—26 



Artist 



Robert Spencer, N. A 

Lillian AVescott Hale . 


Dec. 1, 1924 
do ... 


Oscar E. Berninghaus 


do 


Louis Paul Dessar, N. A.. 
Thomas W. Dewing, N. A. 
D wight W. Tryon, N. A.. 


Apr. —1925 

do 

do 


Horatio N. AA'alker, N. A. 
Armin Hansen 

Jerry Farnsworth . 


do. 

do 

do . 


Hobart Nichols, N. A 


June 9, 1925 



Date of 
purchase 



Assignment 



The Newark Museum Association, 

Newark, N. J. 
The Denver Art Museum, Denver, 

Colo. 
The Art Club of Erie, Erie, Pa. 



54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

The paintings purchased from the Ranger fund during the past 
fiscal year and unassigned at its close ( 1923-2 i) ha-ve subsequently 
been assigned as follows: 

36. Miflsuiniiier, by "William S. Robinson, N. A. ; to the art j^allery of "VVashburn 
College, ToiK'ka, Kans. 

37. The Bathers, by Spencer Nichols, A. N. A. ; to the Art Hall of Beloit Col- 
lege, Beloit, Wis. 

39. The Necklace, by Richard B. Miller, N. A. ; to the Butler Art Institute, 

Toungstown, Ohio. 
41. Clearing After September Gale — Maine Coast, by Howaird Russell Butler, 

N. A. ; to the Art Association of Indianapolis, Ind. 

ART WORKS ADDED DURING THE TEAR 

Permanent accessions of art works for the year are as follows : 

Three paintings, the gift of Miss Emily Tuckerman: Hindoo Mer- 
chants, b}' Edwin Lord Weeks; Landscape (on copper), by Herman 
Saftleven ; and The Refectory, by Eduardo Zama^ois. 

Portrait of the late Hon. James R. Mann, member of the Board 
of Regents of the Institution from 1906 to 1911, by Gari Melchers. 
Gift of Mrs. James R. Mann. 

Entrance portal to the Benjamin H. "Warder house, 151.5 K Street 
NW., Washington, D. C, designed by the eminent architect, Henry 
Hobson Richardson (1838-1886), including the door, carved trim 
and coussoirs (Berea grit). Gift of the cooperating committee on 
architecture in the National Gallery of Art, through Mr. Horace W. 
Peaslee, acting chairman, and 13 subscribers. 

A landscape in water color, The Patriarchs, Zion National Park, 
by Gunnar Widforss. Gift of the artist. 

Portrait of Chauncey Mitchell Depew, by George Burroughs Tor- 
rey. Gift of the Hon. Chauncey M. Depew, for the National Por- 
trait Gallery. 

Portrait bust in plaster (bronzed) of the Rt. Hon. Sir Esme 
William Howard, British ambassador to the United States, b}^ Cecil 
Thomas. Presented by Mr. Cecil Thomas through the Washington 
branch of the English-Speaking Union. 

The Libyan Sibyl, a statue in Carrara marble, heroic in size, by 
William Wetmore Story, and a portrait bust of Napoleon Bonaparte, 
in Carrara marble, by Raimondo Trentanove. Presented by the 
estate of Henry Cabot Lodge, through Mr. John E. Lodge. 

Portrait of Dr. Samuel Pierpont I./angley, bj' Mme. M. de Left- 
wich-Dodge. Gift to the Smithsonian Institution from Mme. A. 
Langley Ciocea, of Rome, Italy, sister of Doctor Langley. 

Medallion portrait (in plaster) of Dr. Charles W. Eliot, president 
emeritus of Harvard University, by W. Clark Noble. Gift of Mr. 
W. Clark Noble. 

Collection of French and other art objects, including silverware, 
furniture, porcelains, pottery, glassware, bronzes, etc. Bequest of 
the Rev. Alfred Duane Pell, D. D., not as yet fully received and 
recorded by the gallery. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 55 

LOANS ACCEPTED BY THE GALLERY 

Portrait bust in marble of the late Samuel Gompers, president 
of the American Federation of Labor, by Moses Wainer Dykaar; 
lent by the American Federation of Labor. 

Four paintings lent by the estate of Henry Cabot Lodge, through 
Mr. John E. Lodge, as follows : Portrait of Alexander Hamilton, by 
John Trumbull; portrait of Fisher Ames, by Gilbert Stuart; River 
Landscape with Cattle, by Constant Troyon; and Stable Interior 
Avith Horses and Groom, by John F. Herring. 

A painting of large size. The Annunciation, attributed to Lo- 
renzo Sabbatini (or Lorenzino da Bologna), lent by the Misses 
McKey through Miss Laura M. McKey. 

LOANS BY THE GALLERY 

Paintings belonging to the gallery were lent for exhibition else- 
where, as follows: 

The large painting entitled " The Happy Mother," by Max Bohm, 
lent to the Painters and Sculptors Association, Grand Central Art 
Galleries, to be included in an important memorial exhibition of 
the works of this artist in November, 1924. Returned to its place 
in the gallery at the close of the exhibition. 

The painting entitled "June," by John W. Alexander, lent to 
the American Federation of Arts for a special "Alexander ex- 
hibit." The collection was shown at Albany, N. Y., in the art 
department of the State Teachers College, and later at Easton, Pa., 
where it was used by the art supervisor of the Easton school district. 
The painting has been returned to its place in the gallery. 

The three paintings. Birch Clad Hills, by Ben Foster, A Family 
of Birches, by Willard Metcalf, and Th© Island, by EdAvard W. 
Redfield, lent to the American Federation of Arts for the Interna- 
tional Exhibition of Paintings by American Artists held in Venice, 
Italy, during the summer of 1924, have been returned to the 
gallery. 

One set of colored slides of works belonging to the gallery, lent 
to the American Federation of Arts, and a second set to the art 
department of the American Federation of Women's Clubs, are 
retained for utilization by these organizations. In several instances 
selections from the gallery's collection of slides have been lent to the 
normal schools of Washington and to the art department of Howard 
University. 

DISTRIBUTIONS 

Paintings lent to the gallery have been withdrawn by their owners 
during the year as follows : 

Rosita, by I. Zuloaga ; withdrawn by the Hon. John Cecil for Mrs. 
George W. Vanderbilt. 



56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Portrait of His Daughter, by Titian (copy?) : withdrawn by Mr. 
Jose])h Stewart, who had j^urchased it from the former owner, 
Dr. Nathan Boyd. 

Self Portrait by James Deveaux; AAJthdrawn by Dr. Houston 
Mifflin, the owner, who had deposited it in the gallery through 
Dr. Porter F. Cope. 

The Pickering Dodge Collection of seven cameos; withdrawn by 
Mrs. Charles ^y. Rae. 

Portrait of Chief Justice Joseph C. Hornblower and portrait of 
Mary B., his wife, artist unknown; portrait of Roderick Austin, 
attributed to Sir Godfrey Kneller; and a painting representing a 
sacrifice interrupted by soldiers, artist unlaiown ; withdrawn by 
Mrs. Caroline B. Hornblower. 

Klingle Ford, by Max Weyl ; withdrawn by Mrs. John W. Smith. 

PUBLICATIONS 

Holmes, "W. H. Rci>ort on the National Gallery of Art for the year ending 
June 30, 1923. Appendix 2, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution for the year endinjj .June 30, 11)23, pp. 45-58. 

Report on the National Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30, 

1924. Appendix 2, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution 
for the year ending June 30, 1924, pp. 48-58. 

Catalogue of a collection of water-color paintings of the Grand Canyon of the 
Colorado, Yellowstone National Park, Yasemite Valley, Zion National Park, 
Utah National Park, and the Monterey Coast of California. Of .special inter- 
est to the Interior and Agriculture Departments. By Mr. Gunnar Widforss. 
On view in the central room of the National Gallery, Nalui'al History Build- 
ing, United States National Museum. December 10 to January 10. Washing- 
ton, 1924, pp. 1-4. 

Catalogue of a collection of busts of prominent personages in bronze and terra 
cotta, by Mrs. Nancy Cox-McCormack, on view in the south room of the 
National Gallery, Natural History Building, United States National Museum, 
December 16, 1924, to January 16, 1925. 1924, pp. 1-4. 

Catalogue of a collecti<m of porti'aits and studies in different techniques, by Leo 
Katz. of Vienna, Austria, on view in the north rooms of the National Gallery, 
Natui'al History Building, T'nited States National Museum. January 16 to 
February 15, 1925. 1925. pp. 1-4. 

Catalogue of recent miniature portraits by Alyn Williams, P. R. M. S. (Presi- 
dent, Royal Miniature Society), and portrait busts in bronze and plaster, relief 
portraits, medallions, carvings in precious and semiprecious stones, and 
some great seals, by Cecil Thomas, R. M. S., on view in the National Gallery, 
Natural History Building, United States National Museum. March 3 to 
March 22, 1925. 1925, pp. 1-8. 

Respectfully submitted. 

W. H. Holmes, 

Director. 
Dr. Cn.vRLEs W. Walcott, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian. /yistUutlon. 



APPENDIX 3 

REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Siu: I lia\e the honor to submit the fifth annual report on the 
Freer Gallery of Art for the jear ending June 30, 1925: 

THE COLLECTION 

Work has been continued during the year in the preservation of 
the collection, and in the print collection a total of 1,050 objects 
have now been put in final condition, A complete list of the Freer 
Gallery coll. ction of paintings, pastels, drawings, prints, and copper 
plates by and attributed to American and European artists, together 
with a list of original Whistleriana, has been prepared and is about 
to be published in pamphlet form. This pamphlet will be placed 
on sale with the other publications issued by the gallery. 

Changes in exhibition during the year in\olved 40 oil paintings, 
2 water colors, 12 pastels, 30 i tchings and dry points, 38 lithographs, 
2 Japanese screens, 3 Japanese panels, 1 Japanese //laki/iio/io, 4 
Chinese panels, 2 Chinese scrolls, 11 Chinese bronzes, 1 Indian 
bronze, and 2 Chinese textiles. 

Additions to the collections have been as follows : 

Bi/ gift of Charles A. Piatt: 

AMERICAN PASTEL, 

25.1. Whistler, James McNeill ; portrait of Miss Emily Tuckermaii. 
By purchase: 

INDIAN BRONZE 

24.10. Buddhist statuette: Samvara (Yi-dain, tutelary divinity). Nepal, fif- 
teenth century. 

INDIAN PAINTING 

24.4. Laila Majnun. Mughal, time of Jahaugir (16UG-1628). 

24.5. Adil Shah. Mughal, time of Jahanglr (I(i()(i-1G28 ). 

24. G. Fireworks. Illuminated manuscript on the reverse. Mughal-Rajput, 
time of Shah Jahan (1(328-1658). By Muhammad Aizal. 

24.7. MalasrI Ragini (a musical mode). Rajput, about IGOO. 

24.8. Bhairavi Ragini (a musical mode). Rajput, about 1G75. 
24.0. A visit to a temple. Rajput-Mughal, about 1G75. 

CHINESE BRONZE 

25.2. Ceremonial vessel of the type tsun. Early Chou dynasty (1122 to 255 

B. C). 

25.3. Ceremonial wine vessel of the type chio. Chou dynasty (1122 to 255 

B. C). 

57 



58 ANNUAJ^ REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

CHINESE I'AINTINQ 

24.3. Landscape : Breaking waves and autumn wind.^. A scroll. By Tai Chin. 

Ming, middle fifteenth century. 

NEAB EASTERN POTTERY 

25.4. Bowl with painted decoration. Persian Rhage^. Twelfth-thirteenth 

century. 

25.5. Bowl with painted decoration. Persian, Rhages. Twelfth-thirteenth 

century. 

25.6. Bowl with decoration in gold luster. Persian. Eighth century. 

25.7. A small dish with painted decoration under glaze. Arab. Tenth- 

eleventh century. 
25.8 Bowl with engraved decoration, under glaze. Persian. Ninth century. 

25.9. Bowl with decoration engraved and painted under glaze. Persian. Ninth 

century. 

25.10. Bowl with decoration engraved and painted under glaze. Persian. 

Ninth «entury. 

25.11. Bowl with decoration engraved and painted under glaze. Persian. 

Ninth century. 

25.12. Bowl with decoration painted in black over glaze. Persian. Ninth 

century. 

Additions to the library by gift and purchase comprise 90 books 
and periodicals and 127 pamphlets. A list of these accompanies this 
report as Appendix A (not printed). Forty-six volumes have been 
rebound. 

The work of making identification photographs for use in the 
card catalogue continues, and in addition, several hundred i)hoto- 
graphs and a number of lantei-n slides have been made to order and 
delivered to purchasers. Of the publications issued by the gallery, 
there have been sold during the year, 538 copies of gallery books, 
422 copies of the Synopsis of History, and G82 copies Of the descrip- 
tive pamphlet. 

During the past year there has been an increasing demand upon 
the gallery for translations of Chinese, Japanese, and Tibetan in- 
scriptions, and for information concerning various objects. One 
hundred and five such objects, consisting, for the most part, of 
Chinese, Tibetan, Japanese, and Korean paintings, Japanese prints,, 
and articles of pottery and jade, have been submitted for exam- 
ination. 

The usual work in repairing and making exhibition cases, picture 
frames, stretchers, and other equipment has been done in the gallery 
shop, and the necessary minor repairs to tlie building, as well as 
certain improvements such as the construction of a photographic 
dark room in the attic, were made by the employees of the shop. 

The Freer Gallery begs to acknowledge its indebtedness to the 
Department of Agriculture for its aid in exterminating the boxwood 
pest, " the leaf miner," and to thank the Fish Commission for its 
gift of goldfish for the fountain basin. 



RE.POIIT OF THE SECBETAllY 59 

ATTENDANCE 

The gallery has been open every day, with the exception of Mon- 
days, from 9 until 4.30. The total attendance for the year was 109,862. 
The aggregate Sunday attendance was 28,172, making an average 
of 541; the Aveek-day attendance amounted to 81,690, with an aver- 
age of 318. Of these visitors, 431 came to the study rooms to see 
objects not on exhibition or to consult books in the library; 4 to 
make copies or photographs, 72 to examine the building and equip- 
ment, while 27 brought objects in their possession for examination 
and information. 

PERSONNEL 

Mr. Y. Kinoshita, of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, worked 
at the gallery during the winter months on the preservation of 
oriental paintings. 

Mr. Herbert E. Thompson worked on the preservation of oil 
paintings. 

FIELD WORK 

A detailed account of the activities of the gallery's expedition in 
China is contained in Appendix B (not printed) accompanying this 
report, and will be condensed for publication in Explorations and 
Field Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1925. 

Respectfully submitted. 

J. E. Lodge, Curator. 
Dr. Charles D. Walcott, 

/Secretary, Sinithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 4 

REPORT OX THE BUREAU OF A:\IERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

Su:: I lia\(' llic honor to submit the followin<j: report on the re- 
searches, office work, end other activities of tlie Bureau of Ameri- 
can Etlinoh)<j:y (hirinjr the fiscal year ended June 30, 1925, conducted 
in accordance witli tlie act of Conjrress approved June 7, 1921. The 
act referred to contains the following item: 

American etliiiolo.iry : For c-ontinuinj;: etliuological researches ainouff tlie 
Aniericaii Iiulians and the natives of Hawaii, incliulinf? the excavation and 
prcsiTvation of ar(heoh)}^ic remains, under the direction of the Smithsonian 
Institution, includins; the necessary employees and the purchase of necessary 
hooks and periodicals, .$57. 100. 

The policy of the Bureau of American Ethnolofry in the past 
has been that of a pioneer, but from necessity the field work of the 
staff has been both intensive and extensive, mainly reconnais.-ance. 
As a pioneer, the bureau has opened up new lines of i^esearch in the 
study of the ethnology of the American Indians and has blazed a 
trail for others in several fields. While contributing to science tech- 
nical monographs on certain Indian tribes, it has at the same 
time prei)ared and circulated, through publication, articles of a pop- 
ular character covering the wdiole subject. The object has been to 
furnish reliable data for students wishing accurate knowledge of 
the American Indians. 

The aboriginal culture of our Indians is rapidly disappearing 
and being replaced by the white man's civilization. Certain tribes 
iiave already lost almost all their native customs, and others will 
follow rapidly until little of scientific value remains for ethnologi- 
cal field work. The older men among them, who in their i)rime 
knew the native cidts and rituals, are passing away, and the j'ounger 
generation of Indians who are taking their places are almost en- 
tirely ignorant of the significance of the rituals or ceremonials. 
Current fables and metaphoric stories, mainly explaining the char- 
acteristics of animals, are now often claimed to be mythologic, al- 
though many of them have value as tales, not as myths. The In- 
dian culture is passing away and soon will be lost. It is the inten- 
tion of the Bureau of American Ethnology to record it before its 
extinction. 

The excavation and preservation of archeologic remains, from 
whicli imich valuable scientific material ma}' be obtained, constitute 

CO 



REPORT OP THE SECRETARY 61 

a task which is only just begun. The bureau has for many years been 
a pioneer in this work, and in many areas it has been the only 
investigator. The first publication of the Smithsonian Institution 
was on an archeological subject, and with the passing years the 
bureau has followed this line of work with vigor. 

It is a traditional, sound policy of the Institution, as a result of 
the relatively small allowance for the field study of the Indians, to 
cooperate, ratliei- than to attempt to compete with those who have 
a much larger income. This policy has been pursued by the bureau 
during the past year. 

The chronicles of De Soto's wonderful trip through our south- 
eastern States introduced to the attention of historians a remark- 
able aboriginal American culture, one of the most advanced in 
North America outside of Mexico. It was, as lias generally been 
the case, built on agriculture, and the dominant tribal religion of 
its civilization was a complex of Sun, Fire, and Great Serpent 
cults. From Tampa- Bay to the Mississippi River, De Soto en- 
countered numerous tribes differing in language and in minor eth- 
nological features, but all belonging to the same cidture with a wor- 
ship characteristic wherever agriculture served as a source of food. 
As time went by and renewed exploration brought Europeans into 
more intimate contact with the Indians of the Gulf States, his- 
torians and others published many articles on their ethnology, but 
as the tribes were moved west of the Mississippi and the oppor- 
tunities for the field worker were diminished, the time came for 
the ethnologist to yield to the archeologist to make his contribution 
to the subject. Here lies a great field for further studies, with 
ample work for both the historian and the archeologist. 

The two areas in aboriginal America north of Mexico in which 
agriculture reached its highest development were the Southwest, or 
that part of our domain bordering on Old Mexico, and those States 
bordering on the Gulf of Mexico, including the mound builders 
from the Ohio River to the Gulf. The investigation of the south- 
western or pueblo region is at present attracting manj^ archeologists 
amply furnished with funds, but the Southeastern or Gulf States 
have been more or less overlooked. The bureau has begun an 
archeological reconnaissance, as far as its resources will allow, in 
Florida, Mississippi, Alabama, and Tennessee. Last year special 
attention was given to the Indian mounds at Muscle Shoals in 
Alabama. The work in Tennessee, southern Florida, and Missis- 
sippi, so auspiciously begun by the late Mr. W. E. Myer, has been 
continued by Mr. P. E. Cox, State archeologist of Tennessee. Mr. 
Collins, assistant curator, division of ethnology, United States Na- 
tional Museum, was allotted a small appropriation for preliminary 



62 ANNUAL REPOET SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926 

investigations and reconnaissance along the Pearl Kiver in Missis- 
sippi, the prehistoric home of the Choctaw Tribe. The results of 
this work were very satisfactory. 

Work on the Miiskhogean culture, or the antiquities of the Gulf 
States, promises important results in comparative ways, and will, it 
is hoped, shed light on the religion of aboriginal tribes of North 
America. We are able to reconstruct, in a way, from historical 
sources, the main outlines of the Gulf culture, but the documentary 
references to the material culture of the Muskhogean tribes are 
incomplete. More information is needed regarding the ritualistic 
sacra, idols, ceremonial objects, and sj'mbolism on pottery, before 
we can reconstruct the cultias. The material for this study is now 
buried in the soil, but intensive archeological work will bring it to 
light. In essentials, the culture of the prehistoric people of the 
Gulf States is such as we find universal among agricultural people 
in America emerging from savagery into barbarism, and the religion 
has much in common with that of the pueblos. 

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES 

The chief spent several weeks in reconnaissance near Florence, 
Ala., making excursions to several mounds in that vicinity, espe- 
cially those that will be submerged when the Wilson Dam at Muscle 
Shoals is flooded. Mr. Gerard Fowke, who had immediate charge 
of the excavations in two of these mounds, obtained a considerable 
collection containing unique objects, among which are three rare 
copper ornaments, the largest ever found in the valley of the Ten- 
nessee. His report will be published later. 

The chief at that time visited Montgomery, Ala., where he was 
most hospitably received. While there he made an examination of 
the Graves collection, one of the most remarkable in the State. 

The chief has given advice to the National Park Service of the 
Interior Department on the new National Monument near Flagstaff, 
Ariz., which is now called by the Hopi name AVupatki. This monu- 
ment includes the well-preserved buildings near Black Falls on the 
Little Colorado, first described and figured by the writer a quarter 
of a century ago, at which time he recommended that they be made 
a National Monument, and this has now been done by proclamation 
of the President. 

The most important collection of archeolgical objects received dur- 
ing the past year was contributed by Mr. J. C. Clarke, of Flagstaff, 
Ariz., custodian of the Wupatki ruin. It consists of about a hun- 
dred specimens of pottery, shell and bone implements, and other arti- 
facts from a burial mound at Youngs Canyon excavated by work- 
men in the course of construction of a road near the city. These 



KEPOET OF THE SECRETARY 63 

objects were received at a time when material from that region of 
the Southwest was particularly desirable. The chief has prepared 
an illustrated report on this collection in which he calls attention 
to its importance. The collection contains unique specimens and 
is accompanied by a good catalogue by Mr. Clarke. One of the most 
interesting of these is a black and white pottery ladle, the handle 
of which is molded into a cradle containing a clay figure. There is 
also a finely incised head-ornament of bone, recalling those worn 
by the Bow priesthood at Zuiii, and suggesting similar ornaments of 
the Hopi idol of th« war god. The collection shows evidence of 
cremation and urn burial. 

The pottery objects are archaic, and the interiors of certain black- 
and-white food bowls are decorated with artistic figures similar to 
those on polychrome ware from Tokonabi, near March Pass, in 
northern Arizona. It is probable from the pottery that the people 
who buried their dead at Youngs Canyon were related to a population 
antedating pueblos, which was scattered over a great area in Arizona 
from the Little Colorado north to the San Juan, and from the west- 
ern boundary of the state into New Mexico. This people had no 
circular kivas or ceremonial rooms like those at the Mesa Verde, or 
the San Juan area, but they were fine potters who decorated their 
ware with artistic geometrical designs. 

The number of written requests for information on ethnological 
subjects the last few years has more than doubled, and the time of 
the chief, as well as of the members of the staff, is correspondingly 
absorbed. 

During the past year Mr. Earl H. Morris, under the direction of 
the chief of the bureau, did necessary repair work on the famous 
tower of the Mummy Cave House in the Canyon del Muerto, Ari- 
zona, which once contained three rooms. All woodwork on the 
first ceiling has been torn out; only the haggled ends of a few sup- 
ports remain embedded in the walls. The cleanly peeled poles which 
supported the second ceiling are in place, and the third ceiling, or 
original roof, is still intact. It is probably the most beautiful ceiling 
remaining in any ruin in the Southwest, its only rivals being the 
coverings of one or two rooms in the north side of Pueblo Bonito, 
and in Spruce Tree House, Mesa Verde. 

This tower has been in a dangerous condition for a long time. 
There was originally a retaining wall below it, rising from the very 
brink of the ledge, which held in place the fill of loose rock and 
refuse upon which the House of the Tower stands. Eventually, 
through erosion, all but the eastern end of this wall collapsed, prob- 
ably because of the insecure foundation afforded by the abruptly 
sloping rock, and much of the material behind it washed over the 



G4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

clitl'. LiittT, the not infrequent winds which sweej) over the cave 
with unbelievable force, blew out the dust and rock pebbles until the 
southwest corner of the tower was undermined nioie than :i feet and 
the wall eastward weakened almost to the opposite corner. 

The cracks in the west wall were wider in Xovendjer, 19-24, than 
they were a year previous. A removal of half a dozen shovelfuls 
from the unconsolidated mass of earth beneath the front would have 
loosened the lar<re block just beyond its western end, which pre- 
vented the entire collapse of the mascmry. In addition to the periodic 
action of the wind, each visitor who passed from the eastern to the 
western part of the cave trod his portion of the loose mass below 
the wall farther down the slope, and sent clods and pebbles rattling 
over the cliff. Before many years this block would have been 
loosened and the tower would have fallen. 

During the repair work, buttresses were built beneath and in- 
closing the large blocks under the west end of the tower and under 
the undermined portion of the tower, continuing back to the limit 
of undermining, and extending well forward of the masonry. At 
the junction of the two, wedges were driven to knit the new v/ork 
firndy to the old. From the east end of the buttress a retaining wall 
was built to connect with the remnant of the old one on the brink 
of the ledge, and the space behind it was filled, thus providing a 
platform instead of the former steep slope at the southeast coiner 
of the tower. This repair work will temporarily preserve one of the 
finest gems of aboriginal architecture in the entire Southwest, but 
it should be supplemented by the addition of " turnbuckles "' an- 
chored to the cliff and bj^ the rebuilding of the southeast corner, 
which should be bonded to the east and front wall to preserve it for 
centuries to come. 

During the fiscal 3'ear Dr. John E.. Swanton, ethnologist, dis- 
covered further material bearing on the social and religious life 
of the Creek Indians, and this was extracted and incorporated into 
his papers on those subjects which are now being prepared for pub- 
lication by the editor. A study also was made of the various smoller 
culture centers within the region covered by our present Gulf 
States, and a paper on the '' Culture of the Southeast " was pre- 
pared as a result of this work. A short paper on the '' Ethnology 
of the Chickasaw "" was begun and carried nearly to completion, 
i;nd the work of carding references to all words from the publica- 
tions of early Florida missionaries in the now extinct Timucua 
language has been continued, and all of the words from tliree of 
the five texts and from more than half of the fourth had been ex- 
tracted by the end of tiie year. An abbreviated handbook of the 
Indian tribes in the United States and Alaska was prepared to ac- 
company' a map of the same section. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 65 

Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, prepared for publication a 
manuscript entitled 'A Sauk and Fox Sacred Pack." He also wrote 
the Indian text of one of the great sacred packs of the Thimder gens 
of the Fox Indians and worked out the English version thereof. 
Doctor Michelson also prepared an Indian text, with English ver- 
sion, of the Owl dance which belongs to the Bear gens. He began 
translating a Fox text on the sacred pack named " Sakimage " which 
belongs to the Bear gens of the Fox Indians and which Avas taken 
care of by Pushetonequa, the last chief recognized by the Govern- 
ment. He corrected the galley proofs and the first page proofs of 
the fortieth annual report of the bureau, which made it possible to 
incorporate some additional material appurtenant to the White 
Buffalo Dance and Fox mortuary customs and beliefs. Doctor 
Michelson employed Horace Powesheik to translate 1,000 pages of 
Fox text which contains additional information on the Fox society 
known as " Those Who AVorship the Little Spotted Buffalo." In 
June Doctor Michelson went to Tama, Iowa, to renew his researches 
among the Algonquian Tribe of tliat State. He verified the new" 
data on the Fox society named above, and some Fox texts on the 
Buffalo Head Dance of the Thunder gens, obtaining much additional 
information of this dance and other information on the Thunder 
gens. A translation of the Fox text on the Sturgeon Avas obtained 
as well as certain information on the Wolf gens. 

During the fiscal year Mr. John P. Harrington, ethnologist, w^as 
engaged in the preparation for publication of his material on the 
excavation and early history of the Burton Mound Indian village 
situated at Santa Barbara, Calif., the principal rancheria of the 
Santa Barbara Indians. The Ambassador Hotel, which had stood 
on the mound for many years, and had completely barred it to scien- 
tific investigation, was destroyed by fire in the spring of 1921. By 
joint arrangement with the Museum of the American Indian, a 
thorough excavation of this mound was made, and a large and attrac- 
tive collection of artifacts was obtained, as well as a mass of archeo- 
logical and historical material. Mr. Harrington completed the elab- 
oration of this material and it was submitted for publication, includ- 
ing maps and numerous photographs. 

The old Indian name for the Burton Mound village was Syujtun. 
Mr. Harrington's work revealed the interesting fact, not previously 
pointed out, that this rancheria is mentioned four times in the 
" Relacion " of Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo, who discovered Alta Cali- 
fornia in 1542. Father Crespi, who kept the diary of the Portola 
expedition, Avriting in 1769, describes this village in some detail. 
Other early accounts tell that Yanonalit, its chief, had under him 
12 other villages besides the Burton Mound. After the Indian popu- 



66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

lation was removed to the near-by Santa Barbara Mission, which 
was accomplished frradually after the establishment of the mission 
in 1782, the Franciscans erected a massive adobe warehouse on the 
mound, the old Indian canoe landing place in front of the mound 
havin<r become "el puerto de Santa Barbara," the port of Santa 
Barbara. Ships visiting; Santa Barbara used to <2;et water from the 
larfje spring on the southern slope of the mound. Joseph Chapman, 
a young Englishman who had been captured when pirates made a 
raid on the California coast, purchased the mound from the Fran- 
ciscans in the early twenties and started a flour mill there. In the 
forties the mound became the property of George Nidiver, famous 
otter hunter and friend of General Fremont. In the sixties the 
mound pi-operty was owned by Lewis T. Burton, whose name it still 
bears. The hotel was erected on the site in 1901. The shape and 
extent of the Indian village and graveyards was laboriously worked 
out by excavation and successive cultures traced, for the site proved 
to be very ancient. 

In the cemetery plots, most of the bodies were buried in hunched- 
up positions with the head to the north, that is, in the direction of the 
mountain range. Many of the graves had been lined with whale- 
bone slabs, some fine specimens of which were obtained. A great 
variety of belongings, large and small, had been stowed away with 
the bodies, and traces of matting, basketry, and wooden utensils in- 
dicated that the areheologist had been deprived of the richest treas- 
ures through decomposition in the ground. One complete wooden 
awl for basketr}', guch as is described by the early fathers, was re- 
covered. Several of the graves contained caches of large and beau- 
tifully finished steatite bowls; these were manufactured at the stea- 
tite quarries on Santa Catalina Island and were brought up the 
channel for barter in Indian canoes. Screening the earth brought a 
surprising variety of shell and glass beads. The shell beads have 
been sorted and classified, and the kind of native shell used for each 
variety has been determined. 

In 1924 the Burton Mound property was sold and subdivided. 
Extensive grading of the property for new streets and trenching for 
pipe lines of various kinds was carefully watched and reported on by 
Prof. I). B. Hogers, who has cooperated with Mr. Harrington in this 
work, and yielded new information about the stratification of the 
mound and a good sized additional collection of artifacts. A new 
hotel with large cellar excavations is about to be built on the crest of 
the mound and observation of these operations will doubtless add 
still further data to that already presented in the report. 

On completing the Burton Mound paper, ^Ir. Harrington prepared 
a report on the archeology of the Santa Barbara region, dealing with 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 67 

the sites adjacent to the Burton Mound along both historical and 
archeological lines. This is a virgin field of research and has al- 
ready yielded important contributions to our knowledge of the cul- 
ture sequences of the ancient California Indians of this region, which 
had the most specialized and highly developed culture of the State. 

This work illumines the fact that the early population of the chan- 
nel was dense and that there were numerous wars and tribal shift- 
ings. The section of the coast from which the islands were popu- 
lated and the comparative ages of rancheria sites are also apparent 
from this work. 

In October, 1924, Mr. R. O. Marsh brought to Washington a 
party of eight Tule Indians from Panama, who remained in the 
city until January, 1925. This afforded opportunity for studying 
the language, which is a peculiarly interesting one. Possessing only 
18 letters and employing them both short and long, it sounds to 
the ear more like Finnish than like the average American Indian 
language. The language may be described as melodious, simple 
and flexible in structure, yet very rich and extensive in vocabulary. 
It is spoken, with slight dialectic differences only, by a very large 
body of Indians, who formerly held a strip of Caribbean coast more 
than 240 miles long between the Canal Zone and the south of the 
Rio Atrato, together with the numerous fertile keys off the coast. 
Lists were obtained of sociological terms, names of places, plants and 
animals, and designations of material cidture objects. Songs and 
speech were recorded on the dictaphone. 

The Indians have been called Tules, Cunas, Comogres, and San 
Blasenos. Of these names the first is preferable because it is the 
native name of the tribe. The word Tule means merely " Indian," 
it being understood that it refers to Indians of that peculiar kind 
and language. It is related to the word tula, meajiing 20, that is, all 
fingers and toes, an entire Indian. 

The collection of Tule ethnological objects donated by INIr. Marsh 
to the National Museum was examined with the Indian informants 
and the native names of the objects were recorded, together with 
information about their use. 

The best informant in the party was Chief Igwa, who is " captain " 
over some 10 keys, and is one of the leading men in the councils of 
the tribe. He has traveled much about the Tule country and knows 
hundreds of places by name, being a good ethnogeographical in- 
formant. The chief prepared a large map showing these places. 

Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, left Washington in May, 1925, 
for Brantford, Canada, to resume his researches among the Six 
(originally Five) Nations, or Tribes, of the Iroquois, the Mohawk,, 
the Seneca, the Onondaga, the Oneida, the Cayuga, and the Tus- 



68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

caroia, and al.so amontr tlie Munsee of the Delaware Al«2:onquian 
•iroup of lanji'iiajies who dwell on tlie Haldimand jjrant on the (irand 
River in Ontario, Canada. 

Here Mr. Hewitt took up the literary interpretation, revision, and 
textual criticism of previously recorded voluminous Iro(|Uoian texts 
relatino^ to the Constitution of the Lea<rue or Confederation of the 
Iroquois tribes, embodyinj^ its laws and ordinances and the rituals 
of the council of condolence for the deceased, and the installation of 
new members of the P^deral and the tribal councils. 

With the aid of the two best Mohawk informants available who still 
retain some definite knowledire of portions of the ancient institutions 
of the lea<;ue of the Irotpiois, ^Ir. Hewitt made a free Enfjlish trans- 
lation of an important one of these rituals, in addition to the free 
rendering of the chant of " The seven songs of farewell," and thereby 
recovered the symbolic reason for the ver}- peculiar name of the 
former. This ritual is called Ka'rhawe"'hrfi'to"', in ISIohawk, and 
Gri'hawe"'ha'di', in Onondaga, meaning, '* Cast or thrown over the 
grand forest." When used ceremonially both these chants are sep- 
arated into two portions, and the four portions alternate in their 
rendition in such manner that part one of the one chant is followed 
by part one of the other; and part two of the first is followed by 
part two of the second chant. But when chanted " a veil of skins " 
(shawls or blankets serve in modern times) must be' hung across the 
place of assembly in .such wise as to divide the mourning from the 
other side of the league. 

Ceremonial or legislative action by the tribe or by the league is 
taken only through the orderly cooperation of two sisterhoods of 
clans for the former, or of two sisterhoods of tribes for the latter. 
This dualism in the highest organic units of organization w\is o-igi- 
nally based on definite mythic concepts. In either organization one 
sisterhood represented the female ])rinciple or the motherhood in 
nature, and the other sisterhood the male principle, or the father- 
hood in nature. This dualism is thought to be so important that the 
Janguage of the rituals and of official courtesy employ terms embody- 
ing the ethnic and mythic significance of it. 

By a searching study of all symbolic terms and phrases occurring 
in the chants of these rituals, which impliedly might refer to the 
highest dramatized situation revealed by these two divided chants, 
the parts of which are recombined as described above, Mr. Hewitt 
was able to identify beyond all reasonable question the phrase " the 
veil of skins " with the other phra.se " the grand forest." The 
'• grand forest " represents ritualistically the totality of the forests 
which intervene between the lands of the mourning side of the league 
and those of the other side, represented as symbolically intact in 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 69 

mind. It must not be overlooked that either the mother side or the 
father side may be the " mourning side " ; the designation, of course, 
alternates between the two sides, depending on the fact of the loss of 
one or more of the members of the Federal council belonging to it at 
any given time. 

The sisterhood of tribes functioned by the independent action of 
its constituent institutional units — every several tribe. In turn 
every tribe functioned through the organic units of its own internal 
organization — each several clan, to exei^ite its prescribed part in the 
larger Federal action, which otherwise would not be authentic or 
authoritative; so that a clan or an individual in a clan, in special 
cases involving personal rights, might prevent vital Federal action. 
So personal rights were abundantly safeguarded. 

Mr. Hewitt purchased a ver^'^ fine specimen husk mask of the Corn 
Mother, with a short explanatory text. 

Mr. Hewitt also made a reconnaissance trip to the Chippewa of 
Garden Kiver, Canada, for the purpose of expanding and deepening 
his knowledge of certain Chippewa texts, recorded in 1921 by him 
from the dictation of Mr. George Gabaoosa, of Garden Kiver, and 
also to obtain data in regard to the derivation of two very important 
proper names, Chippewa and Nanabozho (appearing in literature 
also as Nenabojo, Menaboju, and Wenaboju), and also to inform 
himself as to the ethnologic value to be placed on the fast-fading 
remains of the ethnic culture of this and cognate tribes in like situa- 
tions and antecedents. The myth of Mud j ike wis, "The First-Born 
(on Earth)," commonly called the story of Nanabozho (i. e., 
Indhi'oji^o''), remarkable for beauty and comprehensiveness, details 
the circumstances which gave rise to the name " Nanabozho." In 
that recital the name appeared as Indhi^oji^o^) and means "Created, 
or formed, by the look (of the Great Father spirit)." 

The name Chippewa appears in literature in no less than 97 
variant spellings, wdth a half dozen or more unsatisfactory defini- 
tions. But to those who first gave the name Chippewa (in its native, 
not Europeanized, form) to these people, picture-writing was ethni- 
cally distinctive and characteristic of them as the well-known birch- 
bark records of these people amply testify. So the name Chippewa 
signifies literally, " Those who make pictographs," and thus empha- 
sizes one of the distinctive arts of these peoples. 

The Seneca in Missouri and Oklahoma were visited for the express 
purpose of identifying them tribally, if the available information 
made this possible. Since the middle of the eighteenth century 
these Seneca have not been closely affiliated with the Seneca Tribe 
of New York State and Canada. There has been expressed doubt 
that these western Seneca had the right to this name. But after 
76041—26 6 



70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

visitinf^ and interviewing many families of these western Seneca 
dwelling about Seneca, Mo., and Miami and Picher, Okla., Mr. 
Hewitt was conA-inced that they are mainly emigrants from the 
parent Seneca Tribe of New York and Canada and from the Cayuga 
of these last-named places ; naturally, there are also some families of 
other Iroquoian Tribes, such as the Wyandot and possibly the 
Conestoga. A porcupine clan and a fox clan were reported. The 
last was a Conestoga clan. 

]Mr, Francis La Flesche, ethnologist, completed his paper on two 
versions of the child-naming rite of the Osage Tribe. The first ver- 
sion belongs to the In-gthon-ga or Puma gens, and the second to the 
Tsi-zhu Wa-shta-ge or Tsi-zhu Peacemaker gens. Each gens has its 
OAvn version of the rite and no other gens can use it without per- 
mission. This paper contains 201 typewritten pages and 20 illus- 
trations. Mv. La Flesche spent a part of the month of May and all 
of June, 1925, among the Osages. In the early part of this visit he 
and his assistant, Ku-zhi-si-e, a full-blood Osage, undertook the la- 
borious task of properly recording the gentile personal names used 
by the full-blood members of the tribe and by some of the mixed 
bloods. Superintendent J. George Wright, of the Osage Agency, 
kindly permitted them to use as a guide in doing this work an annu- 
ity pay roll of the third and fourth quarters of the year 1877, which 
was found in the files of his office. This roll contains about 1,900 
Indian names, most of them misspelled. Besides correcting the 
spelling of the names, Mr, La Flesche and his assistant added to the 
name of each annuitant the name of his or her gens. Ku-zhi-si-e 
was much amused to learn that his boy name, " I-tse-tha-gthin-zhi," 
was carried on the pay roll as " E-stah-o-gra-she," and that the 
boy name of his friend " Wa-non-she-zhin-ga" was put on the rolls 
as " Me-pah-scah," instead of " In-bae-sca," the correct name. 

When the work of revising the names on the annuity roll was 
concluded, Ku-zhi-si-e drove over the hills on his farm with Mr. 
J^a Flesche and showed him many wild plants which were useful 
to the Indians as medicine or food. Some of these plants were 
woven into large mats for house covering, and into rugs to spread 
on the floor of the house to sit upon. 

Wo-non-she-zthin-ga (the cliief of tlie tribe) also took tramps 
among the trees on his farm with Mr. La Flesche, and showed him 
a number of trees and explained to him their uses, and gave to 
him their native names, which he recorded. This man pointed out 
a tree which he called "Zhon-sa-gi," hard wood. The saplings 
of this tree he said were used for the frames of the houses. W^hen 
green the wood was easily cut with a laiifc or ax, but when sea- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY . 71 

soned it was very hard to cut. The chief cut a branch from a 
small tree and carried it with him when he and Mr. La Flesche 
returned to the house. The chief whittled off some of the bark 
from the branch and dipped the shavings in a glass of water and 
the water quickly became blue like indigo. Mr. Paul C. Standley 
identified this tree as the blue ash, or Fraxinus quadrangulata. 

SPECIAL RESEARCHES 

The following manuscripts of Indian music have been purchased 
during the fiscal year from Miss Frances Densmore : " War, wed- 
ding, and social songs of the Makah Indians," " Songs connected 
with Makah feasts and dances," " Music and customs of the Tule 
Indians of Panama," " Songs and instrumental music of the Tule 
Indians of Panama," " Songs for children and material culture 
of the Makah Indians," and 17 mathematical groups analyses of 
167 Papago songs, according to the method of such analyses in 
previous work. This material (apart from the group analyses) 
comprises 150 pages of text, numerous photographic illustrations, 
and the transcriptions of 69 songs, together with the original phono- 
graph records and descriptive and tabulated analyses of individual 
songs. The last named are the analyses from which the mathe- 
matical analyses are made, these showing the peculiarities of the 
songs of an entire tribe with results expressed in percentages. 
These in turn form the basis for comparative tables, which show 
the characteristics of the music of different tribes. Such tables 
of comparison in " INIandan and Hidatsa Music " comprise 820 songs 
collected among six tribes, and material awaiting publication will 
add more than 500 songs to this number, including songs of widely 
separated tribes. It seems possible that these tables may show 
a connection between the physical environment of the Indians and 
the form assumed hj their songs, as interesting contrasts appear 
in the songs of different tribes. 

The final paper on the Makah Indians included a description of the 
uses of 26 plants in food, medicine, and dye. Specimens of the 
plants had been obtained on the reservation, and their botanical 
identification was made by Mr. Paul C. Standley, of the United 
States National Museum. The Makah were head hunters and a 
detailed account of their war customs was presented. The caste 
system prevailed in former days and families of the upper class had 
wealth and leisure. The wedding customs were marked by festivity 
and by physical contests, the songs of which were submitted. 

The presence in Washington of a group of Tule Indians from the 
Province of Colon, Panama, made possible a study of forms of primi- 



72 . ANNUAL. EEPOBT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

tive music which, it is believed, have not hitherto been described. 
The Tulc Indians are unique in that tliey do not pound on a drum, 
a pole, or any other object. Their favorite musical instrument is 
the "" pan jiipe " of reeds. Two men usually play these pipes, sound- 
intr alternate tones. The music of tlicse pan pipes was phonograph- 
ically recorded and transcribed as nearly as is possible in nnisical 
notation. An instrument wliich, as far as known, has not been pre- 
viously observed, is a reed flute haviupj two finger holes but no 
"whistle opening." The upi)er end of the reed is held inside the 
mouth, possibly touching the roof of the mouth, and for this reason 
the instrument is designated as a "■ mouth flute." A gourd rattle, 
conch shell horn, and bone whistle complete the musical instruments 
of these Indians. 

The words of the songs narrate a series of events, such as the 
preparation for a wedding and a description of the festivity, or the 
illness and death of a man, followed by " talking to his spirit." 
Chief Igwa Nigidibippi, who recorded the songs, was a trained 
singer. 

EDITORIAL WORK AND TUBLICATIONS 

The editing of the publications of the bureau was continued 
through the year by Mr. Stanley Searles, editor, assisted by Mrs. 
Frances Nichols, editorial assistant. The status of the publications 
is presented in the following summary. 

PUBLICATIONS ISSUED 

Thirty-eighth Annu.'il Report. Accompanj'ing paper: An Introductory Stud> 

of the Arts, Crafts, and Customs of the Guiana Indians, by Walter E. Roth. 

745 pp., 183 pis., 341 figs. 
Thirty-ninth Annual Report. Accompanying paper : The Osage Trilje ; The 

Rite of Vigil, by Francis La Flesclie. 6".6 pp., 17 pis., 4 tigs. (Received July 

13. 1925.) 
Bulletin 78. Handbook of the Indians of California, by A. L. Kroeber. x, 995 

pp., 83 pis., 78 figs. (Received July 17, 1925.) 

PUBLICATIONB IN PRESS OR IN PREPARATION 

Fortieth Annual Report. Accompanying papers : The Mythical Origin of the 
White Buffalo Dance of the Fox Indians; The Autobiography of a Fox 
Indian Woman ; Notes on Fox Mortuary Customs and Beliefs ; Notes on the 
Fox Society Known as " Those Who Worship the Little Spotted Buffalo " ; 
The Traditional Origin of the Fox Society Known as " The Singing Around 
Rite" (Michelson). 

Forty-first Annual Rei)ort. Accomi';uiying papers: Coiled Basketry in Brit- 
ish Columbi.'i and Surrounding Region (Boas, assi.stod by Ilaeberlin, Roberts, 
and Teit) ; Two I'rehistoric Villages in iMiddle Tennessee (Myer). 

Forty-second Annual Report. Accompanying papers : Social Organization and 
Social Usages of the Indians of the Creek Confederacy ; Religious Beliefs 
and Medical Practices of the Creek Indians; The Culture of the Southeast 
(Swanton). 



REPORT OP THE SECRETARY 73 

DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLICATIONS 

The distribution of the publications of the bureau has been con- 
tinued under the immediate charge of Miss Helen Munroe, assisted 
by Miss Emma Powers. Publications were distributed as follows : 

Report volumes and separates 3, 42G 

Bulletins and separates . 3, 458 

Contributions to North American ethnology 38 

Introductions 5 

Miscellaneous publications 427 

7,354 

As compared with the fiscal year ended June 30, 1924, there was a 
decrease of 6,609 publications distributed. This was undoubtedly 
due not to a decrease in applications, but to the fact that only one 
publication was distributed during the year just ended, whereas four 
publications were issued in the preceding fiscal year and distributed 
to the mailing list. 

ILLUSTRATIONS 

Mr. DeLancey Gill, illustrator, with the assistance of Mr. Albert 
Sweeney, continued the preparation of the illustrations of the bureau. 
A summary of the Avork follows : 

Illustrations mounted, retouched, and made ready for engraving 927 

Drawing of objects, maps, etc., prepared 38 

Portraits of visiting Indians (2 Kiowa, S Tule) 27 

Negative films from field exposures 54 

Photostat prints from books and manuscripts 178 

Negatives of ethnologic and archeologic subjects 273 

Photographic prints for distril)ution and ofiice use 1,649 

On account of the large amount of illustrative work, reclassifica- 
tion of the large collection of negatives has not progressed as rapidly 
as last year. About 7,000 negatives have so far been catalogued. 

LIBRARY 

The reference library has continued under the immediate care of 
Miss Ella Leary, librarian, assisted by Mr. Thomas Blackwell. 
During the year 480 books were accessioned. Of these 100 were 
acquired by purchase, 280 by gift and exchange, and 100 by binding 
of periodicals. The periodicals currently received number about 
975, of which 40 are by subscription, the remainder through ex- 
change. The library has also received 187 pamphlets. The aggre- 
gate number of volumes in the library at the close of the year was 
26,101; of pamphlets, 15,512; also several thousand unbound peri- 
odicals. The Library of Congress, officers of the executive depart- 
ments, and out-of-town students have made use of the library through 
frequent loans during the year. 



74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

COLLECTIONS 

The following collections, purchased or acquired by members of 
the bureau or by those detailed in connection with its researches, 
liave been transferred to the United States National ^luseum : 

83522. Small c«llection of ethuolojjia purchased bj' the bureau from Miss 

Emily S. Cook. 
84260. Collection of archeologioal material secured by ilr. D. L. Reichard for 

the bureau, from Berryville, Va. 
S4444. Small stone celt, and a lot of pottery bowl ornaments from Porto Rico, 

presented to tlie bureau by Mrs. Alice de Santiajjo, Barceloneta, P. R. 

85018. Collection of areheological material collected for the bureau by Gerard 

Fowke from mounds near Town Creek, Ala. 

85019. Archeological material collected for the bureau by Dr. J. Walter 

Fewkes, from mounds near St. Petersburg, Fla. 
85319. Archeological material collected for the bureau by Gerard Fowke. from 

mounds near Town Creek, Ala., on the site of the Wilson Dam, Muscle 

Shoals. 
8.5343. Stone bird pipe found near Hydes Ferry, on the Cumberland River, 

about 7 miles below Nashville, Tenn. 
85344. Five complete skulls and fragmentary remains of about twelve crania col- 
lected by Gerard Fowke from Hog Island Mound, near Town Creek, Ala. 
Five skulls collected by Earle O. Roberts, Harrah, Wa.sh. 
S5780. Collection of skeletal material secured by Gerard Fowke at the Alex- 
ander Mound near Courtland, Ala. 
85781. Collection of skeletal material wkich was unearthed 1^/4 miles north 

of Boynton, Fla., and sent to the bureau by Mr. E. S. Jackson, of 

Palm Beach, Fla. 
85824. Collection of archeological objects secured by Mr. J. O. Sanderson, of 

Courtland, Ala., and purchased by the bureau. 
8585G. Two piiies, one of steatite and the other of marble, collected for the 

bureau by Gerard Fowke from the Alexander Mound in Lawrence 

County, Ala. 
87297. Collection of archeological material secured for the bureau at Yuungs 

Canyon, about 18 VL- miles east of Flagstaff, Ariz., by Mr. J. C. Clarke, 

of Flagstaff. 
33949. Human remains from Weeden Island, St. Petersburg, Fla., secured by 

the chief of the bureau during the winter of 1923-24. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Clerical : The correspondence and other clerical work of the office 
has been conducted by Miss May S. Clark, clerk to the chief. Mr. 
Anthony W. Wilding, typist, has been engaged in copying manu- 
scripts and in various duties connected with the office of the chief. 
Miss Julia Atkins, stenographer and typist, resigned October 15, 
1924. Mrs. A. H. Kitchen was appointed temporarily December 13, 

1924, for the three months, the appointment terminating March 13, 

1925. Miss Mae W. Tucker was ajipuinted temporarily May 1, 1925, 
as stenographer and typist. 

Respectfully submitted. J. WALnai Fewkes, Chief. 

Dr. Charles D. Walcoit, 

Secretary^ SmitJisonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 5 
REPORT OX THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES 

Sik: I have the honor to submit the following report on the 
operations of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal 
year ending June 30, 1925 : 

The congressional appropriation allowed for the support of the 
exchange service during the year 1925 was $19,550, $G,550 more than 
the amount granted for the fiscal year 1924. Of this increase about 
half was to cover the extra amount necessary for reclassification of 
salaries. The usual appropriation of $200 for printing and binding 
was granted by Congress. There was collected by the Institution 
on account of repayment from departmental and other establish- 
ments $-1,900.22, making the total resources available for carrying 
on the Smithsonian system of exchanges for the fiscal year 1925 
$54,650.22. 

During the year the total number of packages handled was 468,731, 
an increase over the number for the preceding year of 8,073. These 
packages weighed a total of 506,164 pounds, a loss of 60,943 pounds. 
This decrease in weight is due to the smaller size of packages of 
publications received for transmission through the service. 

The number and weight of the packages of different classes are 
indicated in the following table : 





Packages 


Weight 




Sent 


Received 


Sent 1 Received 




198, 862 


142,911 

90,797 




Pounis 
86,337 


Pounds 


Publications received in return for parliamentary documents... 


4,702 


12,851 


158,029 


Publications received in return for departmental documents — 
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad- 
Miscellaneous scientific aad literary publications rec«ived from 


5,734 


20,377 


164, 018 


25,725 


61, 552 










432, 570 


36, 161 


408,384 


97,780 




468 

1 


731 


506,164 









The value of the material passing through the International Ex- 
change Service can not be estimated by the mere number of packages 
handled. Many of the packages each contain a number of valuable 
scientific publications. It may be estimated that annually there pass 
through the service both to and from foreign countries, considerably 
more than a million publications. 

Although the United States Government sends abroad more publi- 
cations than it receives in exchange, the disparity is not so great 

75 



76 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



as appears in the above table, for many foreign publications are 
received direct by mail by correspondents in this country. 

Latvia, which joined both conventions in 1924, has established a 
service of international exchanges under the state library at Riga. 

The total number of boxes used in despatching consignments was 
2,325. This was a decrease of 139 from the preceding year and is 
accounted for by the smaller size of the packages received for trans- 
mission abroad, as referred to above. Of the total number of boxes 
shipped abroad, 268 were for the foreign depositories of full sets 
of United States governmental documents, and the remainder (2,057) 
was for distribution to miscellaneous establishments and indi- 
viduals. While the Smithsonian Exchange Service, as a rule, trans- 
mits its consignments to other countries in boxes, sometimes the pack- 
ages that accumulate for a particular country are not of sufficient 
bulk to warrant their transmission by freight, and they are mailed 
directly to their destinations. In addition, quite a number of pack- 
ages are forwarded by mail to remote places which can not be reached 
through the existing exchange agencies. During the year the num- 
ber of packages sent abroad in this manner was 39,499. 

The number of boxes sent to each country is given in the following 

table : 

Consignments of exchanges for foreign countries 



Country 



Argentine Republic 

Austria. - 

Belgium 

Bolivia 

Brazil 

British Colojiies 

Bulgaria 

Canada.- 

Chile. 

China 

Chosen 

Colombia 

Costa Rica 

Cuba 

Czechoslovakia.. 

Danzig 

Denmark 

Ecuador. 

Egypt 

Esthonia , 

Finland 

Franca 

Germany.. 

Oreat Britain and Irekmd. 

Greece... 

Guatemala 

Uonduras 

Hungary 

India. 

Italy 

Jamaica 

Japan 



Number 
of boxes 



43 
54 
68 

2 
34 
11 

1 
20 I 
22 

50 

6 

18 

12 
5 

80 
3 

41 
2 

12 

10 

20 
174 
289 
303 

12 
2 
2 

30 

42 

98 
2 

ne 



Country 



Latvia 

Lithuania 

Mexico 

Netherlands 

New South Wales 

New Zealand 

Nicaragua 

Norway 

Palestine 

Paraguay 

Peru 

Poland 

Portugal 

Queensland 

Roumania.- 

Russia 

Salvador 

Siam 

South Australia.. , 

Spain , 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Tasmania 

Turkey 

Union of South Airica. 

Uruguay 

Venezuela 

Victoria 

Western Australia 

Yugoslavia 



Number 
of boxes 



Total. 



6 

3 

5 
86 
29 
22 

1 
33 

4 

2 
19 
38 
19 
16 
14 
98 

2 

3 
20 
36 
70 



37 
14 
10 
40 
11 
17 



2,325 



REPORT OP THE SECRETARY 77 

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS 

In accordance with the terms of a convention conchided at Brus- 
sels March 15, 1886, and under authority granted by Congress in 
resolutions approved March 2, 1867, and March 2, 1901, 58 full sets 
of United States official documents and 40 partial sets are now sent 
through the exchange service regularly to depositories abroad. This 
is a reduction of one full set from last year and an addition of two 
partial sets. New Zealand requested that a partial set be sent to 
the General Assembly Library instead of a full set. The Stadt- 
bibliothek of the Free City of Danzig was added to the list of 
those receiving partial sets. The number of full and partial sets 
of governmental documents forwarded to foreign depositories there- 
fore is 98. The total number provided by law for this purpose 
and for the use of the Library of Congress has been increased by 
act of Congress approved March 3, 1925, from 100 to 125. 

The convention referred to above, which was the first of two con- 
ventions concluded at Brussels March 15, 1886, and is referred to 
as Convention A, provides for the international exchange of offi- 
cial documents and scientific and literary publications. The sec- 
ond convention, referred to as Convention B, provides for the 
interparliamentary exchange of the official journal as well as of the 
parliamentary annals and documents. Convention A was rati- 
fied by the United States, Belgium, Brazil, Italy, Portugal, Serbia, 
(now Yugoslavia), Spain, and Switzerland. Convention B was rati- 
fied by the same countries except Switzerland. Since the ratifica- 
tion of the Brussels conventions the following countries have signi- 
fied their adherence thereto in the order in which they are listed : 

1. Uruguay — both conventions, 1889. 

2. Argentine Republic — convention A, 1889. 

3. Paraguay — convention A, 1889. 

4. Czechoslovakia — both conventions, 1919. 

5. Poland — convention A, 1920 ; convention B, 1921. 

6. Roumania — both conventions, 1923. 

7. Hungary — both conventions, 1923. 

8. Dominican Republic — both conventions, 1923. 

9. Latvia — both conventions, 1924. 

10. Free City of Danzig — both conventions, 1924. 

It therefore will be seen that 18 countries have thus far joined 
the Brussels conventions of 1886. In order to give consideration 
to the question of having a larger number of countries adhere to 
the exchange conventions, the committee on intellectual cooperation 
of the League of Nations called together at Geneva in the summer 
of 1924 a committee of experts on the international exchange of 
publications, a brief report of which is given elsewhere. 



78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

At the request of the Governments of Finland and the United 
Provinces of Agra and Oudh, the depositories of partial sets of 
official documents have been chanj^^ed from the Central Library 
of the State to the Parliamentary Library, and from the Colonial 
Secretary's office to the University of Allahabad, respectively. 

The names of the depositories in foreign countries are given in 
the following list : 

DEPOSITORIES OF FULI, SETS 

Abgentine Republic : Ministerio tie Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires. 
Australia : Librnry of the Commonwealth rarliament, Melbourne. 
Austria: Bundosamt fiir StatistUc, Schwarzeubergstra.sse 5, Vienna I. 
Baden: Uiiiversitas-Bibliothok, Freiburg. (Depository of the Stale of Baden.) 
Bavaria : Staats-Bibliothek, Munich. 
Belgium : Bibliotlieque Royale, Brussels. 
Brazil : Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro. 

Buenos Aires: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de la Plata. (Deposi- 
tory of the Province of Buenos Aires.) 
Canada : Library of Parliament, Ottawa. 
Chile : Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago. 
China : American-Chinese Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai, Bureau 

of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai. 
Colombia : Biblioteca Nacional, BogotS. 
CosTO Rica : Olicina de Deposito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San 

Jos£'. 
Cuba: Secretaria de Estado (Asunlos Generales y Canje Internacional), 

Habana. 
Czechoslovakia : Bibliothfique de TAssemblee Nationale, Prague. 
Denmark : Kongelige Bibliotheliet, Copenhagen. 
England : British Museum, Loudon. 
Esthonia : Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Reval. 
France: Bibliotheyue Nationale, Paris. 
Germany : Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin. 
Glasgow : City Librarian, Mitchell Library, Glasgow. 
Greece : Bibliotheciue Nationale, Athens. 
Hungary : Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest. 
India : Imperial Library, Calcutta. 

Irish Free State: National Library of Ireland, Dul)lin. 
Italy : Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome. 
Japan : Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo. 
London: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository of 

the London County Council.) 
Manitoba : Provincial Library, Winnipeg. 
Mexico : Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico. 
Netherlands: Bibliotheek van de Tweede Kamer der Stateu-Generaal, The 

Hague. 
New South Wales : Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney. 
Northern Ireland : Ministry of Finance, Belfast. 
Norway: Universitets-Bibliotek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of 

Norway, ) 
Ontario: Legislative Library, Toronto. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79 

Paris : Prefecture de la Seine. 

Peku : Biblioteca Nacioual, Lima. 

Poland : Bibliotlieque du Ministere des Affairs Etrangeres, Warsaw. 

Portugal: Bibliotlieca Nacioual, Lisbou. 

Prussia : Preussische .staatsbibliothok, Berlin, N. W. 7. 

Quebec : Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec, Quebec. 

Queensland: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane. 

Russia: Shipmoiats temporarily suspended. 

Saxony : Silclisische Landesbibliotliek, Dresden — N. 6. 

South Australia : Parliamentary Library, Adelaide. 

Spain : Servicio del Cambio luternacioual de PublicucioueiB, Cuerpo Faculta- 

tivo de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arqueologos, Madrid. 
Sweden : Kungliga Bibliuteket, Stockholm. 
Switzerland : Bibliotheque Centrale Federate, Berne. 
Switzerland : Library of the League of Nations, Palace of Nations, Quai de 

Leman, Geneva. 
Tasmania : Parliamentary Library, Hobart. 
Turkey : Shipments temporarily suspended. 
Union of South Africa : State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal. 
Uruguay : Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo. 
Venezuela : Biblioteca Nacioual, Caracas. 
Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne. 
Western Australia : Public Library of Western Australia, Perth. 
WuRTTEMBERG : Laudesblbliotliek, Stuttgart. 
Yugoslavia : Ministere des Affaires liltrangeres, Belgrade. 

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS 

Alberta : Provincial Library, Edmonton. 

Alsace-Lorraine : Bibliotheque Universitaire et Ilegionale de Strasbourg, 

Strasbourg. 
Bolivia : Ministerio de Colonizaciou y Agricultura, La Paz. 
Brazil : Bibliotheca da Assemblea Legislativa do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, 

Nichtheroy. 
Bremen : Seuatskommission fiir Reichs- und Auswiirtige Augelegeuheiteu. 
British Columbia : Legislative Libi'ary, Victoria. 

British Guiana : Government Secretary's Ofiice, Georgetown, Demerara. 
Bulgaria : Ministere des Affairs Etrangeres, Sofia. 
Ceylon: Colonial Secretary's Office (Record Department of the Library), 

Colombo. 
Danzig: Stadtbibliothek, Free City of Danzig. 
Ecuador : Biblioteca Nacioual, Quito. 
Egypt : Bibliotheque Khediviale, Cairo. 
Finland : Parliamentary Library, Helsingfors. 
Guatemala : Secretary of the Government, Guatemala. 
Haiti : Secretaire d'Etat des Relations Exterieures, Port-au-Prince. 
Hambltrg : Seuatskommission fiir die Reichs- und AuswJirtigeu Angelegen- 

heiten. 
Hesse : Landesbibliothek, Darmstadt. 
Honduras : Secretary of the Government, Tegucigalpa. 
Jamaica : Colonial Secretary, Kingston. 
Latvia : Bibliotheque d'l5tat, Riga. 
Liberia : Department of State, Monrovia. 



80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

LouBEi^go Marquez : Government Library, Louremjo Mnrquez. 

LtiiJECK : President of the Senate. 

Madras, Province of: Chief Secretary to the Government of Madras, Public 

Department, Madras. 
Malta: Minister for the Treasury, Vnletta. 
New Brunswick : Legislative Library, Frederickton. 
Newfoundland: Colonial Secretary, St. John's. 
New Zealand : General Assembly Library, Wellington. 
Nicaragua : Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua. 
Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax. 
Panama : Secretarfa de llelaciones Kxleriores, Panama. 
Paraguay : Secci6n Canje Internacional de Publicaciones del Ministerio de Re- 

laciones Exteriores, Estrella 563, Asunci6n. 
Prince Edward Island: Legislative Library, Charlottetown. 
RouMANiA : Academia Romana, Bukharest. 
Salvador : Ministerio do Relacionos Exteriores, San Salvador. 
Saskatchewan : Government Library, Regina. 
Stam : Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok. 
Straits Settlements : Colonial Secretary. Singapore. 

United Provinces of Agra and Oudii : Univer.sity of Allahabad, Allahabad. 
Vienna : Biigermeister-Amt der Stadt Wien. 

INTEIIP.XRLTAMENTARY EXCITzXNGE OF OFnCIAL JOURNAL 

The interparliamentary exchange is conducted by tlie Smith- 
sonian Institution in behalf of the United States Government under 
the authority granted in a congressional resolution approved March 
4, 1909, the object of that resolution being to carry into ctlPect the 
provisions of tlie second convention concluded at Brussels in 1886, 
providing for the immediate exchange of the Official Journal, the 
United States being one of the signatories to that convention. 

The immediate exchange has been entered into during the year 
with India and the Free City of Danzig. The names of the estab- 
lishments to -which the daily is.sue of the Congressional Record is 
mailed are given below : 

Argentine Republic: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires. 

Australia : Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Melbourne. 

Austria : P.ibliotbek des Nationalrates, Wien I. 

Baden: Universitiits-Bibiliothek, Heidelberg. 

Belgium : Biblioth«>que de la Chambre des Repr^sentants, Brus.sels. 

Bolivia : CAmara de Diputados, Congreso Nacional, La Paz. 

Brazil: Bibliothoca do Congre-Sso Nacional. Rio de Janeiro. 

P>UENos Aires : Biblioteca del Senado de la Provincia de Buenos Aires, La 

Plata. 
Canada : 

Library of Parliament, Ottawa. 
Clerk of the Senate, Uouses of Parliament. Ottawa. 
Costa Rica : Oflcina de Dep6sito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San 

Jos§. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 81 

Cuba : 

Biblioteca de la Cfimara tie Kepresentantes, Habana. 

Blblioteca del Senado, Habana. 
CzEcnosix)VAiaA : BibliothOque de I'Assembiee Nationalo, Prague. 
Danzig : Stadtbibliothek, Danzig. 
Denmark: Rigsdagens Bureau, Copenhagen. 
Esthonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Reval. 
France : 

Bibliotlieque de la Chambre dos Deputes, au Palais Bourbon, Paris. 

Bibliotheque du S6nat, an Palais du Luxembourg, Paris. 
Great Britain : Library of the Foreign Ofliee, Downing Street, London, S. W. 1. 
Greece: Library of Parliament, Athens. 
Guatemala : Biblioteca de la Oflciua Interuacional Centro-Americana, 8a Calle 

Poniente No. 1, Ciudad de Guatemala. 
H.\iTi: Secretaire d'fitat des Relations Exterieures, Port-au-Prince. 
Honduras : Biblioteca del Cougreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa. 
Hungary: Bibliothek des Abgeordnetenhauses, Budapest. 
India: Legislative Library, Simla. 
Italy : 

Biblioteca delta Camera dei Deputati, Palazzo di Monte Citorio, Rome. 

Biblioteca del Senato del Regno, Palazzo Madama, Rome. 
Latvia : Librarj' of the Saeima, Riga. 
Liberia : Department of State, Monrovia. 
New South Wales : Library of Parliament, Sydney. 
New Zealand : General Assembly Library, Wellington. 
Norway: Stortingets Bibliotek, Oslo. 
Peru : CAmara de Diputadoes, Congreso Nacional, Lima. 
Poland : Monsieur le Ministre des Alfaires Etrang^res, Warsaw. 
Portugal : Bibliotheca do Congresso da Republica, Lisbon. 
Prussia : Bibliothek des Abgeordnetenhauses, Prinz-Albrechtstrasse 5, Berlin, 

S. W. 11. 
Queensland : Chief Secretary's Department, Brisbane. 
Roumania: Bibliotheque de la Chambre des Deputes, Bukharest. 
Spain : 

Biblioteca del Congreso de los Diputados, Madrid. 

Biblioteca del Senado, Madrid. 
Switzerland : 

Bibliotheque de I'Assembl^e FMerale Suisse, Berne. 

Library of the League of Nations, Geneva. 
Transvaal : State Library, Pretoria. 

Union of South Africa : Library of Parliament, Cape Town. 
Uruguay : Biblioteca de la CAmara de Represeutantes, Montevideo. 
Venezuela: CAmara de Diputados, Congreso Nacional, Caracas. 
Western Australla : Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth. 
Yugoslavia : Library of the Skupshtina, Belgrade. 

There are at present 43 different foreign States or Provinces with 
which the immediate exchange of the Official Journal is carried on. 
To some of the countries two copies of the Congressional Record are 
forwarded — one to the upper and one to the lower house of Parlia- 
ment. The total number of records transmitted is 49. The number 
of copies of the record set aside by law for this jDurpose is 100. 



82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

FORETON LXCITANGK AGENCIES 

A complete list of the foreign exchange agencies or bureaus is 
given below : 

Algeria, via Franco. 

Angola, via Portugal. 

Aroentinf. Ivi:pubi,ic: Comisi6n Protectora de Bibliotecas Populates, Calle 

CSrdoba 931, Buenos Aires. 
Atj.stria: Buiulosamt fiir Stati.stik. Schwarzenbergstrasse 5, Vienna I. 
Azores, via Portugal. 
Belgium : Service Beige des Kchanges Intornationaux, Rue des Longs-Chariots 

46, Brussels. 
IioLI^'TA : Oficina Nacional de Estadfstica, La Paz. 
Brazil: Servico de Permutaf:<")os luternationaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de 

Janeiro. 
British Colonies : Ci-o\vn Agents for the Colonic.';. London. 
British GL^ANA: Royal Agricultural and CommoTcial Society, Georgetown, 
British Hondura.s : Colonial Secretary, Belize. 

Bulgaria : In.stitutions Scientifiques de S. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia. 
Canary Islands, via Spain. 

Chile: Servicio de Canjes Internacionalcs, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago. 
China: Amorican-ChJne.«;e Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai Bu- 
reau of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai. 
OiiosEN : Government General, Keijo. 
Colombia : Oficina de Canjes Internacionalcs y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional, 

BogotA. 
CosT.\ Rica : Oficina de DeiKtsito y Canje Inteniacional de PiiMicacioues, San 

Jose. 
Czechoslovakia : Service Tch^coslovaque des Echanges Internationaux, Biblio- 

theque de rAssemblc>e Nationale, Prague 1-79. 
Danzig : Amt fiir den Internationalen Schriftenaustausch der Freien Stadt 

Danzig, Stndtbibliothok, Danzig. 
Denmark : Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen. 
Dutch Guiana : Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo. 
Ecuador: IMinisterio de Relaciones Exieiiores, Quito. 
Egypt: Sent by mail. 

EsTHONiA : Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Reval. 
Finland: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Helsingfors. 
Fi:anck: Service Frau(;ais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Crenelle. 

Paris. 
German!-: Amerika-Institut, Universitatstrasse 8, Berlin, N. W. 7. 
Great Britain and Ireland: Messrs. Wheldon & Wesley, 2, 3, and 4 Arthur St., 

New Oxford St., London, W. C. 2. 
Grkece : Bibliotheque Nationale, Athens. 
Greenland, via Denmark. 

Guatemala : Institute Nacional de Varones, Guatemala. 
Haiti : Secretaire d'Etat des Relations Ext6rieures, Port-au-Prince. 
Honduras : Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa. 
Hungary : Service Hongrois des Echangcs Internationaux, ^lusCe Nationale, 

Budapest, VIII. 
Iceland, via Denmark. 
India : Superintendent of Stationery, Bombay, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 83 

Italy: Ufficio degli Scambi Intcrnaziouali, Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio 

Emaunele, Rome. 
Jamaica: In.slitute of Jamaica, Kingston. 
Japan : Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo. 
Java, r/a Netherlands. 
Latvia : Service de« lOchanges Internationaux, Biblioth6que d'jStat de Lettonie, 

Riga. 
Liberia : Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia. 
Lithuania : Sent by mail. 
LouRENQo Marquez. iHo. Portugal. 
Luxemburg, via Belgium. 
Madagascar, via France. 
Madeira, via Portugal. 
Mozambique, via Portugal. 
Netherlands : Bureau Scientifique Central Neerlandais, Bibliotheque de I'Aca- 

demie Technique, Delft. 
New South AVales : Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney. 
New Zealand : Dominion Museum, "Wellington. 
Nicaragua: Miuisterio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua. 
Norway: Universitets-Bibliotek, Oslo. 
I'anama: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama. 
Paraguay : Secciou Canje Internncional de Publicacioiies del Ministerio de 

Relaciones Exteriores, Estrella 563, Asuncion. 
Peru: Oficina de Reparto, Deposito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, 

IMinisterio de Fomento, Lima. 
Poland: Service Poionais des I'^changes Internationaux, Bibliotheque du 

Ministt'i-e des Affaires I-ltrangeres, Warsaw. 
Portugal: Seccao de Trocas Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon. 
Queen.sland : Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Sec- 
retary's Department, Brisbane. 
Roumania: Bureau des Echanges Internationaux, Institut Meteorologique 

Central, Bukharest. 
Russia : Academy of Sciences, Leningrad. 

Salvador : Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador. 
SiAM : Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok. 
South Australia : Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide. 
Spain : Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Faculta- 

tivo de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arqueologos, Madrid. 
Sumatra, via Netherlands. 

Sweden : Kongliga Svenska Vctenskaps Akademien, Stockholm. 
Switzerland : Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliotheque Cen- 

trale Federale, Berne. 
Syri.\ : American University of Beirut. 
Tasmania: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart. 

Trinidad: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain. 
Tunis, via France. 

Turkey : Roliert College, Constantinople. 

Union of South Africa : Government Printing Works, Pretoria, Transvaal. 
Uruguay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo. 
Venezuela : Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas. 
A'^ictoria : Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne. 
Western Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth. 
YuG0SLA^^:A : Academic Royale Serbe des Sciences et des Arts, Belgrade. 



84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

COBIMITTEE OF EXPERTS ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE OF PUBLI- 
CATIONS, GENEVA, SWITZERLAND 

The committee on intellectual cooperation of the Leacrue of Na- 
tions called tot^ethor at Geneva July 17-il>, 1924, a committee of 
experts on the international exchange of publications, of which 
Prof. O. de Halecki, of the University of Warsaw, was made cliair- 
num. Mr. H. "\V. Dorsey, chief clerk of the Institution, who has 
been closely in touch with the exchange service for many years, was 
sent as the Smithsonian representative. The other members of the 
committee were Mr. J. Luchaire, Inspector General of Public Edu- 
cation of France ; Mr. E. Bacha, Director of the Belgian Service of 
International Exchanges; Mr. V. Benedetti. Director of the Italian 
Service of International Exchanges; and Mr. B. M. Headicar, 
Librarian of the London School of Economics and Political Science. 

The above committee, without making any change in the Brussels 
convention of 1886, recommended an additional protocol, enabling 
the states that are not yet parties to the convention to adhere 
thereto with reservations. The resolutions of the committee of 
experts regarding this matter are as follows : 

The states which have not yet adhered to the convention of ISSG and niijht 
consider the obligatiou carried in Article II as too burdensome, eitlier on 
account of the very great number of their official publications or on account of 
their financial condition, or on any other gi-ound, may accept the convention 
with the reservation that they would agree with each nation as to the number 
of publications to be sent. The exchange of those states with states that have 
unreservedly adhered to the convention would be governed by the same 
principle. 

The Belgian Government is asked kindly to make a text of the foregoing 
resolution known to the states parties to the convention of March 15, 1886. 
These states will at the same time be informed that partial adhesions that 
may occur under this resolution would be made known to them by the same 
Government as fast as they took place, the said adhesions becoming com- 
pulsory only as between the said parties that accepted them and the adhering 
states. 

All applications for partial adhesion would be made known to the Belgian 
Government and notified by that Government to every one of the states parties 
to the convention of 188(5, including those who shall have been allowed to 
give partial adhe.sion to that treaty, each one of the states being at the same 
time requested to advise the said Government within one year after the date 
of such notification whether, so far as it is concerned, it has accepted the 
partial adhe.sion. Any state which shall not have notified its acceptance 
within that time shall be considered as refusing to accept the adhesion. 

These resolutions were brought to the attention of this Govern- 
ment by the Belgian Government. The Department of State referred 
the matter to the Smithsonian Institution, which replied that it saw 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 85 

no objection to the assent of this Government to the principle of 
limited adhesions to the exchange convention of 1886. It was pointed 
out, however, that as the principle of partial exchange of official 
documents has been adopted by the United States Government, the 
proposed reservations to the convention would not materially affect 
the exchange conditions now existing between the United States and 
other countries. 

The committee of experts considered not only the possibility of im- 
proving the exchange of official documents as referred to above, but 
also the best way of encouraging the exchange of scientific and lit- 
erary works. The committee's recommendations are embodied in 
the following extract from a draft convention : 

Article I. Independently of the obligations which might result for each of 
them from the previous conventions relative to the exchange of publications, 
the high contracting parties undertake to exchange, as fast as they are pub- 
lished, at least one copy — 

(«) All the current repertories of national bibliography of a general char- 
acter. 

(h) As far as possible documents of every kind giving information on the 
recent acquisitions of their scientitic libraries. 

Art. II. Each contracting State agrees to take all measures which it judges 
desirable — 

(o) In order to make easily accessible to all interested parties the lists 
communicated to it according to Article I. 

(&) In order to secure favorable consideration of all the proposals of ex- 
change which might be addressed to it by all the contracting States with regard 
to scientific or literary publications included in the above-mentioned lists. 

Art. III. To facilitate generally the exchange of works which are the most 
important or most representative of the various types of national culture, the 
high contracting parties shall collect or catalogue the publications received by 
gift or otherwise which are available for international exchange. They will 
publish from time to time a list of these works. 

This list will also give the names of works existing in duplicate in libraries 
which may be exchanged. 

Art. IV. The high contracting parties undertake to encourage in every way 
the multiplication of exchanges of scientific and literary publications, whether 
State-subsidized or not, between academies and learned societies, universities, 
and scientific institutions, as laid down in Article VII of the Convention of 
1886. 

Art. V. The high contracting parties undertake to publish annual reports on 
the work of their exchange services. These reports shall be transmitted to the 
committee on intellectual cooperation, which shall publish extracts therefrom, 
together with a general report on the work of the international exchanges 
during the period in question. 

The text of the above draft convention was brought to the atten- 
tion of this Government by the secretary general of the League of 
Nations with the request that consideration be given to the feasi- 
76041—26 T 



86 ANNUAL KEPOHT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1025 

bility of agreeing to it. The State Department referred the matter 
to the Institution, which replied in part as follows : 

While it is realized that the articles in the proposed new convention would 
greatly facilitate the dissemination and iutercliange of published information 
among the various countries, it is also realized that it would be impossible to 
carry out their stipulations even partially without the expenditure of a con- 
siderable sum of money annually. So far as the Smithsonian Institution is 
concerned, it would be impossible to do so without a large Increase in the 
appropriation made to it for the support of the International Exchange Service. 

The Smithsonian Institution is, therefore, not in a position to carry out 
even partially the terms proposed in the new convention unless adequate addi- 
tional funds were appropriated for the purpose. The Institution has, however, 
always done everytliing in its power to promote this subject since it inaugu- 
rated a system of international exchange in 1850, and believes that it might 
be well for this country to consider again at a later and more favorable time 
the question of adhering to the proposed convention. 

The committee of experts also gave consideration to various other 
matters looking to the improvement of the international exchange 
service at large and the extension of its activities. 
Respectfully submitted. 

C. G. Abbot, 
Assistant Seci'etary^ in charge of Library and Exchanges. 
Dr. Charles D. Walcott, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 6 
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera- 
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ending June 
30, 1925. 

Mr. N. Hollister, superintendent of the park since 1916, died on 
November 3, 1924, and was succeeded by Dr. Alexander Wetmore, 
who served until April 1, 1925. On that date Doctor Wetmore was 
appointed an assistant secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and 
the writer was honored by appointment as superintendent of the 
park on May 13, 1925. 

The appropriation made by Congress for the regular maintenance 
of the park was $148,237. From the printing and binding appro- 
priation of the Smithsonian Institution, $300 was allotted to the 
National Zoological Park. A special appropriation of $3,250 was 
made by Congress for laying a water main and installing two fire 
hydrants in the park. This sum proved to be inadequate, and it was 
necessary to allot money from the regular maintenance fund of the 
park to complete the work. 

As regards the collection, the year has not been a satisfactory one. 
Many of the specimens in the park representing major types of ani- 
mals are very old, and occasional deaths are beginning to thin their 
ranks, as has been expected, which has resulted during the past year 
in the loss of valuable specimens in several representative groups, 
thus greatly diminishing the value of the collection. 

ACCESSIONS 

Gifts. — One hundred and thirty animals were presented to the 
park or placed there on indefinite deposit during the year. Notable 
among these are the splendid young male chimpanzee and a pair of 
turacous placed on deposit by Mr. Victor J. Evans, who maintains 
a continual interest in the collection; a series of five valuable mon- 
keys presented by Mr. and Mrs. E. R. Grant, of Washington, D. C. ; 
a Bateleur eagle, an Abyssinian falcon, and two South American 
stone plover, by Mr. B. H. Swales ; a brocket deer by INIr. P. W. Shu- 
feldt, of Belize, British Honduras; a black bear by Mr. Fred N. Bent, 
of De Leon Springs, Fla.; and a large monitor lizard by Capt. 

87 



88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Walter K. Burgess, United States Army. A complete list of gifts 
for the year from 70 individual donors is as follows : 

Mr. E. R. Acher, Washington, D. C, Virginia opossum. 

Mr. J. M. Annadale, Washington, D. C, Virginia opossum. 

Mr. C. R. Aschemeier, Washington, D. C, chiclieu turtle, 2 goplier tortoises, 
and Florida snapping turtle. 

Mr. Vernon Bailey, Biological Survey, Washington, D. C, white-headed beach 
mouse and 5 grasshopper mice. 

Dr. Barnhart, Washington, D. C, mockingbird. 

Mr. O. E. Baynard, riant City, Fla., Florida barred owl and bald eagle. 

Mr. J. T. Benson, Nashua, N. H., Nepalese paroquet. 

Mrs. L. A. Bostwick, Washington, D. C, 2 Tovi paroquets. 

Mr. M. K. Brady, Washington, D. C, Chinese, Japanese, and American tor- 
toises and terrapins. 

Capt. Walter K. Burgess, United States Army, monitor lizard. 

Mr. Fred N. Burt, De Leon Springs, Fla., black bear. 

Miss Helen Carlisle, Washington, D. C, brown capuchin. 

Mr. H. C. Chandlee, Washington, D. C, Cuban parrot. 

President Coolidge. White House, alligator. 

Mrs. S. E. De Maret, Washington, D. C, canary and red-and-blue-and-yellow 
macaw. 

Mrs. H. O. Earle, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

Mr. E. H. Ehlis, AVashington, D. C, screech owl. 

Mr. Will Ellis, Niagara Falls, Ontario, banded rattlesnake. 

Mr. V. J. Evans, chimpanzee, 2 turacous, and 2 chukker partridges. 

Mr. Charles L. Fagan, Rahway, N. J., Hungarian quail, bobolink, and Gay"s 
finch. 

Mr. Robert W. Ferguson, Boston, Mass., wild turkey. 

Mrs. Robert W. Ferguson, Fernandina, Fla., 3 rattlesnakes. 

Mr. E. K. Fox, Washington, D. C, black-crowned night heron. 

Mr. A. G. P. Garrett, jr., Washington, D. C, raccoon. 

Mrs. E. H. Gilford, Washington, D. C, Philippine macaque. 

Dr. W. S. Gochenour, Bureau of Animal Industry, Department of Agriculture, 
AVashington, D. C, 5 mallards. 

Mr. E. R. Grant, Washington, D. C, mandrill, Gelada baboon, yellow baboon, 
and sphinx baboon. 

Mrs. E. R. Grant, Washington, D. C, lesser white-nosed guenon. 

Mr. Arthur Harris, Washington, D. C, ring-necked pheasant. 

Mr. Thomas Harrison, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

Miss Ina L. Hawes, Bureau of Entomology, Washington, D. C, horned toad. 

Mr. Joseph Hayden, Washington, D. C, grass paroquet. 

Mr. Owen Hockman, Washington, D. C, barred owl. 

Mr. E. H. Holbrook, Maupin, Oreg., black bear. 

Mrs. M. J. Holmes, Washington, D. C. blue jay. 

Mr. W. F. Hopkins, Washington, D. C, painted turtle. 

Mr. I. S. Home, Kansas City, Mo., 12 prairie dogs. 

Mr. Clyde Howard, Huntley, Mont., coyote. 

Mr. Francis Jaffee, Washington, D. C, St. Helena waxbill. 

Mr. F. N. Jarvis, Biological Survey, AA'^ashington, D. C., American barn owl 
and Cooper's hawk. 

Mr. B. J. Jutz, Washington, D. C, Margay cat. 

Miss Virginia Kalmbach, Washington, D. C, canary. 

Mr. Francis S. Key, Washington, D. C, alligator. 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY 89 

Mr. Jerome Keyes, Alexandria, Va.," spreading adder. 

Mr. John M. Klein, Washington, D. C, blue-fronted parrot. 

Maj. Frank G. Long, United States Army, red-and-blue-and-yellow macaw. 

Dr. AVilliam M. Maun, African tortoises. Reeves turtle, and blue-headed 
parrot. 

Mr. Herbert Manning, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

Miss Merla G. Matthews, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

Mrs. J. W. McClure, Sebring, Fla., two sandhill cranes. 

Miss Lelia M. Milstead, Newington, Va., Virginia opossum. 

Mrs. J. W. Morse, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

Mrs. D. W. Padden, Fredouia, N. Y., double yellow-head parrot. 

Dr. Pardoe, Bound Brook, N. J., pine snake. 

Mrs. S. F. Perkins, Washington, D. C, two snapping turtles and two painted 
turtles. 

Mr. E. L. Phillips, Washington, D. C, alligator. 

Mr. J. 11. Pilling, Falls Church, Va., brown capuchin. 

Mi-s. R. H. Quinn, Washington, D. C, common rabbit. 

Mr. E. D. Reid, United States National Museum, Washington, D. C, pilot 
black snake. 

Mr. H. W. Richards, Takoma Park, Md., two screech owls. 

Mr. L. B. Robertson, Clarendon, Va., bonnet monkey. 

Mr. J. T. Russell, Washington, D. C, Petz paroquet. 

Mr. R. C. Shannon, United States National Museum, Washington, D. C, 
copperhead snake. 

Mr. John B. Shepard, Albany, N. Y., muskrat. 

Mr. P. W. Shufeldt, Belize, B. H., brocket. 

Mr. Carl H. Smith, Washington, D. C, orange-winged paroquet. 

Dr. T. E. Snyder, Bureau of Entomology, Washington, D. C, spreading adder. 

Mr. B. H. Swales, Washington, D. C, South American stone plover ; pigmy 
falcon, and Bateleur eagle. 

Mr. J. E. Tyler, Washington, D. C, canary. 

Mrs. R. C. Wilton, Washington, D. C, blue-and-yellow macaw. 

Mr. H. A. Wrenn, Baltimore, Md., albino squirrel. 

Births. — During the year 74 birds and mammals, hatched or born 
at the park, were added to the collection. Among the mammals 
were: Manchiirian tiger, 3; plains wolf, 3; coyote, 5; European 
brown bear, 4 ; Kocky Mountain sheep, 3 ; mouflon, 1 ; tahr, 2 ; Ameri- 
can bison, 3 ; yak, 1 ; Indian buffalo, 1 ; black buck, 1 ; American elk, 
1 ; red deer, 4 ; Barasingha deer, 1 ; Japanese deer, 4 ; fallow deer, 3 ; 
hippopotamus, 1; grasshopper mouse, 5; rhesus monkey, 1; Javan 
macaque, 1; Japanese macaque, 1; flying phalanger, 1; great red 
kangaroo, 3 ; rufous-bellied wallaby, 1 ; brush-tailed rock wallaby, 1. 

The park was again fortunate in raising two blue geese (Chen 
ccsrulescens). Other birds hatched were as follows : Mute swan, 
black duck, peafowl, silver gull, and black-crowned night heron. 

Purchases., exchanges., and transfers. — Only 91 specimens were 
purchased during the year. Of these special mention should be made 
of a De Brazza's guenon, a serval, a pair of viscachas, an Arabian 
gazelle, a llama, and a male gemsbok. The last named is a magnifi- 
cent specimen, the second of its kind to be received at the park. 



90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

A small number of animals were received in exchange for surplus 
stock from the collection. 

The Biological Survey, United States Department of Agriculture, 
transferred a number of animals taken by field agents of the bureau, 
including some large western ravens, western porcupines, two sand- 
hill cranes, and two whistling swans. 

Deposits. — Among the animals received on deposit, which repre- 
sented species not exhibited in the collection, were a sarus crane, a 
jabiru stork, and a pair of adjutants, deposited for a time by Mr. 
Victor J. Evans. Of species placed on deposit which were new to 
the park records, a lesser white-nosed guenon is especially notable. 

REMOVALS 

Forty-one birds and mammals were sent aAvay in exchange to other 
zoological gardens during the year. Among these were two elk, an 
Indian buffalo, two American bison, six red deer, four Japanese deer, 
and a llama. 

Nine animals and birds on deposit were returned to their owners. 

The average mortality among the animals remains low, despite 
numerous losses during the year, chiefly among aged animals, long 
on exhibition. These losses, however, have been very serious, as they 
include a bull eland that had lived in the park since 1916, a Grant 
zebra received in 1909, a Rocky Mountain sheep ram received in 1917, 
Barbados sheep, reindeer, a wart hog, two lions, a male Axis deer, 
an African leopard that had lived in the park since 1909, and an 
African rhinoceros that had been in the collection only 18 months. 
Most of these animals were the only representatives of their species 
in the collection, and their loss creates gaps that can be filled only 
by purchases involving expenditures of far more money than is 
available. 

Losses among reptiles are so heavy unless adequate arrangements 
are made for their care, that it is useless to attempt to maintain a col- 
lection in this group, except of a few hardy types, until proper quar- 
ters are provided for them. 

Post-mortem examinations of animals that died were made, when 
desired, by the pathological division of the Bureau of Animal In- 
dustry. 

The following list shows the results of autopsies, the causes being 
arranged in groups : 

MAMMALS 

Marsupialia : Pneumonia, 3 ; pleurisy and pericarditis, 1 ; gastroenteritis, 1 ; 
necroltacillosis, 3 ; no cause found, 1. 

Carnivora : Cluonic nepliritis, 1 ; internal hemorrhage, 1 ; cystic goitre, 1 ; 
no cause found, 1. 

Rodentia : Pneumonia, 1 ; necrosis of jaw, 1 ; no cause found, 1. 



KEPORT OP THE SECRETAEY 



91 



Edentata: Congpstion of hmgs, 1: no cause found, 1. 

Primates : Congestion of lungs, 1 ; icterus, 1 ; metritis, 1 ; cystic tumor, 1 ; 
ankylosis, 1 ; cage paralysis, 1. 

Artiodactyla : Pneumonia, 3; enteritis, 2; gastroenteritis, 1; acute indiges- 
tion, 1 ; impaction of rumen, 2 ; old age, 6 ; accident, 1 ; difficiilt parturition, 1, 

Perissodactyla : Round worm infestation, 1 ; volvulus of large intestine, 1. 

Proboscidea : Malignant tumor, 1. 

lusectovora : Gastroenteritis, 1. 

BIRDS 

Ciconiiformes : Impaction of crop, 1 ; accident, 1 ; no cause found, 2. 
Anserif ormes : Tuberculosis, 2 ; gastroenteritis, 1 ; visceral gout, 1 ; verminous 
obstipation, 1 ; no cause fovind, 5. 
Falconiformes : Accident, 1. 
Gallif ormes : Accident, 1. 
Gruiformes : Accident, 1. 

Charadriif ormes : Enteritis, 1 ; visceral gout, 1. 
Psittaciformes : Tuberculosis, 2 ; coccidiosis, 1. 
Coraciiformes : Tuberculosis, 1 ; volvulus of large intestine, 1. 
Passeriformes : Syncope, 1 ; tapeworm infestation, 1 ; no cause found, 1. 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION, JUNE 30, 1925 
MAJMMALS 



MARS UPI ALIA 

Allen's opossum {Metachirops opossum 

fiiscogriseus) 1 

Virginia opossum (Didtlphis virgin- 

iana) 10 

Tasmanian devil (Sarcophilus harri- 

sii) 2 

Australian opossum (Trichosurus vul-- 

pecula) 1 

Flying phalanger (Petaurus brevi- 

ceps) 7 

Brush-tailed rock wallaby (PetrogaJe 

penicillata) 3 

Rufous-bellied wallaby (Macropus Ml- 

lardierii) 3 

Wallaroo (Macropus rohustus) 1 

Great gray kangaroo (Macropus gi- 

ganteus) 2 

Ked kangaroo {Macropus rufus) 6 

Wombat (Pliascolomys mitcliclli) 1 

CAENIVORA 

Kadiak bear {Vrsus viiddendorffl) 2 

Alaska Peninsula bear (Ursus gyas) — 4 

Yakutat boar {Ursus dalli) 1 

Kidder's bear (Ursus kidderi) 2 

European bear (Ursus arctos) 6 

Grizzly bear (Ursus horrihilis) 1 

Apache grizzly (Ursus apache) 1 

Himalayan bear (Ursus thibctanus) — 1 

Black bear (Ursus americanua) 4 

Cinnamon bear (Ursus americanus 

ciunamonium) 2 



Glacier bear (Ursus emmonsii) 1 

Sloth bear (Mclursus ursinus) 1 

Sun bear (Ilclarctos malayanus) 1 

Polar bear (Thalarctos maritimus) -- 2 

Dingo (Canis dingo) 3 

Gray wolf (Canis nubilus) 7 

Timber wolf (Canis occidentalis) 1 

Florida wolf (Canis floridanus) 1 

Texas red wolf (Canis rufus) 1 

Coyote (Catiis latraiis) 7 

Hybrid coyote (Canis latrans-rujus) ^- 1 

California coyote (Canis ochropus) — 1 
Black-backed jackal (Canis meso- 

mclas) 1 

Red fox (Vulpes fulca) 4 

European fox (Vulpes vuJpes) 1 

Kit fox (Vulpes velox) 2 

Gi-ay fox (Urocyon cinereoargen- 

tcus) 2 

Bush dog (Icticyon venaticus) 1 

Cacomistle (Bassariscus astutus) 2 

Panda (Ailurjis fulgens) 1 

Raccoon (Pruc^on lotor) 7 

Florida raccoon (Procyon lotor ehictis) ^ 2 

Gray continiundi (Nasua nurica) 2 

Kinkajou (Potos ftavus) 3 

Mexican kinkajon (Potos flat'US az- 

tccus) 1 

American badger (Taxidea taxus) 2 

Florida otter (Lutra canadensis vaga)- 3 
Blaclc-footed ferret (Mustela ni- 

gripcs) 1 

Palm civet (Paradojcurus hcrmapliro- 

ditus) 2 



92 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



Aard-wolf (Protrlcs cristatua) 1 

Siiottcd hyena (Crocuta crocuta) 1 

StrijK^d hyena (Hi/wna hymna) 1 

African cheetah (Acinonyx jubatua)-- 2 

Lion {Fclis ho) ."> 

Bengal tiger (FcUn tigria) 1 

Mancburian tiger (Fclia tigria longiin- 

lia) r. 

Leopard {Fclia pardua) I 

Jagnar (Fclia onca) 1 

Serval (Felis aerval) 1 

Brazilian ocelot (Felis pardalia brasiJi- 

enaia) 1 

Snow leopard (Fclis uncin) 1 

Mexican puma (Fclia azteca) 4 

Mountain lion (Felia hippolcatea) 1 

Canada lynx (Lynx canadensis) 1 

Northern wild cat (Lynx uinta) 1 

Bay lynx (Lynx rufua) ^^ 

Clouded leopard (Neofclia nebulosa) 1 

PINNIPEDIA 

California sea lion (Zalophua califor- 

nianua) 2 

San Geronimo harbor seal (Phoca- 

richardii geronimcnsia) 1 

RODBNTIA 

Woodchuck (Marinota monax) 3 

Prairie doR (Cynomys Zndoi'i«Vi«i/8) __ 'id 

European squirrel (i^ciurua vulgaris) - 4 

Prevost's squirrel (Sciurus pretwsti) - 1 

Honduras squirrel (Sciurus boothiw) 1 

Albino squirrel (Sciurus carolincnsia) - 3 
Bailey's pocket mouse (Peroynathua 

builcyi) 1 

White-headed beach mouse (Peromys- 

cua leucocephalua) 1 

American beaver (Castor canadensis) ^ 5 
Grasshopper mouse (Onychomys leuco- 

ffostcr) 10 

African porcupine (Hyatrix africwaus- 

tralia) 1 

Malay porcupine (Acanthion brachyu- 

rum) 2 

Tree porcupine (Coendou prehenailia) - 1 
Western porcupine (Ercthizon epixan- 

ihum) 1 

Vlscacha (Lagoatomua trichodactylua) - 2 
Central American paca (Cuniculus puca 

virgatus) 3 

Sooty a^^outi (l)usyprocta fuliginosa)- 1 

Speckled agouti (Daayprocta punctata) - 2 

Azara'a agouti (Dasyprocta azarcc) 1 

Trinidad agouti (Dasyprocta rubrata)- S 
Yellow-rumped agouti (Dasyprocta 

lucifer caycnnw) 1 

Guinea pig (Cavia porccllua) 10 

Capybara (Mydrocha-rus hydrocharua) - 2 

LAGOMORPHA 

Domestic rabbit (Oryctolagua cunicu- 
lus) 10 

INSBCTIVORA 

European hedgehog (Erinaceua euro- 

pa^us) 



PRIMATES 

Ring-tailed lemur (IjCmur cutta) 1 

Ued-fronted lemur (Lemur ruflfruna) - 1 

Gray spider monkey (Ateles gcoffroyi)- 2 
Mexican spider monkey (Atelea neg- 

lectua) 1 

White-throated capuchin (Cebus capu- 

cinus) 4 

Weeping capuchin (debus apclla) 1 

Brown capuchin (i'ehua fatucllua) 3 

Gelada baboon (Theropithccua ob- 

scurua) 1 

Chacma (Papio porcariua) 1 

Anubis baboon (Papio cynocephalua) - 1 

East African baboon (Papio ibeanua) ^ i 

Arabian baboon (Papio hamudryas) 2 

Mandrill (Papio sphinx) 2 

Drill (P'ipio leucophwua) I 

Moor macaque (Gynopithrc^ua maurua)- 2 

Barbary ape (Simia sylvanusi 2 

Japanese macaque (Macaca fusrata) 3 

I'ig-tailed monkey (Macaca. ncme- 

atrina) 1 

Burmese macaque (Macaca andaman- 

cnsis) 1 

Rhesus monkey (Macaca rhesus) IS 

Bonnet monkey (Macaca alnica) 1 

Philippine macaque (Macaca syrichta) 1 

Javan macaque (Macaca mordax) 6 

Black manga bey (Ccrcoccbua aterri- 

mus) 1 

Sooty mangabey (Cercocebua fuUgino- 

sua) 2 

Hagenbeck's mangabey (Cercocebua ha- 

genhecki) ^ ] 

White-collared mangabey (Cercocebua 

torguatws) 1 

Green guenon (Lasiopyga callitrichus)^ 2 

Vervet guenou (Lasiopyga pygcryihra) -. 1 

Moua guenou (Laaiopyga tnona) 3 

De Brazza's guenon (Laaiopyga 

brazza) 1 

Lesser white-nosed guenon (Laaiopyga 

peiauriata) 1 

Chimpanzee (Pan satyrua) 2 

AUTIODACTYLA 

Wild boar (Sua arrofa) 1 

Collared peccary (Pecari anguhitua) -- 2 
flijjpopotamus (Hippopotamus amjihib- 

ius) 3 

Baetrian camel (Camelua bactrianua) - 2 

Arabian camel (Vainclus dromedarius) - 1 

Guanaco (Lama guanicoe) 3 

Llama (Lama glama) 6 

Reindeer (Rangifcr tarandua) 5 

Eallow deer (Datna dama) 9 

Axis deer (Axia <u-i8) 2 

Hog deer (Ilyelapltua porcinus) 3 

Sambar (Ilusa vnicolor) 2 

Barasingba (I^ucrrvus duraucelii) 6 

Burmese deer (Ituccrvus eldii) 1 

.lajtanese deer (Sika nippon) 12 

Red deer (Cervas claphua) 13 

Kashmir deer (Ccrvua hanglu) 2 

Bedford deer (Cerrua xunthopygua)-- 5 

American elk (Vertiua canadenais) 4 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 



93 



Virginia deer (Odocoileus virfjinianua) - 1 

Broeljet (Mazama sartorii) 1 

Blesbol{ (Damalincus alMfrons) 2 

White-tailed gnu (Connochcetes onou) - 1 

Brindled gnu (ConnocJicetea taurinus)- 1 

Lecliwe (Onotratjus Icche) 1 

Sable antelope (Eiiocerus nlfier) 1 

Indian antelope (Antilopc ccri'icapra)- 4 

Arabian gazelle {Oazella arahica) 1 

Nilgai {Bosclaphus trayocamelus) 2 

Gemsbok (Oryx gazella) 1 

East African eland (Taurotragus oryx 

UviH(/istonii) 1 

Mountain goat {Oreamnos america- 

nus) 5 

Tahr (Hemitragus jcmlahicus) 8 

Alpine ibex (Capra ibex) 2 

Sheep (Ovis ovis) 1 

Aoudad (Ammotragus lervia) 1 

Rocky Mountain sheep (Ovis canaden- 
sis) 7 

Arizona mountain sheep (Oris can- 
adensis gaiUardi) 1 



Mouflon (Ovis inusimon) 4 

Greenland musk-ox (Ovilwa moschatus 

Wardi) 2 

Zebu (Bos indicus) 1 

Yak (Poephagus grunniens) 5 

American bison (Bison hison) 15 

Indian biilTalo (Bubalus huhalis) 3 



PERISSODACTYLA 

Malay tapir (Tapirus indictis) 

Brazilian tapir (Tapirus terrestris) 

Baird's tapir (Tupirella bairdii) 

Grevy's zebra (Equus grevyi) 

Zebra-horse hybrid (Equus Qrevyi- 

caballus) 

Zebra-ass hybrid (Equus grevyi-asi- 

nus) 

PROBOSCIDEA 

Abyssinian elephant (Loxodouta afri- 
cana oxyotis) 

Sumatran elephant (Elephaa sumatra- 
nus) 



BIRDS 



RATIT^ 

South African ostrich (Struthio aus- 

tralis) 5 

Somaliland ostrich (Struthio molybdo- 

phanes) 2 

Nubian ostrich (Struthio camelus) 1 

Rhea (Rhea americana) 1 

Sclater's cassowary (Casuariua phi- 

lipi) 1 

Emu (Dromiceius novmhollandiw) 2 

Kiwi (Apteryx mantelU) 1 

CICONIIFORMES 
American white pelican (Pelecanus 

erythrorhynchos) 7 

European white pelican (Pelecanus 

onocrotalus) , 2 

Roseate pelican (Pelecanus roseus) 2 

Australian pelican (Pelecanus con- 

spicillutus) 2 

Brown pelican (Pelecanus occiden- 

talis) I 9 

California brown pelican (Pelecanus 

calif ornicus) 5 

Florida cormorant (Phalacrocorux 

auritus floridanus) 3 

Great white heron (Ardea occiden- 

talls) 2 

Great blue heron (Ardea herodias) 1 

Goliath heron (Ardea goUath) 1 

American egret (Casmerodius epretta)- 2 
Black-crowned night heron (Nyctico- 

rax nycticorax nwvius) 32 



White stork (Ciconia ciconia) 

Black stork (Ciconia nigra) 

Marabou stork (Leptoptilus crumeni- 

ferus) 

Indian jabiru (Xenorhynchus asiaticus) 



Wood ibis (Alyc.teriu americana) 
Straw-necked ibis (Oarphibis 

collis) 1 

Sacred ibis (Threslciornis cethiopicus) - 2 
Black-headed ibis (Threskiornis nie- 

lanoccphalus) 3 

Australian Ibis (Threskiornis stricti- 

pennis) 4 

White ibis (Guura alba) 10 

Scarlet ibis (Qiiara rubra) 4 

European flamingo (Phasnicopterus 

roseus) 4 

ANSEatlFOEMES 

Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) 9 

Black duck (Anas rubripes) 8 

Australian black duck (Anas super- 

ciliosa) 1 

Gadwall (Chaulelasmus streperus) 1 

Falcated duck (Eunetta falcata) 1 

European widgeon (Mareca pene- 

lopo) 3 

Baldpale (Mareca americana) 8 

Green-winged teal (Nettion caro- 

Unense) 11 

European teal (Ncttion crecca) 4 

Baikal teal (Ncttion formostim) 6 

Blue-winged teal (Querguedula dis- 

cors) 1 

Garganey (Querquedula querquedula) - 6 

Shoveller (Spatula clypeata) 4 

Pintail (Daflla acuta) 10 

Bahaman pintail (Poccilanetta ba- 

hamensis) 1 

Wood duck (Aix sponsa) 10 

Mandarin duck (Dcndroncssa galeri- 

cuhitu) 12 

Canvasback (Marila valisineria) 9 



94 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



European pochard (Marila fcrina) 3 

Redhead (Afarila amcricana) 11 

Ring-necked duck {marihi coUaris) *_' 

Tufted duck (Murila fullr/ulu) 1 

Lesser scaup duck (Marila aifinis) .1 

Greater scaiiji duck (Marila marila) !) 

Rosy-hilled pochard (Metopiana pe- 

posaca) i 

Egyptian goose (Chenalopex wgypti- 

acua) .'{ 

Upland goose (Chloephuija Icucop- 

tera) 1 

Hawaiian goose (Ncsochen ftand- 

viccHSis) 2 

Snow goose (Chen hypcrborcus) 1 

Greater snow goose (Chen hyper- 

toreua nivalis) 2 

Blue goose (Chen cwrnlesccns) 5 

White-fronted goose (Anscr albi- 

frons) 2 

American wliilc-fronted goose (Anser 

alhifrons (/ainh€li) 3 

Bean goose (/I user fabalis) 2 

Pink-footed goose (Anser hraciiyrhyn- 

chus) 2 

Bar-headed goose (Eulabia indica) 2 

Canada goose (Branta canadensis) 8 

Ilutchins's goose (Branta canadensis 

hutchinsii) 

White-cheeked goose (Branta canaden- 
sis occidentalis) 12 

Cackling goose (Branta canadensis 

minima) 2 

Brant (Branta bernicla glaueo(jastra) - 8 

Barnacle goose (Branta leucopsis) ^ 5 

Spur-winged goose (Plectropterus ijain- 

bensis) 1 

Muscovy duck (Guirina moschatu) 1 

I'ied goose (Anscranas semipalmata) ^ 2 
niack-belliod tree duck (Dcndrucyijna 

aulumnalis) 5 

Ey ton's tree duck (Dendrocyi/iia ey- 

toni) 4 

Mute swan (Cygnus gibbtis) 4 

Trumpeter swan (Olor buceinutor) 1 

Black swan (Chcnopsls atrata) 2 

FAI.CONIFOKMES 

California condor (Gyinnogyps calif or- 

nianus) 8 

Turkey vulture (Cathartes aura) o 

Black vulture (Coragyps urubii) 1 

King vulture (Sarcorawphus papa) 2 

Secretary bird (Sagittarius serpen- 

turius) 1 

Griffon vulture (Oyps fulvus) 1 

African black vulture (Torgos trach- 

eliotus) 1 

Cinereous vulture (/Eyypius mona- 

chus) 2 

Caracara (polyhonis cheriway) 4 

Wedge-tailed eagle (IJrnactiis audaa-) - 2 

Golden eagle (Anuila chrysactoi<) o 

White-belliod sea eagle (Guncurna Irn- 

coguster) 2 

Bald eagle (Haliwetus leucocephaltis) . 10 



Alaskan bald eagle (Haliwetus leuco- 

cephalus iilascanus) 2 

liateleur eagle (Helotarsus ecauda- 

tus) 1 

Broad-winged hawk (Bvteo platypte- 

rus) 1 

Red-tailed hawk (Buteo borealis) 7 

IMgmy falcon (PolioMerax semitor- 

(juntus) 1 

Sparrow hawk (Falco sparvcrius) 4 

OAIXIPOBMES 

Razor-billed curassow (Mitu mitu) 4 

I'eiielope (Penelope holiviana) 1 

Wild turkey (Meleagris gallnpavo sil- 

restris) 1 

\iiUiirine guinea fowl (Acryllium vul- 

iurinuin) 2 

Peafowl (Pavo cristatus) IS 

Peacock pheasant (Polyplectron bical- 

caratum) 1 

Silver pheasant (Oennwus nycthcme- 

rus) 2 

Lady Amherst's pheasant (Chrysolo- 

phus aniherstiie) 1 

Ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus tor- 

(juatus) 10 

European quail (Coturnix coturnix) 3 

Hungarian quail (Perdix perdix) 1 

Gambel's quail (Lophortyx gambelii)- 1 
Valley quail (Lophortyx caUfornica 

vallicola) 1 

Chukar partridge (Caccabis chukar) 2 

Scaled quail (Callipepla squumata) 5 

Massena quail (Gyrtonyx montezumw) - 1 

GBUIFOKMES 

East Indian gallinule (Poriihyrio cal- 
ms) 2 

I'ukeko (Porphyria slanleyi) 1 

Black-tailed moor-hen (Microtribunyx 

ventralis) 2 

American coot (Fulica amcricana) 1 

South Island weka rail (Ocydromus 

austruHs) 3 

Short-winged weka (Ocydromus bra- 

chypterus) 2 

Sandhill crane (Grus mexieana) 3 

Little brown crane (Grus canadensis) ^ 4 

Sarus crane (Grus coUaris) 1 

Wliite-uecked crane (Grus leucauehen) - 1 
Indian white crane (Grus leucogera- 

HUS) 1 

Lllford's crane (Grus lilfordi) 2 

Australian crane (Grus rubicunda) 2 

Demoiselle crane (Anthropoides viryo)- G 

Crowned crane (Balearica pavonina)^ 1 

Kagu (Khynocheios jubatus) 2 

CHARADRIirORMES 

RiilT (Philomachus pugnax) 4 

Lapwing (VaneUus I'ancUus) . 1 

Yellow-wattled lapwing (LoUvanellus 

indicus) 1 

South American stone plover ((Edic- 

netnus bistriatus vocifer) 2 



KEPOET OF THE SECRETARY 



95 



Pacific gull {Gabianus pacificus) 1 

Great black-backed gull (Larus ma- 

riniis) 1 

Ilprring gull (Larus argentatus) 3 

Silver gull {Larus novwhoUandiw) 21 

Laughing gull (Larus atriciUa) 2 

Crovvnefl pigeon {Goura coroiiata) 3 

Victoria crowned pigeon (Goura vic- 
toria) 1 

Australian crested pigeon (Oci/iihaps 

lophotes) 3 

Bronze-wing pigeon (Phaps chalcop- 

tera) 2 

Marquesan dove (Gallicolumha rube- 

scens) » 7 

Bleeding-heart dove (Oallicolnmha 

hizonica) 2 

Wood pigeon (Culiimha paJumhus) 7 

Mourning dove (Zenaidiira mucroura)- 1 
White-fronted dove (Lcptotila fulvi- 

rcutris hrachyptcra) 4 

Kuddy quail-dove (Oreopeleia mon- 

t(ina) 1 

Necklaced dove (Spilopclia tigrina) 4 

Zebra dove (Geopelia striata) 3 

Bar-shouldered dove (Geopelia Jiume- 

rulis) 1 

Inca dove (Scardafella inca) 1 

Cuban ground dove (Chcemepelia pus- 

serina aflavida) 1 

Green-winged dove (Chalcvphaps in- 

dica) 1 

Ringed turtledove (Strepiopelia ri- 

soria) 3 

Fruit pigeon (Lamprotreron superha)_ 1 

PSITTACIFOEMES 

Kea (Xcstor notahilis) 3 

Musk lorikeet (Olossopsitta concinna) ^ 1 
Cockateel (Calopaitta novahollandiw) - 2 
Roseate cockatoo (Kukatoe roscica- 

pilla) 15 

Bare-eyed cockatoo (Kakatoc gym- 

nopis) 1 

Leadbeater's cockatoo (Eakiitoc lead- 

hiateri) 2 

Philippine cockatoo (Kakatoe lianna- 

turopygia) 1 

White cockatoo (Kakatoe alha) 1 

Sulphur-crested cockatoo (Kakatoe gal- 

erita) 9 

Great red-crested cockatoo (Kakatoe 

moluccensis) 1 

Cassin's macaw (Ara auricoUis) 1 

Mexican green macaw (Ara inexicaiia)- 2 

Severe macaw (Ara set-era) 1 

Blue-and-yellow macaw (Ara arara- 

una) 7 

Red-and-blue-and-yellow macaw (Ara 

mucuo) 7 

Hahn's macaw (Diopsittaca hahni) 1 

White-eyed paroquet (Aratitiga leu- 

cophthalmus) 1 

Petz's paroquet (Eupsittula cunicu- 

laris) G 

Golden-crowned paroquet (Eupsittula 

uurca) 3 



WeddelTs paroquet (Eupsittula iied- 

dellii) 3 

r.lue-winged parrotlet (Psittacula pa^- 

serina) 14 

Golden paroquet (Brotogeris cJirysos- 

ema) 2 

Tovi paroquet (Brotogeris jugularis) - 7 
Orange-winged paroquet (Brotogeris 

chiriri) 3 

Yellow-naped parrot (Ama::ona auro- 

palliata) 3 

Mealy parrot (Amazona farinosa) 2 

Orange-winged parrot (Amasona atna- 

sonica) 5 

Blue-fronted parrot (Amazona wstiva) - 2 
Red-crowned parrot (Amazona vii-idi- 

gcnalis) 3 

Double yellow-headed parrot (Amuzova 

oratrix) U 

Yellow-headed parrot (Amazona ochro- 

cephula) 4 

Festive parrot (Amazona festivaj 3 

Lesser white-fronted parrot (Amazona 

albifrons nana) 1 

Santo Domingo parrot (Amazona ven- 

tralis) 3 

Cuban parrot (Amazona leucocephala) - 3 
Maximilian's parrot (Pionus maximi- 

Uajii) 1 

Dusky parrot (Pionus fuscus) 2 

Blue-headed parrot (Pi07iU8 menstruus) 2 
Amazonian caique (Pionites xantho- 

meria) 5 

Lesser vasa parrot (Coracopsis nigra)- 1 
Greater vasa parrot (Coracopsis vasa)- 1 
Red-faced love bird (Agapornis pul- 

laria) 8 

Pennant's paroquet (Platycercus ele- 

gaus) 2 

Rosella paroquet (Platycercus eximius) 1 
Black-tailed paroquet (Polytelis mela- 

nuru) 1 

Iviug paroquet (Aprosmictus eyano- 

pyyius) _ 1 

Crimson-winged paroquet (Apro.^mictus 

erythroptcrus) 1 

Ring-uecked paroquet (Conurus tor- 

quatics) 1 

Nepalese paroquet (Conurus nepa- 

lensis) 1 

Philippine green parrot (Tanygnathus 

lucionensis) 1 

Grass paroquet (Melopsittacus undu- 

laius) 16 

CUCULIFOKMES 

Turaco, immature (Turacus sp.) 2 

CORACIIFOUMES 

Giant kingfisher (Dacelo gigas) 1 

Yellow-billed hornbill (Lophoceros Icu- 

cumclas) 1 

Morepork owl (Spiloglaux norasee- 

landiw) 1 

Barred owl (i^t7-ix varia) 6 

Florida barred owl (Stnx varia alien i) ^ 1 

Snowy owl (Nyctea nyctca) 1 



96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



Screech owl (Oh<.t a/tio) 

Great liorned owi (Bubo viryinianus) - 

En5?le owl (liiiho htibo) 

Amerlciin barn owl (Tpto perlata pro- 
t'nicola) 

PASSEBIFOBMES 
Cock-of-the-rock (Rupicnia rupicoUi)^- 
Silver-eared hlU-tit (Mvslu aroenUiuria) 

Ked-liilled hill-tit (Liotlirix lutcvs) 

Black-gorgeted laughing-thrush (Garru- 

lax pectoralla) 

White-eared bulbul {Otocompsa Icu- 

cotis) 

Red-eared bulbul (Otocompsa jocoaa)- 
Europeau blackbird (Tiirdiis mentla)- 

Mockingbird {Miiinta polyf/lottoa) 

Piping crow-shrike (Oymnothina ii- 

hiccn) 

European raven (Corvua coraar) 

An>erican raven (Oorvua corax sinu- 

atua) 

Australian crow (Corvua coronoidea) — 
American crow (Oorvua brachyrhyn- 

choa) 

Yucatan jay (Cisailopha yucatanica) 

Blue jay (Cyanocitta cristata) 

Green jay (Xanthoura luxuosa) 

Yellow-headed marsh bird (Agelains 

icteroccphahia) 

Australian gray Jumper (Struthidea 

olnerea) 

Starling (Sturnua vulgaria) 

Shining starling (Lamprocorax metal- 

licua) -. 

Laysan finch (Tclespy::a cantana) 

Blue honey creeper (Cyanerpea cy- 

uneua) 

Blue-winged tanager (Tanayia cyanop- 

tera) 

Blue tanager (Thraiipis cana) 

Giant whydah (Dlutropura progne) 

Paradise whydah (Steganura paradiaea) 



Shaft-tailed whydah (Tetrcrnina regia) 1 
Napoleon weaver (Pyromeluna afni) — 1 

Red-billed weaver (Quelca quelca) 1 

Bobolink (Dolichonyx orysivorua) 1 

Madagascar weaver (Foudia madagas- 

caiicnsia) 1 

St. Helena waxbill (BatrUda aatrilda)- 4 
Kosy-rumped waxbill (Estrilda rhodo- 

pygia) 1 

Nutmeg flnch (Munia ptuictttlatn) 3 

White-headed nun (Munia maja) 2 

Black headed nun (3lu7iia atricapilla) . 5 
Chestnut-breasted flnch (Alunui caata- 

ncithorax) 3 

Java finch (Munia oryzivora) 13 

Masked grassfinch (Poephila perao- 

nata) 5 

Black-faced Gouldian finch (Poephila 

gouldicB) 1 

Red-l'uccd Gouldian flnch (Poephila 

mirahilis) 1 

Diamond finch (Steganopleura guttata) 5 
y^ebra finch (Twniopygia caatnnotia) — 15 

Cutthroat finch (Amadina fasciuta) 9 

Ued-he;uled finch (Amadina erythro- 

ccph(ila) 2 

Ilooriod oriole (Icterua cucuUatus) ~ 

Yellow tailed oriole (Icterus meao- 

iiKlas) 1 

Purple grackle (Quiacalus quiacula) — - 

(jroenflnch (Oliloris chloris) " 

European goldfinch (Carduelia car- 

duelia) i 

Bramble finch (FringiUa montifrin- 

gilla) ^ 4 

Yellowhammer (Emheriza citrineUa) — 1 
House flnch (Carpodacua mexicanuti 

frontalis) 2 

San Lucas house finch (Carpodacua 

mexivatiua rubcrrimua) 2 

Canary (Serinus canarius) 19 

Gray singing finch (Serinus hucopy- 

giua) 9 



REPTILES 



Alligator (Alligator JHis.si.s.sip;)icHSis)_ 4r! 

Water dragon (Physignathua leaiicurii) 1 

Horned toad (Phrynoaoma cornutum)- 2 

Glass snake (Ophinaiirus lentralifi) 1 

Gila monster (Heloderma suapcctum)^ 6 

Gould's monitor (Varanua gouldii) 1 

Philippine monitor (Varanua aalvator) 1 
Blue-tongued lizard (TiHqita scin- 

coides) 1 

Rock python (Python molurus) 2 

Regal python (Python reticulatus) — 1 

Anaconda (liunectea murinus) 2 

Boa constrictor {Conatrictor con- 

atrictor) 1 

Black snake (Coluber conxtrictur) 2 

Blue ract>r (Coluber conatrictor fiavi- 

ventria) (» 

Coachwhip snake (Coluber ftagcllum)- 2 

Chicken snake (Rlaphv quadrivittata) - 1 

Corn snake (Elaphc yuttala) 2 

Pilot blacksnake (Elaphe obaoleta) 1 



Pine snake (Pituophis melanoleucus)-^ 4 

Bull snake (Pituophis aayi) 4 

Western bull snake (Pituophis catc- 

nifcr) 1 

Water snake (Natrix aipedon) 2 

Western water snake (Natrix aipedon 

fasciuta) 1 

Garlor snake (Thamnophis airtalia) — 1 
I'loiida rattlesnake (Croialua adaman- 

teua) 3 

Westeru diamond rattlesnake (Crotalua 

atrox) 4 

Snapping turtle (Chelydra serpentina) 5 
Florida snapping turtle (Chelydra 

osccola) 1 

Rossignon's snapping turtle (Chelydra 

roaaignonii) 1 

Musk turtle (Kinoaternon odoratum) — 1 
Mexican musk turtle (Kinoaternon ao- 

norienae) 1 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 



97 



South American musk turtle (Eino- 

siernon scorpioides) 

Pennsylvania musk turtle (Kinosternon 

suhruhrum) 

Wood turtle (Clemmys insciilpta) 

European pond turtle (Emys orbicu- 

hiris) 

South American terrapin (Nicoria puno- 

tularia) 

Reeves turtle (Geoclemmys reevesi) 

Painted turtle {Chrysemys picta) 

Cooter (PscMclemys acripta) 

Central American cooter {Pst}udemys 

oniata) 



Gopher tortoise (Gophci iis polyphemus) 
Duncan Island tortoi.se (Testudo cphip- 

pium) 

Indefatigable Island tortoise {Testudo 

porteri) 

Albemarle Island tortoise (Testudo 

vioina) 

South American tortoise (Testudo dertr- 

ticulata) 

African tortoise (Testudo hermanni) 

Long-necked turtle (Chelodina loiuji- 

coUis) 

Chicken turtle (Deirochelys reticu- 

laria) 



Statement of the collection 





Mam- 
mals 


Birds 


Reptiles 


Total 




28 
54 

2 
60 

1 
15 


54 
20 
12 
26 
11 
13 


34 


116 




74 






14 




5 
1 
6 


91 


Transferred from other Government departments 


13 


Deposited . . 


34 








160 


136 


46 


342 



SUMMARY 

Animals on hand July 1, 1924 1,645 

Accessions during the year 342 

Total animals handled 1, 987 

Deduct loss (by death, return of animals, and exchange) 367 



Status of collection 



1, 620 





Species 


Individ- 
uals 


Mammals . . - -- 


178 
285 
48 


503 


Birds - 


982 




135 






Total 


511 


1,620 







Compared ^Yith the previous year, a decrease in number of indi- 
viduals is shown and compared with 1923, when there were 1,768 
animals in the collection, a still greater decrease is noted. This is 
due to continued losses in the aging stock, especially among the 
larger forms. The number of forms represented exceeds that of 
last year, an increase due to judicious selection and purchase of 
small species offered at moderate prices. 

Additional funds are urgently needed for purchase of animals to 
fill the steadily increasing gaps in the groups of larger mammals. 



98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

VISITORS 

The attendance record as determined by count and estimate ex- 
ceeded that of the previous year by 75,385. The greatest attendance 
foi- one month was 372,950, in April. The increase is highly grati- 
fying as it indicates the keen interest of the general public in the 
collections. 

The attendance by months was as follows: 

July 240,700 

August 1 324,000 

September 232,725 

October 235,000 

November 179,500 

December . 56,630 

January 37,110 

February 121, 550 

March 248,200 

April 372, 950 

May 269,300 

June 200,600 

Total for year 2,518,265 

Schools, classes, and similar organizations, recorded among the 
visitors, number 266, with a total of 20,800 individuals. 

The highest attendance for a year recorded previously was 
2,444,880 in 1924. 

IMPROVEMENTS 

The animal warehouse, 24 by 90 feet, with a small ell for a feed 
room, the construction of which had been begun during the previous 
year, was completed and put into service before the end of 1925. 
This building is very useful, both as quarters for animals tempor- 
arily not on exhibition, and as a reception house for animals just 
arriving where they may rest before being placed on exhibition. It 
will also be useful during the winter in storing birds which are ex- 
hibited during the summer in the big flight cage and elsewhere, and 
for which there is no room in the bird house. 

A double bear cage of steel, each half 12 by 16 feet, with con- 
crete shelter, has been erected to take the place of a large wooden 
cage that was decayed beyond safety or justifiable repair. 

The log dam of loose bowlders across Rock Creek at the head of 
the American water-fowl pond to maintain a flow of water into the 
pond, which had been repeatedly washed out by floods, was replaced 
by a log dam faced with bowlders. The logs used were obtained 
from chestnut trees in the park that had died from bark disease. 

A concrete chimney was built on the restaurant. This building 
still needs various improvements, especially the addition of a kitchen, 



EEPOliT OF THE SECRETARY; 99 

as well as an inclosed room where visitors may Ivmch comfortably 
in cold weather. 

The bird house required repairs, as usual. Some of the cages 
were in such bad condition that they had to be entirely replaced. 
A new floor was laid in the feed room, and various minor repairs 
made. The roof leaked badly and will require treatment during 
the coming year. 

The eland house, the zebra house, the fences about these, rub- 
bish containers, outdoor benches, various inclosure fences, and other 
ironwork were painted during the year. 

WATER MAIN 

One thousand live hundred and eighty feet of six-inch water main 
was laid, and two lire hydrants installed, through a special ap- 
propriation of $3,250, supplemented by funds taken from the general 
appropriation. 

NEEDS OF THE PARK 

The need of the park for exhibition buildings is even more acute 
than in previous 3^ears, as there has been tremendous growth in the 
number of visitors and there is need for better conditions for exhibi- 
tion. The most important and customarj?^ buildings required by a 
zoological park are : Carnivore, pachyderm, primate, antelope, small 
mammal, bird, and reptile houses. Of permanent structures, the 
National Zoological Park has a primate house, a house to contain 
one elephant, and one end of a carnivore house. All other build- 
ings are old, without exception originally built as temporary make- 
shifts and kept together only by continual and often expensive 
repairs. 

The building that shelters most of the birds, built 28 years ago, 
was then intended to house the collections for three or four years, 
until a suitable bird house could be constructed. This structure is 
dark, wdth walls so decayed that they will no longer hold pebble- 
dash, and provides entirely inadequate space for either the collection 
of birds or the great numbers of visitors; it is not only unfit for its 
i:)resent use but actually unsafe for its inmates. 

There is no house for reptiles, always popular with visitors, and 
none for small mammals. Such reptiles and small mammals as 
are shown at the park are scattered about in places where it is in- 
convenient to care for them, and where in some instances they 
actually close the passages needed for visitors. 

During a period of 35 years a collection of animals has been 
assembled in the National Zoological Park which ranks among the 
most notable in this country. Adequate buildings to replace the 



100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

present obsolete quarters should be provided to house properly the 
living animals, to maintain them in health, and to exhibit them 
<o the more than two million visitors who come annually to view 
llieni. 

FUNDS rOR THE PURCHASE OF ANIMALS 

The collection at the National Zoological Park is augmented each 
year by various gifts, and through unusual success in the breeding 
and rearing of animals, the park has been able to exchange speci- 
mens with other zoological parks so that it has maintained a rea- 
sonably well-balanced collection of the living animals of Ihe world, 
always lacking, however, representatives of certain important and 
interesting species. For instance, there has never been a giraffe 
at the park. There is no rhinoceros, no pigmy hippopotamus, and 
no Indian elephant. Such animals as these, when offered to the 
park can not be considered owdng to the entirely inadequate fund 
for the purchase of animals, and opportunities are frequently lost 
to fill definite gaps in the collection, as well as to replace species 
lost through death, by the i)urchase of most desirable animals that 
are offered for sale. 

An increased appropriation to cover cost and transportation of 
animals has been requested, but it seems advisable also to repeat the 
suggestion made in previous reports that an animal purchase fund 
be inaugurated and deposited with the Smithsonian Institution. 

REVENUES OF THE PARK 

A zoological park itself is not expected to finance the refresh- 
ment of visitors. There are in the National Zoological Park, how- 
ever, as in other parks, a refreshment stand and a restaurant wdiich 
are rented to private parties. The money from these concessions, 
under present regulations, goes to the United States Treasury and 
can not be used for the park, although repairs and other costs in 
connection with the restaurant must be borne by the park. It is 
earnestly recommended that the revenues from the restaurant con- 
cession, which serves only to benefit the public, be turned into the 
animal fund of the park instead of into the general fund of the 
Treasury. Such is the established practice in other parks, munici- 
pal and otherwise, which often derive considerable funds for the 
purchase of animals from such concessions. 

Respectfully submitted. 

W. M. Mann, Superintendent. 

Dr. Charles D. Walcott, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 1 

REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 

Sir: The Astrophj^sical Observatory was conducted imder the 
following passage of the independent offices approjoriation act ap- 
proved June 7, 1924: 

Astrophysical Observatory: For maintenance of the A.stropliysical Observa- 
tory, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, including assistants, 
purchase of necessary books and periodicals, apparatus, makini? necessary ob- 
servations in high altitudes, repairs and alterations of buildings, and miscel- 
laneous expenses, $21,580. 

The observatory occupies a number of frame structures within 
an inclosure of about 16,000 square feet south of the Smithsonian ad- 
ministration building at Washington, a cement observing station and 
frame cottage for observers on a plot of 10,000 square feet leased 
from the Carnegie Solar Observatory on Mount Wilson, Calif., and 
also a solar observing station on Mount Harqua Hala, Ariz., erected 
in 1920 at the expense of private funds contributed by Mr. John A. 
Roebling, of Bernardsville, N. J. 

The present value of the buildings and equipment for the Astro- 
physical Observator}^ owned by the Government is estimated at 
$50,000. This estimate contemplates the cost required to replace 
the outfit for the purposes of the investigation. 

WORK OF THE YEAR 

Solar variation and forecasting. — The chief object of the work 
at present is to secure the most exact measurements of the variation 
of the sun in order to provide proper data for studying the influ- 
ence of solar changes on weather conditions of the United States 
and the whole world. Accordingly, the efforts of the staff were de- 
voted mainly to this purpose. The Government appropriation? 
were sufficient only to maintain the work at Washington and Ari- 
zona, and to pay salaries of two observers at the exceptionally favor- 
able station at Montezuma, Chile. This station was established in 
1918, and has been maintained ever since by private funds of the 
Institution, supplemented by gifts of Mr. Roebling. Owing to fur- 
ther support by Mr. Roebling, it has been possible to receive daily 
telegrams reporting the solar radiation observations in Chile and 
in Arizona. These arrive at Washington within 24 hours of the 
observations in the field. 

76041—26 8 101 



102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

The experimental forecasts by Mr. H. H. Clayton for the city of 
New York, mentioned in last year's report, were continued. For 
this purpose daily telegrams of the condition of the sun were sent 
from Washington to Mr. Clayton at Canton, Mass. These usually 
reached him before noon on the day after the observations were 
made in Chile and Arizona. Making up his New York forecasts 
for three, four, and five days ahead, Mr, Clayton informed the 
Smithsonian by letter on the same afternoon. On Friday of each 
week he forecast the temperature departures for the ensuing week 
beginning Sunday, and about the end of each month he forecast 
the temperature departures for the ensuing month. These weekly 
and monthly forecasts were also mailed in advance to the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 

We have compared Clayton's forecasts with the events, using 
mathematical processes of verification which are not susceptible of 
personal bias. A moderate degree of foreknowledge is certainly in- 
dicated, both for the specific forecasts of three, four, and five days 
in advance, and for the more general average forecasts of weeks 
and months. 

On May 2, 1925, a symposium on this subject was held at the 
United States Weather Bureau before the American Meteorological 
Society. At that time, Messrs. C. G. Abbot and H. H. Clayton ex- 
plained the status of the measurements of solar variation, and their 
applications for forecasting. Later, these papers of Abbot and 
Clayton, and also a paper by INIr. G. Hoxmark, on the results 
reached since 1922 in the application of solar variation for official 
forecasts in Argentina, were published as Nos. 5, 6, and 7, of Volume 
77, Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. 

The costs of telegraphic :idvices and of Mr. Clayton's computing 
bureau have been borne by Mr, Roebling's gifts for these purposes, 
as also the cost of publication of the papers just mentioned. 

No public forecasts have been made or will be made under the 
auspices of the Smithsonian Institution. Our entire purpose in 
the matter is, and has always been, to make such experiments as 
might indicate what value, if any, would attach to the introduction 
of a new variable, namely, the variation of the sun, in weather fore- 
casting. Our forecasts arc made privately and onlj' as tests of the 
experimental conclusions. 

Unfortunately, space writers in the public prints have not under- 
stood this and have attributed to the Smithsonian Institution fore- 
casts of weather conditions far into the future. These, in reality, 
have been made by several private individuals entirely unconnected 
with the Institution. We take no responsibility for these prognos- 
tications, as we know as yet of no sound method by which they may 
be made. 



KEPOET OF THE SECRETARY 103 

A compilation of all results on the solar constant of radiation, 
from 1918 to November, 1924, was published as No. 3 of Volume 77, 
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. 

The investigations hitherto made having indicated that a higher 
degree of accuracy in our solar measurements is needed to supply 
proper data for forecasting purposes, a very great deal of attention 
has been given to the elimination of small sources of error in the 
observations and reductions of solar radiation. Already the average 
deviation of individual days' results between Chile and Arizona is 
but one-half per cent. It follows that in order to attain higher ac- 
curacy we shall be obliged to regard sources of error which formerly 
we supposed would always be negligible. 

This has led to the designing and construction of new apparatus 
for use in pyrheliometry, which eliminates the employment of the 
observer's watch altogether. It has also required the investigation 
of the infra-red and ultra-violet portions of the solar spectrum, be- 
yond the usual limits of our daily spectrum observations. Still 
more important, it has led to a complete revision of the methods 
of measuring and reducing solar energy spectra. With these new 
modifications in mind, a complete re-reduction of all solar radiation 
work since the beginning of the year 1922 has been undertaken, and 
occupies the whole force at Washington. 

Removal of Mount Harq^va Hala station. — The station at Mount 
Harqua Hala, Ariz., first occupied in 1920, proves to be too far to 
the east, so that the summer months there are unsuitable for ob- 
serving, because of the atmospheric conditions which go to bring 
about the severe thunderstorms of Arizona. Very few days of June, 
July, and August have been suitable for our exacting work, and even 
some of the spring months have been marred by long-continued 
haziness. Had weather conditions there been first-rate, the ob- 
servers would gladly have suffered the excessive isolation of the 
place, which is almost wholly cut off from relaxations, but to make 
such a sacrifice fruitlessly is indeed very depressing. 

Accordingly, investigations have been made which have fixed on a 
better site, both as regards weather conditions and comfort. This is 
chosen on Table Mountain, within the bounds of the Los Angeles 
County Park, about 30 miles northeast of Mount Wilson. Lying on 
the edge of the Mojave Desert, at 7,500 feet elevation, the weather 
observations indicate very decided improvement over Harqua Hala 
for our purpose. Add to this the convenience of access and pleas- 
ant surroundings and we have combined there great advantages. 

Mr. John A. Roebling has added to his already great gifts suffi- 
cient means to enable necessary buildings to be erected on Table 
Mountain, and to remove the observing outfit thence from Harqua 



104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Hala. The supervisors of the Los Angeles County Park have cor- 
dially assisted in the transfer, giving rights of occupancy, and ex- 
tending the auto road quite to the doors of the proposed observatory, 
without expense to the Smithsonian Institution. It is expected to 
occupy Table Mountain beginning about October 1, 1925, Mr, 
Moore's energetic efforts in the preliminary arrangements and the 
preparation of buildings deserve high praise, ' ' 

An expedition under Doctor Abbot occupied Mount Wilson in the 
summer and autumn of 1924. The solar cooker was rebuilt, as far 
as concerned its oven, its circulatory system for hot oil, and its in- 
sidation against heat losses. The new oil system Avas perfectly suc- 
cessful in avoiding all leaks, such as always hitherto have marred 
the operations. Also, the introduction of a larger reservoir, and 
especially of " Silocel," or diatomaceous bricks, for heat insulation 
proved highly satisfactory. The experiment was tried of intro- 
ducing forced oil circulation by means of a little steam engine 
operated by the heat of the reservoir. This worked Avell mechani- 
cally, but proved unnecessary, as no higher temperatures of the 
oven were reached when forced circulation was in operation. 

It was intended to use a vacuum jacket about the heater tube, but 
the apparatus was not received in season. Without this crowning 
improvement the solar cooker worked fully as well as in 1920, when 
its reputation was first made, despite the fact that somewhat thicker 
insulation of the reservoir is needed, as the cooling curve shows. 
When this, and also the vacuum jacket, are applied, the machine 
should be highly satisfactory. 

As noted in last year's report, the Fabry type of apparatus has 
been installed on Mount Wilson to measure the quantit}' of atmos- 
pheric ozone. This feeble constituent of the very high air is, we 
believe, very important in the economy of the earth's heat, as well 
as a fatal bar to observation of the most interesting part of the 
spectra of the sun and the hotter stars. 

Having fully developed and tested the ozone outfit, photographic 
solar spectra of the ozone-absorption region of the ultra-violet were 
obtained in August, September, and October, 1925, Unfortunately 
the great forest fire east of Mount Wilson cut off a good many other- 
wise favorable days. By the generosity of Mr, Roebling a copy of 
the Moll spectrophotometer for measuring the plates has been pro- 
cured from A, Hilger. The reductions are not yet made. Mr. 
Roebling's interest in this ozone research is so great that he has 
made a grant to enable Doctor Fabr}- himself to continue daily 
ozone measurements in France during a part of the year 1925. 

The importance of studies of the variation of the sun's output of 
ultra-violet rays grows upon our attention. Not only the attack 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 



105 



on the ozone problem in that spectral roi^-ion, but also the extraordi- 
nary relations of the ultra-violet rays to human, animal, and plant 
physiology are coming increasingly to the fore. Our own studies 
indicate that the solar variations are far greater for those rays than 
they are for the solar rays as a whole. Thus the accompanying fig- 
ure indicates that when the solar constant of radiation changes by 
1 per cent it means almost imperceptible change for the infra-red 
rays, but as much as 10 per cent or more for some rays of the ultra- 
violet. 

In addition to the work at Mount Wilson on the solar cooker and 
the ozone of the higher atmosphere, much attention was paid to 




PHisMATic pnn' 

D€\/IATION CIL/U 



Solar variation localized in the violet and ultra-violet 

attempts to improve the radiometer and the stellar-spectrum appa- 
ratus, in the hope of going much further in studying the energy 
spectra of the stars. Much knowledge was gained which will be 
useful later on, and star-spectrum observations were made on sev- 
eral nights, but no actually completed advance in stellar spectra 
was attained. The way, however, is very clear now for future 
advance. 

PERSONNEL 

Mr. H. B. Freeman accepted service on the private Smithsonian 
roll as assistant at Harqua Hala in September, 1924, and succeeded 
Mr. L. B. Aldrich in charge at Montezuma on March 1, 1925. Mr. 
Aldrich returned to Washington. 



106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Mr. E. E. Smith was employed on the private roll as assistant at 
Harqua Hala from February 9, 1925. 

^Ir. A. J. Ahearn assisted Doctor Abbot on Mount Wilson during 
the expedition of 1924. 

SUMMARY 

Much progress in the study of the variation of the sun and its ap- 
plication to weather forecasting has been made, as reported in pub- 
lications Nos. 5, 6, and 7 of Volume 77, Smithsonian Miscel- 
laneous Collections. Improvements in apparatus and methods de- 
signed to add to the accuracy of solar radiation measurements, and 
to make possible a valuable revision of existing values, are on foot. 
The station at Harqua Hala, having proved somewhat disappointing, 
is being removed to Table Mountain, in California, about 2,000 feet 
higher, but much more accessible. The solar cooker has been greatly 
improved. Measurements of atmospheric ozone are in progress. 
New devices were tried in stellar energy spectrum measurements and 
the way seems clear for great advances in that line. 

Kespectfully submitted. 

C. G. Abbot, Director. 

Dr. Charles D. Walcott, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 8 

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF 
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the op- 
erations of the United States Regional Bureau of the International 
Catalogue of Scientific Literature for the fiscal year ending June 
30, 1925 : 

As has been stated in previous annual reports, actual publication 
of the catalogue was suspended in 1921 upon completion of the 
fourteenth annual issue. In conformity with an agreement reached 
at the International Convention held in Brussels in 1922, the work 
of this regional bureau, in connnon with others of the organization, 
has been continued but is confined to the collection of the data neces- 
sary to index the current scientific literature of the United States 
for the several years intervening between the cessation of publica- 
tion and the present time. This procedure not only enables the 
organization to be kept intact but, when publication is resumed and 
the classification schedules are revised, data will be available to 
complete the catalogue. 

It seems advisable to again outline the aim, scope, and need of 
the catalogue in view of the fact that the many new projects which 
have sprung up in minor fields, lacldng harmony of purpose and co- 
operation of effort, have, even when taken collectively, entirely failed 
to supply the need of an International Catalogue of Scientific 
Literature. 

The catalogue was started in 1901 with the aim and purpose of 
meeting the long-felt need of scientific investigators and librarians 
for an annual authors' and subject catalogue and index to the scien- 
tific literature of the world, a need felt even more to-day than in 1901. 
To this end, systematic classification schedules were prepared cover- 
ing all recognized branches of science and each paper was not only 
catalogued and indexed, but also classified by means of these sched- 
ules, the result being equivalent to an analytical digest of each 
paper. 

Financial support to enable the organization to properly function 
is urgent. The amount required is not great, measured in present- 
day terms, but is none the less essential. Between 1901 and the 
beginning of the war, necessary funds for publication Avere supplied 
by subscribers in the countries taking part in the enterprise. Only 
the actual cost of printing and publishing had to be met from these 

107 



108 ANiJUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

funds as maintenance of the several regional bureaus was then, as 
now, provided for, in most cases, by direct governmental grants. 
However, the additional funds needed to meet the increased cost of 
printing and publishing, under war conditions, had to be met by 
the subscribers and these increases when expressed in the depreciated 
currency of many countries, resulted in impossible figures; conse- 
quently, publication had to be suspended. 

When operations began in 1901, the price to subscribers of a 
complete set of the 17 annual volumes of the catalogue, com- 
prising about 10,000 pages, was £17, the pound sterling being then 
at par. The American subscription price was, after adding ship- 
ping costs, $85. The income derived from subscriptions and the 
expenditures of the London Central Bureau, in charge of printing 
and publishing, approximately balanced in 1914, wdien war began. 
Since that time publishing costs, in England, have doubled and 
the value of the French franc has sunk to less than one-fourth, 
and the Italian lira to less than one-fifth of their respective par 
values. Without tabulation, it is obvious that a cost easily borne 
in these countries in 1901 has become impossible in 1925. It was 
never the intention for the International Catalogue to be a com- 
mercial enterprise, but rather the means of furnishing, at cost, to 
investigators and students data needed to keep them informed of the 
scientific progress of the world. Experience proves that inter- 
national cooperation is the only means whereby the necessary data 
can be collected and prepared for such an index, but it is now 
apparent that some new source of revenue must be provided to print 
this data before publication can be resumed. 

Could a sufficient endowment be obtained, the organization would 
again become self-supporting, as there is now a greater demand 
for the catalogue than ever before and a central bureau provided 
with its own publishing plant, or capital sufficient to make advan- 
tageous long-term contracts with properly equipped publishing 
houses, would be enabled to offset the increased cost of publication 
by the saving of the interest and other charges, which were neces- 
sary in 1901 to an organization doing business without capital. If 
it were possible to secure such an endowment in the United States, 
now the only country not unduly oppressed by the results of war, 
American students and investigators would be much benefited for, 
notwithstanding impoverished conditions, much advanced and valu- 
able scientific work is being done abroad with which it is difficult 
to keep in touch without the annual volumes of the International 
Catalogue. 

Respectfully submitted. Leonard C. Gunnell, 

Assistant in Charge. 

Dr. Charles D, Walcott, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 9 

REPORT ON THE LIBRARY 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the 
activities of the library of the Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal 
year ended June 30, 1925. 

CHANGES IN STAFF 

During the year there were several changes in the library staff. 
Mr. Paul Brockett, who had been connected with the Smithsonian 
Institution for 38 years and had served since 1902 as its assistant 
librarian, resigned to devote full time to his duties as assistant sec- 
retary of the National Academy of Sciences. Mr. Brockett's suc- 
cessor, Mr. William L. Corbin, formerly professor of English in 
Boston University, assumed the position of librarian on Septem- 
ber 15. 

Mr. Newton P. Scudder, assistant librarian of the United States 
National Museum, retired from active service March 9, on account 
of age and disability, and died May 19. Mr. Scudder became con- 
nected with the Smithsonian Institution in 1882, where he remained 
for more than 40 years, the last 38 of which he was assistant libra- 
rian of the National Museum. Perhaps never again will the 
Museum librar}^ have as its reference chief a person so fully ac- 
quainted with its collections as he was, or so willing to give of his 
knowledge and time to those who came with questions. 

Mr. Lester D. Condit, assistant in the library since 1918, was 
granted a furlough in October to resume his university course. He 
has since withdrawn from the library staff and the position was 
filled by the appointment of Miss Sara L. Young, a graduate of 
Elmira College and of Drexel Institute Library School. Miss 
Young has worked with scientific publications for many years, 
especially as cataloguer for the American Philosophical Society and 
the Library of Congress. 

EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS 

The increase of the Smithsonian Library is due chiefly to the 
exchange of publications between the Smithsonian Institution and 
other learned institutions and societies of the world. Many of 

109 



110 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

these publications come to the library direct, others through the 
International Exchange Service, ^vith which the library is in close 
cooperation. During the past year the library received 30,49G pack- 
ages by mail and 2,408 through the exchanges. Especially large 
sendings were received from Barcelona, Budapest, and AVarsaw. As 
usual, after these packages had been opened, the items were stamped, 
entered, and sent to the appropriate branches of the library. The 
large number received was due partly to the special effort made by 
the periodical and correspondence divisions in noting wants and 
writing follow-up letters. In fact, most of the 1,181 letters sent 
out b}'^ tlie library had to do with these wants. The result was that 
of the 2,478 missing volumes and parts requested, 2,009 were ob- 
tained, a gain of nearly 30 per cent over last j'^ear. Exchange rela- 
tions were also opened with a number of new societies. 

MAIN LIBRARY 

Many of the items mentioned above were, of course, forwarded 
day by day to the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress, 
where they were made available to the public. The number of these 
was 7,287, of which there were 5,184 complete volumes, 1,421 parts 
of volumes, 390 pamphlets, and 292 charts. Documents of foreign 
governments, more or less statistical in character, to the number of 
7,408, were also sent, without being stamped or entered^ to the 
document division of the Library of Congress. 

Dissertations were received from various universities at home and 
abroad, such as Basel, Berlin, Bern, Breslau, Copenhagen, Cornell, 
Dresden, Erlangen, Frankfurt a. M., Freiburg, Ghent, Giessen, 
Greifswald, Halle, Heidelberg, Helsingfors, Leipzig, Leyden, Lund, 
Marburg, Paris, Pennsylvania, Strasbourg, Tubingen, Uppsala, 
Utrecht, and Ziirich; and from technical schools at Berlin, Delft, 
Karlsruhe, and Zih-ich. 

OFFICE LIBRARY 

The office library, which includes the publications of several 
learned societies, the aeronautical collection, the art-room collection, 
the employees' library, and various books, chiefly of a reference 
nature, in the administrative offices, was increased during the year 
by 312 volumes, 5 parts of volumes, and 4 pamphlets. Of these, 34 
were added to the aeronautical collection. 

One of the most important additions to this library was a de luxe 
copy of the Warner Library of the World's Best Literature, the gift 
of Secretary Walcott ; another was Seven Log-Books Concerning the 
Arctic Voyages of Capt. William Scoresby, sr., of Whitby, Eng- 
land, presented by the Explorers Club of New York. 



EEPORT OF THE SECEETARY HI 

The circulation of the library was 2,359, of which 1,956 were 
magazines borrowed from the reading room. Many more volumes 
and periodicals were consulted in the reference room. The books 
most in demand were the transactions of the learned societies, the 
aeronautical collection, and several important individual works, such 
as Combarelles aux Ezyies, by Abbe Breuil and others, a book finally 
assigned to the Smithsonian deposit. 

The work done during the year on the general catalogue of the 
Smithsonian library, which is kept in the office reading room, may 
be summarized as follows: 

Volumes and pamphlets catalogued 4,509 

Volumes recatalogued 264 

Charts catalogued 324 

Cards typed 2, 157 

Library of Congress cards filed 1,078 

New authors added 393 

MUSEUM LIBRARY 

The library of the United States National Museum contains 65,148 
volumes and 102,951 pamphlets, a total of 168,099. Of these, 1,457 
volumes and 1,894 pamphlets were added during the year. 

While most of these accessions were obtained by exchange of 
publications, or by purchase, man}^ came by gift. Among the donors 
were Mr. W. I. Adams, Miss M. D. Ashton, Dr. Marcus Benjamin, 
Mr. A. H. Clark, Mr. F. W. Clarke, Dr. W. H. Dall, Mr. J. A. Gal- 
lagher, Mr. L. C. Gunnell, Dr. O. P. Hay, Dr. W. H. Holmes, Dr. A. 
Hrdlicka, Dr. W. R. Maxon, Dr. G. S. Miller, jr., Mr. W. de C. 
Ravenel, Dr. C. W. Eichmond, Mr. S. A. Rohwer, Mr. E. V. Shan- 
non, Mr. R. C. Smith, Mr. B. H. Swales, and Dr. C. D. Walcott. The 
gifts of Secretary Walcott to the division of geology and paleontol- 
ogy and of Doctor Dall to that of mollusks were generous, as usual, 
the latter numbering 97 titles. The gifts of Doctor Richmond to 
the division of birds were also large. But the outstanding gift of 
the year was the entomological library, numbering about 4,500 
volumes and pamphlets, chiefly on Coleoptera, left to the ISIuseum by 
the late Col. Thomas L. Casey, and increased by the generosity 
of Mrs. Casey. This is one of the best collections on its subject in 
the United States, and contains many rare items. It will be made 
available to the curators as soon as possible and will be deposited in 
the section of insects. 

In the course of the year several thousand cards of the Concilium 
Bibliographicum were filed, 14,329 parts of periodicals were en- 
tered, 2,623 volmnes and pamphlets were catalogued, and 9,000 cards 
were added. Books borrowed from the Library of Congress num- 
bered 1,628 and from other libraries 112, chieflly for the use of the 



112 



ANNUAL REPOBT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



curators, anil about the same number were returned. The loans 
totaled 8,148, of which 5,8G1 were made to the sectional libraries, and 
more than ever before to universities, such as Chicago, Illinois, Michi- 
gan, and Minnesota, and to otlier institutions, both in Washington 
and elsewhere. Many publications were consulted in the reference 
room, not only by members of the Museum staff but also by others, 
especially Government employees and scholars connected with various 
universities and museums, American and foreign. Two hundred 
and fifty-six volumes were bound. 

The number of sectional libraries in the Museum is now 38. These, 
while under the immediate care of the administrative and scientific 
staffs, are at the same time very real and important parts of the 
general library and are administered as such. Their resources are 
its resources, and their needs are its needs. And these needs are 
often most urgent — the very ones to which the librarian feels he 
should give his best thought and help. The past year he has devoted 
much time to the study of these resources and needs, and to the 
solution of the problems they have disclosed. The sectional libraries 
are as follows : 



Administration. 

Administrative assistant's ofRcf. 

American archeology. 

Anthropology. 

Biology. 

Birds. 

Botany. 

Echiuoderms. 

Editor's office. 

Ethnology. 

Fishes. 

Foods. 

Geology. 

Graphic arts. 

History. 

Insects. 

Invertebrate paleontology. 

Mammals. 

Marine invertebrates. 



Mechanical technology. 

Medicine. 

Mineral technology. 

Minerals. 

IMollusks. 

National Gallery of Art. 

Old World archeology. 

Organic chemistry. 

Paleobotany. 

Photography. 

Physical anthropology. 

Property clerk's office. 

Reptiles and batrachians. 

Superintendent's office. 

Taxidermy. 

Textiles. 

Vertebrate paleontology. 

War library. 

Wood technology. 



TECHNOLOGICAL LIBRARY 

The technological library, the division of the Museum Library 
which contains the collections of especial interest to the curators of 
arts and industries, is located in the Old Museum Building. Dur- 
ing the year the reorganization of its material was continued. Its 
accessions numbered 152 volumes and 353 pamphlets, and its loans 
150. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 113 

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY LIBRARY 

Additions to the library of the Astrophysical Observatory num- 
bered 114 vohimes, 32 parts of volumes, and 89 pamphlets. The 
number of volumes bound was 81. Exact records of loans can not 
be given, as they are included with tliose of the office library. 

This is one of the most important of the smaller branches of the 
Smithsonian library and is much in use. Thanks to the generosity of 
a friend, its collections will be enlarged and made more available in 
the immediate future. 

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY LIBRARY 

The activities of the library of the Bureau of American Ethnology 
are described in the report of the chief of that bureau, by whom 
the library is administered. 

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY 

As the National Gallery of Art is housed in the Natural History 
Building, its library is at present administered as a sectional library 
of the National Museum. This library, although possessing only 961 
titles, of which 426 are volumes and 535 pamphlets, has been most 
carefully selected, and should grow rapidly when given room in the 
National Gallery Building now in prospect. Its accessions during 
the year were 118 volumes, 478 parts of volumes, and 52 pamphlets. 

FREER GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY 

The library of the Freer Gallery of Art is solely a reference 
library, restricted to the interests represented in the collections of art 
objects — that is to say, to the arts and cultures of the Far East, of 
India and Persia, and the nearer east; to the life and works of 
James McNeill Whistler and of certain other American painters 
whose pictures are owned by the gallery; and further, to a very 
limited degree, to that field of study represented by the Biblical 
manuscripts of the fourth and fifth centuries, which, as the posses- 
sions of the Freer Gallery, are known as the Washington manu- 
scripts. All books and library facilities are at the service of the 
public. During the year 200 persons availed themselves of these 
privileges. Most of the more serious students came from a distance 
for the especial purpose of studying various parts of the collections 
and the books relating to them. 

The library comprises about 2,200 books in English, French, Ger- 
man, and Dutch and almost 300 in Chinese, Japanese, and Tibetan, 
with necessary dictionaries. In addition, there are a good many 
volumes on loan from the Library of Congress. During the year 
90 volumes and 127 pamphlets were added to the library. 



114 



ANNUAL KEPOBT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK LIBRARY 

Early in the j'ear the catalofjuinoj of the library of the National 
Zoolo^^ical Park was completed, and its duplicates and other super- 
fluous material were removed. Its accessions, including the old items 
wO)ich had been in the library for some time but which had never 
been entered, were 475 volumes, 1 part, and 2 pamphlets. 

SUJIMARY OF ACCESSIONS 

The accessions for the year, with the exception of those to the 
library of the Bureau of American Ethnology, may be summarized 
as follows: 



Library 



Volumes 



other 
publica- 
tions 



Total 



Astrophysieal Observatory 

Freer Gallery of Art 

National Gallery of Art 

National Zoological Park 

Smithsonian deposit, Library of Congress 

Smithsonian ofBce... 

United States National Museum 

Total J-— L :.. 



114 
90 
118 

475 
6,184 

312 
1, 457 



121 

127 

530 

3 

2,103 

9 

1,894 



235 
217 
648 
478 

7,367 
321 

3,351 



7,750 



4,787 



12, 537 



An estimate of the number of volumes, pamphlets, and charts in 
the Smithsonian library (including the Smithsonian deposit in the 
Library of Congress) on June 30, 1925, was as follows: 

Volumes 507, 750 

Pamphlets 137,558 

Charts 23, 402 

Totiil 668, 770 

This number does not include the many thousands of parts of 
volumes now in the library awaiting completion of the volumes. 

SPECIAL ACTIVITIES 

Besides carrying on the usual work of the year, the library staff 
gave as much time as possible to special problems, such as sorting 
accumulations of miscellaneous material in different parts of the 
library; bringing together superfluous duplicates and separates to 
be disposed of later by gift or by piece for piece exchange; inven- 
torying the sectional libraries; making shelf lists for the two divi- 
sions of the Museum library; advancing the cataloguing of several 
of the special collections, particularly the Iddings, Gill, and Knab; 
furthering the cause of science by making part of the Lacoe collec- 



REPOET OF THE SECRETARl^ 115 

tion available for semipermanent deposit with colleges, universities, 
and museums; and responding to many requests involving reference 
work for various Government departments and for institutions and 
individuals the country over. 

Furthermore, the librarian made an extensiA^e survey of the con- 
dition of the library and submitted a detailed report of its needs to 
the secretary. This survey revealed many problems pressing for 
solution, problems that can be solved only by a liberal increase, 
over a term of years, of the funds appropriated for library purposes. 
These increased funds should be at hand at the earliest possible 
moment, to the end that more than 8,000 volumes may be bound; 
that more than 30,000 books and pamphlets, including several almost 
priceless collections, may be accessioned and catalogued ; that a dic- 
tionary catalogue of the entire library (including the sectional 
libraries), except, of course, the Smithsonian deposit, may be made; 
and that other urgent pieces of work connected wdth the reorgani- 
zation and development of the library may be done — in a word, that 
the rich collections of the library may, by a more complete applica- 
tion of modern methods, be made available Avithout undue delay to 
scientific Avorkers, both in Washington and elsewhere. Then and 
then only will the library be ready to do its full part toward the 
increase and diffusion of loiOAvledge among men. 

Respectfully submitted. 

WlLLIA3I L. CORBIN, 

Librarian. 
Dr. Charles D. Walcoit, 

Secretary. Smithsonian Institution,. 



APPENDIX 10 
REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi- 
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during the 
year ending June 30, 1925: 

The Institution proper published during the year 12 papers in the 
series of Miscellaneous Collections, 2 annual reports and pamphlet 
copies of 48 articles in the general appendixes to these reports, and 
G special publications. The Bureau of American Ethnology pub- 
lished 1 bulletin and 2 annual reports. The United States National 
Museum issued 1 annual report, 2 volumes of proceedings, 2 com- 
plete bulletins, 1 part of a bulletin, 3 parts of 2 volumes in the 
series of Contributions from the United States National Herbarium, 
and G6 separates from the proceedings. The National Gallery of 
Art issued four catalogues of special exhibitions. 

Of these publications there were distributed during the year 
171,805 copies, which included 2G2 volumes and separates of the 
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, 24,008 volumes and sepa- 
rates of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 2G.825 volumes 
and separates of the Smithsonian annual reports, 6,102 Smithsonian 
special publications, 104,590 volumes and separates of the various 
series of National Museum publications, 7,354 publications of the 
Bureau of American Ethnology, 114 publications of the National 
Gallery of Art, G8 volumes of the Annals of the Astrophysical Ob- 
servatory, 44 reports on the Harriman Alaska expedition, 1,057 re- 
ports of the American Historical Association, and 1,435 publications 
presented to but not issued directly by the Smithsonian Institution 
or its branches. 

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS 

Of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, volume G9, 1 paper 
was issued; volume 75, 2 papers; volume 76, 3 papers; volume 77, 
6 papers ; in all, 12 papers, as follows : 

VOLUME c;t 

No. 1. Smithsonian Meteorological Tables, Fourth Revised Edition. First 
Reprint. December 5, 1924. (Publ. 2493.) 
116 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 117 

VOLUME 75 

No. 2. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. V. No. 2. Cambrian and Lower 
Ozarkian Trilobites. By Charles D. Wakott. July 19, 1924. Pp. 53-60, pis. 
9-14. (Publ. 2788.) 

No. 3. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. V. No. 3. Cambrian and Ozar- 
kian Trilobites. By Charles D. Walcott. June 1, 1925. Pp. 61-146, pis. 15-24. 
(Publ. 2823.) 

VOLUME 7G 

No. 11. The Freshfield Glacier, Canadian Rockies. By Howard Palmer. 
August 2, 1924. 16 pp., 9 pis., 3 text figs. (Publ. 2757.) 

No. 12. " Adaptations " to Social Life : The Termites (Isoptera). By Thomas 
E. Snyder. September 2, 1924. 14 pp., 3 pis. (Publ. 2786.) 

No. 13. Preliminary Archeological Explorations at AVeoden Island, Florida. 
By J. Walter Fewkes. October 14, 1924. 26 pp., 21 pis., 1 text fig. (Publ. 
2787.) 

VOLUME 77 

No. 1. A Chapter in the History of Zoological Nomenclature. By I-eonhard 
Stejueger. August 30, 1924. 21 pp. (Publ. 2789.) 

No. 2. Explorations and Field Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1924. 
April 17, 1925. 136 pp., 138 text figs. (Publ. 2794.) 

No. 3 Provisional Solar Constant Values, August, 1920, to November, 1924. 
By C. G. Abbot and Colleagues. February 17, 1925. 38 pp., 2 text figs. (Publ. 
2818.) 

No. 5. Solar Variation and Forecasting. By C. G. Abbot. June 20, 1925. 
27 pp., 18 figs. (Publ. 2825.) 

No. 6. Solar Radiation and Weather, or Forecasting Weather from Observa- 
tions of the Sun. By H. H. Clayton. June 20, 1925. 64 pp., 45 text figs. 
(Publ. 2826.) 

No. 7. Solar Radiation and the Weekly Weather Forecast of the Argentine 
Meteorological Service. By Guillermo Hoxmark. June 20, 1925. 23 pp., 5 
text figs. (Publ. 2827.) 

In press at close of year 

VOLUME 7 7 

No. 4. An Introduction to the Morphology and Classification of the Fora- 
minifera. By Joseph A. Cushman. July 21, 1925. 77 pp., 16 pis., 11 text 
figs. (Publ. 2824.) 

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS 

Report for 1922. — The complete volume of the Annual Report 
of the Board of Regents for 1922 was received from the Public 
Printer in October, 1924. 

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, show- 
ing oixirations, exi3enditures, and condition of the Institution for the year 
ending June 30, 1922. xii+554 pp., 142 pis., 49 text figures. (Publ. 2724.) 

The appendix contained the followinfi papers: 

AVho will promote science? by C. G. Abbot. 

Recent discoveries and theories relating to the structure of matter, bv Karl 
Taylor Compton. 

76041—26—9 



118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

The arc-hitecturc of atoms and a universe built of atoms, by C. G. Abbot. 

Aeronautic researcli, by Josepli S. Ames. 

Photosyutliesis and the possible use of solar energy, by H. A. Spoebr. 

Fogs and clouds, by W. J. Humphreys. 

Some aspects of the use of the annual rings of trees in climatic study, by 
Prof. A. E. Douglass. 

The age of the earth, by T. C. Chamberlin and others. 

How deep is the ocean? by C. G. Abbot. 

Two decades of genetic progress, by E. M. East. 

Observations on a Montana beaver canal, by S. Stillman Berry. 

The Republic of Salvador, by Paul C Standley. 

The tent caten>illftr, by R. E. Snodgra.ss. 

The life history and habits of the solitary wasp, Philanthus gibhosus, by Ed- 
ward G. Reinhard. 

The use of idols in Hopi wor.ship, by J. Walter Fewkes. 

Two Chaco Canyon pit houses, by Neil M. Judd. 

Cwllections of Old World archoolojry in the United States National Museum, 
by I. M. Casanowicz. 

The " Shake Religion " of Pugot Sound, by T. T. Waterman. 

Excavations at Askalon, by Prof. J. Garstang. 

National efforts at home making, by F. H. Newell. 

Ideals of the telephone service, by John J. Carty. 

Report for 19^3. — The complete volume of the Report of the 
Board of Regents for 1923 was receiAed from the Public Printer in 
June, 1925. 

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
showing operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the 
year ending June 30, 1!)23. xii-f578 pp., 100 pis., 72 text flgxires. (Publ. 

2758.) 

The appendix cojilainod the following papers: 

The constitution and (solution of the stars, by Henry Norris Russell. 

The sun and sunspots, 1820-1920, by E. Walter Maunder. 

Joining the electric wave and heat wave si>ectra, by E. F. Nichols and J. D. 

Tear. 
The possibilities of instrumental development, by George E. Hale. 
The borderland of astronomy and geology, by Prof. A. S. Eddington. 
Atmospheric nitrogen fixation, by Eric A. Lof. 
The place of proteins in the diet in the light of the newer knowledge of nutri 

tion, by H. H. Mitchell. 
The story of the production and uses of ductile tantalum, by Clarence W. 

Balke. 
The composition of the earth's interior, by L. H. Adams and N. L. Williamson. 
Diamond-bearing peridotite in Pike County, Ark., by H. D. Miser and C. S 

Ross. 
Recent progress and trends in vertebrate paleontology, by W. D. Matthew. 
Animals in the National Z<»ological Park, by N. Hollister. 
The burrowing rodents of California as agents in soil formation, by Joseph 

Grinnell. 
The natural history of China, by A. de C. Sowerby. 
Life in the ocean, by Austin H. Clark, 



REPOET OF THE SECRETARY 119 

A study of the flight of sea gulls, hy R. C. Miller. 

Insect musicians and their instruments, by R. E. Snodgrass. 

The gardens of ancient Mexico, by Mrs. Zelia Nuttall. 

The Hovenweep National Monument, by J. Walter Fewkes. 

The origin and antiquity of the American Indian, by A. Hrdlicka. 

Ruined cities of Palestine, east and west of the Jordan, by Arthur W. Sutton. 

The anthropological work of Prince Albert 1st of Monaco and recent progress 

in human paleontology in France, by Marcellin Boule. 
The utilization of volcanic steam in Italy. 
Proposed tidal hydroelectric power development of the Petitcodiac and Mem 

ramcook Rivers, by W. Rupert Turnbull. 
Sir James Dewar, by Sir James Crichton-Browne. 
J. C. Kapteyn, by A. Van Maanen. 
Julius Von Hann, by C. G. Simpson. 

Bejyort for 192Jf. — The report of the executive committee and pro- 
ceedings of the Board of Regents of the Institution, and the report 
of the secretary, both forming parts of the annual report of the 
Board of Regents to Congress, were issued in pamphlet form in De- 
cember, 1924. 

Report of the executive committee and proceedings of the Board of Regents of 
The Smithsonian Institution for the year ending June 30, 1024. 14 pp. (Publ. 
2792.) 

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending 
June 30, 1924. 124 pp. (Publ. 2791.) 

The general appendix to this report, which was in press at the 
close of the year, contains the following papers : 

The origin of the solar system, by J. H. Jeans. 

The electrical structure of matter, by Prof. Sir Ernest Rutherford. 

The physicist's present conception of an atom, by R. S. Millikan. 

The vacuum — there's sometliing in it, by W. R. Whitney. 

The use of radium in medicine, by Antoine B<*cl^re. 

Clear fused quartz made in the electric furnace, by Edward R. Berry. 

The drifting of the continents, by Pierre Termier. 

The probable solution of the climatic problem in geology, by William Ramsay. 

A modern managerie ; more about the National Zoological Park, by N. HoUister. 

Nests and nesting habits of the American eagle, by Francis H. Herrick. 

The breeding places of the eel, by Jobs. Schmidt. 

Cankerworms, by R. E. Snodgrass. 

A botanical trip to Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia, by A. S. Hitchcock. 

Orchid collecting in Central America, by Paul C. Standley. 

Sketches from the notebook of a naturalist-traveler in Oceania during the year 

1923, by Casey A. Wood. 
Historical tradition and oriental research, by James Henry Breasted. 
Shamanism of the natives of Siberia, by I. M. Casanowicz. 
Egypt as a field for anthropological research, by Prof. P. E. Newberry. 
North American Indian dwellings, by T. T. Waterman. 
The nature of language, by R. L. Jones. 
John Mix Stanley, artist-explorer, By David I. Busbnell. 
Herluf Winge, by Th. Mortensen. 



120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS 

Smithsonian Matliematical Tables — Hyperbolic Functions, Third reprint. 
Prepared by George F. Becker and C. E. Van Orstrand. December 10, 1924. 
321 pp. (Publ. 1871.) 

The Relations of the Smithsonian Institution to the National Government. 
February 5, 1925. 8 pp. 

Niagara Falls: Its Power Possibilities and Preservation. By Samuel S. 
Wyer. .January 15. 1925. 28 pp., 2 pis., 4 figs. (Publ. 2820.) 

Title page and index of Volume 07, Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. 
(Publ. 2790.) 

Title page and contents of Volume 74. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collec- 
tions. (Publ. 2821.) 

Title page and contents of Volume 70, Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collec- 
tions. (Publ. 2822.) 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

The publications of the National Mu.seum are: (a) The annual 
report, (6) the Proceedings of the United States National Museum, 
and (<?) the Bulletin of the United States National Museum, which 
includes the contributions from the United States National Herba- 
rium. The editorship of these publications is vested in Dr. Marcus 
Benjamin. 

During the vear ending June 30, 1925, the Museum published 1 
annual report, 2 volumes of proceedings, 2 complete bulletins, 1 
part of a bulletin, 3 parts of 2 volumes in the series Contributions 
from the United States National Herbarium, and 66 separates from 
the proceedings. 

The issues of the bulletins were as follows : 

Bulletin 100. Contributions to the Biology of the Philippine Archipelago and 
Adjacent Kegions. Volume G, part 1. Marine Diatoms of the Philippine 
Islands. By Albert Mann. 

Bulletin 129. The Spider Crabs of America. By Mary J. Rathbun. 

Bulletin 130. Life Histories of North American Wild Fowl. Order Anseres 
(Part). By Arthur Cleveland Bent. 

Of the separate papers of the Contributions from the United 
States National Herbarium the following were issued : 

A'olume 20, part 13. Revision of the American Species of Rinorea. New Plants 

from Venezuela. Hemibaccharis. A new Genus of Baccharidinae. By S. F. 

Blake. 
Volume 20, part 14. The American Species of Canavalia and Wenderothia. By 

C. V. Piper. 
Volume 23, part 4. Trees and Shrubs of Mexico. (Passifloraceae-Scrophularia- 

ceae.) By Paul C. Standley. 

Of the separates from the proceedings, 4 were from volume 64, 
15 from volume 65, 31 from volume 66, and 16 from volume 67. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 121 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

The National Gallery of Art issued during the year the following 
publications : 

Catalogue of a collection of water-color paintings of the Grand Canyon of tbe 
Colorado, Yellowstone National Park, Yosemite Valley, Zion National Park, 
Utah Natitmal Park, and the Monterey Coast of California, by Mr. Gunnar 
Widforss. On view in the National Gallery, December, 1924, to January, 
1925. 4 pp. 

Catalogue of a collection of busts of prominent personages in bronze and terra 
cotta, by Mrs. Nancy Cox-McCormack. On view in the National Gallery, 
December 16, 1924, to January IG, 1925. 4 pp. 

Catalogue of a collection of portraits and studies in different techniques, by 
Leo Katz, of Vienna, Austria. On view in the National Gallery, January 16 
to February 15, 1925. 4 pp. 

Catalogue of recent miniature portraits by Alyn Williams, P. R. M. S. (presi- 
dent Royal Miniature Society), and portrait busts in bronze and plaster, 
relief portraits, medallions, carvings in precious and semiprecious stones, 
and some great seals, by Cecil Thomas, R. M. S. On view in the National 
Gallery, March 3 to March 22, 1925. S pp. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BLTREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

The editorial work of the Bureau of American Ethnolog}' is under 
the direction of Mr. Stanley Searles, editor. During the year, there 
were published two annual reports and one bulletin as follows: 

Thirty-eighth Annual Report. Accompanying paper: An Introductory Study 

of the Arts, Crafts, and Customs of the Guiana Indians (Roth), vii, 743 pp., 

183 pis., 341 iig.s. 
Thirty-ninth Annual Report. Accompanying pai>er : The Osage Tribe : The 

Rite of Vigil (La Fle.sche). 636 pp., 17 pis., 4 figs. (Received July 13, 

1925.) 
Bulletin 78. Handbook of the Indians of California (Kroeber). xviii, 995 pp., 

S3 pis., 78 tigs. (Received July 17, 1925.) 

At the close of the year there were in press or in preparation three 
annual reports as follows : 

Fortieth Annual Report. Accompanying papers : The Mythical Origin of the 
White Buffalo Dance of the Fox Indians; The Autobiography of a Fox 
Indian Woman ; Notes on Fox Mortuary Customs and Beliefs ; Notes on 
the Fox Society Known as " Those AVlio Worship the Little Spotted Buf- 
falo " ; The Traditional Origin of the Fox Society Known as " The Singing 
Around Rite." (Michelson.) 

Forty-first Annual Report. Accompanying paper: Salish Basketry (Boas). 

Forty-second Annual Report. Accompanying paper : Social Organization and 
Social Usages of the Indians of the Creek Confederacy ; Religious beliefs 
and medical practices of the Creek Indians (Swanton). 

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION 

The annual reports of tlie American Historical Association are 
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian 



122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Institution and are communicated by him to Congress as provided 
by the act of incorporation of the association. 

Vohime II, Parts I and II, of the annual report for 1919 and 
the supplemental volume to the report for 1921, entitled "Writings 
in American History," were issued during the year. The annual 
i-eports for 1020, 1921, and 1922, and the supplemental volume to 
the report for 1922 were in press at the close of the year. 

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN 

REVOLUTION 

Tiie manuscript of the Twenty-seventh Annual Report of the 
National Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was trans- 
mitted to Congress, in accordance with the law, on December 8, 
1924. 

SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND PUBLICATION 

The editor has continued to serve as secretary of the Smithsonian 
advisory committee on printing and publication, to which are re- 
ferred for consideration and recommendation all manuscripts olFered 
to the Institution and its branches. Five meetings were held during 
the year and 75 manuscripts acted upon. 
Respectfully submitted. 

W. P. True, Editor. 
Dr. Charles D. Walcott, 

Secretary., Smithsonian Institution. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF 
REGEiNTS OF THE SMITHSO^JIAN IiNSTlTlJTION FOR THE 
YEAR mmD JU^E 30, 1925 



2'<9 the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following re- 
port in relation to the funds, receipts, and disbursements of the 
Institution and a statement of the appropriations by Congress for 
the following Government bureaus in the administrative charge of 
the Smithsonian Institution : The National Museum, the Interna- 
tional Exchanges, the Bureau of American Ethnologj^, the National 
Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the International 
Catalogue of Scientific Literature, and the National Gallery of Art, 
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1925. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

Condition of the endowtnent fund July i, 1925 

The sum of $1,000,000, deposited in the Treasury of the United 
States under act of Congress, is pait of a permanent endowment 
fund which includes the original Smithson fund and additions 
accumulated by the deposit of savings and bequests from time to 
time. Subsequent bequests and gifts and the income therefrom, 
when so required, are invested in approved securities. The several 
specific funds so invested are now constituted and classed as follows : 

Consolidated fund 

Avery fund $32, G69. 55 

Virginia Purdy Bacon fund 62,272.93 

Lucy H. Baird fund 1,528.00 

Chamberlain fund 35, 000. 00 

Hamilton fund 500. 00 

Caroline Henry fund 1,223.33 

Hodgkins general fund 37,275.00 

Bruce Hughe.s fund 13,839.90 

Morri.s Loob fund 5,814.00 

Lucy T. and George W. Poore fund 14, 183. 14 

Addison T. Reid fund 6,639.16 

Rhees fund 357. 34 

George H. Sanford fund 615.32 

Smithson fund 1. 468. 74 

Total consolidated fund 213,386.50 

Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott research fund 11,520.00 

123 



124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

The total amount of dividends and interest received by the Insti- 
tution from the Freer estate during the year for all purposes was 
$231,073.64. 

The itemized report of the auditor. The Cajjital Audit Co., certified 
public accountants, is filed in the office of the secretary. 

DETAILED SURVEY OF FINANCIAL OPERATIONS 

Parent fund 

Balance on hand or in time deposits, July 1, 1924 $4, 476. 59 

Receipts : 

Income, consisting of interest and receipts from mis- 
cellaneous sources available for general purposes- $57, GOG. 84 
International exchanges, repaj'ments to the Insti- 
tution 4, 900. 22 

Total receipts 62, 507. 06 

Total resources for general purposes 66,983.65 

General expenditures : 

Care and repair of buildings «. $7,576.16 

Furniture and fixtui-es 981. 16 

General administration 24,337.63 

Library 3, 133. 47 

Publications (comprising preparation, printing, and 

distribution) 15, 003. 68 

Researches and explorations 4,774.77 

International exchanges , 4, 114. 33' 

Total general expenditures 59,921.20 

Balance June 80, 1925 7,062.45 

Funds for specific objects, inciuding payment and return of funds advanced for 
field expenses and othei- temporary iransnctions during the year 

Balance on hand or in time deposits July 1, 1924 $66, 854. 84 

Receipts : 

Avery fund $3,416.42 

Virginia Purdy Bacon fund 12,009.52 

Lucy H. Baird fund 118. 20 

Frances Lea Chamberlain fund 2,758.00 

Fred. G. Cottrell fund 3, 750. 00 

Endowment fund (general) 210.00 

Endowment campaign expense fund 2, 000. CK) 

Far East exijodition fund 2, 000. 00 

David C. Graham fund 200. 00 

Dr. W. L. Abbott Haitian botanical expedition 500. 00 

Hamilton fund 189.40 

Harriiiian trust fund 12,546.25 

Caroline Henry fund 96. 13 

Hodgkins fund, six^cific 7, 015. 40 

Bruce Hughes fund 1,087.44 

Morris Loeb fund 3,065.79 

National Gallery of Art building plans fund 264. 55 



EEPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 125 

Receipts — Continued. 

North American Wild Flowers publication fund $45, 576. 84 

Lucy T. and George W. Poore fund 2, 967. OS 

Addison T. Ileid fund 1, 183. 23 

Researches in paleontology 1, 409. 09 

Rhees fund 62.98 

John A. Roebling funds 28, 278. 15 

George H. Sanford fund 114. 46 

Smiths'onian scientifie series fund 8, 250. 00 

Swales fund 300.00 

Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott fund 720. 00 

Refund of tempoi'ary advances 8, 163. 95 

Total receipts $148, 252. 88 



Total resources 215, 107. 72 

Expenditures : 

Avery fund, inve.sted $3,112.03 

Virginia Purdy Bacon fund, invested and expended- 12, 410. 59 

Lucy H. Baird fund, invested 178. 51 

Chamberlain fund, for specimens, etc 2, 043. 24 

Far East expedition fund, expended 2,693.02 

Harriman trust fund, for researches and specimens- 12, 026. 09 

Caroline Henry fund, invested 149.33 

Hodgkins fund, for researches 6,309.32 

Bruce Hughes fund, invested 1,820.28 

Morris Loeb fund, expended 3, 583. 68 

National Gallery of Art building plans fund 10, 005. 00 

North American Wild Flowers publication fund, ex- 
pended 33, 194. 84 

Lucy T. and George W. Poore fund, invested and ex- 
pended 999. 55 

Addison T. Reid fund, invested 1, 746. 16 

Researches in paleontology, expended 1, 179. 48 

Research Corporation, rocket investigation 750. 00 

Rhees fund, invested 89.34 

John A. Roebling funds, solar research, etc., ex- 
pended 27, 400. 21 

W. A. Roebling mineral fund, expended 373. 03 

George H. 8anford fund, invested 109. 32 

Swales fund, for specimens 356. 32 

Charles D. and Mury Vaux Walcott fund, expended- 896. 24 

Temporary advances for field expense.s, etc 6, 902. 35 

Total expenditures 128, 334. 53 

Balance June 30, 1925 86,773.19 

Charles L. Freer bequest 

Balance on hand or in time deposits, July 1, 1924 $31, 233. 73 

Receipts : 

Dividends, interest, and miscellaneous receipts ^_ 231,073.64 

Total resources 262, 307. 37 



126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1D25 

Expenditures : 

Operating expenses of the pallery, salaries, pur- 
chase of art objects, field expenses, and inci- 
dentals $99, 744. 53 

Investments in sinking fund, including interest 84, 445. 7o 

Total expenditures .$184, 190. 26 

Balance June 30, 1925 78, 117. 11 

SUMMARY 

Total balances of all funds, July 1, 1924 , 102, 565. 16 

Receipts during year ending June 30, 1925 : 

Parent fund for general expenses G2, 507. 06 

Revenue and principal of funds for specific objects, except Freer 

bequest 148, 252. 88 

Freer bequest 231, 073. 64 

Total 544, 398. 74 

Exi)enditures : 

General expenses of the Institution i 59,921.20 

Specific objects, except Freer bequest 128,334.53 

Freer bequest 184, 190. 26 

Total balances of all funds June 30, 1925 171,952. 75 

Total 544, 398. 74 

All payments are made by check, signed b}' the Secretaiy of the 
Institution, on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues 
are deposited to the credit of the same account. In some instances 
deposits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later 
are withdrawn in round amounts and deposited in the Treasury. 

The practice of investing tem])orarily idle funds in time deposit? 
has proven satisfactory. During the 3ear the interest derived from 
this source, together with other similar items, has resulted in a total 
of $1,610.15. 

The following appropriations for the Government bureaus under 
the administrative charge of the Smithsonian Institution were made 
by Congress for the fiscal year 1925 : 

Bureau : Appropriation 

International Exchanges $49, 550. 00 

American Ethnology 57,160.00 

International Catalogue of Scientific Literature 8,861.66 

Astrophy.sical Observatory 21, 580. 00 

Additional Assistant Secretary 6,000.00 

Additional fire protection 8,500.00 



REPORT OP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 127 

Bureau — Continued. 

National Museum— Appropriation 

Furniture and fixtures $21,800.00 

Heating and ligliting 77, 560. 00 

I'reservation of collections 434, 482. 00 

Building repairs 11, 000. 00 

Books 2, 000. 00 

Postage 450. 00 

$547, 202. 00 

National Gallery of Art 20, 158. 00 

National Zoological Park 151,487.00 

Printing and binding 90,000.00 

Total 960, 588. 66 

Respectfully submitted. 

Henry White, 
Fredekic a. Delano, 
E,. Walton Moore, 

Executive C ommittee. 



PROCEEDINCS OF THE BOARD OF REGEiNTS OF THE SMITH- 
SO^IAiN LNSTrrUTION FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JiJiNE 
30, 1925 

ANNUAL MEETING DECEMBER 11, 1924 

Present : The Hon. William H. Taft, Chief Justice of the United 
States, chancellor; Senator Reed Snioot; Senator George Wharton 
Pepper; Representative Albert Johnson; Representative R. Walton 
Moore; the Hon. George Gray; the Hon. Henry White; Mr. Charles 
F. Choate, jr.; Mr. Robert S. Brookings; Mr. Frederic A. Delano; 
and the secretary, Dr. Charles D. Walcott. 

DEATH OF SENATOR LODGE 

The secretary announced the death, on November 9, 1924, of 
Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, who was first appointed a Regent on 
January 6, 1890, as a Member of the House of Representatives, serv- 
ing until January 25, 1893; and again as a Member of the Senate, 
on December 7, 1905, serving continuously until his death, aggregat- 
ing a total of 22 years as a member of the board. 

The following resolutions were then adopted : 

Whereas, the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, having 
learned with profound sorrow of the death, on November 9, 1924, of Henry 
Cabot Lodge, United States Senator from Massachusetts and a Regent of 
the Institution for 22 years : Be it 

Resolved, That the board desire to record here their sense of the irrepar- 
able loss sustained by the Institution in the passing away of their distin- 
guished colleague, whose keen, constructive interest in the affairs of the 
Institution led him to place his broad knowledge and large experience at 
its service at all times. Senator Lodge's fame as a scholar, citizen, and 
statesman is too well known to require mention here. He was an outstanding 
figure in the Nation, and his death is deeply deplored. 

Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the records of the board 
and that a copy thereof be transmitted to our late associate's family. 

APPOINTMENT OF REGENTS 

The secretary announced that under date of December 2, the Presi- 
dent pro tempore of the Senate had appointed Senator Reed Smoot 
as a Regent to succeed Senator Lodge, deceased. 

Also that he had received the resignation of Senator McCormick 
as a Regent, which he had transmitted to the President pro tempore 
of the Senate who had appointed Senator George Wharton Pepper 
to fill the vacancy on December 8. 

129 



130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

KESOIA'TION RELATIV?: TO INCOME AND EXPENDITURE 

The board adopted a resolution providinfj for the expenditure in 
tlie usual manner of the income of the Institution during the fiscal 
year ending June 30, 1926. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRY 

The secretary brought before the board a petition from the Na- 
tional Museum of Engineering and Industry, urging the setting 
aside of a specified plot of ground south of the Smithsonian Build- 
ing on which to erect a museum building; adding that the matter 
had received the attention of the executive committee, 

A full discussion upon the various phases of the proposed project 
ensued, after which the board adopted resolutions expressing its 
sympathy with the proposal and its willingness to take definite 
steps when sufficient funds to cover the initial cost involved had 
been deposited with the Smithsonian Institution by the National 
Museum of Engineering and Industry. 

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTI\'E COMMITTEE 

The secretaiy sulimitted in printed form the annual report of the 
executive committee, showing the financial condition of the Institu- 
tion at the close of the fiscal year ending June 30, 1924. 

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PERMANENT COMMITTEE 

Solar radiation researches. — This work has heen conducted for several 
years hy Assistant Secretary Abhot at stations on Montezuma Mountain, Chile, 
and on Mount Harqua Ilala, Ariz. The operations are financed hy an annual 
grant of .?r>,000 from the Hodgkins fund of the Smithsonian Institution and 
through the generosity of a public-spirited citizen, Mr. John A. Roebling. 

Freer sinking fund.— The permanent committee's last report mentions the 
establishment of a sinking fund for the purpose of safeguarding the principal 
and income of the Freer Foundation for Oriental Art. Under it the income 
of the Freer bequest in excess of 6 per cent on the value of the foundation at 
the time of Mr. Freer's death is to be reinvested in high-class securities and 
real-estate mortgages until an amount equal to the original foundation is 
reached. The amount thus invested to date is .$153,463.75. 

Consolidated fund. — Under the organic act the sum authorized to be depos- 
ited in the United States Treasury at 6 per cent interest as the " Smithson 
fund " is limited to .$1,000,000. This limit was reached in 1917, and bequests, 
gifts, and interest earnings in excess of this amount have been constituted a 
consolidated fund, which is invested in securities approved by your permanent 
committee. This fund now totals ?213,386.50. 

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE NATIONAL GALLFJIY OF ART COMMISSION 

The fourth fiiinufil meeting of the National Gallery of Art Commission was 
held DeoemI)er 9, 1924. 

Tlie annual report of the secretary of the commission for 1924 calls attention 
to the instalhition during the j'ear of a collection of World War portraits in 



PB.OCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS 131 

the Natural History Building. A list recently made of the portraits in oil and 
pastel now in possession of the Institution and in i)art available for assem- 
blage in the portrait gallery, luimbers upward of 400. 

The desirability of improving the standard of the portraits of personages of 
national distinction, which in time might be included in the National Portrait 
Gallery, was considered, but no definite action was taken. 

The preliminary plans for the proposed National Gallery Building as pre- 
pared by Mr. Piatt, the architect, were considered. 

The very important problem of the inclusion in the building of collections 
both of art and history received attention, and the view prevailed that it would 
be advantageous, at least for a time, to have the two in the same building 
but distinctly separated. 

The chairman submitted the resignation of Mr. Edwin H. Blashfleld, and it 
was voted to recommend Mr. E. C. Tarbell to the Board of Regents as his 
successor. 

The secretary of the commission announced the expiration of the three-year 
terms of the following members of the commission : Messrs. John E. Lodge, 
James Parmelee, and E. W. Redfield, and their election for four years was 
recommended by the commission. 

Then followed the reelection of the present officers of the commission and 
also of the members of the executive and advisory committees for the ensuing 
year. 

On motion, the board accepted the report and adopted the following 

resolution : 

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution hereby 
accepts with regret the resignation of Mr. E. H. Blashfield as a member of the 
National Gallery of Art Commission: elects Mr. Edmund C. Tarbell for the 
remainder of Mr. Blashfield's term, namely, to December 14, 1027; reelects 
Messrs. John E. Lodge, James Parmelee, E. W. Redfield, and Mr. Daniel Chester 
French as members for the full term of four years. 

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 

In siibmittino; his annnal report of the operations of the Institu- 
tion for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1924, the secretary said that 
since the last annual meeting of the Regents on December 13, 1923, a 
total of 110 publications have been issued by the Institution and the 
Government branches in its administrative charge. Of this num- 
ber 40 were issued by the Institution, 67 by the National Museum, 
and 3 by the Bureau of American Ethnolog3\ It is by means of 
these various series of publications, together with exhibits, lectures, 
radio talks, and correspondence, that the Institution carries out one 
of its primary objects, the " diffusion of knowledge among men." 
The publications are distributed free to libraries, scientifi'c and edu- 
cational institutions, and "interested individuals throughout the 
world. 

The Smithsonian Annual Eeport continues to attract widespread 
popular interest. These reports have been issued two years late 
since the World War, but Congress has provided an additional 
amount to enable the Institution to bring out two in one year, and at 
the present time the report for 1923 is ready for paging and all the 
galleys of the report for 1924 have been received from the printer. 



132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

ADJOURNED MEETING, JANUARY 5, 1925 

Present : The Hon. William H. Taft, Chief Justice of the United 
States, chancellor; Senator Reed Smoot; Senator A. Owsley Stanlej'^; 
Representative Alberl Jolmson; Representative R. Walton JNIoore; 
Representative Walter H. Newton; Mr. Robert S. Brookings; Mr. 
Frederic A. Delano; and the secretary, Dr. Charles D. Walcott. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

The secretary read a letter from Mr. John E. Lodge expressing the 
grateful acknowledgment of his family for the resolutions adopted 
by the Board of Regents on December 11, 1924, on the death of his 
father. Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, a Regent of the Institution. 

INCREASE OF ENDOWMENT 

The executive committee reported that it had carefully considered 
a plan submitted by a New York firm for increasing the endowment 
of the Institution, and had received the opinion of the Attorney Gen- 
eral that there was no legal impediment in the way of engaging the 
firm for this purpose. 

The board adopted a resolution giving the permanent committee 
power to act in the matter. 

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON PLANS TOR NEW BUILDING TOR NA- 
TIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

Mr. Delano read the following report : 

To the Board of Regents. 

Gentlemen : Your committee appointed by tlie board ou February 14, 1924, 
for the purpose of collaborating with the architect in the preparation of plans 
for the proposed National Gallery of Art Building, met at the Smithsonian 
Institution on October 28, 1924. 

Mr. Charles A. Piatt, the architect, who had recently returned from a tour 
of the art galleries abroad, submitted preliminary sketch plans for the build- 
ing. These comprised plans of the three floors with sections, and a detailed 
drawing of the south front. Plans of a number of European galleries, drawn 
to the same scale, were presented for comparison, and details of lighting 
adaptation to spaces and various other requirements of the structure were 
considered. Mr. Piatt explained that it was exi>ected that granite would 
be employed in the construction, and that the building, which will be 320 by 
570 feet, would contain possibly 10,000,000 cubic feet. He said also that if 
required the plans could be ready for the beginning of the work within six 
months. 

The provisional plans as presented were ajiproved by the committee as a 
basis for future study. 
Respectfully submitted. 

Henry White, Chairman, 
Frederic A. Delano, 
HEaRBbJiT Adams, 
Gari Melchers, 
' / J. H. Gest, 

Charles D. Walcott (ex officio). 

Special Committee. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS 133 

REMISSION OF FREER INCOME TAX 

The secretary called attention to the passage by the Senate of 
H. K. No. 8100 for the relief of Mr. Freer's estate, by which taxes 
to the amount of $74,889.56 have been remitted b}^ the Government. 

OPENING OF MUSEUM BUILDINGS ON SUNDAYS 

The secretary brought up the question of the opening of all of 
the Museum buildings on Sundays, stating that it was now impos- 
sible to do so owing to the few watchmen allowed by the appropria- 
tions. The Natural Histoiy (or new) Building was open from 1.30 
to 4.30, but the other buildings were closed. He thought that if 
five more watchmen were provided all the buildings could be open 
on Sunday, at least for the afternoon. 

In this connection he also spoke of the few visitors on Christmas 
and New Year's Days, and proposed the closing of the buildings on 
those days, so as to give the watchmen an opportunity for rest 
which Avas now denied them. 

After discussion, resolutions Avere adopted covering these matters. 
76041—26—10 



GENERAL APPENDIX 

TO THE 

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1925 



135 



ADVERTISEMENT 



The object of the General Appendix to the Annual Report of the 
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis- 
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by 
coUaborators of the Institution ; and memoirs of a general character 
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous 
correspondents of the Institution. 

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual 
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more 
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological 
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations 
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this 
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such 
papers as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific 
progress. 

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum- 
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by 
well-known private publishing firms, the secretary had a series of 
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the 
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geol- 
ogy, meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, 
and anthropolog3\ This latter plan w^as continued, though not alto- 
gether satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888. 

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of 
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them orig- 
inal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and 
discussion. This method has been continued in the present report 
for 1925. 

]36 



SPIRAL NEBULAE AND THE STRUCTURE OF SPACE ^ 



By C. WiRTz 
University Observatory, Kiel 



1. The inquiry into the structure of space lies within the province 
of astronomy. For this purpose observation will give us the position 
of numerous physical points which must serve as the skeleton upon 
which we model our conception. Observation gives us knowledge of 
the motions of the heavenly bodies. The orbits derived from these 
motions should serve as the basis for some conclusions as to the 
character of the space in which these bodies are imbedded. Several 
decades ago the distances measured by astronomy out into the world 
of the stars were too small to be expected to show any divergencies of 
structure from ordinary Euclidean conceptions. Within the rela- 
tively small solar system all motions take place so accurately in 
accordance with the laws of Newton and Euclidean geometry that 
no modifications are necessary. 

This is remarkable and comforting. In the solar system the ap- 
parent movements are rapid and great with reference to the lapse 
of time during which we may make measures. Accordingly, the 
numerous complexities of the motions have been recognized and 
explained. On the other hand with the stars the changes of position 
are so slow that observations for 2,000 years show no divergences of 
their paths from straight, uniform motion. The stars of the heavens 
behave to us as would^ our planetary system to an observer living 
only a few seconds; that is, for such an observer the planets would 
show no deviation from a uniform rectilinear motion. Yet we must 
not push the analogy further for he could from such observations 
correctly construct the plan of the solar system. 

In every way we become convinced that the dimensions of our 
solar system with its known structure and rapid motions are too 
restricted to help us in our problem of the structure of space. In- 

> Reprinted (by special permission of the director of Sclentia) from the Issue of Novem- 
ber, 1925, of Scientia. International Review of scientific synthesis, edited by Eugenio 
Rignano, published by eight publishers : Williams & Wilkins Co., Baltimore ; Williams & 
Norgate, London ; Felix Alcau, Paris ; Nicola Zanlchelli, Bologna ; Akad, Verlagsgesell- 
schaft m. b. II., Leipzig ; Ruiz Hermanos, Madrid ; Renascenca Tortiguesa, Porto ; The 
Maruzen Co., Tokyo. 

137 



138 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1025 

stinctively we turn to those objects to which we ascribe the greatest 
distances from us. We hope that in the light coming to us from 
these distant objects we may find something serving as testimony 
of the long path it has traversed through this space. Speaking 
metaphorically, from the dust of the journey we would infer some- 
thing of the nature and direction of the path as well as the region 
tln-ough which the journey lay. 

2. Which, then, are the most distant bodies? Through a process of 
elimination we are quickly left with only two possible kinds of bodies 
which mostly or wholly lie without that part of space wdiich is filled 
with stars in varying number. Our sun is somewhat near the 
center of this universe of stars. The boundary of it we may prac- 
tically place where the star density is one one-hundreth that close 
to our sun. To realize the vanishingly small density in which the 
matter, collected in the form of stars exists, we may think of them 
as grains of sand so scattered that each grain is distant about 100 
kilometers (62 miles) from its nearest neighbor. This shows to 
scale the relative emptiness of space. The limit of our universe of 
stars as above defined lies so far away (30,000 light-years) that it 
takes 30,000 years for light to come from the boundary to us. Be- 
yond, outside the bounds of our stellar system (galaxy) lie numerous 
globular star clusters and spiral nebulae — not all the clusters but all 
of the nebulae. 

How may we obtain an idea or measure of these immensely great 
distances? Direct trigonometric triangulation naturally can give 
us no information since we have to do with annual parallaxes giving 
angles as small as 0.000005 angular seconds, and indeed less. The 
motions of the spiral nebulae give us the answer and a riddle at the 
same time. For 15 years we have known that the lines in the spectra 
of the spiral nebulae show shifts which have been interpreted as Dop- 
pler displacements, a physical interpretation which is taken to indi- 
cate and measure radial velocities of the nebulae. These velocities are 
much greater than those generally found for the fixed stars. They 
may be of the order of 2,000 kilometers (1,250 miles) per second. 
At present radial velocities have been determined for some 50 spiral 
nebulae. These have already been analyzed to discover interesting 
systematic characteristics in the nebular movements. 

All apparent motions of the heavenly bodies are made up of two 
components : Their own or " peculiar motion " and a mirroring in 
them of the motion of the observer.- The latter varies for different 
directions relative to our movement and with the distance of the 

2 Note by the translator. — An analogous motion mfay be observed from the window 
of a rapidly moving train. The trees of the middle distance seem to recede, while the 
more distant ones move along with the train. 



SPIRAL NEBULJS WIRTZ 139 

body from the observer. It is possible by combination in a mathe- 
matical discussion of all the motions of the various bodies to find 
the motion of the observer relative to the " centroid " (center of 
mean positions) of the moving bodies. When we seek this datum 
from the motions of the spiral nebulae we reach an unexpected result. 
The "' apex," or goal of the motion of the sun, has no apparent rela- 
tionship with that found from a similar discussion of the motions 
of the stars. This apex, determined from the nebular motions, lies 
not far from the pole of the earth's orbit. There is a further and 
not less unexpected result. The velocity of the sun relative to the 
centroid of the spiral nebulae is no longer the commonly found value 
from various discussions of stellar motions, 20 kilometers (12 miles) 
per second, but about 700 kilometers (435 miles) per second. It can 
not be the sun alone which is thus moving relatively to the spiral 
nebulce. For such a great velocity would have its image in the sur- 
rounding stars (parallactic motion) ; such is not present, 

3. We are therefore forced to the conclusion that our whole galaxy 
of stars, the milky way family as a body, is moving with this great 
velocity relative to the centroid of the spiral nebulae. A further 
conclusion results: The milky way system and the spiral nebulae 
must be considered as related systems — that is, the spiral nebulae are 
distant galaxies and our galaxy or milky-way system, viewed from 
the spiral nebulae, would have the appearance of a cosmical nebula. 

There is another surprise. If we eliminate the known motion 
of the sun from the observed motion of the spiral nebulae we would 
expect to find, according to the underlying assumptions of the pro- 
cedure, that in the mean they would be zero. But that is not at 
all the case. We find that the system of spiral nebulae tends to 
scatter outwards into space. Literally stated, the spirals are moving 
outwards from the present position of the observer with a velocity 
of about 800 kilometers (497 miles) per second. 

We can obtain another measure of the distance of these nebulae, 
although of small accuracy. The goal of the solar motion may be 
found not only from a discussion of the movements of the nebulae 
in a radial direction but also from their movements at right angles 
to this, their angular displacements. The natural lack of sharpness 
in the outlines of these hazy objects militates against the accuracy of 
position determinations, so that the proper motions of any individual 
nebula can not be indicated with any accuracy. But that does not 
exclude the determination of a statistical mean indicating the part 
of movement of all of them, which is produced by the motion of the 
observer himself. If we combine this uncertain l)ut at any rate too 
o-reat value of the angular motion with the surer value of the 



140 ANNUAL BEPOET SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

radial motion, there can be obtained a lower limit for the distance 
of the spiral nebulae. There results a value of 80,000 light-years. 

If we are convinced that the spirals are distant milky-way systems, 
there is available yet another method which allows us to push yet 
further the lower limit of their distance. New stars (novae) appear 
from time to time in certain spiral nebulae. We can compare these 
with those which appear in our own milky way. Let us assume 
that their greatest brightness is the same no matter in which system 
they occur. Tliis leads to an estimate of 000,000 light-years for 
the nearest spiral nebulae. This further signifies that their linear 
dimensions are of the same order as those of our own galaxy. 

4. Now, convinced that the light from the spirals must travel this 
immensely long journey through space to reach us, let us recall 
our earlier query : Does this light bring us in its aspects any trace 
of the structure of this space which does not correspond to the 
structure of infinite Euclidean space? 

Perhaps. First let us consider the apparent dispersion outwards, 
relative to our position of observation, of the matter concentrated 
in these nebulae. In this in itself remarkable phenomenon we will 
find something further to strike us. AVe will probably not be greatly 
wrong if, as a first approximation, we ascribe the same linear dimen- 
sions to all of the spiral nebulae. Then in their apparent angular 
extent we have a measure of their individual distances. Using this 
assumption as the basis of our inquiry we reach a startling result: 
With increasing distance of the nebulae the observed outwardly 
directed velocity increases, and it increases at a rapid rate, such that 
when the distance increases tenfold the radial velocity increases 
about 1,200 kilometers (745 miles) per second. This must mean 
that the farther away the object is in the depths of Euclidean 
space the more rapid is the dispersion of its matter into that space. 

Is this interpretation of the observed facts, which assumes infinite 
space, necessary ? Naturally not. There are no absolutely necessary 
descriptions of observed facts. We should try to formulate that 
description which is the most satisfying in the sense that it explains 
a greater number of isolated phenomena than the older conception. 

5. There is a structure of space in which the phenomena which we 
have observed in the spiral nebulae will be accurately reproduced. 
This structure occurs in the cosmology of the Dutch astronomer, 
W. de Sitter. The world of de Sitter is a four-dimensional con- 
tinuum of space and time, forming the surface of a sphere in five 
dimensional coordinates. This sounds richly complex, indeed incom- 
prehensible. It is not possible to represent it graphically. Jiut 
representation is a product of our imagination, knowledge of our 



SPIRAL NEBULA WIRTZ 141 

reason. The understanding can Avell conceive what our imagina- 
tion can not picture. That is the case here. Man, bodily con- 
structed in three dimensions, can not picture things in four or more 
dimensions. Nevertheless, the following conceit may help us better 
to understand the space of de Sitter. 

If we eliminate two dimensions of a four-dimensional space, the 
latter reduces to a surface. But what is the character of this surface? 

We can take in at a glance the phenomena which could be under- 
stood by a being of two dimensions living on the surface of a sphere. 
From these phenomena he could infer the mathematical characteris- 
tics of his cosmical space. This being would recognize the extended 
but not infinite character of his sphere of existence. Further, he 
would recognize something which is really the radius of the three- 
dimensional sphere upon whose surface he is constrained to exist 
and which might become an object for research. It is the radius 
of curvature of his w^orld space. He can talk of it, he can determine 
a linear measure of it. A spatial representation in three dimen- 
sions will never be possible to him who can know only two dimen- 
sions. The two-dimensional observer, carrying out certain direct 
measures upon this surface-of-a-sj)here limited universe, will find 
that the value of his determinations of the number tt will not be 
constant. It will be found that it is dependent upon the greatness of 
the circle, that it is always less than 3.14159, and that the value of tt 
which he finally decides upon will be the maximum limit toward 
which all his values tend to approach. 

The strange cosmos of de Sitter, reduced to tw^o dimensions, 
does not become such a simple surface-of-a-sphere world but one 
lying on a hyperbola of revolution. Our physicist, confined upon 
the surface of this hyperboloid, can make certain observations com- 
parable to those of our real world. For instance, he will find that 
the number of Archimedes is always less than our value of ir. It may 
be mentioned as remarkable that all the phenomena of probability 
from which we may determine a value of tt will lead to a value which 
is greater than the value found from Euclidean geometry. Taken by 
itself this is possibly only a curiosity and might signify little. 
Nevertheless certain modern astronomical phenomena can be given 
an interpretation which points the same way. 

This phenomenon occurs in de Sitter's world, although its exist- 
ence was not known at the time he constructed his cosmology (1917). 
With increasing distance from the center of his coordinate system, 
natural phenomena occur slower and slower, and of course all natural 
clocks go likewise slower and slower. Especially is this true with 
atomic vibrations. This decrease in vibration time can be measured 
for it will be impressed upon the light coming to us. It means that 



142 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

spectrum lines from distant sources must be shifted toward the red 
even though the source is at rest. A particle once present in empty 
space will be driven outward wdth an acceleration which increases 
with the distance. In de Sitter's world there are, therefore, two 
causes for a shift of the spectrum lines toward the red — the general 
dispersion of matter outwards toward the limits of space and the 
slowing up of natural time apparent in all distant objects, even 
though they are at rest, relative to the origin of coordinates. 

Because of the symmetr}^ of the formula expressing de Sitter^s 
world, any desired point may be chosen for the zero point of co- 
ordinates. That means that there exists no difference in the 
observed run of phenomena no matter what the point of observation, 
even though at the boundary of de Sitter's space. 

Is it possible to obtain a measure of this slowing up of natural 
processes at great distance? Yes, and it follows from de Sitter's 
theory that there is not only the shifting of the spectrum lines to 
the red but also, as already noted, the increase of this shift with 
the increasing distance of the object. These facts should occur in 
the spiral nebulae as follows: The radial movements outward (Dop- 
pler displacement in spectrum) of the spiral nebuhi' must tend to 
greater and greater positive values as the diameters of the nebulae 
decrease. 

A discussion of the observations gave a verification of the above 
prediction. The cosmos of de Sitter allows yet other predictions, 
but we will not discuss them, all now. Suflice it to state that we 
can determine the radius of curvature of the time-space cosmos of 
de Sitter from phenomena which appear in the spiral nebulie. The 
curvature is small, its radius is of the order of 100 millions of light- 
years. In his continual flow of time an object will never return 
to the zero point of coordinates. Time is single valued and history 
will not repeat itself. The cosmology of de Sitter furnishes a suffi- 
cient description of the universe. 

6. Our preceding discussion is based upon the observation of some 
50 nebulae which are bright enough for the measurement of the line 
shifts in their spectra. Now^ there are about 20,000 definitely cata- 
loged nebulae, and the optical means of our present day should 
render visible about 3,000,000. What new information may we 
expect from all of these objects? Just as with the fixed stars, sta- 
tistical discussions of their distribution, color, photometric measures, 
etc, will lead to many valuable results. 

We will now speak of only one interesting chapter — that relating 
to the absorption of light in space. It is evidentlj^ very important, 
for in a last analysis this absorption Avill play a very important 



SPIRAL NEBULA WIRTZ 143 

and active part in onr world picture. To be more definite, let 
us suj^pose this absorption to be of the magnitude produced by that 
of a thick meteorological fog. Then light coming from beyond a 
certain distance will be completely extinguished. We could receive 
no information from more distant bodies. Our universe would have 
the following appearance : Matter would appear gathered in a spher- 
ical star system; our point of outlook would be at its center. It is 
perhaps disquieting when we remember that already humanity has 
had to look at the universe in a new way. That was when it threw 
away the geocentric conception which was a quasi realization of such 
an absorption cosmos. 

Some remarkable results have emerged from measures on the 
absorption of light in space in which the stars are imbedded. In 
numerous regions of the sky we see visually and on photographic 
plates what may be called cosmic clouds. In other places stellar 
counts reveal the existence of compact impenetrable masses of dust 
situated at great distances and covering large tracts of the sky. 
In the color of the stars a selective absorption is apparent, for the 
more distant stars are redder. This property of absorption shows in 
a remarkable way — stars in the richer regions are on the whole bluer 
than where the stars are few. We conclude, ceteris paHhus, that the 
regions poor in stars are poor because the more distant stars are 
hidden behind cloudy veils of small particles which we know selec- 
tively transmit red light. 

Likewise we encounter in all parts of the milky way traces of 
both general and selective absorption. However, when we turn to 
those parts of the sky where we suppose we see great distances out 
into world space, all traces of both general and selective absorption 
disappear. This is indicated by the globular star clusters which are 
placed at some 10,000 to 300,000 light-years away. ' 

7. Can we obtain any evidence of absorption from the spiral nebu- 
lae, the farthest of which may be situated millions of light-years dis- 
tant ? Apparently we can. In them we have surface pictures of great 
diameter. The surface brightness of these objects can be determined 
photometrically. This is a very important datum, for the surface 
brightness should be independent of the distance if space is free of 
absorption — that is, optically empty. If, instead of taking as our 
measure of their individually unknown linear distances, we take 
their apparent diameter, the surface brightness determined for a 
great number of these bodies should show in a statistical mean no 
relation to their apparent diameter. We have at our disposal the 
surface brightness of more than 500 spirals. We find, in submitting 
all these measures to the precise methods of statistical mathematics, 



144 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

that there is a slight dependence of the surface brightness upon the 
api^arent diameters in the sense that the surface brightness slightly 
decreases as the nebula is more distant. For the explanation of this 
it is natural to have recourse to a general absorption in the space 
traversed. It may be due to the weakening of the light in passing 
through an extremely tenuous medium. The selective absorption 
necessarily bound with the phenomenon has not been demonstrated. 
If we evaluate the amount of absorption, it is approximately such 
that when the light passes through a .space 3,000 light-years thick 
the light is weakened 0,00001 magnitude, an amount too small to 
be effective within our own galax}^ 

Bizarre as it may seem, the limit of the system of spiral nebulai 
is apparently accessible to our researches, which now extend about to 
the confines of our stellar galaxy. We may consider that we are 
approaching this limit if the number of new nebulai discovered by 
more and more powerful telescopes grows smaller and smaller, or at 
any rate does not augment as the optical powers of our instruments 
increase. We may add that the cumulation of nebular matter toward 
the north pole of the millcy way diminishes as we push farther out 
into space toward the fainter and fainter nebulae. Statistics relative 
to the apparent distribution of the nebula3 lead to this result. Com- 
parison with the relative distribution of the stars, determined by 
similar means, leads to the conclusion that we should not look to the 
spiral nebulae as the birthplace of our stars. 

There is a fact which fits with difficulty into the theory which 
considers the spiral nebulae as distant milky ways. That is the 
complete independence of their surface brightness upon their ori- 
entation. For, seen from the depths of space, our milky way would 
appear five times as luminous seen edgewise as broadside on. Fur- 
ther, the surface brightness of the milky way as a whole would be 
small compared with that of the spiral nebulae. The milky way sys- 
tem is therefore exceptional, and its brightness places it at the lower 
rank of its class and as an extreme in any scheme of the evolution 
of spiral nebula3. It is not in our power to say whether to place it 
at the beginning or end of the evolution. 



We see that what has been stated relative to several problems 
which are connected with the spiral nebulae, or in a more general way 
with cosmical nebulae, leads us, literally and metaphorically, to the 
limits of our knowledge and the confines of space, where reality 
and fiction, where the physical world and the shadows of our 
thought confound. Meanwhile neither this world nor science stop 
there. There is the possibility of finding a response to ques- 



SPIRAL NEBULtiE WIRTZ 145 

tions which agitate human thought and of formulating a sufficient 
description of the genesis of the universe. It is yet too soon for our 
perceptions, and their interpretations still contain contradictions. 
But we may be sure that as long as contradictions exist our intelli- 
gences and our imaginations will work for their solution. The con- 
tradictions in our conceptions of the universe are the best guarantees 
for the life of science and the future progress of knowledge. 

Only error is life. 

— F. Schiller — Cassandra. 



IMMENSITIES OF TIME AND SPACE ' 



By A. ViuB^RT Douglas, M. B. E., M. Sc. 



Within the last twelve months three workers in the realms of 
mathematical astronomy and cosmogony have bronght their re- 
searches to conclusions of tremendous importance and widespread 
interest. So closely are their problems interwoven that it may prove 
stimulating to consider in some detail the aim of each investigation, 
the line of argument, and the outstanding results thus far achieved. 



STAR'S MASS AND LUMINOSITY 

Last year there was given to the Royal Astronomical Society by 
Prof. A. S. Eddington, F. R. S., a paper which has aroused great in- 
terest among astronomers 
the world over. For many 
years Professor Eddington 
has been investigating the 
radiative properties of a 
giant star — that is, a star 
of gigantic size and low 
density, so low that it could 
be considered as obeying 
Avhat in physics are knoAvn 
as the " perfect gas " laws. 
These investigations led 
him to the conclusion that 
the total luminosity of such a star depended chiefly upon its 
mass and temperature, being almost uninfluenced by other fac- 
tors. To test the validitj^ of this formula relating luminosity 
to mass, he first evaluated the constants involved in it from the 
knowm values of mass and luminosity of the bright star Capella. 
He then plotted his relation as shown in the accompanying graph 
by the curved line. Next he collected all the available data from 
every possible source, giving both the masses and luminosities of 
stars and these he plotted individually on his graph. Their close 




0-1- 0-6 0-8 O 0-2 0-4- 6 0-i 
Logarithm of Afess 



10 1-2 



Fig. 1. — Diagram of hiniiuosity — mass relation. 



1 Reprinted by permission from Discovery, Vol. VI, No. 68, August, 1925. 



147 



148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

proximity to the theoretical curve is very striking, and forms a 
strong confirmation of the validity of the theoretical work. 

Curiosity, we suppose, led him to wonder where the points would 
lie representing similar data for the dwarf stars. Now the dwarf 
stars were so named by Prof. Henry Norris Russell because they 
are so dense, due to gradual contraction, that it was thought impos- 
sible that the gas laws could hold true in their case. Hence a rela- 
tion between mass and luminosity explicitly based upon strict adher- 
ence to the gas laws would not be expected to hold good for a star 
of the dwarf type. But, mirabile visu, the plotted points for data 
taken from dwarf stars conform as well to the theoretical curve 
as in the case of the giants. 

This was an astounding fact suggesting as it did that the dwarf 
star, no matter what its density, was in the state of atomic agitation 
of a perfect gas. The explanation given by Eddington seems plau- 
sible, though it has not been accepted unanimously — namely, that 
where matter is subject to such high temperatures as exist in the 
stars, temperatures to be measured in millions of degrees, each atom 
is reduced in effective volume a hundred thousand times since its 
revolving electrons, whose outermost orbits determine its normal 
effective volume, are all stripped off or ionized b}^ the intensity of 
heat. Each electron is thus so endowed with energy that it moves 
about as an independent unit unrestricted to any atomic orbit. Thus 
a free gaseous state can exist in spite of much closer packing than 
would suffice at ordinary temperatures to reduce the matter to the 
state of liquid or solid. 

DENSE STARS 

This conception, if it be true, throws light on a long-standing 
astronomical mj'stery. There are known to be a few stars, like the 
lohite diva?'/ companion of Sirius, so small yet so massive that their 
density worked out to be of the order of fifty thousand times that of 
water — an absurdity it was thought, an impossible result, something 
radically wrong somewhere in the observations or calculations. But 
instead of finding something wrong with the calculations, Edding- 
ton's work suggests that the trouble lay in our thinking the result 
absurd, in our failure to realize the tremendous difference between 
the state of matter at terrestrial temperatures and at stellar tem- 
peratures. 

GIANTS AND DWARFS 

If, then, all the stars arc in a true gaseous condition, it is necessary 
to modify all ideas and calculations based on the old point of view 
that the dwarf stars were not obeying the same laws of pressure. 



TIME AND SPACE DOUGLAS 



149 



volume, and tempei'ature as the giant stars. Prof. H. N. Russell's 
famous Giant and Dwarf theory of Stellar Evolution suggested 
that a star begins its career as a very large mass of gas, highly 
inflated and miicli less dense than air. This Avould slowly contract 
by gravitational influence, growing hotter and hotter and brighter 
and brighter. This period would embrace its life as a giant star. 
When contraction had reached such a point that, upon the old view, 
the gas laws could no longer be considered as even approximately 
representing the state of the star, then at this critical point of balance 
between mass, density, and temperature, further gravitational con- 
traction would of necessity be accompanied by decrease of tempera- 
ture and of luminosity. This period constituted the dAvarf stage 
of a star's career. Now this theory is thrown into a new light by 
Eddington's results. If the nuiss of a star be constant throughout 



Deneb^^ ,,Oqq yjVSinus O 




Betel^euse 



jyj\Krueger 60 



kSt^ 



Fir; 



Diagram of stellar evolution 



its life, Eddington's formula shows that there can be very little 
alteration in luminosity in spite of contraction, and hence the evolu- 
tion of a single star as outlined above is an impossibility. If as an 
alternative interpretation the mass of a star is gradually diminish- 
ing, being actually consumed away to maintain the supply of energy 
which a star is continuously radiating, then Russell's theory of 
evolution may be retained as indicating the probable sequence of 
stellar change, but with this difference that, though the effective or 
surface temperature may decrease during the latter stages, the 
internal temperature will continue to rise. 

LOSS OF MASS 

A great deal thus turns on whether the mass of a radiating star 
can actually be considered to be diminishing. There are, further- 
more, two ways of looking at this question. 
76041—26 11 



150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

One suggestion is that by collision of a very infrequent type be- 
tween an electron and a proton (the ultimate particles of matter 
known to the physicist, carrying the unit electrical charges, negative 
and positive) their impact results in complete annihilation of their 
mass — that is, of tlie matter which they form — a definite amount of 
radiant energy being the equivalent result. This is highly specula- 
tive, there being no observed phenomenon in nature to prove 
definitely that such a transformation can take place; but it is 
theoretically possible, for matter and energy are essentially the same 
thing. Matter is one of manj'^ forms of energy and in the usual 
units of measurement of energy, the energy equivalent of a mass m 
grams of matter is in c'- ergs where c is the velocity of light, 3X10^° 
cm. per second. In other words, one gram of matter represents a 
potential concentration of energy equivalent to nine hundred million 
million million ergs, or as more conveniently expressed, 9X10"" 
ergs; or one pound of matter embodies iX (186,000X5,280)- foot- 
pounds of energy — that is, 10^^ foot-pounds. 

The theory of relativity has shown mathematically, and it has 
been confirmed experimentally for fast moving alpha and beta 
particles, that what we term mass is really a property of matter that 
depends upon its velocity. Mass increases with increase of velocity, 
but this increase only becomes apparent when the velocity is so great 
that it becomes comparable to the velocity of light. The full expres- 
sion for mass energy in the relativity theory is 



Here the first term is the whole intermolecular energy of the mass 
at rest ; the second term is its kinetic energy, or the energ}^ possessed 
by it in virtue of its motion; the third and subsequent terms will be 
quite negligible for small values of the velocity v of the mass, but 
become appreciable one by one as the velocity v approaches the 
velocity of light. From this it follows that in order for the mass of 
a star to diminish as a result (or perhaps we should say as the 
cause) of its radiation, it is not necessary to postulate the annihila- 
tion of matter, but simply the loss in mass resulting from loss in 
velocity. From the above equation it can be seen that this might 
well be a tremendous reservoir of available energy. 

The idea that continued stellar radiation might imply gradual loss 
in stellar mass was not new. It had been suggested some years ago 
by Dr. J. H. Jeans, but the facts above explained brought this idea 
forward with a new significance. Doctor Jeans saw that if this idea 
be really true, many astronomical problems are seen in a new light, 
and many investigations require reconsideration. This he has done 
and only recently has he published his results. 



TIME AND SPACE DOUGI^AS 151 

AGE OF SUN 

One of the questions which has provoked controversy between 
geologist, physicist, and astronomer for many years is the probable 
age of the earth, an estimate of the age of the sun being, of course, 
an upper limit to tlie age of the solar system. Jeans attacks the 
problem from the new point of view, and his argument is as follows : 
The sun is radiating away its mass at the rate of about 4,200,000 tons 
per second and, if it were once as massive a star as Sirius now is, 
then it has been radiating for 7X10^^ years. This means an age of 
at least a million million years, and is several thousand times greater 
than any previous estimate — a figure so great that it baffles compre- 
hension, and staggers even the imagination. 

GALAXY EXPANDING 

There is an interesting consequence of loss of mass by radiation 
which has an important bearing upon our system and upon the 
galaxy of stars about us. If our sun be gradually diminishing in 
mass, the law of conservation of momentum requires that the planets 
move gradually off in ever expanding orbits. Similarly, if the mass 
of our galaxy as a whole be gradually diminishing, the stars must 
be opening out, spreading farther apart from the common center of 
gravity and therefore from one another. Jeans estimates that 10^^ 
years ago this galaxy was packed sixty-four times more closely than 
it is at the present time. 

BINARY STARS 

This modifies various problems of cosmogony in a remarkable 
manner. The orbits of binary stars have long been a mystery, because 
no mutual force between two such stars was known which could 
account for their being in such eccentric and large orbits about their 
common center of gravity. Jeans points out that it is no longer 
necessary to look for such a force, that with the enlarged time scale 
, for the galaxy (greater than lO^'' years) outside influences become 
not only possible but verj^ highly probable — that is to say, the normal 
orbits of a binary system may be perturbed by the gravitational pull 
of a passing star approaching more closely than is usual. The 
chance of such an influence being brought to bear upon a binary is 
greatly increased by the closer packing of the system in bygone ages. 
Basing his calculations upon the observed percentage of decidedly 
modified binary orbits and the probability of outside influence, 
Jeans obtains an estimate of the age of the galaxy which confirms 
his j)revious result of 10^^ years. 



152 ANNUAL KEPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

MASS AND VP:L0CITY 

A statistical study of the masses and the velocities of stars revealed 
a striking correlation, which though incomplete pointed toward 
equipartition of Qncrgy. No satisfactory explanation of this was 
offered until Jeans dispelled the clouds of mystery by showing that 
it is essentially the same problem as that just discussed. The mutual 
influences of tlie stars, originally sixty-four times as closely packed 
as now, have resulted in the course of 10'- 3'ears in bringing some 
measure of order out of i)riiiic\al disorder. It is analogous to the 
behavior of a mixture of gases -if undisturbed by external influences 
the tendenc}' would be for (hose molecules most massive to move most 
slowly while the lighter molecules moved with the greater speed, the 
kinetic energy or product of mass by velocity squared, tending to be 
the same for all the molecules. This also formed a basis, though 
of a tiuth a somewhat shaky basis, for again confirming the age of 
the galaxy as 10^^ years. 

SOLAR SYSTEMS 

Tlie nebular hypothesis of Laplace and the planetesimal hypothesis 
of Chamberlin have gone into the history of science as great and 
lasting monuments to their originators, both of whom were powerful 
and constructive thinkers. As a direct development from Chamber- 
lin 's hypothesis, Jeans some years ago worked out upon a rigorous 
mathematical basis his tidal theory of the origin of the solar system. 
In view of the contrast between his conclusions in 1919 and his 
present conclusions in the light of the researches under review, it is 
worth while to consider the tidal theor}^ in some detail. 

An analysis of the equilibrium forms of rotating fluids under 
various conditions amenable to mathematical treatment, revealed the 
fact that within a rotating gaseous mass there are no forces which 
could combine to produce a series of j^lanets such as encircle our sun. 
Hence, following the lead of Chamberlin, Jeans called in the aid of 
a passing star to suppl}^ the force necessary to disrupt the parent 
sun. It is obvious that a close approach of one star to another would 
draAV out tides, one on each side of the star considered, the tidal arm 
on the side nearest to the tide-producing star being slightly the 
greater, and therefore more readily drawn out to a distance produc- 
ing its instability. The mattei" in this arm would then break away 
from the parent sun and follow orbits about the sun in directions 
governed by the direction of travel of the passing star. Condensa- 
tion would gradually take place about any points in the tidal arm 
where there happened to be a local concentration of gas. Each of 
these nuclei would become one of the planets, and its orbit and other 
individual characteristics Avould be determined, in part at least, by 



TIME AND SPACE DOUGLAS 153 

the influence of the " resisting medium " through which it moved, 
this medium being composed of the vast millions of gaseous particles 
scattered hither and thither into space about the sun by the cataclys- 
mic disruption of the tidal arm. 

The formation of satellites by the planets is again an evidence of 
tidal action, but in this case the sun itself was the tide-producing 
agency which caused the disruption of the planets when each passed 
its perihelion for the first time. That some satellites so formed 
eventually became detached from their parent planets to be captured 
by other planets is one of the interesting results of the action of the 
resisting medium. 

Dr. Harold Jeffreys has recently proposed several modifications 
of the above tidal theory. The outstanding point of difference is 
that Jeffreys limits the size of the ancestral sun to 40 million kilo- 
meters in diameter, whereas Jeans had presupposed a much less 
dense sun of diameter 8,000 million kilometers; the former figure 
is approximately the diameter of Mercury's orbit, the latter figure 
is greater than the diameter of the orbit of Neptune. The evidence 
in favor of the smaller figure seems to be fairly strong. 

UNKNOWN PLANETS 

The point of interest in both these forms of the tidal theor\ 
is that they led to the belief that our solar system was possiblj 
unique in the galaxy of stars, because the chance of two stars ap- 
proaching closely enough to produce tidal disruption — namely 10^* 
kilometers— was only once in 10^" years, Avhich was the whole age of 
the galaxy then considered possible. With the much greater time 
scale now proposed by Jeans, and considering also the much closer 
packing in those early millions of years, the probability of the close 
approach of two stars becomes decidedly great. Hence the conclu- 
sion now reached by Jeans is that of the myriad stars we see about 
us — not the majority — but a considerable number are probably suns 
to a family of planets. Like our own solar system in many respects, 
these numerous other systems may be, yet differing probably from it 
and from one another in all the details. Whether upon some fav- 
ored planets in some of these many systems there have been devel- 
oped physical conditions as on this earth, rendering them fit cradles 
for the advent of life we know not, and it is beyond the scope of 
the mathematical physicist and astronomer to speculate further. 

STABILITY OF GALAXY 

An investigation of very great interest has been carried out dur- 
ing the last year by Dr. Ludvik Silberstein on the question of the 



154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

permanence of star clusters, in particular, the great star cluster 
or galaxy near the center of ^vhich our solar system finds itself. 
Silberstein bases his calculations upon the four-dimensional space- 
time relations of de Sitt«r, and from this starting point he last year 
deduced a relation which could be evaluated in terms of observed 
astronomical data in such a way as to give a numerical value for 
an invariant characteristic of spacetime called by the mathemati- 
cian the radius of curvature. This quantity, symbolized by R, has 
the finite value of 10^- astronomical units, that is 10'- times the dis- 
tance from earth to sun. This theoi'y, with the consequent value of 
R, has not been universally accepted, but this does not detract from 
the interest of the subsequent reasoning by which Silberstein deduces 
a criterion of stability in terms of the total mass of a system of 
material bodies (molecules or stars) and the radius of the system. 
Associated with any given mass there is a critical distance. If a 
star be at a greater distance than this critical value from the center 
of gravity, its orbit will of necessity be a hyperbola. This means 
that sooner or later it will desert the system forever. On the other 
hand, if its distance from the mass center be less than the critical 
value it will describe an elliptic orbit, thus remaining indefinitely 
within the system. 

This criterion has been applied to those globular clusters far out 
in space beyond our own galaxy, for which the astronomer has been 
able to form estimates of their size and nuiss. They are found to be 
considerably less massive than our galaxy and very much more 
closely packed, so closely packed that the calculated critical radius 
is much greater than the dimensions of the clusters, which may, 
therefore, from the point of view of this theory, be considered as 
stable aggregates of stars. 

The reverse is the case of our own galax3\ Mucli too widely scat- 
tered for its mass, its radius exceeds the critical value for stability, 
and therefore this theory predicts that it will suffer from what 
Doctor Silberstein terms '' hyperbolic desertion " until its ranks be 
reduced and its volume diminished to such an extent that the cri- 
terion might perchance be satisfied. In its present form it is, like 
the Roman Empire, far too inflated to be enduring. 

Densities can be treated in a similar manner. Silberstein evalu- 
ates the critical density of matter in space in terms of his finite 
curvature invariant R, the gravitational constant and the velocitj'^ 
of light — three fundamental quantities in this complex universe. 
Any aggregation of matter of less than this critical density will be 
unstable and tend to dissipate, whereas any aggregation of density 
exceeding this value will be in a state of stability. The galaxy of 
stars in which our system finds itself is estimated to liave a density 
fifty-two times too small to satisfy the conditions for permanence. 



TIME AND SPACE DOUGLAS 155 

Having siirvej^ed the future, let us, in the light of this same 
theory, glance backward in an endeavor to trace the origin of a 
stellar cluster. Silberstein considers the possibility of a gaseous 
mass or nebula giving rise to millions of individual concentrations 
of matter, and thus forming the individual stars of a cluster. This 
was essentially the primary postulate of Laplace, though he was 
considering the relatively minute case of a nebula giving rise to a 
solar system — an impossible hypothesis in the light of modern 
knowledge. But as an explanation of the evolution of a small 
galaxy of stars, like many of the star clusters revealed by the tele- 
scope, it is by no means to be discarded — it may well be the true 
solution of the problem, as was pointed out by Jeans some years ago. 
When, however, an attempt is made to explain the origin of our 
galaxy in this manner, it is found to be incapable of satisfying all 
the conditions. Our galax}^, to quote yet another analogy taken by 
Doctor Silberstein from the history of mankind, must have devel- 
oped, like the far-flung British Empire, by the aggregation into one 
conglomerate whole of many remnants of previous systems, systems 
long since scattered to the four winds. 

Guided by some of the great thinkers of to-day, our thoughts have 
traversed a^ons of time, contemplating some of the changes taking 
place with majestic deliberation throughout the vastnesses of space. 
"Time rolls 'his ceaseless course." A million million years suffice 
for the birth of a star and its early development; a few hundred 
thousand years will tell the tale of the life of mankind upon this 
planet; and as for man, an individual man, the years of his life 
are three score years and ten, and yet such is the power of a great 
mind that, despite the brevity of its allotted span, it can wrestle with 
the problems of nature and learn something at least of the immensi- 
ties of space and time. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

A. S. Eddington : Masses and Liiminosities of the Stars. M. N. R. A. S. 
March, 1924. 

J. H. Jeans : Monthly Notices Royal Astronomical Society. December, 1924. 

J. H. .Jeans : Cosmogony and Stellar Dynamics. 1919. 

H. Jeffreys : The Earth : Its origin, history, and physical constitution. 1924. 

L. Silberstein : Theory of Relativity. 1924. Chap. -VI and Miscellaneous 
Notes. 

A. V. D. : Measuring the Universe. Discovery, September, 1924. 



CERTAIN ASPECTS OF HIGH-PRESSURE RESEARCH 



By Prof. P. W. Bridgmax, Ph. D. 
Harvard University 



As some of you know, I have been occupied for a number of years 
in determining the effects of high hydrostatic pressure on a number 
of physical properties. To-day, I propose to stop for a minute for 
a general stock taking, to outline briefly some of the results obtained 
and to suggest partially their possible significance. I am impelled 
to do this because the variet}^ of subjects touched by this high- 
pressure research is so great, and the character of the information 
obtained in many cases so special, that the whole effort is likely to 
appear without general scheme or significance. But I believe that 
different limited aspects of the subject will be of interest to different 
individuals; by presenting to you the general outline, I hope to 
make it possible for any individual to become aware of those aspects 
of the work which may be of special significance to him. 

My general attitude in my investigation has been that high pres- 
sures are a tool which may be significantly applied to the discussion 
of many different problems. It is not usual, however, for an experi- 
menter to devote himself to exploiting a single tool of research. I 
am somewhat in the position of a small boy with a new jackknife 
who rushes about trying it on every conceivable object. Doubtless 
the more mature method is to maintain a tool box from which one 
might take the jackknife wdien one has to sharpen a pencil, or an 
augur when one has to bore a hole. I may suggest, in partial extenu- 
ation of my attitude, that there seem to be very few jackknives in 
the world, or at least very few people who seem willing to use them, 
and there really does seem to be a certain amount of whittling that 
needs to be done. 

The kind of problem which can be attacked most successfully by 
the use of high pressures is not that which is now most interesting 
to most physicists, nor which appears to be most fundamental. 
This tool is not particularly adapted to probing questions of the 
constitution of the atom and particularly of the nucleus, but is better 

1 Address delivered Tliursday, Sei)t. 18, 1924, on the occasion of tlie celebration of the 
centenary of the founding of Tlie I'rniil;lin lustiluto. Reprinted by permission from the 
Journal of The Franklin Institute, I'hiladelphia, August, 1925. 

157 



158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

adapted to the larger scale atomic and molecular phenomena. There 
are, of course, occasions when the behavior of matter under high 
pressures intimately involves the inner structure of the atom, but in 
general the pressures with which I am concerned are too small to 
produce large changes in the atoms themselves. We are concerned 
here with pressures from 10,()()0 to 20,000 atmospheres. These are 
capable of producing comparatively large and significant changes 
in the properties of many substances, but they can not, of course, 
be compared with the pressures of perhaps billions of atmospheres 
which occur in the interior of the stars, and which are supposed to 
be a factor in atomic evolution. 

The significance of high pressure as a tool of atomic research 
lies in the extreme simplicity of the change it produces in the ex- 
ternal conditions, merely pushing the atoms closer together so that 
they are compelled to give a somewhat more intimate account of 
their ow^n inmost selves. The changes produced by pressure are 
obviously much simpler than those produced by a change of tem- 
perature. Xo one regards our understanding of a phenomenon as 
satisfactory unless we are able to give some account of the changes 
produced by temperature; still less should we be satisfied if we can 
not account for the changes produced by pressure. Further, by com- 
bining the effects of temperature and pressure, we extend enormously 
the field in which we may look for phenomena suggestive for our 
theories, for the field is now two instead of one dimensional. 

It is not necessary to apologize for activity in atomic phenomena, 
even if they are not on the extreme end of the exploring line, be- 
cause they are the phenomena which are perhaps of most immediate 
concern to us in daily life, and we have as j'et hardly begun to 
understand them. The extent of our ignorance may be emphasized 
by the fact that none of our theories is able to predict accurately 
any of the high-pressure phenomena which I shall summarize, in 
spite of their extreme simplicity. 

Perhaps the most fundamental of the changes produced by pres- 
sure are those of volume itself. I have measurements of the com- 
pressibility of 5 gases, 15 liquids — most of them simple organic 
liquids, but including water and mercury — and some 45 different 
solids, 35 of them metallic elements, several minerals, and several 
varieties of glass. I may mention here also the compressibility of 
11 of the alkali halides determined by Dr. J. C. Slater, in the Jelfer- 
son Laboratory. All of these compressibilities have been determined 
at several temperatures, so that we know the effects of pressure on 
thermal expansion. The melting curves of 87 substances, including 
metallic elements and organic compounds have been determined. 
These melting measurements include a determination of the change 
of melting temperature when pressure is raised, the change of volume 



HIGH-PRESSURE RESEARCH BRIDGMAN 159 

on melting, the latent heat of melting, and in many cases the differ- 
ence of compressibility between liquid and solid. The effect of pres- 
sure on the polymorpliic transitions of some 30 substances has been 
investigated, including organic and inorganic compounds and the very 
interesting case of water. This investigation has involved the study 
of 69 transition lines and 21 triple points. On these transition lines 
the change of transition temperature with pressure has been deter- 
mined, and also the change of volume, the latent heat, the difference 
of compressibility (which gives information about the difference 
of thermal expansion and specific heats), and the effect of pressure 
on velocity. In addition to these 30 substances, about 100 others 
have been examined and no new polymorphic forms have been found. 
The effect of pressure on electrical resistance over a range of tem- 
perature has been determined for 45 metallic elements in the solid 
state, 8 in the liquid state, and for 7 alloys. The effect of pressure 
on thermal e. m. f. has been measured for 18 metallic elements and 2 
alloys. The effect of pressure on the thermal conductivity of 11 
solid metallic elements, 6 minerals, and 15 liquids (all organic except 
water) has been measured. Finally, a few observations have been 
made on the phenomena of rupture under high pressure. 

What now is the general nature of the facts found, and some 
of their implications? First, consider the facts with regard to 
changes of volume. At high pressures there is no essential differ- 
ence between a gas and a liquid. Under 12,000 kg. the changes of 
volume of ordinary nonmetallic liquids range from something like 
20 per cent for water and 33 per cent for ether up to those of 
hydrogen and helium, which are the most compressible substances 
investigated, and which, under 12,000 kg. at ordinary temperatures 
have a volume less than half that which they have when frozen 
solid at atmospheric pressure by temperatures close to 0° Abs. 
Under these pressures there is a very great change in properties. 
The thermal expansion drops to less than one-fourth of what it is 
ordinarily, and the compressibility drops to one-fifteenth; both 
of these changes are very much greater than the changes of volume. 
The fact that compressibility and thermal expansion drop off so 
greatly for comparatively small changes of volume suggests that 
these must be intimately connected in some way with the empty 
spaces between the atoms. All of the organic liquids behave roughly 
alike, so that an average of them furnishes us with a sort of ideal 
liquid, analogous to the familiar '' perfect " gas. This ideal liquid 
has one curious property; above a certain pressure the ordinary 
behavior of thermal expansion reverses itself, and the liquid is more 
expansible at the low rather than at the high temperatures. In 
addition to the broad features, which are alike for all liquids, each 



160 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

individual shows small and perfectly characteristic divergences from 
the mean, which do not become conspicuous until the liighest pres- 
sures are reached. These suggest differences between the different 
kinds of atoms or molecules, roughly corresponding to differences 
of shape. If an atom has a '' knob " on it (local inequality in its 
force field), it wnll interfere with its neighbors and produce per- 
ceptible differences of behavior when the atoms are pushed close 
together by high pressure. On the other hand, it is interesting 
that water, which under ordinary conditions is a highly abnormal 
liquid, under high pressures loses its abnormalities and returns to 
normality. 

The kinetic theory of gases, extended to include the behavior of 
liquids up to a few hundred atmospheres around the critical point, 
has engaged almost exclusive attention up to the present time. There 
is, so far as I know, no theory of liquids that, with any approach 
to success, attempts to picture how the molecules in a liquid behave 
when pushed into such close contact that there is considerable mutual 
interference. 

The changes of volinne of the solid elements (metals mostly) are 
in general much less than those of liquids, but they are nevertheless 
significantly large, as in most cases it is possible to reduce the volume 
by pressure to considerably less than it would be if the metal were 
deprived of all heat motion b}' being cooled to absolute zero at 
atmospheric pressure. 

Some of the metals are highly compressible, and coesium, in partic- 
ular, loses more in volume at liigh pressures than ether. There is a 
characteristic difference between liquids and solids in that solids do 
not lose their compressibility nearly as rapidly at high pressures. 
We would expect a difference of this sort; in solids, the atoms must 
retain their regular crystalline arrangement at high pressures, so 
that the free spaces around the edges and corners of the molecules 
are never occupied and hence play a relatively small part in the phe- 
nomena of compression. In a number of solids it seems that the per- 
sistence of compressibility at high pressure can be explained only by 
a compressibility of the atoms themselves. There is here an import- 
ant problem for quantum theor}^ : To formulate the quantum con- 
ditions when the electronic orbits interfere with each other as much 
as they must in a strongly compressed solid. 

There is no adequate theory to explain the properties of metals. 
In fact, the general nature of their structure is less well known than 
is that of the structure of certain salts, compounds of two elements. 
The data on compressibility now give us the means of finding the 
first three derivatives of the forces between the atoms of a metal. 



HIGH-PKESSURE RESEAECH BRIDGMAN 16] 

As a physicist, I am sanj^uine that the niatheinatician can go far 
toward reconstructing the function if he knows its first three deriva- 
tiA^es, and we may hope at any rate that these^ data will make possible 
a more adequate description of the force field about an atom, even 
if they do not completely determine the mechanism. 

It has been stated that compressibility becomes less at high pres- 
sures. This is what we should expect, because, as the atoms are 
squeezed closer together, it seems natural that they should resist 
more strongly attempts at closer propinquity. I have found, how- 
ever, a significant exception in quartz glass and several varieties of 
ordinary glass in which SiOo is a prominent constituent. These 
become more compressible at high pressures. This can not but be 
significant; our theories must explain why it is that, under some 
conditions, the atoms resist compression less strongly the closer thev 
are pushed together. It is natural to seek to establish a connection 
wdth the fact that these abnormal substances are amorphous instead 
of crystalline, and that they would doubtless crystallize with a 
decrease of volume. 

The probable effect of pressure on melting temperature w^as for a 
long time a matter of controversy. Early view^s were strongly influ- 
enced by the striking critical phenomena between liquid and vapor, 
and it was supposed by many that there would be found a critical 
point between liquid and solid such that above this point liquid and 
solid might be made to change from one into the other without dis- 
continuity. A later rival theory, strongly defended, was that of 
Tammann, who supposed that there was a maximum melting tem- 
perature above which a liquid could not be forced to freeze by any 
pressure no matter how high, and below which the liquid might be 
frozen and the solid melted again by a sufficiently high pressure. 
The experimental difficulty in settling this question was that the 
available pressure range was not sufficient. But with the data now 
at hand, we may, I believe, regard this question as settled. It appears 
from the evidence of 37 substances that there is no experimental rea- 
son to think that the melting curve does not rise indefinitely, at a 
continuously decreasing rate, but nevertheless so that at any tem- 
perature a pressure can be found high enough to freeze the liquid 
to the solid. There is no connection whatever between the melting 
phenomena and the ordinary critical phenomena of liquid and vapor ; 
the amorphous phase may be frozen by sufficient pressure either 
above or below the critical temperature. This is, after all. the nat- 
ural result. It would seem as if one ought, by pushing the atoms 
close enough together, to be able eventually to undo the disorienting 
effect of an increase in the energy of temperature agitation. A con"^ 
tinuous passage from a liquid to a solid was most difficult to visualize 
with our concept of a liquid as a haphazard aggregate of molecules, 



162 ANNUAL BEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

and of the solid as consisting of the same molecules regularly 
arranged. 

. The discovery of tlie true character of tlie melting curve is of evi- 
dent imi)ortance for geophysics. 

In addition to an indefinitely rising melting point, the measure- 
ments showed that solid and liquid become more and more alike in 
volume at liigli pressures, but tliat the latent heat absoi-bed on passing 
from solid to liquid is little changed. It is furthermore universally 
true that the liquid is more com])ressil)le than the solid. 

This is natural enough for normal licjuids, but is not so obvious 
in the case of ice, which has a volume larger than that of liquid 
water, but is less compressible. All these facts must be explained 
by the future theories, but nothing essentially new is involved here ; 
when we have an adequate theory of the solid and the liquid state 
separately, the correct explanation of the melting phenomena will 
automatically follow. 

Another interesting fact brought out by the measurements on 
water and some other substances which crj'stallize in two or more 
modifications is that in the liquid there may be nuclear structures 
of considerable complexity capable of persisting for days. The 
liquid is not the simple thing that it may appear to a casual glance, 
but, at least under some conditions, it may carry concealed Avithin 
it traces of its past history imperceptible to ordinary means. The 
existence of these structures in the liquid is now being demon- 
strated by X rays, but the extraordinar}'^ persistence of the indi- 
vidual structure can not be shown by such means. 

One minor way in which the pressure tool may be of value is 
in determining latent heats of melting. A calorimetric measure- 
ment is admittedly difficult. By measuring the melting pressures 
corresponding to two melting temperatures near the normal melt- 
ing point and determining the changes of volume, one has an 
indirect measurement of latent heat which is often far preferable 
to a direct measurement. The pressures involved are not high — 
only a few hundred atmospheres — and the apparatus is so simple 
that it may be readily constructed. 

Contrasted with the phenomena of melting are those of poly- 
morphic transitions in the solid state. These are of all degrees 
of complexity and are governed by a few simple rules. No cases 
have been found of a critical point between two solid modifications; 
this doubtless corresponds to some essential physical necessity, for 
it is hard to see how one kind of space lattice which is characteristic 
of one crystalline modification can change, without discontinuity, 
into some other space lattice characteristic of anotlier crystalline 
modification. Except for this, we may apparently have nearly every 
kind of behavior. Under varying conditions of pressure and tem- 



HIGH-PRESSURE RESEARCH BRIDGMAN 163 

peratiire, transitions may take place with no volume change, and 
others with no latent heat. As pressure rises, the slope of the transi- 
tion line may either rise or fall, while the slope of the melting curve 
always falls. There is a surprisingly large number of cases analo- 
gous to that of water and ice, in which the modification stable at the 
higher temperature has the smaller volume. We might be inclined 
to think of this as an abnormal state of affairs, and might expect 
that high pressure would tend to wipe it out, but such is not the 
case, and these ice-type transitions persist at least to pressures 
beyond our present reach. Another surprising fact is that in the 
majority of cases the modification with the smaller volume is the 
more compressible. This is the same behavior as that shown by 
water and ice, and can not help being of significance for atomic 
structure. It means that the atom has outlying parts which have 
centers of force of strength sufficient, in conjunction with the out- 
lying parts of other atoms, to build up an open-w^ork structure, 
and that these outlying parts have more than usual stiffness, so 
that the resultant open-work structure has a lower compressibility 
than the more dense structure which the atoms are forced to assume 
by a pressure sufficiently high to push the outlying centers of 
force out of register. From some points of vieAv, the thought of 
atoms as having ■•' knobs " is certainly suggestive, although so crude 
a picture is repulsive to some persons. 

One feature of the behavior of polymorphic forms, which is 
of great significance, may be studied to advantage wnth the high- 
pressure tool. This is the speed with which one modification trans- 
forms itself to another. A particular advantage of this tool is 
the nicety and rapidity of control which it offers. Changing the 
pressure on a two-phase sj^stem is equivalent to changing the tem- 
perature, but, whereas the actual temperature can be changed 
only slowly and nonuniformly throughout the interior of the 
apparatus, and considerable time is required for attainment of 
equilibrium, the effective temperature may be changed instantly 
and uniformly by any desired amount by a slroke of the pressure 
pump. By changing the conditions in this way in the immediate 
neighborhood of a transition point, I have studied a considerable 
number of solid transitions under pressure. There is an essential 
difference betw^een a change from one solid to another and that 
from a solid or a vapor to a liquid. If a vapor and liquid or 
solid and liquid coexist, then at any definite temperature a single 
definite pressure of equilibrium will be automatically established. 
The ordinary kinetic mechanism makes this understandable. 

Equilibrium between vapor and liquid, for example, is main- 
tained by the action of two streams of matter, one continually con- 
densing on the liquid from the vapor, the other continually evapo- 



164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

rating from the li<iui(l into the vapor. When the velocity of the 
two processes is tlie same we have equilibrium, and if equilibrium is 
disturbed the two processes restore it. But with two solids the 
behavior may be (althou«;h not necessarily) quite different, in that 
two solids ma}^ coexist indefinitely in contact at a definite temperature 
anywhere within a range of pressure. This is different from the 
familiar persistence of a modification in a region of thermodynamic 
instability which involves viscosity. In such a system it is usually 
supposed that equilibrium w'ill be automaticall}' produced if the tem- 
periiture is raised to the point of thermodj^namic equilibrium and 
the two phases are in contact. The mechanism by which a definite 
equilibrium is automatically set up does not exist in the solid. In 
the solid it is probably near the truth to imagine the atoms as tied 
to certain mean positions of equilibrium and as vibrating about these 
positions, but never departing from them by more than a definite 
amount. In the liquid or vapor, on the other hand, we ha\e some- 
thing like Maxwell's distribution of velocities, and it is possible to 
find a few atoms with any velocity that we please, no matter how 
high above the mean. Suppose noAV two modifications of the solid 
to be in contact. If an atom is going to change from one modifi- 
cation to the other it will have to free itself from its first position 
before it can settle down into the second. If the act of freeing itself 
from the first position invohes too much of a departure from the 
mean, the atom will not be able to make the change, even if the new 
position, when once attained, is a position of greater stability. But 
by a sufficiently large change of external conditions the atom may 
be helped to free itself from the first position, and so attain the sec- 
ond. I have studied in some detail the way in which the width of 
the " domain of indifference " varies with pressure and temperature, 
and also the variation of the velocity of transition outside the do- 
main. Both show large and very different sorts of variation for 
different substances. 

At present we have absolutely no theory of polymorphism; we 
are acquiring by X-ray analysis a descriptive knowledge of the dif- 
ferent atomic arrangements of polymorphs in some cases, but we 
have no explanation to oll'er of why, under some conditions the atoms 
build themselves into one kind of structure and sometimes into an- 
other. For instance, who has any adequate explanation of why 
diamonds are so rare and graphite so common? There is here a 
curious example of the indirect progress that phj'sics sometimes 
makes. It would seem to be a much simpler problem to explain 
the ways in which an atom may combine with others of its own kind 
than wnth those of a different kind, whereas in fact we have at least 
the beginnings of an understanding of a great man}' chemical com- 
pounds, but can not claim anything of the kind for polymorphs. I 
can not help feeling that an understanding of the great multiplicity 



HIGH-PEESSURE RESEAECH BRIDGMAN 165 

of the phenomena of polj^morphism under high pressures will be of 
assistance in understanding this fundamental matter, if only once 
somebody can find the loose end of the skein, and I even hope that 
it may be helpful in finding the loose end. 

One particular transition produced by pressure is so interesting 
that I shall mention it in detail. Under proper conditions of pressure 
and temperature, ordinary yellow phosphorus is transformed into a 
black variety much like graphite in its properties, and of a density 
nearly 50 per cent greater than that of the parent yellow phosphorus. 
The change is irreversible and permanent, and is the only example 
of such a permanent change produced by high pressure that I have 
found. The mechanism of the change is not at all understood, 
although a number of attempts have been made at explanation. 
The great diiference of density points is something unusual. I wish 
to direct special attention to the conditions initiating the change 
from yellow to black. For a time varying from 10 to 80 minutes 
before the change occurs, some preliminary change takes place 
throughout the entire interior of the mass of phosphorus, which is 
accompanied by a slight loss of volume, and which proceeds at an 
accelerated rate until the entire structure becomes unstable and col- 
lapses into the new modification. This preliminary change can not 
be produced in the usual ways by external agents. For instance, 
wo can not inoculate a mass of yellow phosphorus with black and 
thereby either hasten or delay the transformation. There is nothing 
else that I know of like this behavior. Certainly the ordinary 
formation of a new phase out of one that has become unstable by 
the formation of nuclei and the growth of these nuclei at a definite 
rate has nothing in common with this. 

The electrical resistance of metallic elements in general decreases 
under pressure, the rate of decrease itself decreasing by a sort of 
law of diminishing returns as the pressure rises. The magnitude 
of the decrease under 12,000 kg. varies from 1 per cent or less for 
metals like cobalt and tungsten to more than TO per cent for potas- 
sium and rubidium. There is no simple connection with the change 
of volume, as the change of resistance is of the order of tenfold 
greater. The resistance of a fcAV metals increases under pressure, 
and it is true of all of these that the rate of increase itself increases 
with the pressure. I have now, in addition, two unique metals: 
Cfesium, whos-e resistance at first decreases but later passes through 
a minimum and then increases; and antimony, whose resistance, at 
right angles to the trigonal axis, at first increases, but later passes 
through a maximum and then decreases. The effects of pressure are 
thus much more complicated than those of temperature (which are 
nearly the same for all metals), but they may, I believe, be even 
7G041— 2G 12 



166 ANNUAL BEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

more suggestive in formulating a theory of resistance. Some im- 
portant relations are brought out by the pressure tool that might 
not otherwise be known. Thus, the fact that pressure increases the 
resistance of solid bismuth, which is abnormal, but decreases that of 
the liquid, which is normal, strongly suggests that the abnormal 
behavior of solid bisnuith is connected in some way with a pecu- 
liaritj' of the crystal structure. But, on the other hand, the fact 
that pressure increases the resistance of both solid and liquid lithium 
shows that the abnoi-mality is in some way more deep-seated for 
this metal and is doubtless connected with some characteristic of 
the'atom as a whole. The pressure effects bring out the fact that the 
conduction mechanism is not as simple as we might have supposed 
from the fact that the temperature coefficient of all metals is nearly 
the same. 

There is, of course, no adequate theory of metallic conduction; 
the classical free electron theory has had to be given up, and there 
is no satisfactory substitute. I have myself made an attempt at 
finding the significance of the various pressure effects, and have 
been led by them to a very general conception of conduction which 
I believe must be incorporated into the finally accepted theory. 
This conception is that the atoms play an essentially positive part 
in conduction and, in some way which we do not at present under- 
stand, make it possible for electrons to pass from one part of a 
metal to another. According to the classical conception, the role of 
the atoms was entirely secondary anci negative; the atoms were 
the source of the free electrons, but, having once provided the elec- 
trons, their role was merely that of trouble makers, getting in the 
way of the electrons and preventing them from moving about as 
they wished. But it now api)ears that the electrons can not drift 
about without the intervention of the atoms. It is as if the atoms 
hand on the electrons from one to another when the}' are lined 
up in certain wa^^s, or as if tliere were tracks between the intricate 
maze of quantum orbits within the atom, along which the conduc- 
tion electrons may travel, so that there is an opportunity for long 
flights b}' the electrons when the tracks are properly aligned. All 
of the normal and abnormal effects of pressure are understandable 
in terms of a picture like this if we only suppose that the atom 
itself, when brought into close proximity to its fellows, behaves 
in the unsimple way that the facts of compressibility and poly- 
morphic transition compel us to suppose. It is natural to suppose 
that these definite tracks are in some Avay connected Avith quantum 
conditions, and perhaps with high quantum numbers, but the de- 
tails are too complicated for our working out at present. 

The effects of pressure on thermal e. m. f. I have not attempted 
to incorporate into any definite theory, but they do suggest one 



HIGH-PRESSURE RESEARCH BRIDGMAN 167 

important point of view. The pressure effects are complicated, 
there bein^ maxima, minima, and complicated temperature effects. 
We do not in general expect that so simple a thing as a hydro- 
static pressure will produce complicated effects, unless these effects 
involve a complicated mechanism. I have therefore drawn the 
conclusion that the thermal e. m. f. mechanism must be compara- 
tively complicated, and not the simple thing supposed by the classi- 
cal theory; this I have considered sufficient justification for not 
attempting to explain thermal e. m. f. in a first simple theory of 
the electrical properties of metals. 

We pass now from the electrical properties to the thermal prop- 
erties of metals. It is well known that there is a close relation 
between electrical and thermal conductivity, which is expressed in 
the law of Wiedemann-Franz. The behavior of thermal conduc- 
tivity under pressure shows that, although the relation may be close, 
there are other factors which have been insufficiently considered. 

The thermal conductivity of most metals increases under pressure, 
but that of some decreases, and for the most of them the change of 
electrical conductivity is greater than that of thermal. The reason 
for the difference is doubtless to be found in the contribution made 
to thermal conductivity by the atoms as distinguished from the 
electrons; but a consideration of numerical values suggests that the 
atomic part may be greater than has been supposed. 

The thermal conductivity of minerals has been measured under 
pressure, a matter of importance to geophysicists. It has been found 
that in general the thermal conductivit}^ of minerals increases under 
pressure, but the increases are not large enough to demand serious 
modification in our ordinary geological arguments, except possibly 
at great depths. 

The effect of pressure on the thermal conductivity of liquids is 
interesting because it is so large; 12,000 kg. increases the conductivity 
by from two- to threefold. In speculating as to the reasons for this, 
it appears that there is a very intimate connection with the velocity 
of sound. Entirel}^ apart from the pressure effects, a reexamination 
of the old facts with the new bias given by the pressure measurements 
has shown that the main mechanism of thermal conduction in a 
liquid is of surprising simplicity, being a sort of combination of 
the kinetic mechanism of a gas and the elastic wave mechanism of 
a crystalline solid. If we conceive of each molecule of the liquid as 
possessing the kinetic energy of temperature agitation demanded by 
kinetic theory, and handing this energy on to its neighbors with the 
velocity of an elastic wave of small dimensions — that is, with the 
velocity of sound — Ave shall account almost entirely for the thermal 
conductivity of ordinar}' liquids. 



168 ANNUAL KEPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Apart from the various effects which have been measured ac- 
curately, results obtained under hi<ih pressures suggest other new 
points ol' view. Thus in the j^reliniinary work, before I had found 
out how to make tight joints, or had learned what the capabilities 
of steel cylinders were in withstanding pressure, I observed a number 
of different types of rupture under unusual conditions, which are of 
some interest to the engineei-. By selecting results under different 
conditions, it was jwssible to vshow that none of the ordinarily 
accepted criteria of rupture ai-e valid except under restricted circum- 
stances. The general, and therefore the significant, conditions of 
rupture are yet to be formulated. 

Finally, Ave may glance at what remains to be done. Although 
the most readily obtainable results have been secured, the subject has 
not been more than begun. It becomes more and more impressed 
upon me that significant results are to be found in little frequented 
places, as, for instance, bj^ working on materials that have extreme 
properties or in going to extreme temperatures. Thus, quite recently, 
this has led me to determine the properties of ctesium, the most com- 
pressible of the metals, with the extremelj' suggestive discovery of 
minimum resistance. The same sort of thing is to be done with 
many other materials of unusual properties. The extension of these 
high-pressure results to temperatures near the absolute zero, where 
phenomena assume an unwonted simplicity because of the absence 
of temperature agitation, will doubtless be of extreme importance. 
Results just as important lie also at high temperatures, a most 
difficult field, which the Geophysical Laboratory is skilfully 
attacking. Interesting special results ma}^ be found ; the will-o'-the- 
wisp of manufactured diamonds is always before us. Without 
doubt, important practical developments lie in a field as yet 
practically untouched, that of organic, colloidal, and biological 
chemistry. It was shown a long while ago, at the West Virginia 
Agricultural Ex])ei'imont Station, that high pressures will sterilize 
milk. I have found that high pressures in the cold will also coagu- 
late egg white, or the proteids of meat. Here is an enormous field 
untouched. V\'e ought to know the effect of pressure on every sub- 
stance of biological significance, just as we now know the effect of 
an elevation of temperature, and we ma}^ anticipate that important 
changes or combinations may be produced by pressure, just as thej' 
are now produced by temperature. 

On the pureh' physical side, the field is immense. Entirely apart 
from new experimental knowledge, we can not be satisfied with any 
theory which does not adecpiately explain the effects of high pressure 
already known, and conversely I venture to hope that these i)he- 
nomena of high pressure may play an increasing part in formulat- 
ing more adequate theories of the structure of matter. 



LIGHTNING AND OTHER HIGH-VOLTAGE PHENOMENA' 



By F. W. Peek, Jr. 
General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Mass. 



[With 11 platesj 
I. Introduction 

For a number of years the author has been actively engaged in 
research in various higli-voltage phenomena. Tliis work has been 
clone from the standpoint of pure research to determine fundamental 
principles and from the standpoint of practice to better the insula- 
tion of apparatus, to extend transmission voltages, and to determine 
means of protecting transmission lines and buildings from lightning. 
By combining pure and applied research a much broader view is 
obtained, and there is no better test of theory than to attempt to 
appl}^ it to practice in a simple way. It will often be found that 
essential factors have been overlooked. 

In the following discussion the practical as well as the theoret- 
ical viewpoint will be kept in mind. 

II. High-Voltage Phenomena 

High electric pressure or voltages are necessary for economical long 
distance transmission, but when such voltages are used without 
proper precautions in design the energy may leak away from the 
lines with a hissing noise in the corona. The corona is a beautiful 
crown of light surrounding the conductors and is a manifestation 
of the ions and electrons moving in the electric field. 

The sparking distance is also of theoretical and practical import- 
ance. 

Laws of corona, sparking curves, etc., were established at the com- 
paratively low voltages of the order of 250,000. These were suc- 
cessfully applied to 220,000-volt transmission lines. 

III. Research at High GO-Cycle Voltages 

Within the last few years the work has been extended to voltages 
of 1,000,000 volts above ground, 1,500,000 single-phase and over 

•This report is a nontecbnical summary of t^'o papers, High Voltage rhenomena, 
Journal of Fraoijliu Institute, J'auuary, li)i;-t, aud Liglitning, an address delivered at tiie 
centenary of tiie Franklin Institute, Septetii'ber, 19:24, and in the Journal in February, 
1925. Complete technical information and data will be found in these papers. 

169 



170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

1,000,000 3-phase 60-cycle root mean square values.^ It Avas of inter- 
est to find if the laAvs aiul curves established at the lower voltatjes 
still applied at the very high voltages. The results of some of the 
very high 60-cycle tests will now be described. 

CORONA 

When voltage is applied between certain types of conductors, as, 
for instance, parallel wires a considerable distance apart compared 
to their diameters, and is gradually increased, a crown of light sud- 
denly bursts out around the conductors at a very definite critical 
voltage. The light is accompanied by a hissing noise. This is called 
corona. As the voltage is increased, the corona extends farther and 
farther out until finally a spark extends from metal to metal. The 
air is said to be ionized in the corona brush. The sudden outburst 
occurs when the voltage gradient at the conductor surface, where 
it is greatest, is sufficient to bring the ions and electrons up to suffi- 
cient velocity in their mean free path to produce others by collision 
with atoms. Certain chemical changes take place in the air in the for- 
mation of ozone and nitrous oxides. Corona and brush discharges are 
the same phenomena. In fact, corona and spark-over are also the 
same. The brush or corona are sparks to space. On relativel}'^ large 
electrodes placed close together, the intermediate corona can not form 
and the first evidence of over stress is a spark between conductors. 
The reason for this is known. ^Vitli certain conductor configurations 
any increase in the conductor diameter tends to reduce the stress. 
The corona extends out and stops when the diameter is such that the 
stress is below the breakdown stress. With other tj'^pes of electrodes, 
an increase in diameter tends to increase the stress, A brush once 
started must, therefore, extend directly between electrodes. The 
first type is changed into the second type with increasing voltage 
and the resulting extension of corona. 

Corona starts at a very definite voltage. Several years ago a 
law was established for calcvdating this critical starting voltage 
for parallel wires based upon tests up to 2.50,000 volts. The factors 
determining the critical voltage are diameter, spacing, roughness 
of surface, and tem[, rature and barometric pressure. The diameter 
of the conductor is the most important factor, A hnv was also 
established to predetermine the loss caused by corona. There is 
no appreciable loss until the critical voltage is reached. The loss 
then increases as the s(|uare of the excess voltage above the critical 
voltage. 

'The single-phase tests have just recently (Oct. 8, 1925) been carried to approximately 
2,200,000 root mean square or over 3,000,000 crest. 



LIGHTNING — PEEK 



]71 



The mechanism of the corona is of extreme theoretical interest. 
There is also a practical interest because the laws of corona are 
very important in the design of high-voltage transmission lines. 
It is important to select the conductors so that a large percentage 
of the energy is not lost in the corona. A physical idea of what 
this means may be of interest. A 220,000-volt transmission line 
requires a conductor about 1 inch in diameter to prevent corona 
loss, while a million-volt line would require a conductor about 6.5 
inches in diameter. 

High voltages are economical when there is considerable power 
to transmit a considerable distance; 220,000 volts is economical 
when power of the order of 50,000 to 100,000 kilowatts is available 
to transmit distances of the order of 200 miles. With a million 
volts it would be possible to transmit 3,000,000 kilowatts 1,000 miles 
with about 12 per cent loss, using copper section equivalent to 
the 1 inch, 220-Kv. cable. The copper would of necessity be put 
in the form of a hollow tube to obtain the 6.5 inches diameter re- 
quired by corona loss. There is, at present, no apparent economic 
need for 1,000,000- volt transmission. 

The laws of corona established at the lower voltages were found 
to hold at the higher voltages. 

Figure 1 shows the corona discharge from one of two parallel 
wires, while Table 1 shows good agreement between measured and 
calculated corona starting voltages for different electrodes. 

Table 1. — Corona on parallel brass tubes (GO cycles). 



Spacing 


Visual coronn voltages 
Kv. elective. 6=1.00 


Inches 


Cm. 


Calculated Observed 


DIAMETER 3.5 INCHES-8.9 CM. 


75.6 


192 


790 730 


111.5 


283 


876 895 


147.5 


375 


915 915 


183.5 


466 


990 990 


DIAMETER 1.75 INCHES=4.45 CM. 


73.7 


188 


490 


490 


109.7 


275 


538 


560 


145.7 


370 


568 


600 


183.5 


463 


604 


675 


DIAMETER 1.0 INCH=2.54 CM. 


73 


185 


340 370 


100 


277 


304 380 


181 1 460 


402 1 415 



172 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



SPARK-OVER 

The sparkin<j^ distance between electrodes has been used for meas- 
uring' high volta«>es. 

A study ot" spaikin*^ distance is also of considerable theoretical 
interest and of practical interest in electrical design. It is neces- 
sary to know the sparking distances in order to supply sufficient 
clearances. The actual length of the spark for a given voltage de- 
pends upon the electrodes used and tlie temperature and barometric 
pressures. 

A given voltage will spark the greatest distance between needle 
points and the minimum distance between planes and large spheres. 







^ 




























7 










































J 


/ 
















llOt 
IIOC 
lOOC 

r 


























/ 


/ 








































J 


/ 






































V 


/ 






































y 


/ 








































/ 


/ 


























s 
















/ 


^ 








































7 


/ 








































/ 


f 








































/ 


w 














60 CyCiS Sfvue^ oveiv or A/rcoi-x 0-9v. 














/ 


r 
















- aOTM SIO£3 IfJSUL/^TCD. 






Z06 
100 







/ 








































J/ 










































/ 










































O lO eO 30 to so to TO eo 30 /OO I/O «« I30 MO ISO /*o 





Fio. % 

This follows because the electrical stress is very unevenly distributed 
on the dielectric for needles and quite evenly distributed for spheres. 
For needles, the stress is greatest at the points where a corona 
brush always occurs at voltages much lower than the sparking 
voltages. 

Tests at the very high voltages show that the laws and curves 
established at the lower voltages still hold. This is best illustrated 
in the curves that follow. 



NEEDLE GAP 



The needle gap spark-ovei- curve is given in Figure 2 up to 
1,500,000 volts effective. It will be noted that the curve is continu- 
ous from the low to high voltages. There is considerable variation in 



LIGHTNING PEEK 173 

this curve with atmospheric conditions. Figure 3 shows a single- 
phase spark-over at 1,500,000 volts. 

SPHERES 

The spark- over voltage curve for spheres is given in Figure 4, 
The values follow the equation established at the lower voltage. 

INSULATOR SPAKK-OVER 

Figure 5 gives the spark-over values for standard 10-inch disk- 
suspension insulators. The curves are continuous from, the lowest 
voltage to the highest voltage. 

THREE-PHASE ARCS 

Power is usually transmitted three-phase. Investigations were 
made of three-phase arcs. The standard arrangement was to place 
the three electrodes in the corners of an equilateral triangle. 

The pecularities of the three-phase arc and corona are that the 
voltages are usually lower than for single-phase; the spark forms 
in a Y if there is no dissymetry; the spark does not take place at 
the instant of maximum voltage between conductors but at the 
maximum voltage to neutral. A three-phase arc is shown in Fig- 
ure 6. 

The 60-cycle alternating-current arc passes through zero and 
maximum current 120 times a second. When the arc forms it rises 
due to the heat. This motion, together with the alternating current, 
causes the beautiful lace-like appearance of the arcs. The bright 
lines occur at maximum current. 

PRACTICAL VALUE OF HIGH VOLTAGES 

In addition to its purely theoretical and scientific value just dis- 
cussed the production of a million volts also has a practical value. 
The immediate practical value is its use in testing 220-kv. apparatus 
with the required factors of safety. With the future in mind it is 
important to learn how to build transformers best suited for oper- 
ating at voltages higher than those used at present. Even the so- 
called theoretical investigations of the present become the practical 
applications of the future. 

PREDATORY VOLTAGES 

The discussion so far has been limited to the useful type of volt- 
age used in transmitting energy. The practical value of the re- 
search was to learn how to use these voltages without loss of energy 



174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



ilU(J 








































moo 




































% 








Spar k- over - 75cm. Spheres 




-^^ 


.f^ 


^ soo 


~ 






















- I 


1 .- 




xr/' 


^ 


























.cA\J 


^ 


































.>N'' 


^ \^^ 


u 


-if 


rJ^ 
























t 


y 


3 




^ 












^ 700 
















A 


f.^' w 


-^H 












"~ 
















if; 


^ 1 ^?^'^ 


.rvO't 






















.^ 


1^^ 


^<r 














^ ' ' 










•\ 


^^. 5<^ 




^ 


































.>c* 


j 








J 








vn 












/^ 


< 


Drawn Curve Calcuiated 
Points - M-i-asuned Values 




4^ 


— 


-"- 


— 




^ 


r 


0^^^ 




o 

":£ 300 




1/ 
















1 

1 




















/ 


















[ 




















J 


f 


































Z'OO 


— 


/ 


I 






































































100 




t 






































,'^ 








































n 


f 




































■■ 





iO 



20 30 40 30 60 70 80 90 100 
Spacirvq Cm. 



Fig. 4 




Rain 
(0.2"perMin) 



fnsulaior Spark-over 

I0"(25 Cm) Diameter Suspension 

Insulators in Strings 
Sine Wave -60 Cycle -Effective 

Points o = Both Sides Insulated 
x= One Side 'Grounded 



I 3 5 7 9 II IS 15 17 19 21 23 
No. of Discs ir) String. 

Fig. 5 



Smithsonian Rgport, 1925, Peek 



Plate I 




Fig. I.— Appearance of Corona on Conductors at Supervoltages 
UNDER Different Conditions 

A, 900 kv.; 3.5-inch tube: 141-inch spacing. B, 800 lev.; 1.7.5-inch tube; 144-inch spacing. 
C, 500 kv.; 1-inch tube; 72-inch spacing. D, 780 kv.; 1-inch tube: 108-inch spacing. 
E, 800 kv.; 0.040-inch tube; 144-inch spacing. 



Smithsonian Rsoart. 1925. — Pesk 



Plate 2 




Fig. 3. Photograph of I,5D3,003 Volts Effective, or 2,100,000 Volts 
Maximum. Single-Phase Arc between Points. Distance=I4 Feet. 
60 Cycles 




to C3 



z < 

Ll) o 

I- 
o cc 
z< 




Smithsonian Report. 1925. -Peek 



Plate 4 




Fig. 8. -Wood Split by Artificial Lightning 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Peek 



Plate 5 




Fig. 9. Metal "Punctured" by Lightning 





^^^^^^K\^WWrm^M 


^^H 


^^^^^^^^^H^^^^^^^^H^PPEHc^pH^. .<" i^^^^^^^^H 


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^1 


^^Mti;^^^>, „v/;- , "^'Vj^l^B 


^^^^^^^^^H 




^HH 




VH^^^^I 


^^^B^^M^^^^I 


1^— no^H 


^^^^^^^^^^H 




^^1 


^^^^^^^^^^^^B ^'j^^^^^^^^^l 


n 



LIGHTNING PEEK 175 

into the air and to prevent breakdown by spark-over. In addition 
it is necessary to learn how to prevent destruction by certain preda- 
tory voltages such as lightning. 

IV. LlGHTNINO 

A lightning stroke is generally thought of as a local but severe 
high-voltage discharge from some cloud. As a matter of fact, the 
electric energy that manifests itself in the flash is, in the moment 
previous to the flasli, stored in the surrounding air for a consider- 
able distance. The thunder cloud acts as one plate of a huge con- 
denser, the earth as the other, while the intervening air is the 
insulation. When the voltage between earth and cloud becomes 
high enough, this insulation breaks down and the energy is dissi- 
pated in the short-circuit or lightning flash. 

The electrical energy is changed into heat, light, sound, and 
chemical energy. The light is seen in the flash, while the sound 
is heard as thunder. Thunder is caused by air waves set up by the 
explosive nature of the discharge. 

The chejnical efl'ects of the lightning stroke are often detected by 
our senses in the odor of ozone that is frequently noticeable after 
a storm. The chemical clianges occur in the path of the discharge. 
The two main gases in the air are nitrogen and oxygen. Each 
molecule of oxygen is normally made up of two atoms. The electric 
field tears these apart. Some of these single atoms recombine in 
groups of three. Ox3^gen with a molcule made up in this way is 
called ozone. It is very active chemically because the extra atom 
is easily detached. The nitrogen of the air is also made to combine 
with the oxygen, producing nitrous oxide and, in the presence of 
vapor, nitric acid. Along the discharge path are untold numbers 
of electrons and ions — chunks of electricity moving at enormous 
velocities. 

The voltage between cloud and ground previous to the discharge 
causes voltage between different parts of the atmosphere, llight 
under the cloud the voltage gradient or the voltage difference per 
foot of air measured in a vertical direction may be very high. In 
fact, a certain percentage of the lightning voltage exists between 
earth and any point above. 

Lightning, the disorderly, predatory form of electricity, is dan- 
gerous, not because of its enormous energy but because of its enor- 
mous power and " flighty " habits. The distinction between energy 
and power is that energy is measured in kilowatt-seconds or kilowatt- 
hours, while power is measured in kilowatts. Kilowatts measure the 
rate at which work is being done. If energy is dissipated in a very 
short time the power is large and the result an explosion. 



]70 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

When lightning strikes an object great damage is generally done. 
However, it is not necessary for lightning to actually strike an object 
to cause damage. A discliargo to earth inay cause sparks in distant 
oil tanks or powder mazagines or destructive voltages on transmis- 
sion lines. Voltages that occur by this "wireless" action are said to 
be induced. 

LIGHTNING RESEARCH 

A study of lightning is of scientific importance because there is 
manifest in the (lash the dynamic etlect of the electrons and ions, 
the elemental bricks of which it is believed that all matter is made; 
it is of engineering importance because an exact knowledge of the 
characteristics of lightning will make it jDOssible to protect life, 
buildings, powder magazines, od tanks, and transmission lines against 
it. The ideal method of making such a study is by observations of 
natural lightning in the field and researches with artificial lightning 
in the laboratory. Such a combined study was made in the laboratory 
and in the mountains of Colorado. 

TWO MILLION-VOLT LIGHTNING GENERATOR 

The artificial lightning was produced by a lightning generator 
which supplies 2,000,000 volts above ground, higher than most volt- 
ages induced on transmission lines. (See fig. 7.) The discharge 
from the lightning generator produces a loud, sharp explosive re- 
port, and the power is of the ordei" of millions of kilowatts for a 
few millionths of a second. Currents as high as 10,000 amperes 
have been obtained. The voltages increase at the rate of millions 
of volts per second. In common with natural lightning, artificial 
lightning has interesting characteristics. 

The large, wooden posts shown in Figure 8 were split by a 
1,500,000- volt discharge. Longitudinally through the center of the 
stick is a hole of less tlian one thirty-secondth inch (0.8 mm.) in 
diameter. The wood around this hole has a " fuzzy " appearance, 
but does not appear burned. Immediately after being blown apart 
the wood has an odor of the gases of destructive distilhition. Ap- 
parently these gases are formed suddenly by the discharge, and pro- 
duce such high pressures that the wood is blown apart with great 
violence. 

Even metal may be " punctured," as shown in Figure 9. In this 
case the metal formed a coating on a glass plate. The lightning 
discharge punctured the j)late to the metal. The holes were appar- 
ently caused by the sudden formation of gases between the metal 
and the glass. A discharge striking through water disrupts it in 
much the same manner as oil is disrupted at 60-cycle voltages. 



LIGHTNING PEEK 177 

When lightning strikes the earth at some sandy spot its path is 
often defined by a ghisslike tube. This tube, which may have 
branches like a tree, is, in fact, sand fused into " glass " by the 
lightning current. Such tubes are called '' fulgurites," and can be 
produced by artificial lightning. 

Because of the transient and explosive nature of lightning some 
quite unexpected phenomena frequently happen. Data will now be 
given on typical types of gafis, the needle gap representing the non- 
uniform field type, the sphere gap the uniform field, and the insu- 
lator representing the surface discharge. 

Figures 10, 11, and 12 give characteristic sparks. 

The lightning generator consists of high-capacity condensers just 
as in the case of tlie clouds, only the insulation is glass instead of 
air and it is relatively more comijact.^ As in the case of the cloud 
lightning, the electricity is stored at a relatively slow rate and dis- 
charged at an enormously rapid rate in a few millionths of a second. 

The lightning generator has been of considerable help in gaining a 
knowledge of natural lightning. In fact, it has afforded a means of 
estimating the voltage of a real lightning stroke. The means was 
very simple and will be cited as an example of the general method of 
the research, which was to observe natural lightning and tlien ob- 
serve artificial lightning on models built to scale in the laboratory. 
Actually, the function of the model is to solve electrostatic problems 
that are difficult to calculate. 

THE VOLTAGE AND ENERGY OF NATURAL LIGHTNING 

It was shown in the experiments at the very high voltages that 
approximately 150,000 volts maximum are required for every foot of 
spark. While this rule Avas found to apply up to the ver^'^ highest 
laboratory voltage of about 3,000,000 maximum, it in itself gave no 
assurance that it would apply indefinitely, so that the voltage of 
lightning coidd be found by multipljnng the length of the flash by 
the factor. However, an experiment Avhich seems to offer an almost 
direct means of measuring lightning voltages will be described. 
When a lightning flash occurs within a certain distance of a trans- 
mission line, a certain percentage of the voltage of the bolt is in- 
duced on the line. The voltage of the bolt can not be measured, but 
its distance from the line and height of cloud can be estimated. 
The actual voltage induced on the line can be measured by gaps or 
estimated from insulator flash-overs. The author has measured 
lightning voltages on transmission lines in Colorado as high as 

*A full teclinical doscriptiou of the lightning generator \Till he found in the papers 
referred to in Note 1. 



178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

5(X),000; insulator flash-overs by lightning have occasionally indi- 
cated voltages as high as 1,500,000 or more. 

A model was made to scale representing cloud and transmission 
line for a certain observed condition. By means of the lightning 
generator it was found that when a flash occurred from this model 
cloud 1 per cent of its voltage was induced on the model line. But 
it is known by observation that the voltage induced on an actual 
line under similar conditions is sometimes of the order of 1,000,000. 
If this is 1 per cent of the voltage of an actual lightning flash, the 
voltage of the flash must be 100,000,000 volts (figl 13). ^This gives 




Actual 
Line 

jTL ^Induced Voltage 
,-^^r T Measured 
' Distance Measured 

On an Actual Line the Voltage Induced by a Lightning Stroke to 
Earth may he measured. It is also possible to deternnine the Distances 
Indicated. Because of its Magnitude the Voltage 
of the Lightning Stroke, However, cannot 
Be Measured by Putting a Voltage Measuring 
Device Directly Between Cloud and Earth. 




_^_ . -'Hf^g J For Determining the Voltage of the Actual Light- 

■^ ^-iydtage ^ ningitroke.the Following Method is Used. 
^ Distance'^ Measured 
Known A Model Line and Cloud to Seals is Constructed 

in the laboratory. By Charging the Model 
Cloud with the Lightning Generator, The Cloud 
Voltage is Known. The Voltage Induced on the Line May be 
Measured and Expressed as a flotio or in Per cent of 
the Cloud Voltage. Knowing this Ratio and the Voltage 
Induced on the Actual Line, the Voltage of the Actual Light- 
ning. Stroke Can he Readily Calculated. For Heavy Strokes 
Under Certain Conditions the Voltage of the Actual Light- 
ning Stroke May be of the Order of 100,000,000 Volts. 

Fig. 13. — Method of measuring the voltage of an actual 
lli,'htiilng stroke 

a voltage of 100,000 per foot of spark (330 kv./m.), which, con- 
sidering the possible error, indicates that the needle gap-spark 
curve may hold even at these extreme voltages. In fact, a value 
somewhat lower than the 150,000 volts per foot (495 kv./m.) of the 
laboratory would be expected, since the flash starts at the low-air 
density of the high altitudes. Time required to discharge would also 
indicate a reduced gradient. It has been tlie opinion of many 
observers that the voltage of lightning is relatively low or that the 
flash, once started, would extend great distances at low voltages by 
some progressive action. Progressive action is readily understood 



, _ LIGHTNING PEEK 179 

where the spark takes place over a series of clouds by a miiltigap 
action and can, in fact, be shown in the laboratory. When the 
flash is from cloud to ground or from one cloud to another through 
clear air, as is usual with lightning, it is not cJear how progressive 
action can occur. While the field produced by the charge is fairly 
uniform, it is probable that at the instant before spark-over a 
needlelike streamer forms and breakdown then corresponds to the 
needle-gap distance. Needle-gap spark-over requires less than 20 
per cent of the 30 kv./cm. required for uniform field. The spark- 
ing distance should usually correspond to a continuous voltage, 
because there is generally no large transient until after the spark 
starts. 

It thus appears, by approximately direct measurement, that the 
order of voltage of a severe lightning stroke to ground may be 



■,sp»« ^^-^^ Table 

^''"Distance /rom Poin/ Voltage Induced 

y ■ Directly on a Line 

/ Beneath Cloud q Iwenfy ft High 

' OMile lOOKv/t. ZOOOHv. 

-^4 Mile 3l9Kv/ft. «8 Kk 
y^Mile l2.4Hv/ft 248 Kv. 
/Mile 3i6Kv/n. IZi^v. 

'" ---^IMile 0.9K^/ft. /5Ki! 

I 



-i-C Cloud y::'"r~^% ""\ 



.flotyc/ 1.000 feet Above 
"\ Earth and at a 
\ Potential of \ 
\ 100.000.000 Volts, 



g-IOOlW. g-3l.9Kv. g-llAKv. g=5.dj{v 

per ft. per ft. per ft per ft. 



Fig. 14 

about 100,000,000. This is about one million times the voltage of 
the ordinary lighting circuit or one thousand times the voltage of 
a very high voltage transmission line. The lightning voltage dur- 
ing a storm will, of course, vary over a very wide range, sometimes 
much higher but generally lower than the value above. It has been 
observed that during a severe thunderstorm there may be many 
induced strokes at very low voltages, a less number of moderate 
voltages, and so on to very few at the extreme voltages. 

It will be noted that the above conditions require a gradient of 
100 kv./ft. (330 kv./m.) in the most dense part of the electric field 
where the flash occurs and a gradient of less than a third of this 
a short distance away. See Figure 14, where the gradients are 
given for points near the surface of the earth. 

It is estimated from the voltage and the size and height of the 
clouds that the current is of the order of 80,000 amperes and the 



180 



ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



enerfry 13,500 kilowatt-seconds or 3.8 kilowatt-hours. This enerj^y 
is sufficient to operate an automobile about 5 miles or an electric 
toaster for a day. Since this ener<!;y is dissipated in a very short 
time, the power may be several thousand million kilowatts or horse- 
power. The effect is thus explosive and destructive. 

The discharge of the cloud is probably generally nonoscillatory 
and takes place in the manner shown in Figure 15. A convenient 
measure of time is the microsecond or millionth of a second. The 



"hioo 

-60 
^60 

^40 


-40 
-80 


F 


oi 


'n 


tic 


/ 


















































^ 


















^C = 2.7x10'' Micro Farads] 
















s 














1 




















v, 




























L,-'. , / 
























"^ 




























































' 


^ 


— 




_ 


_ 











- 




















\ 














- 


__i_-_-i--| 


— 1 


~ 


1 




r 








' ...'.' ' 1 




^ 




^ 


■r',.. 


nt 


R Resistance cr uiscnarge tath-iuw urims'-^ 
























































-/60 5^ 


























































-200ll 


J 






■I 






4 






b 






a 






10 






1^ 
























Time in .MicroSfronti'^ 


















(£^ 


















































































































^100 

5 40 
■^20 


-/20:§5 


/- 


otential 
















































s 


























































\ 




















































































































\ 


























































V. 












_ 




_ 


_ 






_j 






_ 


















^ 












*-, 


>- 


■J^ 




_ 




- 


" 


■ 


"' 




'^ 




- 


- 


-- 


■ - 




~\' 






> 






:. 




_^ 
































^=500 0/7^5 1 




*■> 


_ 


'Current 




























































































; 






2 






4 






J^ 






8 






10 






12 
























Time 


in Micro-5econds 




































































































































^100 
'<.80 

•S^eo 

^20 


-on $* 


Potential 
















































\ 


> 
























































N 


















-■, 








































V 












1 








> 




< 
































\ 










y 












/ 








s 












^ 


■" 


■ 












\ 








/ 










[/ 












V 








y 












\ 








\ 












y 
















V 


s. 




^ 






^ 


'' 






\ 








<\ 


/ 

r 




,^ 


^ 












> 








\ 


^ 




■^ 


'ft 


=/oooM 


-7/in_ci>^ 




\ 








/ 






















■" 


., 


'' 






















V 






/Current 








































3 






.^'1114 






6 






8 






10 






\l 









^.g Time in Micro Seconds 

Fig. 15. — Transleutss for " cloud " discharge to eaitli 

time of discharge may be ver}' much longer if the resistance of the 
path is higher. 

It may be of interest to point out that the voltage of the light- 
ning generator is about 2 per cent and the power about 0.02 per 
cent of natural lightning. This practically corresponds to the light- 
ning energy that appears on transmission lines. 

LIGHTNING ON TRANSMISSION LINES 



Most lightning disturbances on transmission lines occur by elec- 
trostatic induction and not by direct stroke. A charged cloud causes 
an electrostatic lield to earth. Part of the field will terminate on 



LIGHTNING PEEK 



181 



a transmission line within its area. The line is said to have a 
" bound charge." If the voltage between earth and cloud becomes 
high enough, a lightning flash will occur. Although this flash may 
be a mile away from the line, the charge on the line is released 
and the insulated line increases from earth potential to some value 
above with polarity opposite to that of the cloud. An insulated 
line can be at earth potential just previous to the discharge because 
of the effect of the long part of the line not under the cloud, leak- 
age over insulators, or through grounded neutral. A charge of the 
same sign as the cloud leaks away leaving a bound charge on the 
line with sign opposite to that of the cloud. The line remains at 



lUU 

so 


^ 


Mukiply'Voltage Scale by 10^ for Cloud Vol tag 
Mulfiplv Voltage Scale by 10^ for Line Voltage 


e 


■'■> 


i 






































60 


■ 


V 






































|~" 


n 


<_ 




































40 






V 








































-^ 


U.;,v 


I 1 1 1 1 1 














ZO 








\ 










































\ 






























- 



10 












s 


























\; 






/. 


? 


3 

Tim 


4 
e in 


5 

Mien 


6 
■y-sec 


\ 1 
•onds 


t 


] 


t 


} 


10 


"1 








































40 




V 














































































60 




1 


\ 








































\ 


SR. 


e i 


' 1 1 1 1 • 1 














60 
















I 


























V 
































100 










N 


^ 

















































































































Fig. 16. — Transients for cloud discharge to earth 

earth potential until the cloud discharges. The effect is then of a 
voltage suddenly applied between line and ground. The voltage of 
the line becomes maximum Avhen the cloud voltage becomes zero. 
The manner in which the voltage increases on the line with decrease 
in voltage on the cloud is shoAvn in Figure 16. The field that ex- 
tended between line and cloud now extends between line and ground. 
The voltage wave travels over the line at the velocity of light. If 
the line insulators are strong enough or have a high enough impulse 
ratio, the impulse may travel to the power house to break down 
apparatus or to be harmlessly discharged to ground over the ar- 
rester, if it has low reactance and low impulse ratio. As this light- 
ning wave travels over the line it becomes gi-adually dissipated 

76041—26 13 



182 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION^ 1925 

by losses. The voltage that the line assumes at the instant of a 
sudden discharge is that of the equipotential surface at the point 
in which the line is located. This is approximately the gradient 
in kilovolts per foot times the height in feet. This is a certain 
percentage of the voltage of the lightning bolt. In studies in Colo- 
rado, as already stated, the author has actually measured induced 
lightning voltages on transmission lines as high as 500,000 volts. 
Insulator flash-overs have occurred that indicate induced voltages 
as high as 1,500,000 volts, although the greater percentage of volt- 
ages induced on transmission lines are very much lower than this. 
These figures, as already shown, afford a means of estimating the 
voltage of a lightning flash. 

THE MAXIMUM VOLTAGE ON TRANSMISSION LINES 

From the above it is apparent that the maximum lightning voltage 
that can appear on a transmission line under given conditions de- 
pends directly upon the height of the line. The maximum voltage 
that can appear on any line is equal to the maximum possible 
gradient of 100 kilovolts per foot or 100,000 volts per foot times the 
height of the line in feet. This extreme condition seldom occurs 
because it requires the discharge to take place at a very rapid rate in 
the immediate vicinity of the line, practically a direct stroke. The 
chances of this condition are remote because when the storm center 
is only a quarter of a mile away the gradient is reduced to one-third. 
It may also be reduced by a slow discharging cloud permitting a 
considerable dispersal of the charge along the line. Apparent 
gradients of 20,000 to 30,000 volts per foot are fairly common on 
actual lines. The tabulation in Figure 14 shows the induced light- 
ning voltages on a 20-foot transmission line at different distances 
from the rapidly discharged cloud. 

Practically, this shows that a high transmission line is undesir- 
able from the lightning standpoint. It also affords a means of 
determining the maximum lightning voltage that can appear on a 
transmission line. 

The maximum voltage induced on the line is 1 or 2 per cent of 
the cloud voltage. The energy is of the order of 1,350 watt-seconds. 
The character of the discharge is generally impulsive and reaches 
its maximum in a few microseconds. In fact, it corresponds closely 
to the discharge from the lightning generator in voltage, energy, 
and duration. 

TRAVEL OF LIGHTNING ON TRANSMISSION LINES 

A lightning disturbance travels over the line at the velocity of 
light, and is dissipated to a considerable extent by losses; it may 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Peek 



Plate 7 




Fig. 18.— Study of the Voltages Induced upon Transmission Lines 

Photograph shows overhead cloud and a section to scale of one of the lines studied during the 

investigation 



Smithsonian Report. 1925. — Peek 



Plate 8 




Fig. 19. -Short Section of a Three-Phase Line with Overhead 
Ground Wire upon Which a Study Was Made of Induced Voltages 
BY Lightning 



Photograph show; 



one of the "towors'* and one of tho spark-gap.s used to measure voltage 
at this point 




Fig. 20. -Lightning Strokes Hitting the Overhead Ground Wire 
OF A Transmission Line During Study of Lightning voltages 
Induced on a Three-Phase Line During a Storm 



LIGHTNING PEEK 



183 



double in value when it strikes the end of the line where it starts 
back. If the voltage is high enough it may break down insulators 
or discharge over an arrester. If no break occurs it is eventually dis- 
sipated by losses. The change in shape and voltage of lightning 
waves traveling along transmission lines at 186,000 miles per second 
has been measured in the laboratory. 

The strength of the insulation of lines operating at various 
voltages was determined by measurements with artificial lightning. 
By comparing the insulation strength witli the maximum lightning 
voltage the ability to withstand lightning was determined. 

THE GROUND WIRE 

When a grounded wire is placed near and parallel to the trans- 
mission wires it has a marked effect on the induced voltages. The 
effect of the ground wire was studied on models to scale. The dia- 
grammatic arrangement is shown in Figure 17, while the actual 
models are shown in Figures 18, 19, and 20. 



Transformer 




C'^Gap 



T 

\C' Condenser 



■ R -Resistance 
' of Lightning 

■ Path 



Plate Representing 
Over-head Cloud 



Model Line 



Conneciions Used in Studying Induced Voltages 
on Transmission Lines 
C=I.3I X IO''mf L-2.88 X IO"mh 

R=5000 Ohms 

Fig. 17 



The method of making the test was to measure the induced 
voltages on the model line with and without a ground wire. In 
general the single ground wire reduces the induced lightning voltage 
to one-half, two to one-third, and three to one-fourth. Very good 
connections must be made to ground. The ground wire thus offers 
an important practicable means of reducing lightning voltages. 
It is also important in case of a direct stroke, when the ground wire 
is struck 98 per cent of the time. 



INSULATING A TRANSMISSION LINE TO WITHSTAND LIGHTNING 

The investigation has shown the maximum lightning voltages 
that can occur on transmission lines with and without a ground 
wire. It is of interest to compare these voltages wnth the lightning 
insulator arc-over voltages for modern transmission lines. 

The lightning spark-over voltage for insulators and the light- 
ning breakdown voltage for insulation is always higher than for 



184 



ANNUAL BEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



steady voltages. In fact, this is true for all transient voltages 
that can occur on transmission lines. Rain lowers the arc-over 
voltage of insulators at 60 cycles, but does not reduce the lightning 
spark-over voltage. The curves of insulator spark-over voltages 
for transient and operating conditions are given in Figure 21. 

The transient voltage curves cover the range of lightning, 
switching surges, and surges due to arcing grounds. The surges 
other than lightning are limited in value by the line voltage. Ex- 
cept as it is affected by the height of tower, lightning is independent 
of line voltage. It is the determinine: factor in insulation. 



1800 




/ Z 3 4 5 6 7 S 9 10 // /Z /3 /4 

Number of Unil5 

Fig. 21 



The lightning flash-over voltage of insulators is plotted with 
operating voltage in Figure 22. On this same figure are plotted 
curves of the probable highest lightning voltage for lines with 
and without ground wires. A direct stroke on a line without a 
ground wire causes voltages much higher than the insulator arc- 
over voltage. The second curve down represents the usual highest 
voltage on a line without a ground wire. It happens that this 
same curve corresponds to the voltage by a direct stroke on a 
line with one ground wire. This curve crosses the insulator spark- 
over voltage of 220 kv. This indicates that a 220-kv. line without 
a ground wire is not likely to have insulator trouble from lightning 
except in case of direct stroke. It further indicates that a 220-kv. 



LIGHTNING PEEK 



185 



line with a favorably installed ground wire is not likely to have 
trouble from lightning under any circumstances, unless the towers 
are very high. The next curve gives the usual highest voltage 
for a line with one ground wire. Under usual conditions, very little 
trouble should be expected for lines insulated for over 100-kv. opera- 
tion. The lowest curve shows that three ground wires reduce the 
probability of lightning to still lower operating voltages. The 
probability of trouble with direct strokes would be reduced in 
proportion. 

The values of voltages taken in the above curves are for the 
most severe storms directly over exposed lines. Such conditions 
might not occur during a year or several years. It is a well-estab- 
lished fact that during any storm there are likely to be induced 
many low-voltage impulses, a less number of moderate-voltage 
impulses, and frequently none at high voltage. 

4000 



■^3000 



^2000 
^iOOO 

















— 1 


— 1 


7 




d 


\M 


;p 




^ 


--1 


•^ 
























J by 


?'yVo'r^ 


n^ 






























l/pl^ 


oQl^'^h 


lo^ 


-^ 






































St 


ro\^ 














































































A 


me ^' 




































Mn 




ira 


























, \lnlia 


l^.Tin 


br-o^'T 








_, 


^ 














.1 Hia 


he5i::t5irQ 


He ' 






^ 


^ 
















^^';"'L'i6yM'^''WiriL 


x^ 


























Vnliag^,<(OneJl^^ji 


op 


























pj-jr- 


^ Ciye^J^ 


n 




nl^hrniiridWire 














,1 '} 


°!nfh:i^^V^I Highe 


s^'^^fT.TTTT 1 














r=;___ 


i\*'' ~i — [ ' 1 


1 i, ' L 1 ' ., ' 














^ 


--■ 


'llhua/ Highest i/oltage -three urouna nires\ 










" 






^- 



























































































AO 



80 120 160 200 
Operating Voltage in K\/. 



240 280 



Fig. 22. — Insulator spark-over voltage compared with 
maxim Lim lighting voltage for severe storms directly 
over the line 

Lightning voltages are likely to cause high local stress in induc- 
tive apparatus such as transformers. In designing inductive appa- 
ratus to withstand liglitning voltages, it is important to prevent 
concentration of stress. This can be done by means of shields. 
Like the ground wire, the action of the shield is preventative. 
Shields have been used on both line insulations and transformers. 



LIGHTNING ARRESTERS 

Preventive methods of guarding against lightning on transmis- 
sion lines, such as the ground wire, shields, and extra insulation, 
have already been discussed. The remaining method is the light- 
ning arrester. 

The object of the arrester is to permit transient or other excess 
voltages to discharge to earth and to suppress the dynamic arc that 
follows. Since transient currents are generally high, the arrester 



186 ANNUAL BEPOET SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

must have a low resistance. It must also have a low time lag, other- 
wise the transient voltage may rise to high values before the dis- 
charge occurs. 

Figure 22 shows that the need of an arrester becomes less as the 
operating voltage increases. 

Corona and other losses also rapidly reduce lightning voltages. 

OTHER CAUSES OF TROUHLK ON TRANSMISSION LINES 

Most troubles on transmission lines are caused either by lightning 
voltages in excess of the insulation breakdown voltage or to some 
form of dirt that lowers the normal breakdown voltage to such 
an extent that failure occurs under normal conditions. 

Certain transient voltages are produced in lines during switch- 
ing, etc., but these are usually quite harmless. 

CORONA AND SPARK OVER OF LIGHTNING VOLTAGES 

The corona and spark-over voltages due to lightning are usually 
quite different from the continuously applied 6{)-cycle or direct- 
current voltages. This also applies to liquid and solid insulation. 
The lightning voltage is a transient or impulse and in effect is ap- 
plied at an extremely rapid rate. The insulation does not have 
time to break down when its usual breakdown voltage is reached 
but the break is completed at a later time when the voltage has 
risen to a higher value. The time lag will be discussed. in more 
detail later. 

CORONA 

Lightning voltages cause corona in the same manner as continu- 
ously applied voltages. Corona produced by lightning voltages 
of less than a microsecond duration (millionth of a second) can 
be readily seen. It is also easy to tell whether the impulse is posi- 
tive or negative. In general, corona produced by impulse voltages 
follows the same law as corona produced by continuously applied 
voltages. It is of interest that the eye can readily see coi-ona pro- 
duced by voltage of a microsecond duration. 

SPARK-OVER OF NEEDIJ: GAPS 

A typical discharge from the lightning generator at 1,500,000 
volts between points is shown in Figure 10. The discharge has a 
zigzag path and characteristic side flashes of lightning. The light- 
ning spark-over curve for needle gap is given in Figure 23. This 
curve shows that for the particular impulse used (fig. 24) a voltage 
is required approximately 2.25 times the 60-cycle voltage to spark 
over a given gap. The factor .2.25 is called the impulse ratio. 



LIGHTNING — PEEK 



187 



2000 














/ 
















/ 


1800 














/ 














/ 


/ 












y 
















/ 
















/' 












/ 






























/ 








^1400 

i 












w^ 










^ 


/ 
















A 








^. 


y 










z 

Sl200 

z 










A" 










/ 




























/ 




















■ / 










/* 










bJ 

5 1000 








y 








/ 


/ 




















/ 








/ 
















ui 

S 800 

3£ 






i 


r 






/' 






















/ 




















'^ 600 






1 




/ 


/ 






















j 






/ 






Neodle Cap 
Spark ovi-r VolUk't" 








490 








/ 
















I 


/ 


























200 


J 


/ 


t 


























L 


/ 































il_ 































20 



30 



2&V> 



40 60 80 100 

SPARKING DISTANCE IN INCHES 



120 



140 



00 



Lightning Spark-over Curve between Points 

Fig. 23 



X 100 

s 

b. 

° 80 



^ 60 



t3 40 



20 



5 









































/I 




























' 










/ 






































' 






































A 




























































































































































C= 1 31x10 'Microfarads 
L- 2 88xlO^MilihenriPS 
R ■ 50O0 Ohra> 























































































004 



08 



0.12 016 0.20 0.24 

TIME IN MICRO-SECONDS 



0.28 0.32 



0.36 



Fig. 24. — Wave sshape of lightning used in the tests. Wave shape No. 1. Two 
million-volt impulse generators 



188 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



THE SPHERE GAP 

While the impulse spark-over voltage of the needle gaj) varies 
with the wave shape of the impulse and is always hi<^her than the 
GO-cyele spark over, the sphere gap is very little affected, even for 
quite steep waves. The sphere gap thus offers a means of meas- 
uring transient voltages over a considerable range. Figure 12 shows 
a typical spliere gap spark, and Figure 'i.') shows that the spark-over 



220 

ZOO 

\l80 

^160 



o 









































/ 






































/ 






































/ 


^ & 




































/ 






































/ 






































/ 






































/ 






































/ 






































/ 






































> 


r 




































fi 


/ 






































/ 






































/ 






































/ 






































} 












)(.\tJai^eNa.l 
















/ 


* 
























J 


r 














^ 






















■i 


/ 






































/ 






































J 






































1 


e 






































/ 






































/ 








































/ 









































140 
120 
100 
60 
60 
40 
20 



O / ^3^36739/0 
25 CA7. Spheres- Oop/n Cnjs. 

Fig. 25. — Sphere gap spark-over curve.s for GO cycles and for 
impulse Waves Nos. 1 and 2. Wave No. 1, siiislo lialf sine wave 
imj)ul.so ; wHve No. 2, impulso with stnep front, but with a lonir 
tail. (Drawn curve is for G(i cycles; points are for waves Nos. 
1 and 2, as notid.) 

voltages for a given gap do not vary over a very wide range of 
transients. 

LINE INSULATORS 

Investigation at the lower voltages showed that the wet and dry 
lightning spark-over voltages of insulators were equal. Tests made 
at the higher voltages confirm these data. Typical 60-cycle and 
lightning arcing characteristics for shielded and nonshielded insu- 
lator strings are shown in Figures 27 and 28. The shield consists 
of a metal ring at the line end of the string. It serves to distribute 



LIGHTNIN( 



-PEEK 



189 



the voltage evenly between the units as well as to direct the arc 
away from the string. 

These tests arc of practical imi)ortance, since lightning voltages 
higher than these rarely occur on operating transmission lines. The 
lightning spark-over voltage was found to be twice the GO-cycle 
spark-over voltage. The impulse ratio was increased by the shield. 
The wet and dry lightning flashes clear the shielded string while 
on the nonshielded string the flash cascades and is likely to rip off 
the skirts. 

It will be noted that the three typical gap arrangements have dif- 
ferent characteristics. Both the needle gap and the insulators 
require a lightning voltage about double the 60-cycle voltage to 

220 
200 
180 
160 

ii/ao 

</zo 

I 30 
^ 60 

ao 

20 

o V\ I I I I I 1 I I 
o 2 a- 6 e ^o /z /-^ /6 /8 so ^^ ?* as sa jo jz 

S/oacing '■ Cms. 

Fig. 26. — Needle-gap spark-over curves for GO cycles and for impul.se 
waves Nos. 1 and 2. Wave No. 1, single Lalf sine wave impulse; 
wave No. 2, impulse with steep front, but wilh a long tail 

cause spark over, while the sphere spark-over voltage is the same 
for 60-cycle and a wide range of impulse voltages. This character- 
istic is of great practical importance, since it is desirable to have 
an arrester gap that discharges at a low lightning voltage and to 
design insulators that have a high lightning spark-over voltage. 
The reason for this is time lag, and it seems w^orth while to discuss 
it briefly. 

TIME LAG 





. , . ,_, , ... .._ ._ / , , 


Jcs^X 


^ rt^S: it 


^ M^^Jf^ 


t ^ 


V >'^ \ '^'^' 


tVa ^ i w^ 


a ^ ,^ 


-/jC ^^ ^^ 


^7 ^2 ^^'^ 


-/- ^^ --" 


t v^ ^^ 


-4 ^ ^^ 


t /^ ^^^ 


J. /. ^^^ 


t ^ ^^=^ 


^i ^ 


- f ^^ 


7-,^ i 


t7 


7' 


7" 


r 



A fixed minimum voltage is required to spark over a given gap 
when the time of application is not limited. Energy is necessar}'^ to 
rupture gaseous, liquid, and solid insulation ; this introduces a time 
element. 



190 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



Referring to Figure 21) the spark-over voltage of a given needle 
gap is ^1, and always practically constant if the time of application 
is not limited. Spark over may take place after the continuously 
applied voltage e^ has been on for some time t.^. If a voltage increas- 
ing at a rapid rate, as represented by A in Figure 29, is applied, 
spark over will not take place when the continuously applied spark- 
over voltage e^ is reached, as the time ^^ is required at this voltage. 
The spark will begin to form when the voltage reaches the value 
^1, however. The voltage will, therefore, rise above e^, and spark 
over will take place after the time to has elapsed and the voltage 
has risen to e^- When the voltage is applied at a more rapid rate 
along wave i?, the spark, as before, will begin to form when voltage 
e^ is reached. The voltage wall continue to rise and reach some 







1/ 


~ 






— 


I 




~ 


~ 


- 






r- 


~ 


— 


— 


" 




' 




~^ 








"^ 


- 








- 


~ 














"^ 
















/ 




























































































' 






















































































































































































1 






















































































- 




... 




f- S.oor'k-oi'er Occuri 




























































































































^ 
























































































'' 






















































































, 


































































































































1 


























































































-- 


1 

T 




- 






- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


' 


■J 


- 


- 


- 




- 


- 


- 






^/xrrh-Ofer Occ^jr^ 


























A 








1 
























- 


- 


- 






- 






1 




































> 






1 






1 






































































1 
















































-5 


park K>e(jini^ to rorm 






^ 












1 




Corriir7ao<^s 


/u /!tt:>/iea Soai 


'frcrsr yo/CaaA 




*/— 






-A 


1 






_ 




_ 







_ 


- 




fUr 




_ 


_, 


„ 


_ 


_ 


\ 1 


ij_ 




Mill 


1 — ^ 


L..J 


L_^ 


r— 1 


I—" 




k_j 




i_ 


1 


.. 






^ 






K>'^ 


















" 


/* 


^ 




L 






~ 


■■ 




'■ 


'^ 






















" 




■" 




" 






e 


■ 






1 


















^ 








)5porH 


becfins to form 








































-/it?n 


?/3 










^ 
















































































































































































/ 
























































































^ 


C- 


/f&^-e-/? 




































































- 










^ 




















































































^ 


























































































^.' 










J._ 















































































Time /n /^/cro-secof?c/s 

Fig. 29. — Diagrammatic illustratiou of why the lightning or Impulse spark-over 
voltage is higher than the continuously api)lied 

value ^3 during the time t^ before the spark over occurs. Thus, on 
account of the time lag, when voltage is applied at a very rapid rate, 
as by an impulse, spark over does not occur Avhen the continuously 
applied breakdown voltage is reached. The voltage "overshoots" 
this value during the time that rupture is taking place. The excess 
in voltage is greater, and the time lag less, the greater the rate of 
application. The time lag for any given gap or insulation has thus 
not a fixed value but depends on the wave shape of the impulse or 
rate of application of the voltage. In making a study of such phe- 
nomena it is necessary to use certain dehnite wave shapes. Figure 
30 shows the impulse voltage-time characteristic for needle gaps. 
The impulses used in this test were single half cycles of sine waves. 
Note that the impulse spark-over voltage is not greatly above the 
continuously applied or GO-cycle voltage when the time is over 5 
microseconds; that is, when the time of application is comparatively 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. —Peek 



Plate 9 




-1 /, r 

Fig. 27. -Sixty-Cycle Spark-Over of Suspension Insulator Strings 

.1, Dryspark-over on a nonshieldod string. Note that arc cascados badly along the entire 
length of string. B, Dry spark-over on a string shielded with the ring shield. Note that arc 
clears string. C, Wet si)ark-over on a string shielded with the ring shield. Arc starts 
through drip tlien immediately transfer itself clear of string 




Fig. 23.— Lightning Spark-Over of Suspension Insulator Strings 

A, Dry spark-over on a nonshielded string. Note that the arc cascades badly along the entire 
length of string. Voltage= 1.200,000 volts, h, Dryspark-over on a string shielded with the 
ring shield. Note that the arc clears the string. Voltage=l, 200,000 volts. C, Wet spark-over 
on a string shielded with the ring shield. Note that arc clears the string. Voltage=]. 200,000 
volts. Note, also, the drip along the string a.nd the raindrops which appear stationary in 
space since the light of the arc lasted less than a millionth of a second 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Peek 



Plate 10 




Fig. 32.— Lightning Does not Always Hit the Highest Point 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Peek 



Plate 1 1 




Fig. 33— Artificial Lightning Stroke from the 2,003,0D0-Volt Light- 
ning Generator Striking House and Church of Model Village 
During Study of Lightning Protection of Buildings 



LIGHTNING PEEI^ 



191 



long there may be a considerable variation of this time without an 
appreciable change in the spark-over voltage- The continuously 
applied (GO-cycle, or r/— c, where heating does not occur) spark-over 
voltage is the lowest voltage at which spark over can take place. 



2B0 

zeo 



iSao 






,r T 



^ 80 



ZO 






~ 






r 






r- 












































~i 


















1 












1 










































































1 












\ 




















































































\ 






















































































\ 




























































































































































































































































1 




































































































1 


























































































1 






s 
























































































\ 












-^ 


















































~!^ 


























s 


















































































-T_ 
1 








^ 
























































































\ 
















































































\ 










V 










































































j 


\ 














■~^t^ 








































































\ 














"^ 


^ 


^^ 


































Cor£.;nuao5lij .Applied , 


- 




























-* 


-. 


^ 












.O.rry^ -^^r-^^l.. 


_ ' l_ 


- 


. i/ofioae 










' 




\ 


































- 










.— -vyy^ 










1 






1 












N 


> 






■ ! 


































































1 
















"-i 












































































— T 


_ 






_ 




_ 








=; 


= 


-1 


_ 


. 


^ 






_ 






_ 






—SCm '£pcc^-ng\^ 


- 


- 






- 






- 


- 




~ 






— 




- 




- 




— 


-\ 


J 


~ 


- 


-^ 






- 






- 


-n 


— 






-J 




- 




- 


- 




— 


- 






- 






7 


— 




















































































































































ccr?i '//7i,'Oiy3/u /f^D/'ec/ 


- 


- 
























































1 


i'o/tacfs 


1 




















1 
























. 












J_ 












1 







O 0* 0.8 /S /6 20 24 SB 32 JS ao 

7//T7e Af/cro- seconds fro/r? Zero to max a/ong sine ^o^e. 

Pio. 30. — Time and voltage to spark over needle ga[)s with a sine wave impulse 

Waves (1) and (2) (fig. 31) show actual wave shapes used in ob- 
taining data given in Figures 25 and 26. Wave (1) is equivalent 
to a single half cycle of a sine wave; wave (2) rises to a maximum 

aoo 

/(9^[--H-- 

/60 



IZO 




WO 



o oz a«- 0.6 oe /.o /.z /.'^ /e /a so zz Z4- ze ze so sz .Tt. 3.e 39 ^o 

T/me in Micro-seconc/3 

K|7. 31. — Continuously applied and impulse voltages to just cause spark over 
of a 10-cm. gap between needles 

at the same rate as wave (1) but has a flat top, or is of much longer 
duration. Of the two waves shown in Figure 31 the voltage required 
to spark over a given gap is higher for the one of shorter duration 
or for wave (1). In this figure, where actual test data are given 
for a 10-cm. gap between needles, spark over results at 180 kv. for 



192 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



wave (1), while for wave (2) spark over results at 104 kv. The 
spark over at CO cycles is 75 kv. The time that wave (1) is abov^e 
the continuously applied breakdown voltage is 0.95 microseconds, 
wave (2), 2.70 microseconds. The impulse and continuously applied 
needle gap si)ark-over curves are given in Figure 2G. An examina- 
tion of Figure 2G shoAvs that the impidse spark-over voltage of 
needles is always higher than the continuously applied spark-over 
voltage, for a 10-cm. gap is 180 kv., or 2.4 times the GO-cycle or con- 
tinuously applied voltage. 

The time to spark over a gap varies with the spacing and shape of 
the electrodes. Foi- a given GO-cj^cle voltage setting the time re- 




Fio. 33. — Target made by lightning. No ni-dle 

quired to form a spark is greatest for gaps between points and least 
for gaps between well-rounded surfaces. For .spheres, the time lag 
is so small that discharge takes place before the impulse voltage can 
rise appreciably above the continuously applied or 60-cycle spark- 
over voltage. This is shown in Figure 25, where the drawn curve 
is the CO-cycle curve, while the impulse spark-over voltages for waves 
(1) and (2) are represented by crosses and triangles. 

The needle gap requires the maximum time of any gap, as con- 
siderable air must be ionized before spark over can result. Another 
way of considering it is that the corona increases the capacity and 
places resistance in series with it as it forms. It requires time to 
charire a condenser through resistance. 



LIGHTNING PEEK 



193 



On the other hand, spheres are very little affected because corona 
does not precede spark over, and the discharge is small and confined 
to a short path. The field is very nearly uniform, and ruptures 
r-tart everywhere along the path between the electrodes at approxi- 
mately the same time. 

THE LIGHTNING ROD 

A study was made, using models built to scale, to determine 
the protective value of lightning rods. In making these tests, volt- 
ages varying from 60 cycles to oscillations and impulses were used. 
The "clouds" were also varied from a point to a large flat plane. 




Fig. 34. — Target made by lightning, i^-inch needle 

It seems that all possible conditions were covered by this range, 
and since the general behavior of the discharges was the same in 
all cases, it is believed the results apply to actual lightning discharges. 
In making the tests the rod was placed in the center of a large 
piece of drawing paper on a flat plane. Unless otherAvise stated, the 
plane was of metal. The cloud was placed above the rod. The tests 
show that lightning from a cloud overhead does not always strike 
the highest object. The discharges either took place to the rod or 
to the plane. When the discharge hit the paper a small hole was 
made. A record was thus obtained of the distributimi of the dis- 
charges. When the cloud was a plane, a small point was placed 
at its center to represent the storm center. The apparatus is shown 
in Figure 32, while sample charts are shown in Figures 33 and 34. 



194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

ARKA PROTECTED BY A ROD 

The general character of the division of hits between a rod and 
the surrounding ground is shown in Figure 35. In this specific 



Storm Center 




a 14 IZ 10 8 6 4 Z'JO/l^^ t 8 10 H M 
Protected Area ^ 




h H 12 10 8 6 4 Z Z ^ 6 8 IQ }Z 14 




c /4 12 10 8 



Fig. 35. — Protected area and distribution of hits between rod 
and gmund for different positions of storm center 

example, taken for illustration, the rod is located on a conducting 
plane and is 1.85 per cent of the cloud height. In (a"). Figure 35, 

^ 10 
9 
8 



>3 

o 

I / 

'^ 



! 


Area Prcri.rs ry a Lightning Red ■ 
III 1 1 1 ', 1 1 'i 1 1 


- 










i 


. 


, 


1 1 1 1 1 1 1 t 1 


- 










i 












"r"'-^ 

1 1 






















^ 60 Cycles 






























' 






























































































































































































1 


1 






























A; 






1 


i 








































1 






























( 










































1 










































1 






































1 


' 






































1 


































1 


1 


1 






















1 






1 






i 


1 






















1 






1 






1 


1 







02 0.4 OB O.S 1.0 12 14 1.6 15 20 22 
Height of Rod in percent cf Cloud Height 

Fig. 36 

the storm center is located directly above the rod. Under this 
condition 84 per cent of the strokes hit the rod. while 16 per cent 
hit the ground approximately as shown in the shaded portion. 



LIGHTNING- — PEEK 



195 



There are no ground hits in an area between the rod and four rod 
lengths away. This protected area is well illustrated in Figure 34 
and seems to hold for all conditions as shown in Figure 36. 

The division of hits as the storm center moves away from the rod 
is illustrated in (b) and (c) Figure 35. Eventually, a distance is 
reached when the rod is no longer struck. This occurs for this 
particular rod when the projection of the storm center is about 30 
per cent of the cloud height away from the rod. There are no 
ground hits closer to the rod than four times its height for the ex- 
tremes given in Figure 35. 

DIVISION OF HITS BETWEEN ROD AND GROUND FOR DIFFERENT HEIGHTS 

OF ROD 

The division of hits between a lightning rod and ground, when the 
rod is located directly under the storm center, is shown in Figure 



lOU 


^=^1 


~ 






1 






























^ 


.»-■ 


90 






■^ 


V 


x^ 




























^ 


^ 














T' 
























\ 


7^ 


/ 






















^ 


^''^ 




















^o^j 












'^oJ 














■\| 


s"-% 












.'^ 


^^ 


/^ 
















po 
















\ 


s^ 










^. 






































N 










/ 


( 
















- 


- 






















\ 






/ 










































/ 














































t 






















- 


- 
























\ 






















o 

^40 




















f 




1 












































/ 






\ 
























^30 


















/ 










\ 




































/ 


f- 












\ 


V 


















*zo 
















/ 


















S 




























/ 






















N 














10 










/ 


T' 




























V> 








- 








%^ 




































V, 




n 


«— 


--' 


^ 








































>A 



^0 02 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 Z.O 2.1 2A 
Height of Rod in Percent of Cloud Height 

Fig. 37. — Division of hits between rod and ground for 
different heights of rod 

37. When the rod has zero length, 100 per cent of the hits, of 
course, must strike the ground. When the height of the rod is 1.1 
per cent of the cloud height, the division of hits is equal, while 
all of the strokes go to the rod when it is about 2.5 per cent of the 
cloud height. Over this range the ground was never hit nearer to 
the rod than four times its height. 

HITS PER UNIT AREA UNDER A STORM CLOUD 

Figure 38 shows the ground hits per unit area at various dis- 
tances from rods of different heights. The rods are directly under 
the storm center. With rods of zero height 1 per cent of the hits 



196 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



per unit area occur directly under the storm center. The number 
of hits per unit area decreases rapidly until there are no hits at 
about 25 per cent of the cloud height away from the center. AVith 
a rod O.G per cent of the cloud height, 10 per cent of the strokes 
strike the rod (fig. 37). There is a protected area where no ground 
hits occur (fig. 38). The maximum ground hits per unit area, 0.7 
per cent, occur at about 8 per cent of the cloud height from the 
center. No ground hits occur at 25 per cent of cloud height from 
the center. 

CHANCE OF BEING STRUCK 

The above data offer a m«ans of estimating the relative chance 
of objects of different heights being struck during a thunderstorm 



^^ 

V .-v. 







/ 


s 


M 1 M M M 1 M M 1 1 








/ 


\ 


Figures on Curves Give Rod Heiphts 


- 








> 


1 in Inches or in Percent 














\ 


\" 


















































































X9^ - 










































> 








































/ r^ 


\ 






































1 




\ 






































/ 






|v 


, 






























K, 


/ 


/ 


I 


\ 






























r^l 




«r 






\. 








































S 




























^0 


1' 












\ 




























v: 
















y < 
























N^ 


S^i 
















\ 












































s, 




































^ 


>i 


< 
































\l' 




>-, 


<^ 




























, <■ 


X^^ 


T^ 


r 






:^ 
























Mr 


^\ 










'^ 
























k 






< 


p 


^'^J-T^c 


1 


1^ 
























J 






'r" 








^ 


r- 




1^ 


















\l 




in 














'^ 


t^J 


ba 







Area Protected by 
Lightning Rods. 

Hits per Unit Area 
per Hundred Strokes. 
Rod Directly Under 
Storm Center 

Curves may be read 
either directly in 
the inch dimensions 
of the model or in 
per cent of Cloud 
Hei^t. 



1 



2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 W II Inches 
5 10 15 20 25loCloud Height 

Distance of Hits from Rod 

Fig. 38 

when the cloud is overhead and of sufficient voltage to discharge 
to earth. 

Assume a cloud 1,000 feet high. A 6-foot man on a plane directly 
under the storm center (from fig. 37) would be hit 15 times out of 
everj-^ 100 strokes, while a 25-foot building would be hit every time. 
A man flat on the ground (from fig. 38) would be struck about once 
for every hundred strokes. An 18.5 foot building directly under 
the storm center would be struck 84 times out of 100 hits. How- 
ever, with the storm center moved only 206 feet this building would 
not be struck. 



LIGHTNING PEEK 197 

These data are useful in cletermining the best methods of pro- 
tection, because they tell what will happen when conditions are such 
that discharges can take place to the house or rod under con- 
sideration. In other words, the data give the chance of an object 
being struck when it is directly under a cloud at sufficient potential 
to cause a discharge. To determine the chance of any object being 
struck during a year, it is also necessary to know the chance of a 
cloud of sufficiently high potential passing over the object. It is 
apparent that this chance is usually quite small even when the 
object is located on a plane. When mountains, hills, and trees are 
added the chance becomes still less. 

PROTECTION OF BUILDING 

The lightning rod is of real value in preventing or limiting dam- 
age when a building is struck. Whether or not it increases the 
chance of being struck depends upon circumstances. It is rather 
doubtful if it often does, as a chimney, grounded gutter, or water 
pipe may be sufficiently conducting to determine the direction of the 
stroke. 

In deciding upon a lightning rod the economic factor or the cost 
of protection must be considered in connection with the probability 
of being struck. It seems that the best results can be obtained with 
plain inconspicuous rods. Ornate rods or rods with special points 
appear to have no advantage. A grounded metal roof would seem 
almost ideal protection. Rods should be installed so that side 
flashes are not likely to occur to conducting objects inside or outside 
of the building. When a building is in an exposed position and 
storms frequently pass over it, a more elaborate outlay for protec- 
tion would be justified than in the case of an unexposed building. 
For instance, a building on a cliff over a valley followed by storms 
would be in much greater danger from lightning than a building 
located in the valley. This would be especially so if connections 
were made from the upper building to water level. Lightning rods 
can be arranged to give almost ideal protection when the expense is 
warranted. In the case cited above, a lightning rod located on the 
cliff would give good protection to buildings in the valley. It is 
probable that except for buildings in exposed positions and for 
special cases as magazines or oil tanks, the cost of even an inexpen- 
sive rod is not warranted from the standpoint of the cost of in- 
surance. 

SPARKS INSIDE OF METAL TANKS 

Tests have been made to determine if it is possible to cause sparks 
inside of metal tanks or cans by direct stroke or by electromagnetic 

TG041— 20 14 



198 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

induction or electrostatic induction. It has not yet been possible to 
obtain sparks between points within a completel}' closed metal tank. 
Under certain conditions small sparks have been obtained by electro- 
magnetic induction between points in partly inclosed metal struc- 
tures. Sparks are readily obtained within tanks from a grounded 
conductor brought in from the outside when it is slightly insulated 
from the tank by oxide or otherwise. The spark occurs by electro- 
static induction or when either the wire or tank is struck. This is 
interesting in that sparks may be obtained from a grounded con- 
ductor. 

The above experiments have a practical value, because they show 
the danger of any lead-in conductors to oil tanks or magazines. 
They also illustrate the importance of having no projections within 
a tank. For instance, a metal rivet insulated from a tank by oxide 
might cause a sufficient spark to ignite gases within the tank. 
Grounded gauge chains could readilj^ cause internal sparks. 

riRES BY LIGHTNING 

It is quite possible to cause fires by lightning by sparks between 
isolated metal parts even when direct strokes do not occur. Some 
model bales of cotton were placed under the model cloud. It was 
found that the cotton could be ignited by sparks electrostatically 
induced between the metal bonding strips. 



CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS ^ 

A LECTURE DELIVERED IN HONOR OF PROF. BOHUSLAV BRAtJNER 



By G. Urbain 



The Czech Nation, free and enthusiastic, after the long eclipse 
which it suffered, has resumed again the temporarily broken thread 
of its glorious past. It has regained its political, economical, and 
intellectual liberty. Its traditional genius has broken its shackles. 
But despite its temporary subjection, it has never ceased to be active. 
The flame of its genius has constantly burned, despite the storm 
which threatened to extinguish it. Honor will be forever due the 
Czech University at Prague which has striven unfalteringly and 
without weakness to transmit it to the present generation. 

Bohuslav Brauner must be cited among those who have devoted 
their lives and energy to the sacred cause of greatness, of conserva- 
tion of ideals, and of progress in the domain of physical chemistry. 
Among the chemists of other lands, friends of the Czechs, his name 
is symbolic of the scientific acumen of a race which can be unhappy 
with nobility, and being insuppressible, can not be enslaved. 
Surely the name of Bohuslav Brauner belongs to international 
science; but to French ears it has a certain vigor, suggesting intel- 
lectual independence, which is thoroughly Czech. 

For a quarter of a century, my dear Brauner, we have been related 
in scientific and personal friendship. Thus I have been able to 
appreciate the grandeur of your vision, the integrity of your charac- 
ter, and the many other qualities that I could enumerate did I not 
fear to hurt j^our modesty. I will at present speak solely of your 
scientific attainments. 

An idealist, you have good taste to the highest degree, and your 
disinterestedness is absolute. In an epoch when the spirit is at 
times too practical you set a high standard. You love science for 
itself, for what it reveals of the illimitable riches of the universe, 
for what it contains of harmony and logic. The solution of the 
problems which nature sets for us arouses in you true philosophic 
thought. Most of us are concerned with what science can do to 

1 Translated by permisBion from Regueil des travaux chlmiqiies des Pays Has, 44, 
pp. 281-304, 1925, 

199 



200 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

help industry, seeking only for special results. Your enthusiastic 
and generous spirit cares only for knowledge. It was for that rea- 
son that when as a young man I had the good fortune of making 
your acquaintance, I was charmed at first sight. Our long corre- 
spondence, far from altoi-ing those first impressions, confirmed them 
into a definite judgment. 

None of the large currents of ideas which liave furrowed the 
scientific onward flow of our times has found you indifl'erent. You 
have been interested in all of them; have followed them when you 
have not been in the front. It has been not only with kindliness 
that 3'ou have looked into the first researches of the younger scien- 
tists. From my own experience, you have not been sparing in your 
encouragement and have guided them with good counsel. In science 
you have been not only a creator but also an inspirer. Your per- 
sonal influence has passed bej'ond the frontiers of your land. In- 
spirer — that is the title which fits you, for it hints the radiance of 
a creative power. 

A savant, without doubt, can know of no greater joy than to see 
assembled about him in worshipful mood his disciples and friends. 
I bring to you, my dear Brauner, not only proof of m}^ own per- 
sonal admiration and affection but also that of a great number of 
distant friends. The Chemical Society of France expresses through 
my voice the feelings they have for their honorary member. I am 
very proud of this mission as the authorized representative of this 
French societj^, for within it has been developed during more than 
half a century a large share of international chemistry. On many 
an occasion there has been presented before it to the scientific world 
important results due to Czech researches. It pays homage to 
your scientific work and takes pleasure in giving you public testi- 
mony of its great esteem. This homage is addressed to j^ou very 
personally; it would have been given without regard to nationalit3\ 
But the French have always been friends of the Czechs, and 
to-day that friendship is doubled through an alliance, a reciprocal 
gauge of security. Now that a sincere desire for peace and justice 
at last appears to influence the world, such an alliance should prove 
a mutual aid in the economical and intellectual evolution of the two 
peoples. The French chemists wish to forge between themselves 
and the Czech chemists intimate bonds passing the bounds of 
friendly courtesy. They feel convinced tliat you shaie the desire. 
Such intimacy will favor the growth of international science and 
through that aid in the development in all nations of the germs of 
reciprocal esteem. 

Finally, the president of the International Commission of Ele- 
ments renders homage to its dean, who has been one of the most 



CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS — URBAIN 201 

active members and mIio inaugurated the era of high precision in 
the determination of atomic Aveights. 

Your work upon atomic weights is universally appreciated and 
probably better known than that upon the rare earths. Its ob- 
jective is broader. Your merit and high scientific acumen came 
into relief Avith the publication of your admirable study of atomic 
weights found at the beginning of Abegg's Encyclopedia of Physi- 
cal Chemistry. What striking honor this was to a Czech scientist. 

The International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry bore 
in mind this work at the very outset when they came to naming 
the members of the Commission on Chemical Elements and later 
when choosing the president of the subcommittee on atomic weights. 
I recall that Guye, whose ideas upon atomic weights did not wholly 
agree with yours, insisted that the presidency be given to you. 
Such acts of courtesy in all impartiality on the part of opponents 
show the value of a man. The two incidents just recalled show 
how universally you are recognized as the master in the domain 
of atomic weights. 

An especiall}'^ important task devolves upon the president of the 
commission. He drafts the report and prepares the table of inter- 
national atomic weights. He must know the relations existing be- 
tween the diverse atomic weights and judge their relative impor- 
tance. He must be able to appreciate the relative worth of the 
values determined by various men. To bring such a delicate task 
to a proper conclusion requires good scientific judgment, a judicious, 
critical spirit, and an impartiality overlooking the rivalry of differ- 
ing schools. 

Now, shall we recall briefly our common recollections of the won- 
derful journey which we have made through contemporary scientific 
history, more especially through the domain of the chemical ele- 
ments ? In an epocli when time is no longer considered as immutable, 
we have surely lived existences which, measured by the importance 
and number of events which we have seen unroll before our eyes, 
have been the equivalent of several generations- Judging by you 
(Brauner) the limit of the youth of the spirit has been greatly ex- 
tended. Scientific evolution has been a part of the change. Our 
times are privileged. They have seen many important problems pro- 
posed, a number of which have had surprising solutions. We have 
traversed the enormous distance which separates the elements of 
Lavoisier and of Berzilius from the isotopic constellations of Aston. 
AVith Bunsen you saw the birth of the first spectroscopic elements 
in the flame. You have contributed to the genesis of those elements 
recognized through their absorption spectra, for you were the first 
to see the element called praseodymium. A collective error, which 



202 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

I hope is passing, does not attribute to you the fatherhood of it, but 
■when the history of the element is written completely and impar- 
tially, full credit will be given to your name. 

With Crookes you knew the phosphorescent elements in the cath- 
ode rays; with Lecoq de Boisbaudran, you saw those revealed by 
the induction spark. In the arc spectrum you witnessed the birth of 
luticium. With Ramsay you saw the ninth column come into the 
classification of Mendeleeff, for the existence of which you have vic- 
toriously fought. In helium, neon, argon, krypton, and xenon you 
knew the astonishment which the existence of chemically inert ele- 
ments aroused. 

At that time we considered our chemical elements eternal, immut- 
able. Doubtless we need not have been deeply philosophical to have 
recognized in the doctrine of Mendeleeff the thread of an evolution- 
ary theory such as then dominated science and of which Lamarck and 
Darwin were the promoters. Was Mendeleeff really an evolutionist 
as to the chemical elements? I would not dare to affirm it, not 
having read all that this genial Slav scientist has written. I have 
known him only through what has been more or less correctly trans- 
lated into French. But you should know and doubtless are the only 
one who could settle the point. On my part I have always thought 
that he was. For how can one know the analogies which Mendeleeff 's 
table brings into relief, how recognize the family traits, those inti- 
mate relationships of chemical characters and physical properties, 
without supposing some mode of birth which requires certain ele- 
ments to be like brothers and certain others to be like more distant 
relatives? Have not you and Mendeleeff added something to science 
which is not read in the printed text but which may be read between 
the lines? I am disposed to see here the source of that contagious 
enthusiasm which the periodic system has inspired in you. You 
should have been prepared to admit that chemical elements are born 
and die. But before photography and electrometry had given, 
through H. Becquerel, Pierre and Mme. Curie, their marvelous dis- 
covery of the radioactive elements, the evolution of elements could 
have been only a philosophical hypothesis with no real experimental 
foundation. With radium transforming into the gas radon, with 
radon in turn changing into other new elements themselves radio- 
active, the hypothesis of the evolution of the elements becomes a 
reality. The chemical elements lose their immutability, are no longer 
dead as considered by the scientists of the era just passed. They 
enter into an active life. 

The old philosophical dream of our medieval ancestors comes from 
the distant past into a wonderful reality. We would be tempted 
to cry " miracle " were we not preoccupied with consigning to the 



CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS URBAIN 203 

dump the ideas which these discoveries have rendered obsolete. We 
are indeed fortunate in having witnessed such great events. 

I was especially privileged, for with my own eyes I saw the ele- 
ment radium born. Pierre Curie was my teacher, and gave me the 
incomparable honor of his confidence and friendship. I have seen 
Mme. Curie working like a man with great masses of pitchblende. 
I saw the first separation of the bromides of barium and radium ; I 
saw the radiferous crystals shining in the darkness before the spec- 
trum of radium had been observed. Every Sunday I went with 
Langevin, Perrin, Debierne, Cotton, and Sagnac into the modest 
home of Curie which then changed into a kind of intimate academy. 
There the master with his customary simplicity told his ideas and 
was as willing to discuss ours. What great problems we debated. 
The behavior of radium brought into question ideas which had be- 
come classic. The continuous delivery of energy from radium con- 
tradicted our fundamental scientific notions. Must we renounce the 
principle of the conservation of energy, for we then thought that 
vadium remained unchanged? Were we to admit that radium con- 
tinuously set free energy without the loss of any part of itself? 
Does its substance vanish in radiation? And if energy and matter 
are but different aspects of a same invariant must we give up the 
principle of the conservation of matter, that great principle of 
Lavoisier which we have considered the corner stone of chemical 
science ? 

Pierre Curie desired to avoid destroying such fertile principles. 
He leaned toward an interpretation which while respecting the 
work of the past, yet might account for the future. In the end, 
radium became for him — an hypothesis which has been recently 
revived by J. Perrin — not a generator but a transformer of energy. 
This element held captive a yet unknown form of energy and meta- 
morphosed it in the a, ;8, and y rays. But when Curie, with M"me. 
Curie, discovered the so-called radioactive deposits, which he called 
" induced radioactivity," it was evident that radium itself must 
undergo change. 

When Curie found that radium continuously set free heat we 
were forced to believe in the failure of the conservation of energy. 
When his little electroscope automatically charged and discharged 
itself in the presence of radium, producing work at a constant tem- 
perature, we had to believe in the failure of Carnot's principle. 
If we rejected the spontaneous transformation of radium into other 
elements, we became party to the bankruptcy of thermodynamics. 
But the emanation (radon), which had the characteristics of a new 
chemical element, was evidently generated from radium. This ema- 
nation disappeared spontaneously, little by little, to appear as radio- 



204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

active deposits and helium. The principles of thermodynamics came 
safe and sound out of the fray, but that of the immutability of the 
elements was moribund, 

"We distinguish between elements which show radioactive charac- 
teristics and those which do not. It is nevertheless true that the 
radioactive ones are elements, and therefore we can not hold that 
elements are immutable. 

The theory of the disintegration of radioactive bodies, due to Sir 
Ernest Rutherford, justly dominates modern science. The ideas 
Avhich he postulates are to-day solidly founded. The phenomenon 
of spontaneous radioactivity is interpreted as the projection out of 
the atomic nucleus of an electron, a helium ion. 

The electron, the carrier of the ^ radiation in which matter and 
negative electricity are identical, is now the smallest mass of matter 
known to science. Its mass at rest is one thousand eight hundred 
times less than that of the hydrogen atom. It plays a part in a 
great number of material phenomena not related to radioactivity. 
There is no chemical element which can not liberate electrons detect- 
able by electrometric means. It is apparently a universal constitu- 
ent of matter. 

The helium ions which constitute the a rays have a mass approxi- 
mately that of a helium atom and each carries two elementary elec- 
tric charges equal except in sign to that of the electron. They can 
not be considered a universal constituent of matter, since all the 
atomic weights are not even approximately multii)les of four. There 
is a tendency to consider them as being themselves composed of four 
hydrogen nuclei (or protons, actual atoms of positive electricity), 
representing four charges, and associated in the helium ion with 
two electrons for the necessary intra-atomic binding field of force. 
Hence the hydrogen ion or proton may be considered the second 
universal constituent of matter. Electrons and protons suffice to 
make up the assemblages which are our chemical atoms. This man- 
ner of postulating the building of the universe is admirable. It 
satisfies at the same time both the scientist and the philosopher. 
Its scientific character is undeniable. The existence of electrons is 
certain; they have been isolated by the most diverse methods, to 
which I believe there can be no serious objection. 

The reality of protons is less certain. They must go through sev- 
eral small formalities before they are accepted in scientific society. 
They are tolerated, since their existence fills certain needs. 

Only a little Avhile ago several physicists were disposed to postu- 
late that matter was composed exclusively of electrons. But it is 
difficult to conceive how masses of negative electricity could build 
neutral atoms and molecules. Positive electricity remains an 
enigma. It seems logically necessary that material negative par- 



CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS — URBAIN 205 

tides must have neutralizing positive particles. The a particles of 
radioactivity seem to reveal such elementary masses, but we are still 
at a loss, for their mass is manifestly too great. 

Sir Ernest Rutherford, to whom we owe what is basic in our 
actual ideas about atoms, noted that the a-radiation is the most 
powerful form of energy at our disposal. This led him to con- 
ceive the bombardment of the atomic structure with them. It is 
useless here to go into the details of his experiments with which 
you, my dear Brauner, are familiar. You know that by an irre- 
futable interpretation of the observed facts in the case of nitrogen, 
phosphorus, and several other elements, the atomic citadels had 
been breached b}'^ these projectiles and that the splinters resulting 
from the consequent explosions could be nought else but hydrogen 
ions. In thus declaring war upon the stable atoms, Rutherford 
formed a new branch of science showing artificial radioactivity, 
one of the greatest discoveries of our extraordinary epoch. 

These experiments show that protons must be a constituent of 
some atoms, but it does not follow that they are a universal con- 
stituent of matter. But do you not think that at least provisionally 
we may accord them this privilege? If you make this concession 
we may mix with strict science a little pleasant philosophy: This 
existence of tw^o chemical elements, the electron and the proton, out 
of which everything in the ifniverse is made. 

As to the simplicity of its conceptions, modern science thus rivals 
that of Aristotle. The ancients postulated four elements, we admit 
only two. The atoms of Lucretius have become a little complicated 
and those of Dalton have lost their primitive simplicity. Science 
has gained in unity and has to a certain degree attained the ideal 
which it has sought with varying fortune for 3,000 years. 

Yet, though the universe has been reduced thus to two constit- 
uents, and the electrons and protons occur as the simplest reduc- 
tion of our ideas, it does not follow that those ideas are perfectly 
clear. Berzilius, subsequent to the beautiful experiment of Davy, 
tried to explain matter through electricity and fabricated for the 
purpose one of the most curious syntheses which the annals of 
physical chemistry contains. I allude to his electrochemical theory 
of which the classification will remain an eternal monument. He 
knew nothing of the nature of electricity; for this he depended 
upon the wisdom of future physicists. We physical chemists of 
to-day do not tell what matter nor what electricity is. We merely 
know them as phenomena. The least metaphysical among us see 
in electrons and protons merely centers of convergence of lines of 
force. That evidently explains nothing fundamental. It makes for 
us a woi-ld formed of minute hairy points, the hairs strikingly 
abstract, only indicating to us the possibility of some phenomena. 



206 ANNUAL EEPOET SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Frankly, electrons and protons are monads. Leibnits thus lives 
again in modern science as Lucretius did in the science of Dalton. 

I beg you see no blame in what I have just said. It is not neces- 
sary, it is perhaps impossible, that we should understand every- 
thing. The penetration of human insight possibly lias limits. We 
should not expect present science to explain everything. Knowl- 
edge we should have. It should allow us to predict. Our ideas as 
to what is comprehensible or absurd are doubtless hereditary habits 
of our intellect. It is fortunate that science does not halt because 
of such considerations; it would then repulse as incomprehensible 
Newton's theories of actions at a distance, as the Cartesians did. 
Doubtless, the mathematician would never have had imaginary 
quantities which, being inconceivable, would be neither more nor 
less than absurd. 

In the evolution of scientific theories there are surprising enough 
changes in the point of view. Take, for instance, Fresnel's optics 
where the light phenomena were pictured as analogous to the mo- 
tions of the pendulum. The model expresses laws the phenomena 
show. The aptness of the explanation resulted from the closeness 
of the analogy. Imagination was satisfied. Then there is the 
reality which we were prone to accord to the ether of physics. But 
the younger school of physicists are against the ether because at the 
same time it must be more fluid than an}' gas and more rigid than 
steel. They look upon it as a resurrection into modern science of a 
fossil remain of the ancient fluids. They prefer to replace it by the 
equations of Maxwell or something as subjective. I wish that we 
might thus gain in reality what we lose in simplicity, but we must 
confess that there is nothing to be hoped for from the change. 

As to the atom, have we attained something real or only a model 
symbolic of observed phenomena? It is difficult to say. The 
model which Bohr lias elaborated from that of Rutherford shocks 
our former beliefs. For the electricity which circulates in the 
form of exterior electrons in that atom, does not obey the ordinary 
experimental laws of electricity in motion. We had learned that 
a displacement of an electrical charge is accompanied by radiation. 
But Bohr postulates privileged orbits wherein the exterior electrons 
may circulate without radiating. 

Bohr, in making this hypothesis, breaks with a tradition of which 
no theorist has dared to neglect the laws. His immediate prede- 
cessor, Rutherford, had allowed the electrons to radiate since it was 
supposed the model must obey the standard laws. Bohr's models 
have their own laws with no necessary relation to the laws of ordi- 
nary experiments, and he thus turned scientific thought into a new 
and unknown direction. The models lose the explanatory charac- 



CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS URBAIN 207 

ter we had expected of them. Bohr's atom is not a clear explana- 
tion, for the privileged orbits are not understandable in themselves ; 
neither are the " quanta of energy," set free by the electrons in 
leaping from one privileged orbit to another. In the future are 
theories to be built upon such contradictions ? 

The atom of Rutherford, which is otherwise satisfactory, has the 
objection of unceasing radiation. In time it should wear itself out. 
Each outer electron must gradually approach the central nucleus 
of the atom, finally falling into it, which means its death. Of 
course, we must resign ourselves to death. We might have accepted 
the death of the stars without the optimistic invention of Arrhenius, 
but we can not that of the atoms; that would mean a definite 
end of the universe which we find it comforting to look upon as 
eternal. Bohr, in revivifying our hopes, is a great benefactor. Fur- 
ther, if the electron revolving about the positive center of the atom 
radiated constantly, matter should be always luminous, which is far 
from the fact. This seems a critical objection. 

It seems necessary either to resign ourselves to not understand- 
ing, as Bohr has done, or to resign ourselves to a model in flagrant 
violation with experience. There is no doubt as to our choice. To 
one who finds fault that the electrons in their privileged orbits do 
not obey the laws of electromagnetism, we may reply that so far 
as known these laws relate only to large-scale phenomena. They 
may not apply to the electron or to the atom, but only statistically 
when a large number of them are under consideration. Men en- 
dowed with excellent individual qualities may make detestable 
crowds. Atomists take the Carnot principle as a collective law for 
which the little demon of Maxwell ^ has no power. Thus Bohr may 
be less revolutionary than he seems at first sight. He can intrench 
himself behind an illustrious precedent. 

Our ideas relative to the older elements, which are really not ele- 
mentary, have not reached the end of their vicissitudes. Radicals 
composed of electrons and protons they may be. On such terms 
they have lost nothing of their older significance in chemistry. 
Chemistry ceases to concern itself with the primary elementary 
forms. Its domain henceforth is one of secondary combinations 
now that its ancient elements have become divisible and composite. 

It might be more philosophical to enlarge the realm of chemistry 
to include not only radioactivity but also electronics. But then 
we must cross the barrier which has separated chemistry and 
physics. The shadow of Auguste Comte would shake with indig- 
nation. The old modes of thought, molded by the routine of 

^ An imaginary being invented by J. C. Maxwell, wlio is supposed to witness the 
actual working of the law of thermodynamics, and to be able to control it. 



208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

professional habits, and the purism of academic methods, main- 
tained lon<r a<^o the difference between these two sciences, a dis- 
tinction originally drawn by an arbitrary classification which 
divided into compartments the continuum of the sciences. 

When our knowled<>e was less, it was easy to <!:ive the chemical 
elements a simple and a])parently decisive delinition as Lavoisier 
did. To respect his definition, at least formally, it would be neces- 
sary to-day to distinguish between two methods of analysis, that 
of chemistry and that of physics. To the contingencies involved 
in the very nature of things there are then added artificial limita- 
tions. When we form a scientific ideal we should weed out these 
conditions as much as possible, no matter why they were imposed. 
Lavoisier, in order to define a simple body, had to clear away 
the vapors of phlogiston and renounce the ideas of a then decrepit 
atomism. AVhat would he have thought of our present ideas and 
theories? Would the numerous presumptuous accumulations in 
favor of the atomic structure suffice to prove its reality to him? He, 
and all the encyclopcedists of the eighteenth century, would have 
reproached us, perhaps, concerning this imagined existence of atoms, 
this act of faith. 

The atoms, so far as any direct manifestation to our senses is 
concerned, will aways elude us because of their extreme minuteness. 
We can not ever hope to see them because we laiow beforehand that 
our microscopes, and even our ultramicroscopes, however i)owerful 
they may be, have a very limited magnification which would always 
be insufficient. In this direction the matter is definitely settled. 
We must be reconciled to the certainty of never seeing them and 
be contented to know them through their effects. In taking these 
evidences we are like a judge before the accused, and we must fear 
errors of judgment. The multiplicity of the accusing evidence is 
doubtless very impressive. Is the question clear enough so that 
we can give a certain judgment? 

We consider effects since they are our sole evidence. Then we 
postulate the atom that we may the better interpret these facts — in 
no way making the atom a necessary objective reality. Jean Perrin, 
who has gone deepest in this matter, has appealed to probabilities. 
How did he prove the reality of molecules in his now famous 
memoir? Doubtless he has applied very precise exponential laws 
resulting from direct experiment. But it was not with molecules 
themselves that he experimented, but with colloidal aggregates which 
he called composite molecules. Without doubt he may diminish 
more and more the diameter of these aggregates, but there remains 
a gap between the smallest of them and the molecules which he may 
never close. When he coinits the molecules in a vertical cylinder of 



CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS URBAIN 209 

hj^clrogen, it is by following the capricious trajectories of gamboge 
particles. 

He probably would not have been concerned with this gap in his 
demonstration were it not that his scruples made him wish to close 
it up. He has accumulated excellent presumptions which he has 
attached to these least apparent parts of our universe. He did not 
limit himself to those pseudosolutions just mentioned nor to radio- 
activity. Following Lord Rayleigh, he asked the question of the 
blue of the sky. He gathered 15 independent ways for the determi- 
nation of the constant N, which he modestly called Avogadro's 
number. 

His experiments in this direction are doubtless the most extended 
that have been made. But he has been able to conclude only that 
the existence of molecules, and therefore of atoms, is exceedingly 
probable. In reviewing the matter in most diverse aspects he showed 
that it is indispensable for coordinating our knowledge. If he has 
left an indefinitely small amount of doubt as to the reality of the 
molecule and the atom, he has at least made us like them. He 
has shown that at present science and poetry — fact and fancy — are 
not irreconcilable. He has passed on the tradition of Laplace, of 
Alembert, and of Fontenelle. His spirit fraternizes with that of 
Lucretius and the bees of Hymettus have placed their honey upon 
his lips. 

Is it necessary to seek the reality of the atom in the absolute 
manner of the philosophers? Are not molecules and atoms syntheses 
which embody the fundamental laws of chemistry and a large 
part of those of physics? Their reality (as J. Perrin indicated in 
the last edition of his book on atoms, pp. 294-295) lies in the rela- 
tionships they allow between phenomena which, without them, we 
would never coordinate. Were we to strike out to-day from the 
scientific vocabulary the terms atoms and molecules, all physical- 
chemical science would disappear, leaving only a dry list of facts 
impossible to connect one with another. 

The reality of the atom is doubtless relative, but it is probably 
for the best. It has been justly said that absolute philosophy gives 
way more and more to relative science. Time is a good example. 
It allows us to give the atom a relative existence. 

The extreme complication of modern science carries subtleties 
which we who sit on the school benches may ignore. It is repug- 
nant to mix these philosophical matters with positive facts. The 
facts come to us mixed with no hypotheses, and here we find a 
criterion of the tiidy scientific mind. How difficult it is to attain 
it! We are given the definition of a chemical element according 
to Lavoisier, but we talk of it in a very different way. The ultimate 



210 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

term of analysis, the body from which we can take nothing but 
itself — all that is far away. 

Such a definition can not be taken literally, for then the greater 
part of the oxides of the rare earths would be elements, since they 
can not be reduced. One rather feels that the definition of an 
element should not be submitted to the contingencies of analysis. 
We should define elements by characteristics which belong to them 
and we have carefully felt our way for a long time through the 
uncertainties of analogies. The isolation of an element in its metal- 
lic state is no longer necessary to characterize it as an element and 
we must have recourse to elementary characteristics. This leads 
to two necessary conditions: 

(1) All compounds of the same element must have in common cer- 
tain characteristics. 

(2) Among these we can retain only those which are general. 
The lapse of time makes possible an accurate statement of the 

problem. In the earlier times to which we have alluded, a more 
or less confused intuition served as a guide. 

The chemical equivalent, the proportional number, the atomic 
weight, call it what you will, is manifestly insufficient because, 
though satisfying the two preceding criteria, cited for the case of 
pure elements, they also hold for certain compounds, for example, 
the rare earths, of which we can measure the molecular weights, a 
measure scientifically precise but, in the present instance, of little 
meaning except to a specialist. Hence the two conditions given, 
though manifestly essential, are not sufficient. It is further neces- 
sary that the characteristic be independent of the state of the body 
examined. Bunsen discovered in the spectrum the first strictly ele- 
mentary characteristic. Until then the elements had been simply 
chemically elementary ; henceforth they will be spectroelementary. 

The method of flame spectra had an astonishing success. There 
came at once the discovery of rubidium, caesium, and then almost 
immediately afterwards, of thallium and indium. However, it did 
not prove to be a wholly general method. Indeed, there are besides 
the alkaline metals and alkaline earths very few elements suscepti- 
ble of being revealed by the flame. Do you not recollect that when 
Bunsen undertook with Bahr the study of yttria he found only 
yttrium and erbium among the elements of Masander? He then 
gave all the weight of his authority against the existence of terbium, 
a phantom element, denied by Cleve, asserted by Delafontaine, and 
which owed its definitive resurrection to Marignac? 

The technique of spectrum analysis, then too primitive, needed de- 
velopment. Thalen, and then Lecoq de Boisbaudran, had recourse 
to the electric spark, which led to a much more general method. 



CHEMICAL, ELEMENTS AND ATOMS UEBAIN 211 

It seems to me that to Thalen belonged only the credit for better 
delineating the group of the rare earths already discovered. Lecoq 
de Boisbaudran, an intrepid worker and extraordinary observer, 
discovered gallium. 

This name, my dear Brauner, should recall the triumph of the 
cause which you defended, for gallium seemed to be the eka- 
aluminum which Mendeleeff had so exactly predicted. I was a friend 
of Lecoq de Boisbaudran. He gave me great encouragement in my 
researches on the rare earths at a time when I greatly needed it, for 
you know from your oAvn experience how many such researches are 
deceptive and what perseverance they require. Lecoq de Boisbaudran 
had genius and a great soul. I have alwaj^s been surprised that he 
opposed to the great foresight of Mendeleeff the very interesting, 
but very restricted, personal considerations upon the constitution of 
spectra which he asserted had been his only giiide in his researches 
on gallium. His method of the uncondensed spark allowed him to 
place in their proper order gadolinium and ytterbium, which Marig- 
nac, the last representative of a brilliant group of chemists, had 
discovered by the older methods of pure chemistry. 

Marignac would have closed the chapter of the discovery of ele- 
ments by purely chemical methods had not Winlder had the good 
luck to analyze argyrodite and find in that very rare mineral, ger- 
manium in large quantities. Henceforth we will expect to find all 
the new elements discovered by the methods of physics, more espe- 
cially through spectroscopy, the technique of which has been adopted 
in several chemical laboratories. 

No one doubts that spectra are well adapted as an elementary 
character, presenting characteristics identical in all the combina- 
tions and mixtures of an element. There have indeed been attrib- 
uted to spectra more value, more constancy than they really have. 
All kinds of spectra — those observed in solutions, in phosphorescent 
cathode spectra, those in the electric spark between solids in vacuo — 
are considered of the same worth as- elementary characters. 

You, my dear Brauner, inaugurated with the rare earths that 
remarkable epoch in which absorption spectra played the principal 
part. Then, afterwards, Lecoq de Boisbaudran discovered sama- 
rium and Marignac gadolinium while you established the com- 
pound nature of didyraium. 

In 1882 you decided very tardily to publish the results of j^our 
important researches. Certain variations in the absorption spec- 
trum of didymium had been noted by such men as Delafontaine, 
J. L. Smith, Lecoq de Boisbaudran, and then by Cleve; but they 
were inclined to attribute the variations to differences in acidity of 
the solutes. • Having eliminated that source of error, vou deter- 



212 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

mined that in certain of your fractional solutions of didymiuni, cer- 
tain bands in the blue region — particularly the group of bands, 
A=:449 to 443 — had a special importance, equaling in intensity the 
group in the yellow — A:^590 to 5G8. At first you attributed them 
to lanthanum, but later knew that this element took no part in the 
])lienomonon. Now it is certain that the blue band belongs to pra- 
seodymium and the 3'ellow to neodymium. Thus, von Welsbach, to 
whom the discovery is generally attributed, was really later than 
you in the separation of these two elements. I am not surprised 
that the honor of the discovery was attributed to him, for in such 
matters the scientific world is indifferent and allows itself to be 
misled by appearances. 

One would be very incompetent to wrongly estimate the results 
of your researches. We forget too often that in order to judge the 
value of a discovery it is necessary to consider the conditions under 
which it was made and make proper allowance for the progress 
science has made since. Within our times ideas have developed 
rapidly, and experimental technique has been improved with incon- 
ceivable rapidity. The two processes have been mutually helpful. 

The 25 years I have spent in the study of the rare earths give 
me the right to affirm that it would have been impossible in 1880 
to have pushed farther than you did the researches on the separa- 
tion of did_ymium. Didymium was very rare, the methods of frac- 
tionization ver}^ rudimentary, i)reventing you from carrying the 
separation very far; but that should mean more credit for obtaining 
the results then, than for i)erfecting them later. 

Those early days were days of misery in the study of the rare 
earths — I have known in comparison only days of relative opulence, 
and I salute 3^ou, my dear Brauner, one of the pioneers whose work 
has always filled me with admiration and profound respect. 

Somewhat later there occurred in the domain of the rare earths 
a very orgy of spectrum variation. Your immediate successors seem 
to have endeavored by their excesses to discredit the work of their 
predecessors. The spectrum bands seemed to lose all orderliness. 
Your neodymium and praseodymium, the samai-ium and the 
dysprosium of Lecoq de Boisbaudran, the holmium of Soret and 
Marignac (and not of Cleve, to whom it is often attributed), the 
erbium of Mosander, and the thulium of Cleve, in short iill the ele- 
ments of the absorbent-spectra group, seemed to multiply ad infini- 
tum. Kriiss and Nilson, H. Becquerel, Crookes, and all the 
world with them, noted the variations in the intensity of the differ- 
ent absorption bands in ever-changing proportions. Each one 
wished to discover and believe he had seen a new element. Such 



CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS URBAIN 213 

discoveries became so common tliat instead of names they attributed 
provisory notation, be it to the bands or the supposed new element. 
When they had used up the Latin alphabet recourse was had to the 
Greek which in its turn would apparently fail. The rare earth ele- 
ments came in swarms. They became no longer a group but a whole 
fog. Finally, since a halt had to be made somewhere, Crookes pro- 
nounced his famous aphorism, " a band, an element." 

The subject grew chaotic; but even this chaos was not sufficient. 
Spark spectra were brought into the fray. Lecoq de Boisbaudran 
exhausted the alphabet to z and Demarcay the capitals of the Greek 
alphabet. Then the phosphorescent cathode added their quota 
which again required the use of two alphabets. It took the bril- 
liant imagination of Crookes to build upon his first beautiful dis- 
covery the wonderful edifice of meta and ortho elements. Ortho 
elements broke up into meta elements. The structure of clear ideas 
so carefully built until then was in danger of shipwreck. The 
yttria earths, with Crookes at the helm, were sucked into the 
whirlpool along with samarium. His fertile imagination amalga- 
mated the most bizarre ideas with those of a genius. Departing 
from reasonable points of view, he compared spark spectra with 
phosphorescent spectra. Experience later refused to justify the step 
he then took in assuming that both spectra obeyed the same laws. 

Since spark spectra augment in intensity with the increase in con- 
centration of an element he assumed that the same would happen 
with phosphorescent spectra. His conviction was so strong that he 
made no experimental trial to justify an analogy which to him 
seemed evident. Further, while he was astonished at the sensitive- 
ness of his cathode spectra, he did not note that that of the spark 
spectra was very limited. Indeed, his technique in the case of spark 
spectra differed little from that of Lecoq de Boisbaudran, which did 
not permit the observation among the yttria earths of any but gado- 
linium, dysprosium, ytterbium, and, of course, yttrium. In fact, 
Crookes could observe only yttrium. The spebtrum appeared con- 
stant to him, while he found great variations in the atomic weight. 
From this he felt it right to assert that yttrium, an element as indi- 
cated by its spectrum, had a variable atomic weight. He was not 
the only one of this opinion. Greatly influenced by Hinrichs, who 
criticised severely the work of J. S. Stas, the dogma of the constancy 
of atomic weights singularly staggered in this period of equivoca- 
tion. The various portions, in the fractionations of Crookes, iden- 
tified by their spark spectra, differed in their phosphorescent spectra. 
Therefore they were characterized by Crookes as distinctly different 
atoms of the same element. They were called meta elements of 
yttrium. 

76041—26 15 



214 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

It surprises me tliiit Aston considered this theory as a prophetic 
vision of isotopy. For my part, I attribute only to chance any 
analogy between the two theories. 

The experiments of Crookes relative to meta elements had the 
incontestable merit of bringinf; to light a series of remarkable phe- 
nomena then entirely novel. Would that he had then listened to 
the wise counsel which ^Marignac gave him so diplomaticall}' and 
courteously in the Journal of the Natural and Physical Sciences of 
Geneva. Why did he not mind the objections with which Lecoq 
de Boisbaudran so justly opposed his theory, and Avhich proved 
so clearly that the phosphorescent spectra of yttrium did not belong 
to yttrium but to impurities? The criticisms of Marignac and Lecoq 
de Boisbaudran appear to have been met with general indifference. 
Indeed, the theory of meta elements was very favorably received. 
Crookes did not lack either approval or imitation, but to-day the 
meta elements have no standing. Of the long discussion which I 
had with Crookes on the matter, there remain to-day only the gen- 
eral laws of cathode phosphorescence. 

The passing interpretation of the facts matters little in com- 
parison with the real observed phenomena themselves. The work 
of Crookes on the phosphorescence of the yttria earths is a lasting 
monument. This we can admire without reserve, closing our ears 
to the interpretation, I regret only that my illustrious opponent 
lost through his mistaken theories the advantage of an important 
discovery, for unwittingly^ he had come upon europium. - I would 
be happy could I save this from oblivion. Crookes had observed 
in the mixtures which contained both samarium and yttrium, and 
which consequently should contain all the intermediate earth ele- 
ments, a phosphorescent band which appeared to him to behave 
in a peculiar manner. He designated it for that reason an " ab- 
normal band." At the time he attributed it to both samarium 
and yttrium, considering it as a resultant vibration of the atoms 
of the two elements. Lecoq de Boisbaudran, who found several 
analogies in certain phosphorescent spectra of solutions, which he 
designated " reversed spectra," attributed the band to a ncAv element. 
He said that this band " was perhaps not without relationship to 
the abnormal band of Crookes." That is definite enough. Thus 
Crookes was left free to vindicate himself in the discovery of tliis 
new element. He remained contented to consider his band as char- 
acteristic of a meta element of samarium. 

Among the earths which show^cd him the reversed band, Lecoq de 
Boisbaudran observed a new spark spectrum; but he reserved the 
question of deciding whether or not it was identical with the ele- 
ment showing the "' reversed spectrum " or that which produced the 
direct spark. 



CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS URBAIN 215 

Demarcay, who commenced the utilization of the ultra-violet 
region for spectrochemistry, announced an element which he desig- 
nated as :$. He later recognized the identity of this with that which 
the spark had revealed to Lecoq de Boisbaudran, but he had some 
reservations as to the origin of the anomalous band of Crookes, 
He finally called the neAv element europium. He isolated it in a 
very pure state but was unable to complete his work. 

Having had the good fortune to isolate europium almost quanti- 
tatively, I am able to clear away some of the uncertainties relative 
to the diverse spectrum characteristics at first observed. Particularly 
it was apparent that the anomalous band of Crookes and the reversed 
band of Lecoq de Boisbaudran were different manifestations of this 
element. 

Certain that europium had been first revealed to Crookes, I sent 
him my results before publication, together with a sample of pure 
europium. He made a magnificent spark spectrum from the sam- 
ple — he had much perfected his technique. He published that spec- 
trum which had no immediate relationship with the phosphorescent 
band and claimed nothing. 

Almost all elements have striking histories but europium would 
have beaten all records if celtium had not been subsequently dis- 
covered. 

I will not develop further the history of the rare earths. The 
many elements of the group have been isolated one by one, and 
their characteristics fixed with surety. You know as well as I, 
my dear Brauner, the closing chapter of their history since you 
wrote it with all the necessary detail under circumstances unfor- 
getable to me. 

During the years which closed this history. Sir W. Ramsay 
opened and closed a new column in the classification of Mendeleeff, 
discovering successively the different rare gases of the atmosphere. 
Curie and his pupils, Sir E. Rutherford and his collaborators, 
several years later demanded from the electrometer, w^hat, until then, 
had been asked from chemistry and spectroscopy. We know some 
40 new radioactive elements. These we may call electrometric ele- 
ments for we can observe the spectra only of radium and radon. 

When it was established, that the radioactive elements are born 
and die according to exponential laws, the composite experimental 
decay of mixtures of radioactive elements, not in equilibrium, was 
ingeniously analyzed into the components due to the separate ele- 
ments. Each one of these new components presumably belonged to a 
new element. The discovery of elements in this field became thus 
the analysis of curves. It is difficult to avoid certain scepticisms; 
and those who have for a long while made elaborate chemical 
analyses in order to find evidence of new chemical characters may 



216 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

well be excused from thinking that new generations may discover 
now imknown^ elements. Since each new radioactive element is 
characterized not only by the length of its average life, but also by 
the coefficient of absorption of its radiation, and finally by the ve- 
locity .of its a and ji particles, the multiplicity of these character- 
istics and the manner in which they behave under chemical in- 
fluences leave no further doubt upon the objective reality of the 
most elusive of the radioactive elements. 

Their multiplicity^ alone is disconcerting. It is evidently impos- 
sible to put each one of them into a separate compartment of the 
too few compartments of Mendeleeff's classification. Must we, 
therefore, renounce the universal application of that classification 
and exclude from it the majority of the radioactive elements? You, 
Brauner, who have identified yourself with Mendeleeff's cause and 
have struggled so much for the success of the periodical classi- 
fication, how anxiously you must have considered the matter. When 
it became evident that certain elements distinct in their radio- 
active properties, could not be distinguished in other ways, they 
were naturally grouped in the same compartment — that is, all those 
which appeared chemically the same. This phenomenon Fr. Soddy 
called " isotopy." This new notion, the value of which has become 
considerable, at first seemed to arouse only a limited scientific pub- 
lic. For most chemists, ionium, which could not be separated chem- 
ically from thorium, ultimately, could only be thorium particu- 
larly affected through radioactive qualities. It did not seem of good 
augury that two elements could not be separated even slightly ; and 
yet further, their luminous spectra seemed to show no differences. 
The daring of Soddy did not seem very great to have thus simply 
settled the matter. If, as we once admitted, an element is suffi- 
ciently defined through its spectrum and the value of its atomic 
weight, one could not at all doubt that ionium and thorium were 
one and the same element. Then in each compartment of Mendeleeff 
we would put only one element where the radioactive people would 
group several. 

The ideas of chemical and radioactive elements seemed to be in 
conflict. The chemists were inclined to concede as little as possible 
to the physicists. 

It is true that the matter of the affiliation of the radioactive ele- 
ments was not then \QYy clear. It was difficult to put order into the 
labyrinth of radioactive bodies. Fr. Soddy finally brought the 
desired thread of Ariadne in the guise of the law of dis})lacement 
which gave a definite means of classifying a radioactive element in 
the periodic scheme when we know the nature of its radiation and 
its immediate ancestor. The same laws were also stated at about 
the same time by Fajans. 



CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS — URBAIN 217 

Such important laws could not pass unnoticed even by the eyes 
of those who did not especially work in radioactivity. All which 
relates to the periodic classification thus again assumes a general 
character and interests both chemist and physicist. 

In what relates to radioactivity, experiment and theory are so 
intimately bound that it is difficult to tell where one ends and the 
other begins, and one willingly attributes to theory the preponderat- 
ing part. We seek for the crucial experiment which dispels all 
doubts. Radioactivity is found in two series in the Mendeleeff 
classification, and theory assigns to the changing element one of two 
ultimate forms — helium or lead, 

I spoke earlier of variable atomic weights. Th. Richards who 
obtained for lead from galena the atomic weight of 207.18, found 
for lead from carnotite the value 20G.41. The precision of these 
measures was over 1 part in 10,000. There was no chance for doubt. 
We must applaud him. 

There therefore exist different kinds of a body as common as lead. 
This name then does not designate one but a family of substances. 
Our atomic weights which served as bases for our highest theoretical 
speculations can not be considered as true constants since they char- 
acterise not pure bodies but mixtures. Once more we must make an 
alteration in our definition of an element. 

Will the classification of Mendeleeff totter now that its foundations 
seem wrong? How shall we connect the properties of an element 
with its atomic weight? It is necessary to give up the rigor of the 
atomic weights and resign ourselves to their being only average 
values. The idea of Fr. Soddy comes as a great relief in the eyes of 
chemists. Mendeleeff 's classification no longer should be considered 
as dealing with elements but rather with families of elements. 
Each family becomes a pleiad of elements, in the limiting case, an 
element. The idea grows on us. It is in the scientific air which we 
breathe. We are anxious as to how in actual experience it will turn 
out with all the elements, for until now the trials have all been 
with radioactive elements. The abnormal leads, studied by Th. 
Richards and his associates, by Maurice Curie, by Baxter and 
Grover, by Honigschmidt and Horowitz, by Soddy and Hyman, and 
several others, were all radioactive. In the special domain of radio- 
active elements, the existence of isotopes has passed the boundary 
which separates probable hypothesis from certain reality. But what 
next? 

Whatever value we may be disposed to attribute to this distinc- 
tion we are only half satisfied. Some of the compartments of Men- 
deleef are to contain families — e. g., in the case of the radioactive ele- 
ments — and others single elements. Is it necessary to save the classi- 



218 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

fication at the expense of this heterogeneity? We can not believe 
that a moment. On the other hand we should be certain of the value 
of the classification in itself. It is not the question of saving it from 
a disaster by which it is not menaced, but to restate the principle 
which certainly contains something of truth although not the whole 
truth. 

We have heard on many occasions of atomic numbers. First 
through Rydberg but especially through Moseley. The latter gave 
us a remarkable law which connects the radiation of the X-ray 
spectra of each element with its atomic number. But this number 
designates only the place occupied by each element in the classifica- 
tion. It has in that sense only as much signification as the principle 
of increasing atomic weights, one already put to rude test by the 
respective positions of potassium and argon, iodine and tellurium, 
nickel and cobalt, so that in this its interest might vanish. The 
atomic numbers are in themselves only a series of whole numbers 
without any precise signification. After all, the law of Moseley is 
only an approximation, since it expresses as a linear relation what 
experiment shows us more and more is curvilinear. 

One could believe in 1914 (and I sincerely so believed after my stay 
at Oxford where I worked with Moseley) that, in substituting for 
the atomic weights the atomic numbers, Mendeleef's theory had a 
real improvement. Indeed the atomic numbers, susceptible of a 
measure sufficiently precise according to the distribution of the 
X-ray in the scale of wave lengths, succeed each oth .r in the definite 
order conforming precisely to the place occupied by the element or 
family of elements in the periodical classification. Argon is in its 
proper place preceding potassium; tellurium and cobalt on the one 
hand and iodine and nickel on the other are in their proper ranks. 
All difficulty vanishes. The theory comes out triumphant and 
strengthen d from the test. 

However, the curvature of the lines of Moseley throws a shadow 
upon the picture. We might think to find in this succession of whole 
numbers a certain mystical value. The virtues in numbers which the 
ancients held has been vigorously decried by }>hilosophers, and their 
ideas are echoed in modern science. But there is a physical sig- 
nificance to the numbers of Moseley. Sir E. Rutherford takes one 
from tlio experiments of Chadwick on the diffusion of the a-rays. 
But the process is not wholly physical except so far as theory goes, 
but from a more general point of view metaphysical. On the one 
hand the diffusion of the a-rays through a bod}^ can lead to the 
atomic numbers following the ideas of Rutherford; on the other 
hand these numbers represent the number of positive charges on 
the nucleus of each atom, or further, the number of electrons which 
revolve about them. The atoms of Rutherford inspire us with 



CHEMICAL ELEMENTS AND ATOMS — URBAIN 219 

utmost confidence since he has found the way of making them ex- 
emplify all tlie laws necessary for the sustaining of our science. 
AVe can declare ourselves satisfied. The classification of Mendeleeff 
has now solid foundations. It can await new facts and feel equal 
to them. To have seen it thus in the past come out the stronger 
after each fray, we feel all the more confident in its fate. Glory 
to Mendeleeff, and glory to you, his most ardent disciple, glory to 
the founder of comparative chemistry. 

It is good to have found a scientific base for this study of chemical 
analogies. Strict science did not require it, but the demon of curi- 
osity which is within us desired it. Between you and me, I believe 
we are always like children and ask "Why? " 

'■ Why " do chemical analogies exist ? Take the case of electrons. 
When half of the universe is made of electrons they have to assume 
many responsibilities, especially when the other half shrivels up, so 
well protected from experiment that it refuses to play a part in the 
phenomena which, except for radioactivity, are just beyond our ken. 
" Electron " answers all " whys " of physics and chemistry. They 
have much to do. 

Maybe we have only translated into a new language, very poetic 
and full of imagery, the questions which our demon of curiosity poses 
for us in a very prosaic language. We, indeed, express to-day the 
same idea in saying either dysprosium and holmium are very closely 
related, or the atoms of dysprosium and of holmium have both sev- 
eral circlets of exterior electrons. If our demons give the second 
statement in the form of a question we may be sure the first will 
be the answer. 

We have here, then, as a mathematician would say, reciprocal 
propositions. Let us hope for their proof. Meanwhile we say that 
two distinct atoms with identically the same circlets of exterior 
electrons behave chemically and physically in the same manner. 
Thus we interpret isotopes. It little matters whether they are 
radioactive or not, the idea of isotopy has become general. It was 
inevitable. 

Among the nonradioactive elements, isotopy was, during its period 
of incubation, only an elegant interpretation of a new spectroscopy 
due to the inventive genius of J. J. Thomson. He dispersed in a 
Crookes tube, the canal rays — that is, the positive rays — hj means 
of a double field, electric and magnetic. He thus obtained parabolas 
due to atomic trajectories which were so great in number and of 
such quality that in order to interpret them it was necessar}^ to con- 
sider our elements as mixtures impossible to separate by any other 
means. 

The experiments of Aston upon neon brought a real explanation 
of the variation of density of neon in fractional osmosis. 



220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Subsequently, making perpendicular the two fields which J. J. 
Thomson used for the deviation of the positive rays, Aston has shown 
that at least a third of the more common elements must be looked 
upon as mixtures of isotopes. The fractionation to wdiich Ilevesy 
subjected mercury vapor showed clearly the multiple isotopy of that 
element. I am sure you have been glad that isotopes are not 
absolutely rebellious to the methods of analysis which are generally 
considered chemical. It remains to be said that the spectra of 
isotopes are not strictly the same, which doubtless you hoped would 
be the case. We now have abundant proof. 

If the isotopes can be separated chemically (time and the neces- 
sary efforts are negligible conditions from a theoretical point of 
view), and if they have different spectra (it will be necessary only 
to have recourse to the sixth order in the echelon spectroscope 
of Michelson or the interferometer of Fabry), we do not see w-hy 
they should not be called elements. It is clear that they are. Be- 
tween them and the individuals of a group of elements like the rare 
earths there is, to you and me, only a difference of degree in the 
analogy. 

In this it seems that we misconceive the rights of the electrons 
which give the primary significance to the atomic number, 
which is all important in the defining of a chemical element. Each 
element of the group of rare earths has its atomic number, and there 
is only one atomic number for all the elements of an isotopic group. 
Have we a sufficient reason for defining an element by its atomic 
number? Is it right to define the group rather than the nature? 
No agreement has yet been reached. But if we are now beaten in 
the search for the proper definition some day we will certainly 
find it. 

The International Commission on Chemical Elements, it is true, 
has defined the element through its atomic number. That is a 
victory for the periodic classification which should somewdiat satisfy 
you. The definition has been given only a provisory right, a con- 
cession which should please you. 

It is time I should close. I could not pretend to exhaust the 
subject which I had the audacity to commence. I have tried to 
recall certain memories. Perhaps I have been too personal. A 
historian should avoid all sentiment, which a contemporary does 
with difficulty. A reticence is required Avhicli I lack. 

I could not speak as a professor and take a dogmatic attitude in 
the presence of a master like you ; indeed, such an attitude is never 
mine. Wherefore I have spoken as a narrator and friend. If 
aught lasts of this talk I wish that it might be the meuiory of the 
great friendship wilii which you have honored me, my dear 
Brauner. 



THE MANUFACTURE OF RADIUM ' 



By Prof. Camille Matignon, 
College de France 



[With 4 plates] 
HISTORICAL 



Mme Curie announced before the Academy of Sciences at Paris 
on the 12th of April, 1898, that two uraniferous minerals, pitch- 
blende and chalcolite, showed more intense radioactive properties 
than should be due to the uranium they contained. This remarkable 
fact, she added, led to the belief that these minerals should contain 
an element more radioactive than uranium. 

M and Mme. Curie— at times in collaboration with M. Bemont— 
by the chemical analysis of pitchblende, showed successively the ex- 
istence of two new radioactive elements-polonium, which toUows 
bismuth in the course of analytical processes, and radium, the ele- 
ment next to barium. 

Radioactivitv, discovered by Henri Becquerel, thus proves to be a 
direct method of chemical analysis of hitherto unexpected sensitive- 
ness for indicating the existence of radioactive elements and serving 
as a guide in their separation. 

The treatment of a ton of the residues of pitchblende, under the 
chemical supervision of M. Debierne, enabled M. and Mme. Curie to 
isolate a small quantity of radioactive matter associated with barium^ 
This, by successive separations from the barium, became enriched 
little by little, so that the spectroscope showed clearly the elementary 
character of radium. In 1902 they obtained a strictly pure chloride 

of radium. 

During the progress of this work of separation, M. and Mme. 
Curie dSnonstrated the curious and novel properties of this new 
element— its radioactivity, induced radioactivity, physiological ac- 
tions, etc. 

Pitchblende, an uranium and radium ore, is found in a well-known 
mine of Joachimstahl, in Bohemia, where it is regularly treated for 
the extraction of the uranium. The small amount of uranium salts 
used throughout the world comes fr om there. During this extrac- 

' Translated by permission from Revue Sclentifique, Aug. 3, 1925. pp. 524-532. 

221 



222 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

tion the radium becomes concentrated in the residues. These resi- 
dues, accumulated since the beo:innin<r of the uranium industrj', were 
the first source of radium. The mine was owned by the Austrian 
Government. In order to have a monopoly in the manufacture and 
sale of radium, the export of the mineral was prohibited. A radium 
institute was founded in Vienna for the development of the applica 
tions of radium. 

Attention everywhere was directed to the known veins of urani- 
ferous minerals: those of autunite in Portugal, of pitchblende in 
England, in the Cornouailles, in Schneeberg, and Johanngeorgen- 
stadt, in Saxony. At the same time, search was instituted for new 
veins. Subsecjucntly pitchblende was found in the United States 
of America, in Mexico, and in the Indies, where it was exploited for 
a short time. 

The most important find was that of a very rich vein of carnotite 
in the United States, extending in a mountainous and wild tract 
through the States of Colorado and Utah. Influential American en- 
terprises, despite the small content of radium in the mineral, did not 
hesitate to establish, in those desert regions, roads and works with 
companies of workmen for exploitation because of the immense 
extent of the veins. 

The project was so successful that in 1912, 1,200 tons of carnotite, 
containing 8 to 9 grams of radium, left the United States for France 
where a radium manufactory had been established in competition 
with the Austrian works. From this time on, the exploitation of 
the mines developed rapidly, and at the same time works for the 
refinement of the radium were established in America, so that 10.5 
grams of radium were produced in 1913 and 22.4 grams in the fol- 
lowing year. The exj^ortation of carnotite to Europe continued up 
to the outbreak of the World War in 1914. In 1913 and 1914 the 
amount of mineral exported each year corresponded to 7 or 8 grams, 
of radium. At the beginning of 1914 the American Government 
started measures to monopolize their radium. All the radium mines 
found in the United States before January 15, 1914, remained the 
property of their proprietors; but after that all discovered would be 
the property of the Government. The prospectors had the right of 
exploiting the mines they discovered but the mineral must be fur- 
nished to the American Government at a price which would be fixed 
from time to time by their Department of the Interior. The Ameri- 
can Government established works for the extraction of the precious 
element. At about the same time the National Radium Institute was 
founded. It entered into collaboration with the companies estab- 
lished before the decree of 1914, the Standard Chemical Co., the 
American Radium Co., and the Schlesinger Radium Co., all located 
at Denver, Colo., or near by. 



MANUPACTUBE OP RADIUM MATIGNON 223 

With a carnotite of meager yield (400 tons yielding 1 gram of 
radium) but of easy manipulation, the Americans thus became the 
principal suppliers of radium to the world and monopolized the 
industry to their profit. This continued until the Belgian Mining 
Society, Union Miniere du Haut Congo, brought to light, in its 
copper concessions in the Belgian Congo, veins of pitchblende of 
great richness. 

Their first discovery of pitchblende was made in 1913 in the cop- 
per mine of Luiswishi. This was followed in 1915 by a second. dis- 
covery of the mineral in another mine of the same company at 
C^hinkolobwe (Kasolo). Systematic researches undertaken from the 
beginning of 1921 assisted in locating the uraniferous veins. The 
first analyses made in the African laboratories of the Union were 
re^jeated by M. Schoep, professor in the university at Gand, who at 
the end of 1921 confirmed the work of the first assays. Because of 
the richness of the ores, it was decided to transport them to Belgium 
for treatment. The study of the process for extraction was en- 
trusted to the Societe Generale Metallurgique of Hobokens. Under 
the direction of M. Leeman, with the collaboration of M. Clerin 
and inspired by the investigations of Curie and Debierne, it per- 
fected the process of reduction of the ore, A factory for the 
treatment of the Congo mineral was then established at Oolen in the 
Antwerp Campine. 

The work was jjushed with such activity that the first cargo of 
mineral arrived at Antwerp on the 5th of December, 1921. The first 
part of the plant was in operation the following 8th of July. Dur- 
ing that interval of six months the process of extraction had been 
developed and installed in the new laboratory. 

The prospecting continued in 1924 confirmed the existence at 
Chinkolobwe of considerable quantities of rich mineral yielding up 
to 60 per cent of uranium oxide. This would be capable of supply- 
ing the works at Oolen for a long period. The latter underwent 
rapid development and produced during 1923 regularly nearly 4 
grams of radium per month, assuring thus the supplying of two- 
thirds of the world's consumption. 

When 3^ou consider that the American mineral contained scarcely 
2 per cent of uranium oxide, and often ore was treated with only 
three-fourths of 1 per cent, it is not difficult to see that the American 
mines and works were forced to close. The monopoly, uselessly at- 
tempted by the Austrians first, then to a great degree accomplished 
in the United States of America, has practically wholly passed into 
the hands of the Belgians. The works all over the world have 
had to either close or slow up their production, the cost preventing 
any competition with the Belgian product. Belgian radium can 



224 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

amply supply the world. Even these laboratories are forced to 
restrict their production that tlieir reserve of radium may not use- 
lessly augment. 

Kadium comijounds constitute the most expensive bodies of cur- 
rent commerce. The price of radium oscillates about 1,000,000 
francs per gram, while platinum reaches 80 francs. M. Chaumet, 
the well-known jeweler, has told me that a ruby may reach 750,000 
francs per gram while a perfect pearl weighing 50 grains would sell 
for 2,500,000— -say 1,000,000 francs per gram. 

HADIFEUOUS MINERALS 

Radium is scattered throughout the rocks of the earth's crust 
but generally in infinitesimal quantities. Almost all the samples 
examined by the most sensitive methods show an extremely weak 
radioactivity; only the pure limestones and the quartz sands are 
nearly inactive. The waters of springs, mineral w^aters which have 
been in contact with radiferous earth, are almost always more or 
less radioactive. According to direct measures of Strutt, the ter- 
restrial crust contains on the average about 4X10'*^ grams per meter. 
The richest rocks are the igneous granites. The sedimentary rocks 
are much less rich. All radioactive materials are composed of 
granitic rocks or have been derived from them. 

The oldest or primary uraniferous minerals have remained un- 
altered in the original rocks — like fergussonite, thorianite. By the 
action of water upon these primary rocks, new minerals have been 
formed, sometimes within the original beds, sometimes beside them. 
A great concentration .of uranium may thus have resulted. Pitch- 
blende is typical of the secondary rocks. Finally, atmospheric 
agents, working upon the two preceding classes of minerals, have 
formed a third more recent class of which chalcolite, autunite, and 
carnotite are typical. 

Pitchblende is essentially an oxide of uranium, UgOs, mixed with 
numerous impurities. The oxide occurs sometimes onl}'^ as a trace, 
sometimes in more massive formation. Many elements occur among 
the impurities. The following table gives the principle components 
of a rich sample from Joachimstahl : 



UsOs 75 

PbS 5 

SO, 3 



CaO 5 

FeO :{ 

MgO 2 



The veins of the Belgian Congo have given birth, through the 
intermediation of atmospheric agents, to a whole new series of com- 
pounds recently discovered and studied by Professor Schoep of 
Gand. 



MANUFACTURE OF RADIUM MATIGNON 225 

Carnotite is a vanadiate of uranium and potassium, V2O5.2UO3.- 
IC0.3H.0, of a yellow tint. It is rarely found in a pure state. 
In the ITnited States carnotite impregnates the old porous sands, 
giving them a pale yellow tint. The average mineral contains 1.5 
to 2.8 per cent of uranium oxide with 3.5 per cent of the anhydrous 
VoOg. These sands extend through immense tracts in the States 
of Colorado and Utah in beds var3dng in thickness from y^ to 2 
meters or more. 

Autunite, P2O5.2UO3.CaO.8HoO, or uranite, has been much ex- 
ploited in Portugal, in the Province of Beire Baixa. This mineral 
is prone to mechanical enrichment. 

THE EXTRACTION OF RADIUM 

To Mme. Curie and M. Debierne we owe the method for the ex- 
traction of radium from uraniferous minerals. All the processes 
since developed utilize in their main lines the methods instituted 
by these two scientists. 

The Austrian Government, whose mine in Joachimstahl has been 
long worked, extracts the uranium from the pitchblende by a 
fusion of the pulverized mineral with sodium sulphate. Under 
such conditions, the sulphate changes the uranium oxide into sodium 
uranate, easily soluble in dilute sulphuric acid. During the fusion, 
the radium, if not already in this state, is changed into an insoluble 
sulphate which remains in the residue. It was these residues, 
accumulated about the Austrian works, which served, we have 
already seen, as the first material for the isolation of radium. 

We will now state the method used in America in the treatment of 
carnotite. This method was applied on a very large scale, about 
150 grams of radium resulting from the treatment of more than 
750,000 tons of the active sand. Then we will indicate the modifi- 
cations which were necessary for the treatment of pitchblende. 

TREATMENT OF THE AMERICAN MINERAL CARNOTITE 

The ore arrives at the works in sacks marked with figures which 
indicate the richness in uranium determined approximately by means 
of an a-ray electroscope. 

The principle of the method of reduction is very simple. The 
sands impregnated with carnotite are treated with a warm solution 
of hydrochloric acid which dissolves the carnotite with its elements, 
vanadium, uranium, and radium. The addition of sulphuric acid 
precipitates the insoluble barytes, always present, carrjnng along 
with them all the radium asTadium sulphate. Since the presence 
of barium is necessary in the subsequent stages of the process, some 
is added if the mineral itself contains an insufficient quantity. 



226 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

The insoluble sulphates are first purified and enriched by chang- 
ing them in an autoclave under pressure into alkaline carbonates; 
next they are chano^ed into chlorides by solution of these carbonates 
in hydrochloric acid. These operations are repeated a second time 
after which the carbonates are rich enough to be passed into the 
crystallization laboratory. At the time of the solution of the 
carbonates in hydrocliloric acid, a radiferous silica is ahvays precip- 
itated Avhich is given a special treatment for its radium. The car- 
bonates are finally transformed into chlorides. These chlorides, es- 
sentially a mixtuie of the chlorides of barium and radium, are sub- 
mitted to fractional cr3'stallization. 

When a certain richness in radium is reached, it is best to trans- 
form the chlorides into bromides; the product undergoes an in- 
crease in richness. ]\Ioreover, commercially radium is used as the 
bromide. 

The initial hj^drochloric liquid containing the vanadium is treated 
to recover the vanadium. The solution is neutralized by sodium car- 
bonate, then carried to the boiling point, in order to carry the 
vanadium into a precipitate of vanadic acid containing iron, uranium, 
etc. All the vanadium is never precipitated. The addition of soda 
to the liquid just separated from the vanadium precipitates the 
uranium as the insoluble uranate of sodium, carrying down with 
the precipitate the greater part of the remaining vanadium. In 
the United States they go no farther than this first precipitation 
which gives the oxide of vanadium, since the demand for vanadium 
is very small. 

We will now consider some of the details in the separation of 
barium and radium. It depends upon the difference in solubility 
of the tAvo chlorides or the tAvo bromides, those of radium being the 
less soluble. The operations commence with the chlorides and are 
finished with the bromides Avhen the concentration of the radium 
has reached a minimum of 20 milligrams of radium per kilogram 
of the salt. 

The ratio between the concentration in the crystals separated to 
that of the initial crystals is called the factor of crystallization. The 
concentration of radium is generally defined by the number of milli- 
grams of radium contained in a gram or a kilogram of the anhydrous 
crystal. 

In the case of the chlorides, the factor of crystallization is 1.6, when 
the crystals separated represent 50 per cent of the total Aveight 
treated. AVith the bromides the factor is raised to 2.2 with a separa- 
tion of crystals amounting to 42 per cent of the total. 

The following sketch (Barker) shows very clearly the march of 
crystallization occuring with the chlorides, dividing at each crystal- 
lization a half of the salt into two equal parts. At the start a kilo- 



MANUFACTURE OF RADIUM MATIGNON 



227 



gram of the chloride is supposed to be taken containing 100 milli- 
grams of radium. 

Each circle represents the composition of a portion before crystal- 
lization; the figures above give the weight of the crystals, the 
figures below the concentration in radium referred to 1 kilogram 
of the salt. Each figure at the side gives the quantity of radium 
in the portion. 

After the first fractionation, the kilogram of salt is divided into 
two parts, A and B, each weighing 500 grams and having concentra- 



sCk'es 
1 




( 

VlOO«»/ 


1 100 MO 


T» 


2 


B 20m6 






80H<» A 


a 


4m3( -1 




ki 


+1 )64m& 



QSmgI 



\Si6m 



l^anej 



Fig. 1. — The fractional crystallization of radium chloride 

tions of 160 and 40, respectively. The portions A and B give 
further the fractions A^ A^ and B^ Bg characterized by the follow- 
ing figures : 



Portion 


Mass 


Concen- 
tration in 
radium 


Ai - --- 


Orams 
250 
250 
250 
250 


256 


A2 --- 


64 


Bi . _ _ 


61 


B2. 




16 









Note that the portions A2 and B^ have the same concentration in 
radium. The portions are combined so that there remains three 
parts : A^ Ao+B^ B.. 

Similarly the mother liquors from the treatment A^ are added to 
the crystals from the treatment of A^+Bi while the mother liquors 
of the last fraction go to the crystals obtained from the fraction Bo. 



228 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Thus, thou'rh at first the number of fractions keeps on augmenting, 
there is soon reached a stage of constant fractionation, for it is best 
to eliminate from time to time the poorest solutions and the richest 
solutions as indicated in the diagram; for instance, in the fifth 
series of fractionations there is removed from the series of operations 
62.5 grams of crystals in a concentration of 2.7 milligrams. These 
residues will later reenter into the procedure. 

At the fourth fractionation crystals are obtained having practi- 
cally the concentration of the original salt. We may at this stage 
profit by introducing a certain quantity of the original salt into the 
ensemble as indicated in the figure. This artifice lias the added 
advantage of increasing the mass of certain fractionations. At the 
seventh fractionation this process may be repeated. 

We can couipute the number of series of fractionations necessary 
to obtain a given concentration. Let us suppose that we start out 
with a chloride solution containing in the dry state 0.76 milligrams 
of radium per kilogram and that we wish to attain a concentration 
of 20 milligrams of the radium. After a fractionation the concen- 
tration of the richer portion is 0.76X1-6; the second series will give 
for the richer portion 0.76X(l-6)-; after n series we will have 
0.76X ( 1-6) ". Accordingly, 

0.76X(1.,6)"=20 

whence we obtain n equals 7. 

It is best now to continue the fractionation after tran&formation 
of the chlorides into bromides. If we now wish to attain a concen- 
tration of 1 per cent in radium, it will be necessary to make n series 
of fractions, n being given by the relationship: 

(2.2 )"==: (10,000/20) 

whence n equals 8. 

Now let us consider the results of a fractionation starting with 
134.25 kilograms of anhydrous chlorides containing 102.8 milligrams 
of radium and carried to a concentration of 1.1 per cent of radium. 
We have: 

Milligrams 

Radium in the initial chlorides 102.80 

Radium eliminated in tlie chloride fractionation 2.29 

Radium eliminated in the bromide fractionation .47 

Radium carried down with the precipitation of lead 1. 70 

Radium in the final salt at 1.1 per cent 96.04 

In order to obtain a like result, it would be necessary in the frac- 
tionation of bromide, for example, to take out the rich portion at the 
eighth crystallization and then to continue the progressive enrich- 
ment, with the elimination of the rich fractions so as to condense 
the greater part of the radium into the enriched quota. This en- 



MANUFACTURE OF RADIUM MATIGNON 229 

tails as a consequence the retiring during the operations of only a 
small quantity of the poorer liquids, since only 2.76 milligrams of 
radium are discarded during the process. From time to time we 
eliminate by a current of hydrogen sulphide the lead which always 
exists in small quantities in the solution, xis indicated in the above 
table the resulting sulphide of lead carries down with it some of 
the radioactive matter. 

The table shows the flexibility of the fractionation and hoAV it 
can be varied to suit the end desired. 

The above data comes from Prof. Howard H. Barker, of the 
University of Missouri, who made very important researches on 
carnotite. He has pushed the concentration even further. He pro- 
poses to conduct the operations so as to have a radium bromide 
nearly 90 per cent pure. The following table gives some of the 
data relative to the proposed fractionation : 

Milligrams 
Radium yi the initial salt 1.1 per cent pure 06. 04 

Radium obtained as the broiiiide 88 per cent pure 92. 60 

Radium obtained as a salt at 1.46 per cent pure 3. 51 

Radium obtained as a salt at 0.08 per cent pure .52 

96.5 per cent of the radium is accordingly obtained in the form of 
bromide 88 per cent pure. 

All the tubes of radium bromide thus prepared are stored in a 
room very distant from the physical laboratory. They are ex- 
amined several times to determine their richness in radium. Gen- 
erally three determinations of the radium imprisoned in each tube 
are made by means of the y-rays: First, soon after the closing of 
the tube when there is .sensibly no emanation; second, four days 
later corresponding to the time for the growth of one-half the ema- 
nation for equilibrium; and finally, about a month later v.hen radio- 
active equilibrium is practically attained. 

The works and the laboratory establish a definite schedule of oper- 
ations. They keep an accurate account of the amount of radium in 
the original material, the mineral in the works, the radioactive car- 
bonates for the laboratory and the quantity of radium obtained at 
the end of the operations, the carbonates for the w^orks and the tubes 
for the laboratory. From this final result may be judged the effi- 
ciency of the various steps. 

TREATMENT OF PITCHBLENDE 

The industrial treatment of pitchblende residues as carried out by 
the Austrian Government in the works at Joachimstahl is practically 
the same as the method first elaborated by Mme. Curie and M. 
Debierne. The chemists at the works at Oolen, while deriving ideas 
from the previous process, have conceived for the treatment of the 
76041—26 16 



230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Conjro mineral a method of extraction based upon the same princi- 
ples as that of Mme. Curie but involving some original ideas in its 
application. 

The dominant impurities in the first Belgian material were copper, 
iron, lead, phosphoric acid, alumina, and silica. For their elimina- 
tion at the beginning, the mineral is pulverized and submitted (for- 
lowing M. Leemans) to tlie four following operations: 

1. Attack with acids for the elimination and separation of 
uranium, iron, copper, and phosphoric acid. 

2. Treatment with a sodium chloride solution for the elimination 
of lead with final precipitation of the metal and the regeneration of 
the brine. 

3. Treatment with hydrochloric acid to eventually eliminate the 
calcium, 

4. Treatment with sodium carbonate to eliminate the sulphuric 
acid. 

At the conclusion of these operations the radium remains in an 
insoluble form mixed with the silica. This insolubility of radium 
requires either that it exists at the start as a sulphate in the mineral, 
which is not very likeh', or that it is first changed into the sulphate, 
for instance, by heating it with sodium sulphate as is done at 
JoachinivStahl. It is then possible to eliminate the impurities by 
treatment with acids. Hydrochloric acid, 13° Baume and warm, is 
particularly recommended for this step. The chloride of lead 
formed, being only slightly soluble in the hydrochloric acid solution, 
can doubtless be eliminated by a concentrated solution of sodium 
chloride solution with which it forms a double salt. The calcium 
sulphate can be removed with warm hydrochloric acid in which 
gypsum is quite soluble. Finally treatment with sodium carbonate 
transforms the sulphates of barium and radium which are insoluble 
with the silica, into carbonates soluble in hj^drochloric acid and they 
can thus be removed from the silica. 

All this earlier part of the process, whicli entails some 40 opera- 
tions — filtration, washing, etc. — are carried out in the first building. 
There results a mixture of impure chlorides of radium and barium 
in which the radium is mixed with one hundred and twenty-five 
thousand times its weight of inactive matter. The impurities liave 
been thus reduced one two-hundredth of their original amount. 
From this point the process is continued as with the carnotites. 

In a second phase of the work the chlorides are purified by trans- 
forming them several times into sulphates and carbonates, and 
when the purification has become sufficient the last phase of the 
process commences: the enrichment of the radium b}' fractional 
crystallization at first in the form of chlorides and then as bromides. 



MANUFACTURE OF RADIUM MATIGNON 231 

The transformation into the chlorides is best made through the help 
of the carbonates which are finally dissolved in a hydrobromic acid 
solution. 

In the first series of fractionations all the enriched portions are 
collected as soon as they have reached a quota of 0.05 per cent of 
radium. The initial solution of chlorides contained only 0.0001 per 
cent; accordingl}^, this enrichment is in the ratio to the first .state as 
125 to 1. This fir.st fractionation takes place in enameled vats, 60 in 
number, the size of which decreases from the first for the entrance of 
the material to the last for the enriched crystals. 

The work is now continued in the laboratory. Each batch for 
further purification contains some 2 to 3 grams of radium in a 
mixture of some 5 to 6 kilos of the mixed chlorides. 

During the process of concentration the lead is eliminated from 
time to time by the passage of a current of hydrogen sulphide. All 
the operations require the use of very pure distilled water, for the 
least trace of sulphuric acid, not even detectable with barium chloride, 
will precipitate the radium as a sulphate less soluble than that of 
barium. Generally a little barium chloride is added to the water to 
be distilled to remove the least trace of sulphuric acid. 

At the works at Oolen the last fractionation is reached when the 
radium bromide has l)ecome 95 to 96 per cent pure; that is the market- 
able form of radium. 

The crystals thus obtained hold two molecules of water and must be 
dried to preclude an explosive decomposition of the water. An abso- 
lute dessication is obtained b}^ heating the salt up to fusion. It then 
appears as a whitish mass very luminous in the dark. It is preserved 
in glass tubes, sealed by melting the glass. 

We have noted the important part played during the course of 
treatment by measures of radioactivity. To avoid the disturbing 
action of any secondary or parasitic radioactivity the measuring 
laboratory is situated about a kilometer (0.6 mile) distant from the 
works. 

When the y-rays alone are desired, the sulphate of radium is pref- 
erably used; its greater insolubility giving better guaranty against 
loss. But if the emanation is desired, a soluble form is necessary, so 
that it may be easily removed from the emanation. 

The following table gives the amount of radium in the principal 
forms found on the market : 

Per cent 

RaCh 76.3 

RaBr^ 58.6 

RaBr2.2H20 53.(5 

RaS04 70. 2 



232 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1[)25 

RADIUM STATISTICS 

The mines of Joachimstahl up to 1022 had produced 2:'* irranis of 
radium. We may estimate that the European total up to the begin- 
ning of the Belgian entrance in the field was about 60 grams. 

All the previous manufacture of radium was greatly surpassed by 
the American production which amounted almost to a monopoly. 
According to Mr. K. L. Kithill, one of the directors of the American 
works at Denver, there had been taken from carnotite IGO to 165 
grams of radium.^ 

Since the Societe Miniere of Haut Katanga began to put its radium 
on the market, most of the other Avorks have ceased operations. The 
great Avorks built by the Americans are idle awaiting the exhaustion 
of the Belgian minerals before starting up again. We have no in- 
formation upon the possibility of such a weakening in their pro- 
duction, since the Societe Miniere of Haut Katanga jealously keeps 
secret all the results of its prospecting. 

HoAvever that may be, the Avorks at Oolen, from which the first 
tube of radium appeared on the market in August, 1922, produced 
that year 15 gi-ams of radium. During the folloAving year they pro- 
duced at the rate of 4 grams per month, and therefore up to the end 
of 1924 had produced 11') grams of radium. HoAvever, such a pro- 
duction is ahead of the market demand and they had to slow up or 
accumulate reser\'es; in fact, according to the financial journals its 
sales Avere limited during 1924 to 22 grams. 

From all this, it seems as though Ave Avould be near the truth in 
stating that the amount of radium actually noAV available, including 
the Belgian stocks, should be about oOO to 310 grams, having a value 
of more than 300.000,000 francs. 

In 1923 the hospitals and medical institutions of the United States 
of America owned a total of more than 120 grams of radium; 
another much smaller quantity was in the hands of the scientists in 
the uniA^ersities and scientific institutions. America therefore has 
more than one-half of the radium available at present. 

If Ave could gather the 300 grams of radium Avhich has been iso- 
lated, for the purpose of separating its emanation, avc could obtain 
20 cubic millimeters, susceptible of giving 31 kilogram calories per 
hour. 

How has the price of radium A^aried? The folloAving table gives 
the price in dollars per milligram of the elementary radium since 
1904: 

* These IGvi gnams have betn determined from the amount of radium, sometimes in the 
.anhydrous and sometimes in Ihc hydrated salt, so that the liirnres should he sensibly 
reduced as well as all statistics derived from them. 



MANUFACTURE OF RADIUM MATIGNON 



233 



1904 ?10 to $25 

1905 25 to 50 

1906 60 

1909-1910 75 to 135 

1911-1912 150 



1912-1914 $180 

1915 160 

1916-1922 120, 110, 105 

1923 70 



The price of radium therefore rapidly increased from $10 to $160, 
passing- through a maximum of $180. The radium from the Ameri- 
can carnotites lowered the price from $100 to $120-$110; it then kept 
at about $110 until the appearance of the Belgian product upon the 
market lowered it to $70. Allowing 20 francs to the dollar, radium 
sells at 1,400 francs per milligram. 

The sale of radium requires a complicated organization, since it is 
necessary to get at a very special clientele — the physicians and hos- 
pitals. The producer of radium must educate his clients, support 
the expense of schools and medical meetings, and seek out new per- 
manent openings. The Americans have created during their ten 
years of efforts a powerful organization of instruction and propa- 
ganda. Further, the Union Miniere has concluded with two princi- 
pal groups of American producers, the Standard Chemical Co. and 
the Radium Co. of Colorado, a contract which allows it to use to its 
own profit the American organizations for propaganda for the use 
of radium. These producers have thus been transformed into com- 
mercial agents also. 

The Union Miniere in lowering the price of radium from $100 to 
$70 has doubtless thus contributed to the useful applications of 
radium. It is but just to add in closing that they graciously put 2 
grams of radium at the disposal of the Curie Foundation. 

APPLICATIONS OF RADIUM 

The only practical application is in its use in therapeutics. I do 
not wish to penetrate into a domain which is foreign to my experi- 
ence and will only indicate that the treatment with radium has 
often given very fortunate results in the treatment of lupus, super- 
ficial ulcers, arteriosclerosis, gout, rheumatism, etc. Especially is it 
used in the fight against cancer. 

The therapeutic technique of radium is very complicated. Indeed, 
radium emits radiations which are practically very penetrating X- 
rays; it projects electrons having very great velocities and endowed 
with certain penetrating powers and four groups of a-particles char- 
acterized each with a particidar velocity. These latter particles, 
which have practically no penetrating power, can act only on the 
surface of tissues in contact with the radium. We can therefore in- 
ject a ver}^ dilute solution of an active body into an organ or submit 



234 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

that organ at eacli of its parts to the action of all the radium radia- 
tions. Each of these radiations evidently can and does have a 
specific action which is further dependent upon the duration of the 
action and its intensity. One immediately sees how difficult it is to 
I)ick out a particular action so that it may exercise its particular 
power. We may thus understand the complexity of the problems 
which are met with in the employment of radium in therapeutics. 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Matignon 



Plate I 




I. VATS FOR Disintegrating the Mineral, and Filter- 
ing Presses 




2. Vats and Filters 



Smithson an Report, 1925. — Matignon 
P r 



Plate 2 




I. Vats and Pumps 



fct (!HJ""J. LI 




2. Room for Fractional Crystallization 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Matignon 



Plate 3 




1. Capsule of Radium Bromide 

Photograph made iu a dark room by the radiation emitted by radium. 
Diameter of capsule, 350 mm. 




2. Capsule of Radium Bromide 

rUotograph made in a dark room by the radiation emitted by radium. 
Diameter of capsule, 350 mm. 



Smithsonian Reoort, 1925.— Matignon 



Plate 4 




Madame P. Curie. Professor at the Sorbonne. in 
Her Laboratory 



THE CHEMISTEY OF SOLIDS ^ 



By Prof. Cecil H. Desch, F. R. S. 



It is remarkable how little we know with any certainty about 
the chemical properties of solids, although the idea of a solid is 
so fundamental. At the present time we always begin the study of 
chemistry with the gases on account of the simplicity of their mathe- 
matical treatment, but it must be remembered that this simplicity 
is the result of long study and of many discoveries. To the un- 
scientific mind the solid is simpler, because more tangible. When 
men have tried to understand gases, they have expressed themselves 
in terms of solids. The atom, however attenuated it may have 
become in recent years, was in the first instance essentially a solid 
sphere, and the elasticity of gases has been explained in terms of 
the collision of elastic solid particles in motion. 

Our conception of liquids has been based in the same way on the 
idea of moving particles, themselves thought of in terms of the 
solid state. Yet, of solids themselves, whilst our knowledge of their 
physical and mechanical properties is very extensive, our chemi- 
cal information is of the most meager kind. It was an old doctrine 
that chemical reactions could onl}^ proceed in the gaseous or liquid 
states, so that chemical action on a solid was always preceded by 
the tearing off of atoms from the surface under the influence of 
electrical forces. That view can no longer be maintained. Chemi- 
cal reactions can occur within or at the surface of a solid, but the 
experimental difficulties are sometimes such as to make the exact 
investigation of the subject a difficult matter. 

In the modern conception of a solid, the atoms are characterized 
by a regular arrangement in space, that arrangement being repeated 
so as to build up a crystalline lattice. Crystals and aggregates 
of crystals are thus the only true solids, gases being regarded as 
under-cooled liquids of high viscosity. The X-ray method devel- 
oped by Laue and by W. H. and W. L. Bragg has made it possible 
to determine, not only the class of a crystal, but also the exact lat- 

1 From the presidential address delivered at Southampton on Aug. 31 hefore Section B 
(Chemistry) of the British Association; reprinted by permission from Nature, No. 2921, 
vol. 116. Oct. 24, 1925. 

235 



236 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

tice possible to crystals belonging to that class. The connection 
between the chemical i)i-o))erties and the crystalline structure still 
remains indeterminate, although it must be very intimate. 

There are many reasons why the chemical study of solids should 
receive greater attention. In metallurgy, although metals and 
alloys may, and most frequently do, pass through a molten stage in 
the course of their manufacture, they may undergo many important 
changes of structure and constitution at temperatures far below 
that at which the last li(|uid portions have completely solidified, 
a nil these changes may be so far-reaching as to convert an alloy 
into one seemingly of an entirely different class, although the gi-oss 
chemical composition has not altered. The petrologist, especially 
when dealing with igneous and metamorphic rocks, has to consider 
reactions which proceed in the midst of solids of high rigidity. 
Several industries, such as that of cement, are based on reactions 
of the same kind as those with wdiich the petrologist has to deal. 
Sintering is not alwa3'S due to the pi'csence of small quantities of 
molten material between the solid particles, and it is now certain 
that union of solid masses under pressure may occur without actual 
melting. This was shown by Spring 40 years ago, but for long, 
although frequently quoted, his results received little consideration. 

The most striking application of the principle is seen in the metal- 
lurgy of tungsten. This metal was formerly described as very hard 
and brittle, and it is not jiossible, b}^ casting it and then annealing, 
to bring it to a ductile form. The method now adopted is to prepare 
it in the form of a ]:)ure powder, and then to bring it to a comjiact 
state by compressing, heating, and hammering while very hot, and 
finally drawing. As this process is continued, and as an originally 
thick rod becomes extended into a slender wire, the brittleness pro- 
gressively disappears, and at last the tungsten is obtained in those 
beautiful filaments, drawn to extreme fineness, with which we are 
familiar in our electric light bulbs and wireless valves. A somewhat 
similar example is that of the adhesion of an electrolytically de- 
posited metal to its support, which is sometimes so perfect as to 
ai:»proach the breaking strength of one of the metals, although 
interpenetration of crystals is not to be seen under the microscope. 

There is another aspect of the chemistry of solids which will make 
an appeal to some who are not chemists, but amateur students of 
nature. The great beauty of natural crystals has attracted the atten- 
tion of poets and artists as well as men of science. Mucli of this 
beauty dejiends on the varying habit of one and the same crystal 
species. Even with such a common minei-al as (juai-tz, it is possible 
on entering a mineral collection to ])oint to some of the crystals 
exjiosed, and to name their locality, when once the foiin has become 
familiar. Tl'he same is true of other niinerals. AVhy should there 



CHEMISTRY OF SOLIDS DESCH 237 

be this variation, when the chemical composition of the distinct 
varieties may be identical, so far as analysis is able to give infor- 
mation ? 

Again, the crystalline S3'stem will not account for the differences 
in the building up of individuals to form aggregates. Rock salt 
and cuprite crystallize in cubes, and the space lattice has a very 
similar form in the two minerals ; but when the salt forms multiple 
growths, the cubes arrange themselves in characteristic stepped 
pyramids, whilst the red oxide of copper may form the most beauti- 
ful hair-like threads, a tissue of scarlet silk, as liuskin calls it. 
Neither mineral ever assumes a form which is characteristic of the 
other, the simple cube being once departed from. Why should this 
be? It is Imown that the presence of traces of foreign matter may 
cause differences of habit, the most famous example being that of 
the crj^stallization of common salt in octahedra instead of cubes when 
a small quantity of urea is added to the solution, but the explanation 
of these facts is still imperfect. 

The work of John sen and of Gross has shown that the appearance 
of a face on a crj^stal placed in a supersaturated solution is really 
determined by the velocity of growth in a direction normal to that 
face, those faces being produced which have a minimum velocity 
of growth. Some light is thrown on the subject by a study of the 
growth of a crystal when solvent is completely excluded, the sub- 
stance used being sublimed in a vacuum. This has been undertaken 
by Volmer, who finds that cadmium, zinc, and mercury crystals 
grow in this way in a high vacuum. When small nuclei are present, 
those grow which have the face with the smallest velocity of growth 
perpendicular to the stream of impinging molecules. The differences 
between different faces are large, so that under these conditions 
either flat tables or long prisms are usually formed, according to 
the direction of the original nucleus. The crystal grows by the addi- 
tion of thin laminse, probably only one molecule thick, which spread 
over the surface. This is likely to be the process when tlie crystal 
is growing in a solution or in a molten mass, as well as in the vapor; 
and, in fact, when cadmium or tin is being deposited electrolytically 
at a cathode, or vvdien lead iodide is being formed from a solution of 
a lead salt and an iodide, the growth of the crystal may be watched 
under the microscope, when a thin film begins to form at some point 
on a face, and extends over the face, maintaining a uniform thicloiess 
throughout. It is realized that in the presence of a foreign sub- 
stance, either molecules or ions may attach themselves to such a sur- 
face by their residual affinity, and this will necessarily affect the 
addition of further layers of the original substance. In other words, 
the velocity of crystallization in a direction normal to that face will 
be changed. As the residual affinity of different faces of a crystal 



238 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

must, from the ordinary conception of tin atomic space lattice, 
be different, the habit of the crystal, that is, the relative development 
of different faces, will be altered by the presence of a foreign sub- 
stance. It is on these lines that an explanation of differences of 
habit must be sought. 

When a face of a crystal is brought into contact with an etching 
reagent, such as Avater for rock salt, hydrofluoric acid for quartz, 
or cupric ammonium cliloiidc for iron, the surface is not dissolved 
away evenly, leaving it suiootli, but characteristic etching pits are 
produced, the sides of the pits being evidently crystal faces. This 
shows that chemical action proceeds more readily along certain planes 
of a crystal than along others, a fact which we should expect from 
the general properties of the space lattice. It is not explained, 
however, why these etching pits should appear at first separate 
from one another, the intervening i)ortions of the surface being un- 
attacked. Minute particles of some impurity, causing local elec- 
ti'olytic differences, suggest themselves as a possible cause, but it is 
unlikely that they w^ould be so evenl}^ scattered in, for example, 
a quartz crystal as to produce the regular distribution which is 
often observed. Minute inequalities of level, which may be of a 
periodic character, are more probable, and this suggestion is strength- 
ened by the observation that a polished face of rock salt dissolves 
evenly in water, whilst a natural cleavage face shows etching pits. 

It is now possible, when pursuing the study of solids, to eliminate 
one of the disturbing factors, the inter-crystalline boundary, by 
making experiments with specimens composed of a single crystal. 
There are several ways of preparing single metallic crystals of 
such a size as to allow of the determination of their physical and 
mechanical properties. Even so brittle a metal as zinc has an extra- 
ordinary ductility in single crystals. The mechanism of deforma- 
tion has been examined in detail by means of X-rays. There is now 
a large body of evidence as to the directions of slip in a crystal 
during deformation, and this knowledge is essential to any under- 
standing of the nature of cohesion, with which the chemical proper- 
ties are no doubt closely connected. 

We may now turn to the subject of cliemical reactions which take 
place in the interior of a solid, either originating at the surface 
or from nuclei which make a si)ontaneous apj^earance in the course 
of cooling below the melting i3oint. A chemical change which has 
begun at some point in or at the surface of a homogeneous crystal- 
line mass cannot advance unless the atoms are able in some way to 
change their places. Gross movements, represented in gases and 
liquids by convection currents, are out of the question, but the slower 
process of diffusion, by which atoms or molecules can make their 



' CHEMISTEY OF SOLIDS — DESCH 239 

way through the solid, must be possible. Experiment shows that 
diffusion in solids, whilst naturally a slow process in comparison 
with diffusion in liquids, proceeds at quite measurable rates. 

The classical example of such measurements, and for many years 
the only one, is the study of the diffusion of gold in solid lead, 
undertaken by Roberts-Austen in 1896. A much simpler example 
is that of silv^er and gold, two metals which resemble one another 
closely in chemical character and in atomic volume, so that diffusion 
causes less change of properties than in any pair of less closely 
similar metals. The experimental results prove, as might have been 
anticipated, that diffusion is a much slower process when there is 
so little difference in chemical character. When the two kinds of 
atoms are closely alike, the tendency to diffuse must be small, but 
it is certainly not zero. By making use of an ingenious device, 
Hevesy has been able to determine the coefficient of self-diffusion 
of liquid and solid lead. Two isotopes should not differ appreciably 
in their rates of diffusion, so that when the radioactive isotope 
thorium B is allowed to diffuse in ordinary lead, the experiment is 
equivalent to selecting a certain number of lead atoms and attaching 
labels to them by which they may be identified in the course of 
their journey. In this way he found that the diffusion in liquid 
lead near to the melting point was of the order of that of salt in 
water, but that in the solid state it was very small. Further experi- 
ments, using a thin foil, proved that at 2° below the melting point 
the rate was 1/10,000 of that in molten lead. 

When a liquid mixture of two substances which are miscible in the 
solid as well as in the molten condition, such as an alloy of copper 
and nickel or a fused mass of albite and anorthite, begins to solidify, 
the composition of the crystals has to adjust itself continuously in 
order to maintain equilibrium with the changing liquid phase, as 
was shown by Roozeboom in his classical work on solid solutions. 
Such an adjustment is onl}^ possible by means of diffusion, and 
when cooling is sufficiently slow, the adjustment does in fact keep 
pace with the change in the liquid, but with more rapid cooling the 
interior of each crystal differs in composition from its outer layers, 
there being a concentration gradient from the center to the boundary. 
This condition produces the " cored " crystals which are familiar 
to every metallurgist, and the " zoned " crystals of the mineralogist. 
In most alloys this want of homogeneity disappears after a suffi- 
ciently long period of heating at some temperature below that at 
which the first drops of liquid are formed, but alloys of bismuth 
and antimony fail to become uniform even after weeks of annealing, 
whilst the felspars and similar minerals have never been persuaded 
to lose their zoned structure by any methods known in the laboratory. 



240 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Bruni has shown ami Ve<rar(l has confirmed the observation by 
the X-ray nietliod, that true interdilTtision occurs between potassium 
and sodium chlorides when mixed and heated in the solid state. 
Electrolytic transport is observed in the solid halidee of silver and 
in mixtures of silver and copper sulphides, but the modern view of 
the sti'uctui-e of such substances represents them as built up of ions 
rather than of neutral atoms, and this must be taken into account in 
any interpretation of the facts. The apparent absence of diffusion 
in minerals which have once solidified, even when fjiven freolo^ical 
periods of time, is a .serious difficulty in the way of any general 
theory of diffusion. Such examples of the passage of alkali metals 
through quartz and other silicious minerals under the influence of 
a difference of electric potential are probably not examples of true 
diffusion at all, but merely of the passage of traces of iiu))urities 
through a mass which is not completely imi^ervious. 

A new field of investigation has been opened up by Tamnumn in 
his attempts to determine the arrangement of the atoms in solid 
solutions by purel}'^ chemical means, by studying the action of 
chemical reagents on the solid. It is a familiar fact that the 
" parting " of silver and gold in assaying, which consists in dis- 
solving out the silver from the alloy by means of nitric or sulphuric 
acid, is only possible when the silver for'ms more than 60 per cent of 
the alloy. When gold is present in excess of this proportion, only 
a little silver is removed from the surface, and the action then comes 
to a standstill, the acid being unable to penetrate to the interior. 
Assuming the alloy to be completely crystalline, the atoms of silver 
and gold will occupy the points of the space lattice, and as the two 
metals have face-centered lattices of only slightly differing dimen- 
sions, the amount of distortion will be small. There are, however, 
different ways of arranging the two kinds of atoms. They may be 
distributed at random, or they may be so regularly arranged as to 
form two interpenetrating cubic lattices. 

The two forms of distribution may be distinguished by means of 
the X rays, but Tannnann has also drawn conclusions on the point 
from the action of various reagents on the alloys. He finds that 
each reagent which attacks silver ceases to act on the alloys when 
the proportion of gold atoms in solution exceeds a certain limit, 
which is not the same for different reagents, but he states that it is 
always capable of being expressed as one-eighth, two-eighths, three- 
eighths, and so on, of the total number of atoms. The limits so 
found are not consistent with the distribution according to the laws 
of probability, but they may be accounted for by a regular distribu- 
tion on the assumption that a certain number of inactive atoms is 
necessary to protect each atom of silver. 



CHEMISTRY OF SOLIDS DESCH 241 

On the basis of these results, an ingenious theory of the action of 
reagents on solid solutions has been constructed, and although the 
accuracy of the experimentally determined limits is not high, and 
there are several exceptions to the rules, an interesting case has been 
made out. 

If our knowledge of the chemical properties of the interior of a 
crystal be very incomplete, what are we to say of its surface? Of 
this we know still less. Even in a crystal of a pure metal there must 
be some difference in the structure at the immediate surface, on ac- 
count of the unsymmetrical forces between the atoms in the outer- 
most layer and its neighbors. For so far as the radius of sensible 
atomic forces extends, therefore, there must be a condition different 
from that which prevails at a depth below the surface. One conse- 
quence is that the surface has residual affinity, which shows itself 
in the ease with which foreign atoms or ions will attach themselves 
to it. That the forces acting are chemical is shown by the great 
effect on the extent of adsorption of the chemical character of the 
solid and of the adsorbed substance. Films, often one atom thick, 
attach themselves to the solid, and are only removed with the great- 
est difficulty. Their presence makes the investigation of the prop- 
erties of a surface difficult, as the surface actually examined may 
be in reality quite different from that which is assiuned to be pres- 
ent. In photochemical experiments with mercury it is usual to pre- 
jjare a completely fresh surface of the liquid metal by causing it to 
flow continuously in a fountain, but this device can not be applied 
to solids. Only rarely can experiments be made with perfectly de- 
fined solid surfaces. Films of metal prepared by sublimation or 
sputtering in a vacuum are probably the most under control, but 
other surfaces are commonly covered by invisible films. 

Schumacher has recently shown that mercury wets glass and silica 
more and more readily as care is taken to remove hlms from them, 
and the property of not being wetted by mercury is probably not 
one of glass and silica, but of those substances coated with a film 
of gas. Metals most readily take up atoms of oxygen or other ele- 
ments, forming persistent films, which play an important part in the 
phenomena of resistance to corrosion. 

There is one way of preparing a fresh surface of a crystalline 
solid for examination, and that is by cleavage. A freshly cleaved 
plate of a mineral may be supposed to be clean at the moment of its 
formation, although it will rapidly take up foreign atoms from the 
surrounding gas. Tammann has made the interesting observation 
that a fresh surface of mica is more soluble in water than an older 
one. Washing with water immediately after cleaving extracts a 
quantity of alkali salts which is much above the normal solubility of 
mica, and later washings extract only the normal quantity. It is sug- 



242 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

gesterl that the separation of the flakes of mica exposes the alkaline 
part of the molecules, which would be more readily attacked by 
water than the siliceous part. It will be interesting to see whether 
the X-ray examination of mica confirms this arrangement. Again, 
however, a word of warning as to the effect of possible impurities 
must be uttered. Natural minerals are not pure, and any uncom- 
bined alkaline salts present might well segregate along cleavage 
planes in the proces.s of crystallization, and so give rise to the effect 
noticed above, but the figures recorded by Tammann are striking and 
suggestive. 

In this hurried review of a large field it may seem that I have 
presented rather our ignorance than our knowledge, my intention 
having been to show how much remains to be done before wc can 
understand the chemical relations of solids as we do those of liquids 
and gases. One department of research is, however, more advanced 
than might have been supposed from my brief references to it. 
That is the study of the internal changes in metallic alloys as re- 
vealed by the microscope and by thermal and electrical methods 
Metallography has made wonderful progress since the days of 
Sorby, and it would repay students of physical chemistry to give 
some attention to its main results, even though they ma}^ not intend 
to make a special study of the subject. Nowhere are the benefits of 
the doctrine of phases of "Willard Gibbs to be more clearly traced, 
whilst the recognition of every change of phase by microscopical 
examination, making use of a technique which has been brought tn 
a high state of perfection, gives concrete reality to the study by 
direct verification of its conclusions. 

To understand more thoroughl}^ the mechanism of these changes 
in alloy's and to extend its application to salts, minerals, and 
rocks, we need a fuller knowledge of the relation between crys- 
tal structure and chemical behavior. Research on the mechanical 
side is discovering the direction of planes of slip in the atomic space 
lattice under stress, and it remains to determine the corresponding 
planes of greatest and least chemical activity towards a given re- 
agent. Next follows the still unsolved query as to the nature of the 
intercrystalline boundary, and the solution of these two problems 
will make it possible to define exactly the chemical character of a 
given aggregate of crystals. The results will be of extreme interest 
for the study of metallurgy, of mineralogy, and of petrology, be- 
sides filling a serious gap in chemistry, serious because of the extent 
to which solids compose the world around us, and of the part which 
they play in our daily life. 



TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM IN THE TWENTIETH 

CENTURY' 



By Daniel L. Hazard 
Coast and Geodetic Survey 



One of the early presidents of the American Association for the 
Advancement of Science in his presidential address likened himself 
to a biennial plant, which for the first year devotes itself to storing 
up a reserve supply of plant food and in the second j^ear bursts into 
flower. The character of the flower is an indication of the adequacy 
of the stored food supply. The president of this society is in much 
the same category. 

The close of the nineteenth century witnessed a marked quickening 
of interest in the study of the earth's magnetism, of which one evi- 
dence was the expansion of the magnetic work of the United States 
Coast and Geodetic Survey, the establishment of a separate division 
of terrestrial magnetism, and the inauguration of a magnetic survey 
of the United States. 

Now, after the lapse of a quarter of a century, it will not be amiss 
to take account of stock and see to what extent our knowledge has 
been increased and how far we have advanced toward the solution of 
the perplexing problems of the causes of the earth's magnetism and 
its variations. 

It must be borne in mind that the science of terrestrial magnetism 
is comparatively young. Although Gilbert in 1600 conceived the 
idea of the earth as a great magnet, similar to a spherical lodestone, 
he had almost no observational data with which to test his theory, 
and it was not until 1838 that a fairly correct idea of the nature of 
the earth's magnetism and its distribution was developed by Gauss 
from his analysis of the results at that time available. With the 
character of the phenomenon established, the natural philosophers 
were quick to realize the importance of observations more widely 
distributed over the earth as a prerequisite for a more effective study. 

1 Address of tlie retiring president of the rhilosophical Society of Wasiiington, presented 
at the meeting on Jan. 10, 1925. Reprinted by permission from tlie Journal of the 
Washington Academy of Sciences, vol. 15, No. 6, Mar. 19, 1925. 

243 



244 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

On tlie initiative of Humboldt and Gauss, supported by Herschell, 
Kupffer, and Sabine, there was developed one of the earliest cases of 
international cooperation for the study of a world-wide phenomenon, 
which was remarkably successful when the conditions of transporta- 
tion and communication at that time are considered. Magnetic sur- 
veys were undertaken, observers were sent to regions where magnetic 
observations had not previously been made, including the expedition 
of Ross to the vicinity of the magnetic south pole, and magnetic 
observatories were established about 1840, at widely separated points, 
for the study of the variations of the earth's magnetism. In spite of 
the imperfect instruments then available, the operation of these 
observatories served to establish the principal features of the short 
period variations of the earth's magnetism. Some of them were dis- 
continued at the close of the limited period for which international 
cooperation had been arranged, but others continued in operation 
much longer, some (as the one at Toronto, Canada) even to the 
present day. It is of interest to recall that, thanks to the zeal of 
A. D. Baclie, later Superintendent of the Coast Survey, a magnetic 
observatory was operated at Girard College, Philadelphia, from 1841 
to 1845, and that variation observations were made in this city from 
1840 to 1842. One of the observatories established by liussia was 
at Sitka, Alaska, and was in operation from 1842 to 1867. The re- 
sults obtained brought out the fact that the variations of the earth's 
magnetism are different in different magnetic latitudes and called at- 
tention to the probability of some relationship between thei)resence 
of sun spots and the occurrence of auroras and magnetic storms on 
the earth. The desire for more information regarding the connection 
betAveen the§e two terrestrial phenomena led to further international 
cooperation m the establishment of a ring of temporary magnetic 
observatories around the borders of the Arcfic Ocean to be operated 
for three years from 1882. 

From that time on the interest in the study of the earth's magne- 
tism steadily increased, not only in the extension of magnetic sur- 
veys and in the operation of additional magnetic observatories, but 
also in the discussion of the results and investigations regarding the 
cause of the phenomenon. 

In most countries the magnetic observatories were established as 
an adjunct to existing meteorological observatories and gi\en a sub- 
ordinate position. At the meeting of the International Meteoro- 
logical Conference held in Paris in 1896, however, recognition was 
given to the growing importance of the science of terrestrial mag- 
netism by the appointment of a Permanent Commission for Ter- 
restrial Magnetism and Atmospheric Electricity. 

A fresh impulse was given to the growth of interest by the ap])ear- 
ance in 1896 of the Journal of Terrestrial Magnetism edited by 



TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM — HAZARD 2'15 

Bauer, with the cooperation of most of the leadin^]:; maofneticians 
of the world. This provided a medium for the interchange of ideas 
and a forum for the discussion of problems of international import 
of much greater value than the triennial meetings of the international 
commission and helped to prej^are the way for more ready acqui- 
esencc in recommendations of the Commission requiring interna- 
tional cooperation or agreement. 

The investigations of the nineteenth century had shown that 
definite conclusions regarding tlie causes of the earth's magnetism 
and its variations could not be reached imtil more accurate, more 
detailed, and more widely distributed observations had been made, 
and the first quarter of the twentieth century has been characterized 
by almost world-wide activity in the accumulation of observational 
data. More or less detailed magnetic surveys have been made by 
nearly every civilized country, new magnetic observatories have been 
established, instruments and methods of observing have been im- 
proved, greater homogeneity^ of results has been secured by national 
and international comparisons of instruments, and a fuller and more 
prompt publication of results has been the rule. 

In this accumulation of data the United States has played a most 
important part, and that it has done so is largely the result of the 
energy and persistence of Dr. Louis A. Bauer. His efforts in 1899, 
backed by those of Dr. Henry S. Pritchett, at that time superin- 
tendent of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, resulted in the appropria- 
tion of funds necessary for the expansion of the magnetic work of 
that bureau, so that it became possible to make a general magnetic 
survey of the country, including the islands under its jurisdiction and 
parts of Alaska, and to establish and operate five widely separated 
magnetic observatories. This Avork was planned and the magnetic 
survey carried well toward completion under his direction. 

Designed primarily to meet the practical needs of the navigator 
and surveyor, this survey at the same time supplied the data needed 
for the study of the problems of the earth's magnetism. 

Realizing that only a small portion of the earth's surface is 
occupied by the civilized nations and that it would be extremely diffi- 
cult to secure governmental funds for work to be done outside a 
country's jurisdiction, Bauer presented to the trustees of the Carnegie 
Institution of Washington a plan for the establishment of a bureau 
for international magnetic research, including a world magnetic sur- 
vey to supplement the work being done by other agencies. This plan 
was approved, and the Department of Terrestrial Magnetism of the 
Carnegie Institution of Washington was established in April, 1904. 
76041—26—17 



246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAl^ INSTITUTION, 1925 

AVliile ill charge of the magnetic work of the Coast and Geodetic 
Survey, liauer had satisfied liimself of the feasibility of making; mafj- 
netic observations at sea Avith nearly the same accuracy as on land, 
if a suitable vessel could be obtained. His plan for the Avorld survey, 
therefore, included j)rovisi()n for a magnetic survey of the ocean 
areas by means of a non-magnetic vessel. This work at sea was car- 
ried on successfully from 1905 to 1921, first on the Galilee^ a chartered 
sailing vessel, and later on the Caimegie, a sailing vessel with 
auxiliary power, built for the purpose so nearly free of magnetic 
material as to practically eliminate the need of taking account of 
deviation corrections. 

While this worlc* at sea was carried on primarily for scientific 
purposes, it had great immediate practical value in that it provided 
the means for correcting the existing world isogonic charts, which 
were found to be seriously in error because of the insufficient data 
on which they Avere based. 

At the same time magnetic observers were sent to nearly all ac- 
cessible regions Avhere magnetic surA^eys Avere not being made under 
other auspices and to some regions usually thought of as inaccessible. 
Asia, Africa, South America, Central America, Mexico, were all the 
field of these far-reaching operations. In some instances, as in 
Canada, one season's Avork by an observer of the Department of Ter- 
restrial Magnetism of the Cainegie Institution of Washington Avas 
sufficient to stimulate local interest to a point where means Averc 
provided for continuing the work under local auspices. Advantage 
was taken of these Avorld-Avide traAels to secure comparisons of in- 
struments with the standards of the A^arious magnetic observatories 
and other agencies engaged in making magnetic surveys, thus insur- 
ing a greater homogeneity of results, in some cases calling attention 
to defective instruments and in general emphasizing the importance 
of better instruments and methods. 

Some idea of the magnitude of the Avork done in this Avorld mag- 
netic surA'Cy may be gained from the statement that it covered all 
the ocean areas from latitude 70° north to 60° south, nearly all of 
the land areas from 30° north to 60° south, excepting India and the 
Dutch East Indies, and in addition parts of China, Persia, and 
Canada. 

During the same period gOA'^ernmental magnetic surveys have been 
made in India, New Zealand, Dutch East Indies, South Africa, 
Canada, and Russia (including Siberia), and resurA^eys haA^e been 
made of Japan and the British Islands, and in France, Prussia, 
and other European countries. Thus it Avill be seen that during the 
])ast 2.5 years there has been executed a Avorld magnetic survey 



TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM HAZARD , 247 

covering; practically tlie whole surface of the earth between latitude 
70° north and 60° south. 

At the same time the making of magnetic observations has been 
recognized as an important part of the work of an exploring expe- 
dition, and as a result much information has been obtained regarding 
conditions in regions which would not ordinarily be reached. This 
is particularly true of the polar regions. The Ziegler expedition to 
Teplitz Bay, in 1903 and 1904, Amundsen's work in the vicinity of the 
magnetic North Pole, 1903-1906, and along the north coast of Siberia 
in 1918-1921, and the work of MacMillan's two expeditions served 
to reduce materially the size of the magnetically unexplored region 
around the North Pole, while the various South Polar expeditions, 
German, French, British, and Australasian, between 1902 and 1912, 
supplied a large amount of valuable information regarding mag- 
netic conditions on the borders of the Antarctic Continent, and served 
to locate the position of the south magnetic pole within narrow 
limits. The operation of temporary magnetic observatories by some 
of the expeditions made possible a comparison of the magnetic varia- 
tions in polar regions with those in lower latitudes, the value of the 
comparison being enhanced by cooperation at a number of leading 
observatories in the form of a more open time scale on the magneto- 
grams at specified times. 

While there were plenty of magnetic observatories in operation 25 
years ago, their distribution was very unsatisfactory. Out of about 
40 making reports, 70 per cent were in Europe; there was only one 
in North America (Toronto), none in South America, and only four 
in the Southern Hemisphere. With the new observatories established 
since that time there has been a great improvement in the geographi- 
cal distribution, so that more than 50 per cent of the present active 
observatories are outside of Europe and 10 are in the Southern 
Hemisphere. Here again the United States has taken a leading part. 
Observatories have been operated by the Coast and Geodetic Survey 
at Cheltenham, Md.; Tucson, Ariz.; Vieques, P. R. ; Sitka, Alaska; 
and near Honolulu, Hawaii, and by the Department of Terrestrial 
Magnetism at Watheroo, Australia, and Huanca^^o, Peru. Other new 
observatories at Cordova and Ncav Year Island, Argentina; Vas- 
souras, Brazil ; Apia, Samoa ; Christ Church, New Zealand ; Dehra 
Dun, India; Helwan, Egypt; Sodankyla, Finland, and Meanook, 
Canada, have all helped to extend the area covered. At the same 
time some of the older observatories have been discontinued, and 
others have been compelled to move to new sites, because of the 
encroachment of electric car lines and other industrial developments. 

Improved methods and instruments have added materially to the 
accuracy of the results. In the development of new and imi)roved 



248 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

field instruments the Department of Terrestrial JNIagnetism has been 
particularly active, to meet the A'cry varied conditions under which it 
has had to operate, especiall}- in the matter of observations at sea. 
The design of a portable galvanometer, for use Avith the earth induc- 
tor, has made it possible to use that instrument in the field in place of 
the dip circle, and the addition of a special device for rotating the 
coil of the earth inductor adapted it for use on board ship. The 
marine collimator permits more accurate declination observations at 
sea, and the sea deflector provides a method of determining directly 
the horizontal intensity on board ship. INIagnetometers have been 
improved to secui'e greater ease of handling, adjustment and trans- 
portation, and various combination instruments have been devised 
for use where a very light, compact outfit is essential. 

The sine galvanometer, of which three types have been developed, 
provides an electrical method for determining the horizontal inten- 
sity, combining rapidity with great accuracy. It is particularly well 
adapted for a standard instrument, and in Japan it has been used 
successfully in the field. 

The variometers designed by Eschenhagen, with very small mag- 
nets, have permitted the erection of smaller observator buildings 
for the variation instruments and a decrease in the cost of operation, 
since it is possible to have tliree vai'iometers record on a single pho- 
tographic sheet. More complete control of the instrumental con- 
stants is also provided. 

With so much energy being devoted to the collection of observa- 
tional data, it would not be surprising to find a falling off in the 
attention paid to the discussion of results; but this has been true 
only to the extent that the utilization of the data has not kept pace 
Avitli its accumulation. There has been no falling off in the zeal with 
which magneticians have attacked the problems awaiting solution. 
JNIany of those who had taken a prominent part in the investigations 
of the last half of the nineteenth century have gone one by one, 
leaving their places to be filled by a younger generation. Schott, 
Eschenhagen, Wild, von Bezold, Snellen, Borgen, Sutherland, 
Fritsche, Bidlingmaier, Neumayer, Riicker, Birkeland, and Leyst 
are among tliose whose names will always be recalled when review- 
ing the progress during that period. 

The fundamental problem of the cause of the earth's magnetism 
and its variations, attacked from many sides and with various 
weapons, has thus far withstood the attack. One theory after an- 
other has been advanced only to be withdraAvn before the irresistible 
assault of observed facts. Some theories fitted well enough quali- 
tatively, but we4e entirely inadequate when quantity was taken into 



TEREESTRIAL MAGNETISM^ — HAZARD 249 

account, while others which seemed plausible at one stage of our 
knowledge had to be discarded when our knowledge increased. 

Advances in other fields of science have been seized upon in the 
hope that they might furnish a clue to the mystery of the earth's 
magnetism. Cathode rays, the electronic theory of matter, the con- 
stitution of the sun, and the probable condition of the interior of 
the earth are all being studied as to their possible bearing on the 
magnetic field of the earth. 

Gilbert's conception of the earth as a great magnet uniformly 
magnetized about its axis of rotation, and subsequent modifications, 
had to be discarded Avith the acceptance of a very high temperature 
for the interior of the earth and the recognition of the demagnetiz- 
ing effect of heat, coupled with the small amount of magnetic mate- 
rial found in the visible rocks. At the same time the magnitude of 
the anomalies (the departures from a uniform magnetization) indi- 
cated the presence of large masses of magnetic material not far from 
the surface. Recent investigations in various fields have suggested 
the possibility that some of the properties of matter subjected to 
very great pressure may be materially different from those observed 
in the laboratory at ordinary pressures. Susceptibility to mag- 
netization may be one of those properties, and the Department of 
Terrestrial Magnetism, Avith the cooperation of the Geophysical 
Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution of Washington, is arranging 
a series of expeiiments designed to test the matter, 

Nippoldt, in 1921, returned to the idea of the earth as a mag- 
netized sphere, because of the difficulty of providing a satisfactory 
system of electric currents to account for the observed magnetic field. 
He advanced the theory that the principal part of the earth's mag- 
netic field consists of a nonhomogeneous magnetization of the 
earth's crust down to a depth of about 20 kilometers. In addition, 
there may exist for the earth's nucleus a magnetic field symmetrical 
both about the axis of rotation and about the equatorial plane which 
may have arisen in the same manner as the general magnetic field 
of the sun. He assumed that the proportion of magnetite in the 
earth's crust increases with depth below the surface, but that the 
distribution is not homogeneous. He also assumed an inner core 
composed of iron, nickel, and cobalt, as suggested by geophysicists, 
with the possibility that it may be susceptible of magnetization in 
spite of the high temperature, in view of the magnetic effects 
observed on the sun by Hale. 

Adolph Schmidt points out that even on the assumption tliat at a 
depth of 20 kilometers the earth's crust is composed entirely of 
magnetite, the average susceptibility would not be great enough to 
account for the observed conditions at the surface. 



250 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

When it became apparent that the conception of the earth as a 
permanent maj^net could not be sustained, the idea was advanced 
that the earth's magnetic field might be due to electric currents 
flowing about the earth, either below the surface or in the atmos- 
phere — the earth an electro-magnet. The mathematical analysis of 
the earth's field according to the method devised by Gauss and 
extended by Neumaj^er and Petersen (1891), and Schmidt (1896), 
indicateil that a small portion of the earth's magnetism, perhaps one- 
fortieth, could be referred to forces outside th eearth, another small 
portion to vertical electric currents, but by far the larger pait to a 
system of forces within the earth. A new analysis made by liauer 
in 1922, using improved data based on modern observations, gave 
approximately the same result. He reached the conclusion that for 
a satisfactory representation of the observed data it is necessar}^ to 
recognize the existence of an internal magnetic system constituting 
about 94 per cent of the total field, and an external system and a 
non-potential system about equal to each other in amount. 

A comparison of his results with those previously obtained for 
the e]>ochs 1842 and 1885 indicated that the intensity of magneti- 
zation of the earth had been decreasing during tlie 80-year period 
at an average annual rate of 1 part in 1,500, a rate of loss which it 
is hard to reconciU^ with the age of the earth and tlie present inten- 
sity of magnetization unless we suppose that there have also been 
periods of increasing intensity. 

Bauer also carried »out the harmonic analysis separately for paral- 
lels of latitude at 5° intervals from 60° south to 60° noith and found 
an apparent correlation between distribution o! land and water and 
intensity of magnetization, the intensity being greater for the 
parallels falling largely on the land. 

In an earlier (1911) discussion of the earth as an electromagnet, 
Bauer took the position that the system of magnetic forces Avithin the 
earth required by the Gaussian analysis might be the result of mag- 
netizing currents outside the earth, namely, negative electric cur- 
rents circulating from west to east, but he later withdrew this 
hypothesis, after further study of the problem. As it seems to be 
established that the diurnal variations of the earth's field and the 
disturbances nuist be ascribed to outside currents, it would be much 
simi)ler to account for those changes if the field itself is due princi- 
pally to outside currents. 

The idea of the earth as an electro-magnet naturally suggests the 
possibility that its magnetism may be caused by its rotation. This 
possibility has been the subject of much study, particularly by 
Barnett, who has shown experimentally that a piece of iron may be 
magnetized by rotation; but the observed eti'ect was nuich too snuill 
to account for the earth's magnetism. Swann attacked the problem 



TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM HAZARD 251 

mathematically and concluded that any effect due to rotation would 
be too small to be detected. In 1900 Sutherland sugf^ested as a pos- 
sible cause of the earth's magnetism the rotation of an electrostatic 
field within the earth (a positively charged core and a negatively 
charged crust, or vice versa), as Rowland's experiments had proved 
that a moving charge of electricity produces a magnetic field analo- 
gous to that of a current, but this theory proved untenable when sub- 
mitted to analysis. 

The development of the electronic theory of matter with the atoms 
consisting of a positively charged nucleus surrounded by negatively 
charged electrons led Sutherland to suggest that if for some unknown 
reason connected with gravitation the negative charge of the atom 
was further from the center of the earth than the positive charge by 
only 0.4X10"^ cm., it would account for a magnetic field comparable 
with that of the earth. Here again, when the theory was sub- 
mitted to analysis and the electronic theory was more fullj^ de- 
veloped, it was seen that Sutherland's hypothesis was untenable 
either qualitatively or quantitatively. 

Failing to find a satisfactory explanation of the earth's magnetism 
on the basis of the known properties of matter and the accepted 
laws of electrodynamics, J. J. Thomson, Sutherland, Bauer, and 
Swann have suggested that we may have to look for some slight but 
fundamental modification of those accepted laws, possibly as re- 
gards the mutual attraction and repulsion of moving positive and 
negative electrons, similar to a suggestion by H. A. Lorenz regard- 
ing the cause of gravitation. Indeed there seems to be growing a 
belief that gravitation and terrestrial magnetism are very closely 
allied and probably to be traced to a common origin. 

Realizing the difTiculties in the way of a direct attack on the 
problem, especially before more complete observational data were 
available, many magneticians have turned their attention to a studv 
of the variations of the earth's magnetism and their correlation with 
associated phenomena, such as atmospheric electricity, earth cur- 
rents, auroras, sun spots, solar radiation, meteorological phenomena, 
hoping in this way to throw light on the main problem. In parti- 
cular, magnetic storms, those irregular disturbances of large amp- 
litude and comparatively short duration, have been the subject of 
nuich study. 

From the time of the earliest comparisons of photographic records 
from w^idely separated observatories, it was recognized that the more 
severe magnetic disturbances occur at practically the same time all 
over the earth, and further comparative study of abrupt beginnings 
and sharp turning points indicated strict simultaneity, the depart- 
ures therefrom being ascribed to errors inherent in the time measure- 
ments, so that more accurate determination of the time of occurrence 
of such salient features was suggested as a method of determining 



252 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

differences of lon«j:itude. In fact, van liemnielen, from the mean of 
53 abrupt be<rinnin^'s, computed the difference of h)n^itude between 
Batavia, Java, and (iieenwich, and obtained a vahie differing bj 
only 9 seconds from the one derived in the usual wa}'. 

On May 8. lUO'i, there occurred a magnetic storm, the abrupt 
beginning of which coincided with the eruption of Mont Pelee, as 
nearly as the time of that disastrous outbreak could be determined. 
This apparent coincidence sujiijested the possibility that the two 
phenomena might be related. Bauer made a study of this storm in 
1910, based on the records of 25 observatories, and reached the conclu- 
sion that it did not begin at the same instant all over the earth, but 
on the contrary had its origin in about longitude 75° west of Green- 
wich and traveled eastwardly around the earth, requiring between 
three and four minutes to complete the circuit. A similar study of 
another storm of distinctive features supported this conclusion. 

For further evidence on this very important question, Faris made 
a study of 15 abruptly beginning storms occurring in 1906-1909, 
using the records of the five magnetic observatories of the Coast 
and Geodetic Survey, and his results apparently confirmed Bauer's 
conclusions, the transmission time again coming out about 31/2 min- 
utes. It was necessary, however, to assume that some of the storms 
traveled from west to oast, as had been suggested by Bauer. Faris 
pointed out that i)i-obably the greater part of the error of deter- 
mining the time of an abrupt beginning is due to the difficulty of 
selecting the exact point of beginning on the curve. Bauer accord- 
ingly secured reports from 23 observatories on the same storms 
which Faris had investigated, making an effort to secure more 
homogeneous data by means of ti-acings of portions of the curves 
showing the points selected for measurement. A discussion of these 
more accurate data failed to confirm the conclusions drawn from 
the earlier investigations. Kodes also nuide a study of a number 
of abrupt-beginning storms between ]910 and 1921, and found no 
evidence of storm propagation of the character suggested by Bauer, 
but he did find some indications tliat a terrestrial magnetic storm 
may begin at the "front meridian," that portion of the earth, that 
is, which "would be the first to meet a stream of electrified particles 
coming from the sun, occurring later on both sides of that meridian. 

The close correlation between (he occurrence of nuignetic storms 
and auroras and the presence of large spots on the sun naturally led 
to attempts to trace a causal relationship. It was soon seen that a 
direct nuignetic effect by the sun was out of the question. With the 
development of the idea of curi-ents of electricity being the cause of 
the earth's nuignetism. different forms of electric discharge emanat- 
ing from the sun were successively ])ut forth as the cause of the 
observed terrestrial phenomena, the theories advanced keeping pace 



TERBESTRIAL MAGNETISM — HAZARD 253 

with the development of our knowledge of electrical discharges in 
a vacuum. 

Birkeland, Arrhenius, and Nordmann agreed in considering the 
auroral rays as a luminescence produced by the absorption of cathode 
rays in the upper atmosphere, and attracted toward the earth's 
magnetic poles. Birkeland, who devoted many years to the study of 
auroras, first supposed that the cathode rays were emitted directly 
from the sun, but later he advanced the modified theory that cathode 
rays from the sun set up electric currents in the atmosphere which in 
turn emit secondary cathode rays. He supported his theory by the 
production of artificial auroras in the laboratory, about a magnetized 
steel ball in a tube of rarefied air exposed to cathode rays. 

Paulsen in 190G, after calling attention to the difiiculties with ear- 
lier theories, sought to exj^lain the aurora and magnetic storms by a 
strong ionization of the upper layers of the atmosphere above the 
zone of maximum frequency of the aurora. 

Stormer, who had worked with Birkeland in both his observational 
and experimental studies of the aurora, knowing that the phe- 
nomenon of the concentration of cathode rays toward a single mag- 
netic pole had been mathematically treated by Poincare, thought it 
might be w'orth while to determine mathematically the trajectories 
of electric corpuscles coming from the sun into the magnetic field 
of the earth, hoping to bring out the principal features of the aurora. 
These studies began in 1903 and covered a period of about ten years. 
Stormer simplified the problem at the outset by treating the earth 
as a spherical magnet, and neglecting the relative motion of the 
earth and sun, and then modified the results obtained for this sim- 
ple case to correspond to the more complex conditions actually 
existing. In this Avay he was able to develop paths for the cor- 
puscles which seemed to fit the general features of the aurora as 
it appears in nature and of the artificial aurora of Birkeland, and 
thus tended to strengthen the corpuscular theory of its origin. 

The correlation of magnetic storms with sun spots, although very 
satisfactory when based on yearly averages, leaves much to be desired 
when individual cases are considered. Thus, severe magnetic storms 
sometimes occur Avhen no large sun spots are visible and, on the other 
hand, the appearance of a sun spot is not always accompanied by a 
magnetic storm. To account for this. Maunder advanced the theory 
that the solar activity which gives rise to magnetic disturbances on 
the earth does not act equally in all directions but along narrow well- 
defined streams, not necessarily truly radial ; that these streams arise 
from active areas of limited extent; that these active areas are not 
only the source of our magnetic disturbances but are also the seats 
of the formation of sun spots; that these areas can be active both 
before a spot has formed and after it has disappeared. The fact that 



254 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

lar<;^e magnetic storms frequently follow each other at an interval 
approximating the time of revolution of the sun and that such re- 
currence has been traced for several rotation periods, not every 
recurrence being accompanied by a visible sun spot, requires some 
such explanation as that suggested by Maunder. 

Chapman, after a detailed analysis of a number of magnetic 
storms, attempted to show how some of their characteristics may be 
produced by streams of electric particles entering the atmosphere 
from the sun, but this theory, like so many others, failed to fit all 
the facts. 

The researches of Hale at the Mount Wilson Solar Observatory on 
the evidence of magnetic polarity in the sun spots occurring in pairs 
and on the general magnetic field of the sun have further stimulated 
the eli'orts to trace a connection between solar and terrestrial mag- 
netism and opened the way for a study of the details of the sun's 
magnetic field. According to the most recent analysis by Scares, 
the sun's magnetic axis makes an angle of about 6° with the axis 
of rotation. 

When we consider the diurnal variation of the earth's magnetism 
a different problem is presented. Here we have to deal with a 
phenomenon which is a function of local mean time, as contrasted 
with magnetic storms, which, as we have seen, occur everywhere 
at practicall}'^ the same absolute time. Attempts have been made 
to correlate the diurnal variation with changes of pressure, tempera- 
ture, humidity, and other terrestrial phenomena which have a period 
the same as the earth's rotation, but without success. Broadly 
speaking the diurnal variation is a function of the position of the 
sun above the horizon, distinctly a local phenomenon. The ex- 
tremes and the principal portion of the variation occur during the 
daytime. During the night hours there is comparatively little varia- 
tion. In view of this fact, it occurred to Bauer that the inter- 
position of the moon between the earth and the sun at the time of 
a solar eclipse might have an appreciable effect on the earth's mag- 
netism. Accordingly he arranged for special observations by ob- 
servers of the Coast and (ieodetic Survey at the time of the total 
eclipse of May 28, 1900, at stations extending from Alabama to 
Maryland. The results indicated a small but definite disturbance 
associated witli the passage of the moon's shadow across the place 
of observation and of the character to be expected. Similar observa- 
tions have been made at all accessible solar eclipses since that time, 
principally on the initiative of the Department of Terrestrial Mag- 
netism of the Carnegie Institution of Washington, but with the 
cooperation of other observers in the countries crossed by or con- 
tiguous to the belt of totality. These have in general confirmed the 
results of the first series, though the effect produced by an eclipse 



TERKEsritlAL MAGNETISM HAZARD 255 

is SO small that it can not be definitely recognized when ordinary 
magnetic disturbances are in progress. 

Much study has been given by Chree, Chapman, and others to 
the details of the diurnal variation, particularly to a comparison 
between conditions on quiet days and disturbed days and between 
conditions in high and low magnetic latitudes. Material has been 
provided for a more accurate study of those features which are not 
purely local, such as the effect of change of geographic position 
on the form and amplitude of the curves, through the publication 
by many observatories of diurnal variation tables based on five 
internationally selected quiet days, thus eliminating to a large ex- 
tent the lack of homogeneit}^ which magnetic distui-bances might 
introduce. 

Still another problem is presented by the secular change of the 
earth's magnetism, which requires centuries for its development. 
Time enough has not yet elapsed since the beginning of measure- 
ments of the earth's magnetism to fully determine the character- 
istics of this change, but we do know that it does not go on indefi- 
nitely in one direction; eventually there is a reversal. 

In the case of declination, the records at some European stations 
go back far enough to show two reversals, with a range, in the case 
of London, of 35° in a little over 200 years. This suggested the 
idea of periodicity and a motion of the magnetic pole as the cause 
of the secular change, as it seemed possible to follow the occurrence 
of a particular phase from east to west around the earth. 

Data accumulated during the past 25 3'ears sliow that the phenom- 
enon is very complex. The change is by no means regular; the 
periods indicated for different stations differ widely; unexpected 
reversals occur and there are undoubtedly waves of shorter ]>eriod 
superimposed upon the primary wave, if indeed there is a primary 
wave. It is impossible to predict with accurac}' what conditions 
will be 10 years from now. 

Bauer has made a mathematical analysis of the secular change of 
the earth's field as a whole, and has concluded that the system of 
forces involved is partly witliin the earth and partly outside and 
that the strengtli of the field is changing as well as its direction. 
It is not easy to conceive of a systeui of forces acting for a long 
term of years to produce such a great change in the direction of the 
earth's magnetic field. A loss of magnetism would not be surpris- 
ing from our experience with artificial nuignets, but sut-h a rapid 
loss as one part in 1,500 per year for SO years or more requires 
verification on the basis of more accurate secular change data for 
the whole earth. 

Variation of solar activity has been suggested as one cause of the 
secular change of the earth's magnetism. The periodic change in 



256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

the nuiiiber of sun spots, which is undoubtedl}^ a symptom of vary- 
ing solar activity, is paralleled by an 11-year period in the secular 
ciiange, and Bauer has attempted to trace a relationship between 
changes in the earth's magnetism and the changes of solar activity 
indicated by Abbot's observations of the amount of heat given off 
by the sun. Abbot's observations have not yet been going on long 
enough, however, to draw any definite conclusions. 

An}' theory of the earth's magnetism based on electric currents 
either within or outside the earth must take account of the currents 
actually observed, and one of the features of the progress of the past 
twenty-five years has been the awakening of interest in the study of 
atmospheric electricity and earth currents and the development of 
instruments for measuring them which can be relied upon to give re- 
sults of tlie required accuracy. 

Before long we may also expect the increase in our knowledge of 
radio transmission to throw light on electrical conditions of the at- 
mosphere at higher levels. 

From this summary of the accomplishments in the field of terres- 
trial magnetism during the tirst quarter of the twentieth century, it 
Avill be seen that there has been no sudden increase in knowledge, no 
epoch-making disco verj^ but just a steady advance. The old prob- 
lems still confront us, but in a modified form. Their scope has broad- 
ened tremendously and any theory to explain the earth's magnetism 
nnist take into account the structure of the atom as well as the struc- 
ture of the universe. At the same time new weapons and new me- 
thods of attack have become available and the workers in other fields 
of science — astronomers, physicists, geologists, chemists — are now the 
allies of the magneticians. iSloreoAer, an accurate magnetic survey 
of practically all of the accessible land and water areas and the oper- 
ation of additional magnetic observatories, better distributed, have 
provided us with reliable knowledge of the distribution of the earth's 
magnetism — the facts which must form the ultimate test of any 
theory. 

Finally there has been an increasing recognition of the importance 
of international cooperation, so well expressed by Rucker in 1898, 
when he said : " For those who Avould unravel the causes of the 
mj'sterious movements of the compass needle, concerted action is 
essential. They can not indeed dispense with individual initiative or 
with the leadership of genius, but I think all would agree that there 
is ui'gent need for more perfect organization, for an authority which 
can decide not only what to do, but what to leave undone." We may 
confidently expect that the Section of Terrestrial Magnetism and 
Electricity of the International (leodetic and Geophysical Union 
will eventually develop into an organization of the character sug- 
gested by li ticker. 



SOME CAUSES OF VOECANIC ACTIVITY ^ 



By Arthur L. Day 



[With ;5 plates] 



Several years ago I had the privilege of presenting to the Institute 
some conclusions respecting the sources of the energ}^ through which 
the lava lake in the crater of the Volcano Kilauea (Hawaii) was 
maintained in a fluid condition. The evidence then offered was 
obtained in association with E, S. Shepherd,^ from observations 
on the ground and in the laboratory, and may be reviewed somewhat 
briefly as follows : 

Observations of the temperature of the lava lake, taken morning 
and evening and often at intervening hours of the day and night 
through a period of two months, revealed very considerable changes 
of temperature for so large a body of liquid magma. On June 13, 
1912, for example, the surface temperature was 1,070'^. On July 6, 
1912, it was 1,185°. Temperatures as low as 950° have since been 
measured in the lava lake, and in its less active pools any temperature 
down to the point of actual solidification maj' be encountered. The 
lake in 1912 had the form of a single pool without partitions, differ- 
ences of level, or islands, and was approximately 800 feet long by 
500 feet wide (pi. 1, fig. 1). The depth of course was problematical 
and not subject to direct observation except that the lava level rose 
jind fell by small amounts daily and observations over a period of 
years have shown maximum differences of about 700 feet; the con- 
taining basin must therefore have had a depth greater than this. In 
June, 1912, when these temperature observations w-ere made, the lava 
stood about 200 feet below the rim and therefore some 500 feet above 
its lowest observed level during those years. The mass of lava con- 
tained in the basin was therefore very considerable and a rise in its 
temperature from 1,070° to 1,185°, 115° within 23 days, must in- 
volve a very large and very rapid access of heat from some source 
below other than new lava, for the quantity of lava contained in the 
crater during this 23-day interval under observation w^as substan- 
tially constant. 

"Address delivered on the occasion of tiie Centenary Celebration of the founding ol' the 
Franklin Institute, September 17, 18, and 19, 1924. 

2 Arthur L. Day and E. S. Shepherd, Water and Volcanic Activity. Bull. Geol. Soc. Am. 
24, 573-606, 1913. Smithsonian Annual Report 1913, pp. 275-305. 

257 



258 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

It is iinportanf to note fui'tlier that islands are fre(|uently present 
in the hike which liave an upward and downward nio\ement of dif- 
ferent character and period from tliat of the fluid lava; also that 
when a fall of the fluid lava f)ccurs it often exposes what appears to 
be solid material only a few feet below the previous liquid surface, 
with no relation to the 700-foot level or to any deep-seated point. 
Such observations compel the admission that the material contained 
within the lava basin is considerably diversified in its physical state ;^ 
some is very fluid and some nearly or quite rifjid. 

This observation led to a rou<;h lal)oratory test of some signifi- 
cance. On those occasions when the lake overflows its banks, which 
is a matter of daily occurrence during the rise of the lava column, 
there is visible movement of the fans and rivulets of new lava over 
the crater floor until they are so far cooled clown that hardly a 
trace of red glow from them can be seen. The lowest temperature 
at which movement can be detected is therefore of the order of 600°. 
A fiagment of this same lava brought to the laboratory and re- 
heated w'ill not flow under its own weight until a temperature in 
the neighborhood of 1,300° has been reached. Such an observation 
is significant of a change of composition and yet the only change 
of composition i:)Ossible must be in the amount of volatile matter 
(gas) in solution in it. Gases are given off in abundance during 
cooling and their loss takes away from the lava its fluidity over a 
considerable range of temperature. 

This observation taken with the other perhaps explains why the 
physical state of the lava in the basin is thus discovered to be partly 
rigid and parti}' fluid, partly porous and partly dense — its gas 
content is variable ; and a further consequence is altogether probable, 
namely, that there are differences of temperature throughout the 
mass of material filling the crater greater even than the observed 
differences at the surface. 

Moreover, during this period of continuous observation in 1912 
it was uniformly noticed that an increase in the amount of gas dis- 
charged at the surface of the lake was always accompanied by a rise 
in surface temperature, and conversely during falling temperature 
the gas fountains diminished in number. A photograph taken at 
a time when the temperature was highest (July 3, 1912) offers a 
distinct record of more than 1,100 fountains distributed almost uni- 
formly over the surface of the lake (pi. 1, fig. 2) wdiile at other times 
no fountains at all are to be seen for intervals of a minute or more, 
and then only an occasional one appears. This observation imme- 
diately led us to the conclusion that there is a causal relation be- 

"T. A. Jaggar. Seismometrlc Investigation of Hawaiian Lava Column. Bull. Seism. 
Soc. Am. 10, 160, 1920. 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — -Day 



Plate I 




I. The Lava Lake of Halemaumau in June, 1912, Showing Low Gas Content 



' '''^!^di^^MMMflflH8K 






■ -Ms ^^i.J* »^^-1#- •■«**... ^(W^/ 




-^ -^gilK* ^•' ::XkiK '-i-.jlR^ ■'*• - 


:i.*i£^ 


1. ^' 'f^^^M 






?: ^.'**--i ■ -'*" 





2. The Lava Lake at Its Period of Maximum Activity, July, 1912 



CAUSES OF VOLCANIC ACTIVITY — DAY 259 

tween the amount of gas discharged through the lava and the tem- 
perature of the fluid lava itself. The gases somehow contribute to 
the heat of the lava body. 

One of the purposes of this expedition of 1912 Avas to collect 
gas from the lava basin at Kilauea if it should prove in any way 
practicable to do so. We Avere accordingly equipped Avith collecting 
tubes, pumps, and pipe lines, but it Avas some days before a favorable 
opportunity offered. Just how fortunate we were in this collection 
we did not then appreciate, nor indeed for some years afterward, 
but it is probable that the gases then collected from a lava fountain 
on the crater floor, immediately adjacent to the lake itself, contained 
less evidence of contamination by atmospheric air than any volcano 
gases collected before or since. The conditions under which these 
gases were collected have been described before* and need receive 
no detailed attention at this time. They Avere studied in part by 
extemporized tests on the ground and in part through careful analy- 
sis in the laboratory some time later. 

Two conspicuous features Avere revealed by these studies Avhich 
bear intimately upon the subject of this paper and upon the study 
of Aolcanism in general, namely, (1) that the gas content of the 
different tubes filled at that time Avas widely different; (2) that 
the gases, whose composition Ave determined, could not be in equi- 
librium at the time and at the temperature of their escape from 
the lava. The first observation leads directly to the conclusion that 
the composition of each bubble Avhich breaks through the surface, 
even from the same opening, is different ; the second to the conclusion 
that the gases are necessarily in process of reaction at the time of 
their release. From our knoAvledge of gas reactions it folloAvs, 
further, that gases still in process of reaction at the time of release 
after passage up through the basin of liquid lava, must have been 
in process of reaction throughout their upward progress, that is to 
say, there must have been bubbles of gas of different composition 
uniting beneath the surface at frequent intervals during this 
excursion. 

The analyses of the gases collected at that time revealed the 
presence of the following gases in different proportions in the collec- 
tions: N3, H2O, CO,, CO, SO,, free H, free S, CI, F, and NH3. 
Argon was also found after the first announcement was made. 
It is of course plain that free hydrogen can not exist side by side 
with SO2 or COo at a temperature in the vicinity of 1,000°. Nor 
is free sulphur appropriately found in this group at 1,100° C. In- 
deed the fact that the proportions of these gases vary from tube to 
tube when collected by continuous pumping from the same opening 

* Arthur L. Day and E. S. Shepherd, op. cit. 



260 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

plainly indicates that (heir relation can not be a constant or a 
stable one. 

Our knowledge of the reactions which must be taking place 
between these gases is adequate to establisli the fact that heat is 
being contributed to the laA^a mass in conse(juence of these reactions 
going on within it. We have, tlierefore, certainly hit upon one of 
the sources of energy which serves to maintain the particular type 
of volcanism which is familiar to all at Kilauea. Very probably 
we have done somcAvhat more than this. If we have established the 
fact that continual reaction is going on during the passage of the 
gases through the liquid lava, whereby heat is contributed to the 
lava, it is a probal)le consequence that the temperature reaches its 
maximum at or near the surface. The consequences of this decision 
ai'e s(»mowhat fai"-reacliing if one is minded to ])ursue them to their 
logical conclusion. For example, it appears to follow that the 
temperature in the basin will be lower as we go down into the lava, 
rather than higher, whence it is reasonal)le to suj^pose that the en- 
tire phenomenon is local and superficial rather than deep-seated. 

Dr. T. A. Jaggar, director of the Hawaiian Research Ivaboratory, 
has already confirmed this deduction regarding (lie teuipera(ure 
gradient by actual u)easuremen(s of the lava ((Muperature.'" lie used 
for this purpose a stout iron pipe within which groups of Seger 
cones were fastened at regular intervals and thrust it into (he lava 
as far as he could (20 feet). Temperatures were found to be some- 
Avhat variable but lower by 100" or more than at the surface. The 
existence and behavior of the islands and the heavy semirigid masses 
below the surface upon which they rest, also indicate a lower temper- 
ature below, for the circulation of gases in these masses will be con- 
siderably harhpered. Very likely they are themselves losing gas 
more or less continually and thereby losing their fluidity. In any 
event such a temperature distribution does not aflf'ord support for 
the old hypothesis that volcanoes are ""safety valves" to insure the 
stability of a molten interior, indeed they all'ord not the slightest 
indication of the existence of a generally molten interior. 

In a book which appeared quite recently Mr. Harold Jeffreys, 
of Cambridge University, offered a careful analysis of existing evi- 
dence of the manner of formation of the earth ® and the probable 
state of its interior. His reasoning has seemed to me to include more 
of modern physics and chemistry than the reasoning hitherto applied 
to the constitution of the earth. He figures that the gaseous mass, 
presumably split off from the sun by tidal rupture due to another 

» T. A. Jagger, Volcanologic Investigations at Klhuica, Am. J. Sci. (4), 44, p. 208 et 
spq.. 1017. 

» Harold Jeffreys. The Earth, its Origin, History and I'hysical Constitution. Cam- 
bridge, 1924. 



CAUSES OF VOLCANIC ACTIVITY^DAY 261 

heavenlj^ body passing too near, condensed within a comparatively 
short time to a liquid nucleus. This nucleus in its normal con- 
vection cooling then acquired a crust Avhich broke up and sank as 
soon as formed, its specific gravity being measurably greater in the 
solid than in the liquid state. It is no more than a generation since 
distinguished physicists were still in doubt about the relatiA^e den- 
sity of solid and liquid lava, and some then believed that the crust 
ought to float as readily upon the molten interior of the earth as 
patches of crust float upon a liquid lava basin, like that at Kilauea 
(pi, 2, fig. 1). Closer observation, hoAvever, has since established the 
fact that the floating is but temporary and is due to nothing more 
than the accident of gas accumulations beneath these patches of 
crust, Avhich give sufficient buoyancy to support them on the sur- 
face for a long time, but only for so long as they remain perfectly 
poised. The rise of a bubble more violent than the rest, Avhich is 
sufficient to tilt one of these blocks but a very little, or an over- 
lapping Avave in the lava surface, Avill quickly cause them to lose 
the supporting gases and to glide o'ut of sight beneath the surface 
much as a piece of sheet iron sinks in Avater. 

The normal behavior of a crust forming upon a fluid mass highly 
charged Avith gas, such as Ave must believe the nucleus of the earth 
to haA^e been, is to sink, and so Jeffreys concludes that though the 
first blocks to sink Avere undoubtedly remelted presently in the 
course of their doAA^iward moA^ement and so merely helped to cool 
the magma, eventually the sinking crust accumulated at the center 
and the resulting earth became in consequence something of a honey- 
comb structure, the rigidity of which may quite properly be equal 
to that of steel, as has been so completely shown by the tidal studies 
of Michelson and Sir George Darwin, and that any portions remain- 
ing liquid can be nothing more tlian the product of local conditions 
which presumably are slowly passing aAvay. 

This concept of the formation of the earth as a Avhole readily lends 
itself to the interpretation of A'olcanoes as we find them. It is 
extremely difficult to conceive of a volcano as the safety valve of a 
molten interior, as the older geologists Avere accustomed to think of 
it, or of a molten layer concentric Avith the crust as it was later con- 
ceived to be, so long as tAvo such openings continue to exist side by 
side in the Island of HaAvaii, one of AA-hich (Mauna Loa) is 10,000 
feet higher than the other (Kilauoa) and yet liquid lava emerges 
more frequently and in greater quantity from the higher opening, or 
its subsidiaries, than from the loAver. It is also a matter of record 
that greatly increased activity in the one basin rarely finds an echo 
in the other. The liquid lava of HaAvaii is at least tAvo and one-half 
76041—26 IS 



262 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

timo.s lioavicr than \vatcr. If these two outlets were connected Avith 
a common liquid interior the lava column in the higher conduit 
would he pressing iov discharge at the lower opening, not at the 
iiigher, and with a pressure of the order of magnitude of a thousand 
atmospheres ui)on every square inch of its area. Similarly tlie 
volcanoes of Central America and of the Alaskan peninsula main- 
tain each its indepeiulent behavior a|)i)arently regardless of what is 
hai)pening to its neighboi's. So far as the record of field observations 
goes therefore the number of simultaneous eruptions which have 
occiiried in neighboring volcanoes in recent time is so small as to 
leave little room for any other explanation than coincidence. 

If for these several reasons we limit our conception of a volcano 
to a juirely local j^heuomcnon arising from unusual local conditions, 
und if we may assume that other observations above outlined ofl'er 
reasonable ground for the supposition that gases, reacting among 
themselves, contril)iite materially to the heat necessary to maintain 
t» snuill lava basin like that at Kilauea in a liquid state, then we have 
two further steps to take in order to gi^e to this concept a tangible 
and reasonably indei)endent existence. First Avhere may such an 
extraordinary phenomenon as a volcano be supposed to take its 
origin, and second by Avhat means is the indispensable heterogeneity 
among the gases maintained in consequence of which the reactions 
occur ? Obviously this is reasoning somewhat beyond any phenomena 
actually observed, but the underlying region beneath a A'olcano will 
perhaps never be accessible to direct observation, so that inference 
from the l)est experience Ave have must be clraAvn upon to complete 
the ])icturc. 

Before attempting to indicate the direction in which this search 
leads it will be helpful to consider the phenomena at another volcanic 
center Avhich Avas active betAA'een 1914 and 1917. I refer to Lassen 
Peak in California. This volcano is entirely different in its behavior 
from Kilauea. Instead of an open basin of liquid lava, more or less 
continuousl}^ actiA'e but rarely overfloAving, here is an explosive 
volcano Avhich emitted no liquid lava and only once during its four 
years of activity reached the temperature indicated by red heat. 

The outbreak at Lassen Peak began Avith an explosion in the 
summit crater in the early spring (May 30, 1914), the first outburst 
breaking through snoAV of considerable depth. These explosions 
continued at intervals of four or five days throughout the sununer 
and autumn, possibly to some extent in the winter season also, but 
Lassen Peak is over 10.000 feet high and ihe summit during the 
Avinter season is shrouded in cloud. In May of 1915, almost exactly 
one year after the initial explosion, came three days of terrific 
activity, during which the dust cloud reached a height of 25,000 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Day 



Plate 2 




I. The Lava Lake, Showing Great Patches of Crust Floating 
Under the Buoyant Action of Gases Released Beneath. July, 
1912 




2. Lassen Peak After the Eruption of May 22, 1915. Showing the 
Devastated Area Extending for 5 Miles to the Northeast of 
the Mountain 



CAUSES or VOLCANIC ACTIVITY DAY 263 

feet above the summit of the mountain and blocks the size of a man'? 
hand were thrown for 10 miles. During this culminating outbreak, 
or just before it, the old volcano plug forming the floor of the crater 
was raised ^M)0 feet or more to a position level with the crater rim, 
the force behind it apparently being just insufficient to blow it com- 
pletely off the mountain and so to expose the volcano hearth. The 
point of greatest weakness then proved to be at the northeast side of 
the inclosing cone, somewhat below the summit, and two devastat- 
ing, horizontal explosions, the latter concluding the period of most 
violent activity, found vent through this opening. Although the 
adjacent valleys of Hat Creek and Lost Creek were stripped of all 
vegetation for a distance of more than four miles by these horizontal 
blasts (pi. 2. fig. 2), no fire appears to have been set by the explosions, 
save momentarily on the face of a steep cliff directly exposed to the 
second blast, and even this Avas confined to a small area of dead 
leaves and twigs which supported combustion for no more than a 
few moments. Red-hot ejecta at the summit or illuminated smoke 
clouds at night w^ere seen only once (May 19, 1015) and then the 
color was described as " deep red," indicating a temperature not 
higher than 750°. Generally the ejecta which were thickly strewn 
about the country adjacent to the crater were not warm enough to 
melt the snow on which they fell and even when of great size they 
broke through the snow without melting it away. In midsummer 
likewise no case is known where the ejecta were hot enough to kindle 
a forest fire, although a careful watch was kept by the Forest Ranger 
Service through four summers for just such a contingency. 

Following this outburst the eruptive activity gradually subsided, 
the year 1916 offering but a few mild explosions and 1917 only a 
short concluding outbreak (also in May), of considerable violence 
wdiile it lasted, but not comparable either in volume or intensity with 
tlie great outbreak of May, 1915.'^ 

This brief outline of the character of the eruption of Lassen Peak 
is sufficient to show that in spite of the violence of the explosions 
no evidence of the high temperatures of Kilauea or Vesuvius ^ ap- 
peared at the surface during the entire period of activity. There 
were steam explosions of tremendous volume and power, but no local 
development of heat by chemical activity, such as has been described 
in the case of Kilauea, was detected at any time. 

In considering this case it is appropriate to emphasize the fact 
that there has been no other eruption of this volcano since the region 

^ For further dotails and laboratory studies see Arthur L. Day and E. T. Allen, "The 
Volcanic Activity and Hot Springe of Lassen I'eak," Carnegie Inst, of Washington, I'lih- 
lication No. 860, 1025. 

^ For an account of activity of Vesuvius in recent years see F. A. Ferret, " The Vesu- 
vius Eruption of 1006, Study of a Volcanic Cycle." Carnegie Inst, of Washington, Pub- 
lication No. 339, 1924. 



264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

was inhabited by white men, and geological conditions indicate that 
at least 200 years have elapsed since the last show of activity. 

If a volcano is assumed to be a slowly cooling system maintained 
])y residual heat from a local hot zone below the surface, then Avhat 
manner of mechanism is it which can account for the sudden de- 
A elopment in such a cooling system, of violent explosive activity suf- 
ficient in volume to extend over several years, and of such intensity 
as to cover the surrounding country with boulders of considerable 
size, without displaying evidence of high initial temperature or con- 
tributory chemical reactions? 

It has been a long search to find an explanation which appeared 
properly to account for an outbreak of this kind, but a suggestion 
has at last been found, partly as a result of theoretical reasoning 
and partly from experience in the laboratory, which appears to 
account for it completely and at the same time to go far toward 
elucidating the entire problem of volcanism.^ Freed from chemical 
terminology the mechanism is simply this : A silicate solution in 
its liquid state can take up water in solution in considerable quan- 
tity. A simple solution of silica and potash when heated under 
pressure in the laboratory is capable of taking up as much as 12.5 
per cent of water in solution. A rock magma in the earth is just 
such a silicate solution, although more complicated in character, 
and is entirely competent to carry 5 or G per cent of water in solu- 
tion under appropriate conditions." If it should happen that the 
lava beneath a volcano carries such quantities of Avater in solu- 
tion, then all the phenomena of volcanism become appreciably 
clearer, for in the 8,000 or more analyses of crystalline rocks of 
igneous origin which have been gathered together by Washington 
and published by the United States Geological Survey ^^ there is 
none containing more than I14 per cent of water and less than 1 
per cent is usual. This must mean that in the process of crj'stal- 
lization of the rock from the magma the wat«r content is for the 
most part discharged. Should it happen that this discharge of 
water takes place in a closed space then immense pressures might 
develop and explosive activity of tremendous intensity might result. 
Furthermore if the amount of participating magma Avere large and 
the rate of crystallization considerable, such activity might continue 
for long periods of time. 

Beneath the surface, magma basins are of course inaccessible to 
direct observation, but two facts have been noted in the study of 

" G. W. Moroy. " Tho Development of Pressure In Magmas as a Result of Crj'stalliza- 
tion." Journ. AVash. Acad. 12, lilO, 1922. Arthur L. Day and E. T. Allen, op. cit. 

"> Ct. .T. W. .Tudd ct nl. "The eruption of KraUatoa and subsequent phenomena," p. 36 
(Rept. of Krakatoa Com., Roy. Soc. London, 1888). 

'» II. S. AA'ashiuKton, "Chemical Analyses of Igneous Rocks, etc." U. S. Geol. Surv. 
Trof. Taper 90, 1917. 



CAUSES OF VOLCANIC ACTIVITY — DAY 265 

volcanoes which tend to confirm this reasoning. It has already been 
stated that the lava lake at Kilauea has a temperature, usually, be- 
tween 1,000° and 1,200°, and fluid lava overflowing the rim of the 
basin at that temperature, still remains fluid at 700° or 800° (red 
heat.) This is of course representative magma or lava which is in 
process of crystallization. If samples of this lava be collected after 
solidification and reheated in the laboratory, they can not be brought 
again to molten condition below 1,300 degrees. It is, therefore, clear 
that the fluidity of the lava in the basin is due primarily to the vola- 
tile ingredients which it contained and has discharged during crys- 
tallization, of which water is the chief. In complete accord with this 
the great outbursts of gas and dust-laden steam from the more 
violent volcanoes, like Vesuvius or Lassen Peak, are nothing other 
than this volatile content of the magma below, discharged 
explosively. 

It sometimes happens that volcanic magma either through pecu- 
liarities of chemical composition or through sudden exposure, 
whereby it is quickly chilled, solidifies without crystallization. Such 
volcanic glasses are commonly called pitchstones or obsidians. A 
very considerable mass of such obsidian is familiar to all tourists 
in the Obsidian Cliff at Yellowstone Park. In smaller quantities 
obsidian is frequently found in nearly all volcanic regions. Such 
uncrystallized volcanic magma when analyzed is often found to 
have retained much more of its water content than the 114 per cent 
maximum which has just been cited for crystalline rocks.^- Here, 
therefore, is direct confirmation — i. e., as direct as the inaccessible 
character of the subject is ever likely to permit — of the conclusion 
that the water content of magma before crystallization is greater 
than the water content of the rock wliich forms from it. During the 
process of crystallization, therefore, this water must in some manner 
be discharged. 

If we apply these observations to Lassen Peak and suppose a body 
of magma in process of slow crystallization at relatively low tem- 
perature to exist beneath the mountain, and suppose further that the 
water set free during the crystallization process is maintained under 
pressure in a closed chamber, there is danger of a violent outbreak 
whenever a structural weakness develops in the containing vessel. 
Lassen Peak is situated in a region often visited by earthquakes. It, 
therefore, requires no violent stretch of the imagination to believe 
that one of these earthquakes did in fact weaken the structure early 
in 1914 and that in consequence of this a small explosion through 
the floor of the summit crater occurred. More or less in confirmation 
of this supposition the forest rangers who first visited the mountain 

"Of. J. W. Judd, op. cit. 



266 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

on the day followin<^ the explosion noted two cracks extending east 
and Avest from the explosion opening for a hundred feet or more. 
The explosion itself, so far as may be gathered from witnesses, was 
wholly inadequate in volume to split open the mountain, and indeed 
the small crater formed by the explosion is reported to have been no 
more than 20 by 40 feet and extended only a few feet into the loose 
scoriaceous material covering the crater floor. 

This discharge of steam in violent explosion was followed by 
similar outbreaks at intervals of three or four days during the next 
seven or eight months, the periodicity being determined no doubt by 
the rate of crystallization and the amount of the overlying load. In 
general the volume and intensity of the successive explosions increased 
as they proceeded, which might reasonably be expected, as more 
and more of the ciystallizing mass came to feel the release of pres- 
sure after the opening had been made. 

The laboratory study of such solutions indicates a further possi- 
bility through which the early stages of such an outbreak might be 
expedited. The fact that even when the explosions had rea(;hed their 
maximum intensity there was no development of high temperature, 
suggests that the magma below may itself have been at a relatively 
low temperature, ultraviscous and inert through undercooling, that 
is to say, being inclosed within an impervious containing vessel at 
comparatively low ti mperature, crystallization had slowed down 
until considerable portions were cooled below the temperature of 
normal crystallization while still in the vitreous state. It is of course 
well known that silicate solutions (cf. window glass) are prone to 
crystallize with extreme slowness, otherwise probably we should 
have no glass industry. In such an inert mass therefore in which 
crystallization was proceeding thus slowly, the advent of water vapor 
from without would have the effect of diminishing the viscosity and 
increasing the rate of crystallization. 

Following the first explosion at the summit of Lassen Peak it was 
noted that the great body of accumulated snow within the summit 
crater was rapidly melting and flowing into the explosion cracks. 
This water must have found its way to the volcano hearth at first 
by percolation and later, within the hot zon ■, as steam. We know 
from laboratory experiment that steam is readily soluble in such 
an undercooled silicate magma with the effect of increasing its 
fluidity and thereby precipitating crystallization or increasing the 
rate of crystallization already going on. The operation of crys- 
tallization itself, as has been shown above, sets free more water so 
1 hat the operation becomes more or less self-p;'rpetuating so long as 
any considerable amount of magma remains uncrystallized within 
reach of the outlet channels (reduced pressure). This explanation 



CAUSES OP VOLCANIC ACTIVITY — DAY 267 

appears adequate to account both for the initiation and the progress 
of explosive volcanic activity at Lassen Peak during the p?riod of 
1914 to 1917. It also indicates the source of the vast amount of water 
vapor which is given off in the course of a long series of explosive 
eruptions. 

In this discussion of the phenomena at Lassen Peak we appear to 
have reached an answer to one of the two questions posed earlier m 
this address, namely, the point of probable origin of the gases which 
participate in volcanic activity. They are in solution in the crys- 
tallizing magma and their release takes place under appropriate con- 
ditions of temperature and pressure when this magma crystallizes to 
rock. Chief among these volatile ingredients is undoubtedly water 
in most if not in all cases. If water be substantially the only ingre- 
dient, as at Lassen Peak, then the volcanic outbreak will consist in 
discharges of dust-laden steam, and such solid material as may be 
carried out by attrition. If temperatures are higher and the vola- 
tile ingredients include chemically active gases such as chlorine, 
fluorine, sulphur, hydrogen, and the like, then an accelerated type of 
development may be expected, due to the higher temperatures result- 
ing from the combination of these gases when oxidized either 
through reactions within the magna or with oxygen from the air. 
Under such conditions the magma may be forced out in liquid con- 
dition (lava flow) and may crystallize in the open air. After observ- 
ing the persistance of the open lava lake and noting, as Professor 
Jaggar has been able to do by measurement, that the temperature at 
the surface is higher tlian it is immediately beneath the surface, it 
again requires but little of the imagination to enable one to under- 
stand how such gas reactions may provide the necessary energy to 
maintain the lake in fluid condition. The origin of the gases here, as 
in the case of Lassen Peak, must be sought in crystallizing magma at 
different depths where differences of temperature and pressure must 
be responsible for very considerable inhomogeneities (differences of 
concentration) in the gases from different local sources. 

The Kilauea crater is not appropriately pictured as an ordinary 
boiling flask with a long narrow neck. It is very doubtful if we 
have any ground for such a picture. At any rate during the past 
summer (1924) when the lava lake had been drained away through 
subterranean channels and the gases were escaping explosively from 
the empty basin, the crater was enlarged by the explosions to about 
3,500 feet in diameter and 1,500 feet in depth. The volcanic throat 
was thus laid open to a depth more than twice as great as on any pre- 
vious occasion since it came under the observation of white men, and 
a rare and precious opportunity was offered to see what manner of 
material occupied the next 800 feet immediately under the lava lake, 



268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

which has so h)!!*; filled this throat to varvin*^ depths from a few 
feet to as much as 700 feet or more. 

To those who have thought of the volcano crater as a downward ex- 
tendin*; i)ii)e or conduit throu^li whidi the lavas for centuries have 
been quietly poured out upon the surrounding terrane the appear- 
ance of the enlarged and deepened opening must have been an 
unexpected revelation. It api)eared quite dry — no freshly cooled 
volcanic glass (obsidian) or partially crystallized lava was visible 
below, nor was any found among the fragments thrown out (pi. 3, 
fig. 1) by the explosions. The lava fragments were from older layers 
than any before exposed at Kilauea, completely crystallized, nearly 
free from bubbles, rather fine grained though rich in olivine and feld- 
spar phenocrysts like the lavas from its great neighbor, Mauna 
Loa, but in phj^sical appearance totally unlike the Kilauea flows 
which have almost come to be regarded among geologists as a fixed 
type. 

At one side of the great bowd, about GOO feet above the bottom, 
was an area some 500 feet in its transverse dimension and more than 
100 feet thick, which showed here and there a trace of red at night. 
The surface also had the appearance of fresh Aa lava, which occa- 
sionally flaked off in considerable areas, revealing a bright red patch 
beneath. Above it on the rim a hot air-current was continually 
depositing fine flakes of freshly-oxidized iron-bearing scale. This 
may have been one of the feeders of the lava lake. It was cer- 
tainly the hottest spot left exposed in the empty basin. Another 
smaller area in one corner of the bottom was distinguished by a half 
dozen roaring gas outlets whose throats glowed red at night. This 
may have been a smaller feeder. When the lava began to return to 
the pit in July it spouted out from a point high up on the talus 
pile on the opposite side of the basin in a fountain 175 feet high. 
This must have been from a third feeder. No others have so far 
been discovered. 

Instead of the boiling-flask picture, therefore, we should think 
rather of a central collecting tube, w'ith many more or less wide- 
spreading branches below, leading to local chambers in which crys- 
tallization is proceeding under different conditions of temperature 
and pressure. That a number of such branches exist is only dis- 
covered on a rare occasion like the present summer wdien violent 
explosions have cleaned out the lava basin and enlarged it to many 
times its former volume. Then it is seen that the openings leading 
into and out from it are on the side walls, while the bottom is to all 
appearance solid, old, and (relatively) cold. Even the solid ejecta 
which were thi-own out during this period of violenfactivity include 
no obsidian masses and no lava as recent as that represented in the 
lava lake and in the flows of recent years. 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Day 



Plate 3 







^■■■i'.'a}-fci.ii«-'^ii 




I. The Ejecta Thrown Out in the May 19241 Eruption of Kilauea 




"'^>n-^Z*" 



2. Showing an Outflow of Lava from the Talus, About 80 Feet Above 
the Lava Lake, July, 1912 



CAUSES OF VOLCANIC ACTIVITY DAY 269 

That the gases from these different sources differ in composition 
is abundantly shown by their continual reaction wlien they meet in 
the lava lake, as has been explained in the earlier part of this paper. 

That the fluid material in these individual pockets is under dif- 
ferent pressures as well as different temperatures is also shown by 
many observations of small streams of lava which emerge from the 
talus pile, often 100 feet or more above the level of the lava lake, 
and flow down into it (pi. 3, fig. 2). Such a flow, observed in June, 
1912, lasted for several days and released a very considerable body 
of lava. 

If the lava lake represented the outlet of a single subterranean 
magma chamber with which it is supposed to be connected through 
a single neck or funnel, then the establishment of a second conduit 
from one to the other Avill not be competent to deliver lava at a 
higher level than the first, or gases of different composition. A 
separate chamber and an additional source of energy are necessary 
for that. Thus it has happened that the heterogeneous character of 
the gases collected, the temperature conditions within the lava basin, 
the appearance of the crater when free of all its liquid lava and 
the dynamic relations within the lava body when present in the 
crater, all point to many sources rather than to a single source both 
of gases and of magma. 

An interesting sidelight of quite another kind has lately been 
thrown on this problem from an entirely unexpected source. In 
the month of July, 1919, Professor Jaggar took advantage of a favor- 
able opportunity to make a continuous series of observations, extend- 
ing through the entire month, of the level of lava in the basin of 
Kilauea. The observations were made by vertical triangulation from 
datum points on the rim oi the pit at intervals of 20 minutes day 
and night with the purpose of ascertaining whether or not a lunar 
or solar influence upon the lava mass could be established. The 
examination of the data was made by E. W. Brown," than whom 
there is no one with wider experience in the discussion of tidal 
phenomena, and although the curves at first sight appeared to be of 
periodic character and were so regarded by Jaggar, no more than 
an inch or two in apparent changes of several feet could be attrib- 
uted by Brown to luni-solar influence. Had the magma chamber 
been very large, an unmistakable tidal effect would certainly have 
been found. 

And so we return from this investigation also to the conclusion 
that volcanoes are local and superficial developments representing 
(geologically) the last stages of crystallization in a mass of magma 
below, of which little remains fluid and this in small (as geologic 

'"Kiiiest W. Brown, "Tidal Oscillalious In naleniauman, the Ijiva I'll of Kllani-a," Am. 
Journ. Scl. (5), 9, 95, 1925. 



270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

dimensions go) pockets which are quite variable in ^as content, 
pressure, and conditions of chemical eciuilibrium. 

There were times even in late geolo<^i(' history when quite diti'erent 
conditions prevailed, when masses of fluid magma were larger and 
poured out through crustal rifts several miles in length without 
signs of explosive activity or any restraint upon complete freedom 
of crystallization and release of their volatile content. Such condi- 
tions gave us the successive flows known as the Deccan ti'aps, the 
Stormberg lavas of South Africa, and the great basaltic outflows of 
the Snake River Basin and adjacent territory in this country, which 
covered nearly 250,000 square miles. Latest of these and appro- 
priately smallest in extent is the flow from the Laki rift in Iceland 
in 1783. It may well be that such outpourings are past. It is a 
rare volcanic outburst in modern times which yields as much as a 
cubic mile of lava. Matavanu, in Samoa, is reported to have re- 
leased this quantity in a continuous flow through the six years 
ending in 1912. 

Through all of these studies our conclusion seems to stand fast 
wherever it is applied, namely, that the outstanding factor in deter- 
mining the character of modern volcanism is the gas content of the 
crystallizing magma. If this be mainly of steam released in a closed 
chamber, as a liassen Peak, then only steam explosions are to be 
expected as the surface manifestation of the crystallization of the 
magma below; if to the steam are added such chemically active gases 
as chlorine, sulphur, hydrogen and the hydrocarbons, then chemical 
reaction between these will be a sufficient cause of higher tempera- 
tures and lava flows of the character well known at Vesuvius, Strom- 
boli, or Kilauea. 



GEOLOGY IN THE SERVICE OF MAN 



By Prof. W. W. Watts, Sc. D., LL. D., F. G. S., F. R. S., 

President of Section C (Geology) of the Britisli A.fsoeiation 



INTRODUCTION 

Although geology in the modern restricted sense of the word is 
over a century old and possesses a flourishing family of descendant 
sciences, it is still possible to trace its immediate parentage and an- 
cestry. The only begetter is unquestionably the mining industry, 
und it is to the ample exposure of rocks in miaes, their condition 
and arrangement in the simpler mining districts, and the necessity 
tor accurate knowledge of these districts with regard to composition, 
succession, and arrangement, that we owe the earliest detailed knowl^ 
edge of the earth-crust in certain restricted localities. 

The other parent was of more advanced years, and may be de- 
scribed as "■ insatiate curiosity " ; the natural instinct for observing 
and collecting odd and bizarre " rarities " found in excavations or seen 
in natural rock exposures. These fossils, using the word as then 
employed and not in the restricted sense now usual, naturally kin- 
dled interest by reason of their natural beauty, their regularity in 
shape, their properties, their likeness to, and yet their tantalizing 
difference from, the appearance of living animals and plants. It 
was tempting to draw inferences from their occurrence and to ex- 
plain them either by marvellous operations which fuller understand- 
mg of nature had not then inhibited, or by means of catastrophic 
events like those familiar in the Mosaic cosmogony. 

Although much had been observed and thought out by his prede- 
cessors, it is to Werner that we owe the most successful generaliza- 
tions in a mineral-bearing district; generalizations which gained a 
wide influence owing to the enthusiasm and eloquence that attracted 
students from all over the world and imbued them with the desiie 
to confirm and spread the master's ideas. To Werner also is due 
a reaction from the fanciful speculations of preceding periods with 
which he was so impatient that he proposed to drop the very term 



1 An address delivered before Section C (Geology) of the British Association at Toronto, 
1924. Reprinted by permission from the (ieologioal Magazine, Vol. LXl, Nov., 1!»24. 

271 



272 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

<^eolo<fV :ni(l to substitute liis own word "geognosy"" for it, a word 
intended by liiin to separate the knowable from the unknown. 

Probably there wouUl liave been less controversy between Nep- 
tunists and Phitonists had Werner conunitted more of his work 
to writing, and not left us de])endent on his pupils for their Aer- 
«ions of his views. But it is a curious fact, and one probably not 
dissociated from a geologist's devotion to field study, that many of 
those who have made great advances have either disliked the act of 
writing or have been unfortunate in the style of their written work. 
It Avill be sufficient to couple with Werner in this respect such names 
as AVilliam Smith, Sedgwick, and even Hutton, not to mention those 
of more recent geologists. It has not been from Smith alone that 
views and conclusions have had to be extracted almost by force 
and committed to writing by faithful devotees. 

Yet, after all, this failing has not been without its advantages. 
The joy of such men is in discovery, and they are happy and con- 
tented when, but only when, they feel perfect confidence in their 
conclusions. If their results then get published it is with an author- 
ity and finality denied to lesser men. In the progress of their work 
they are apt, as in fact all of them did, to infect their friends and 
students with the enthusiasm that only the spoken word can arouse. 
And to others they have always been most generous, even lavish, in 
giving ideas and momentum, partly out of sheer good nature, but 
much more through the desire to watch the germination of the good 
seed that they sow broadcast and to see the harvest reaped, not by or 
for themselves but for the advantage of the science whose welfare is 
their chief care. 

During the early grow^th of the science, as in human families, it 
was the influence of the other parent that was most felt. From 
the earliest thinkers of Greece and Rome we have record of number- 
less observations and discoveries, sometimes in respect of minerals 
or organic fossils, sometimes of unusual phenomena in mountains 
or volcanoes or in the relations of sea and land, generally leading 
to reasoned conclusions, many of them perhaps fanciful, some even 
absurd, but others so sound and far-seeing that they have not been 
upset at the present day. Many other countries, joining the favored 
ones along the Mediterranean, carried the torch forward, and in 
spite of the clogging influence of the vested intellectual interests of 
the day, the stock of Imowledge gradually grew, until we find that 
Ijconardo da Vinci was able to make as great an advance in the 
knowledge of the earth as he did in his own arts of painting, sculp- 
ture, and architecture. 

It is true that during this period observers had a tendency to 
confine themselves too exclusively to one or other side of their sub- 



GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN WATTS 273 

ject and were in the habit of reproaching one another with neglect 
of neighboring branches, but even this made for progress by stimulat- 
ing competition and discussion. 

In spite, however, of all that had gone before in tlie fields both 
of fact-collecting and of speculation, it will be admitted tliat no 
single man made so great an individual advance, or placed it upon 
such an enduring foundation, or did so much on whicli the future 
of his science was to depend, as William Smith. And it is note- 
worthy that the spur to his discoveries was not so much his theoreti- 
cal views or even his scientific zeal, as a plain and practical issue — 
the finding of a short cut to speedy and accurate land valuation. 

The discovery by the " father of English geology " that fossils 
are the "medals of creation" and that strata are each characterized 
by special suites of organisms was certainly one of the greatest 
ever made in the history of geology, and upon it have been founded, 
directl}^ or indirocth', almost all the latter advances in the science. 
But for the fuller utilization of his discoveries there were needed 
the artistic faculty and a wide knowledge of places and people, 
both of W'hich he fortunately possessed. Thus he was able to intro- 
duce handy, crisp, easily remembered and pleasantly sounding local 
terms to characterize his " formations," and to represent the out- 
crop of strata on maps which were not merely topographical but, 
for the first time, were tectonic also. So well did he discharge this 
latter function that, a comparison of his general map of England 
with the latest production of the Geological Survey on a scale at 
all comparable Avith it fills one Avith astonishment at the amount of 
work accomplished by him single handed, and with admiration for 
his accuracy. 

It is strange that, in the amateur and official work which followed 
during much of the nineteenth century, so little interest was taken 
in the industrial application of geological knowdedge Avhich, in 
Smith's hands, had been so productive. The science had, as has been 
said, the " landed manner," and the dignity of its application to arts 
and industries was little appreciated. A former director of the 
Geological Survey of Great Britain, Sir AndreAv Kamsay, quoted 
with approval the saying of one of his colleagues, " it is but the 
overflowings of science that enter into and animate industry," And 
thus, though the scientific side of geology stood to gain much other- 
wise unattainable information from contact with its economic ap- 
plication, this source of knoAvledge Avas not fully utilized, and an 
air of mutual suspicion — not Avholly unjustified — grew up between 
"theoretical" geologists and those Avho applied geology to mining 
and other economic problems. Fortunately this feeling is passing 
aAvay; the two sides have found that each is indispensable to the 



274 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

other, and <:ool<)<zists are evorvwlioi-e c'ooperatiri<r with those whose 
work is coniKH-ted with the discovery or exploitation of the mineral 
wealth of the earth-crust. 

MATEUIAL SERVICE 

Coal. — The first branch of indiistrj' to which geology made itself 
indispensable was coal mining. Geology has long been in close con- 
tact with its ])rohloms. in mapping the extent of coal fields, collecting 
infoiiiKition as to the succession of measures and the existence and lie 
among them of wants, faults, and igneous rocks, tracing the exten- 
sion and variation of coal -seams, and estimating the resources avail- 
abh^; and, as seams are worked at increasing depths, and in those 
parts of fields concealed under thick unconformable cover of more 
i-ecent formations, the work of the geologist has become more essen- 
tial and increasingly productive. 

Tt is interesting to observe the application of the "academic" 
sides of geoh)gy to these more recondite problems, in unravelling 
tectonic complexes, in the collection of facts which may eventually 
elucidate the precise conditions under which different varieties of 
coal have originated, in applying knowledge as to the limits of the 
original areas of coal deposit, in the interpretation of stratification 
in the light of progressive travel of coal-forming conditions geo- 
graphically across the coal-producing areas, and in the stratigraphi- 
cal relationship and exact mode of formation of the covering rock 
s}' stems. 

It is true that the accessibility of coals Avlien first exploited, and 
their distribution in seams of varying quality, led, and in the newer 
areas are still leading to much waste; waste on fruitless search in 
the light of obtainable knowledge, in exploitation of good, thick, 
and easily worked seams to the neglect of poorer ones, in the non- 
preservation of satisfactory plans and the consequent leaving of 
derelict areas, in unsatisfactory drainage, and in the loss of valuable 
by-products. V>\\i there is a corresponding advantage to those of our 
generation that some exposed areas of complicated structure, 
and many of the concealed coal fields were left for ourselves and 
future generations by reason of Avorking difficulties which it would 
have been premature to face in the time of easily obtained abundance. 

Even to-day, in spite of improved technical knowledge, there re- 
main many areas in which information and inference are both scanty, 
and where difficulties met in working have not yet been surmounted, 
while there will be in the future ample scope for improved methods 
and inventions to deal with coal at greater depths than those at 
wliich it can at jDresent be economically worked. There is room for 
much new and more precise study than has yet been devoted to the 



GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN WATTS 275 

variation of coal seams, both in tlie vertical direction and when 
traced over the wide areas of their extent. Elaborate and knowl- 
edgeable samplinfz, followed by new means of testing, and these 
again by new methods for recognition of varieties, have still to be 
put into practice before it can be said that we are making a justi- 
fiable and economic use of the capital reserves stored up in the rocks. 

OiJ^ — While we blame our forefathers for their destructive and 
wasteful handling of the coal fields, it is ourselves and our own 
generation that we must blame for serious waste of oil and the 
destructive exploitation of oil fields that have been permitted. 
There is no economic subject to which geology has so direct a relation 
as the occurrence and exploration of oil fields, and nothing in recent 
times has given so much employment and such valuable experience 
to geologists all over the world. It is the only example we have 
of the sudden introduction of a new source of fuel on a large scale 
in a late stage of industrial development, and it has already 
revolutionized many branches of engineering practice. The intro- 
duction and spread of the internal combustion engine and all 
that this implies in space econoni}^, cleanliness, labor-saving, and 
comfort, has been the greatest engineering feature of the late 
nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, and it has given rise to 
systems and methods which mankind would be loath to abandon. 
The whole world is being searched to prolong the good times that 
we live in ; but in spite of the fact that there probably still remains 
a recoverable percentage in the oil producing areas, and that there 
must be new fields awaiting discovery, there are already signs that 
the high oil mark has been reached if not passed. But, again 
it is no small comfort that although our supply of native oil, easily 
won and easily refined and applied, cannot last very much longer, 
there are abundant supplies of oil shale still left, sufficient to take 
its place for very many decades to come. 

Metals, etc. — Although the greater part of to-day's session is to 
be taken up by papers and discussions on special sides of economic 
geology by those who are far more competent than I to speak 
on them, I can not resist the temptation to say a few words on that 
side of the subject which touches on metal mining. There is 
probably no subject which has been in the past more dominated 
by the " practical man," who may be defined as the most theoretical 
of all men, but whose theories are seldom proved and are often 
not susceptible of proof. The valuable information that was ac- 
cessible to him has been wasted because he could not use it to 
the best advantage, or else it has been lost because he could or 
Mould not impart it. On the other hand, the "theorist," as he 
has been contemptuously named, has been hampered because he 



276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

has often only boon callod in when dinicHltios Avoie excessive and 
when the train of facts or reasoning which wouhl have been so 
vahiable to him has been lost. 

In Britain the niininjr industry is so old and the mineral wealth 
in certain spots was so plenteous and accessible that the nietal- 
mininfj peolojj:ist has had little chance. The eyes have been picked 
out of the mines lon<r ap:o, and in certain cases their very bones 
picked clean, and the count i-y has been left in such a condition 
that its original state can only be guessed at, and problems of 
relationship, slructuro, and origin are past solution. Consequently, 
it is in the countries which have not been inhabited by successive 
races of highly civilized peoples, or in relation to substances for 
which there was in the past little or no demand, that the subject 
has been susceptible of real advance. 

Thus it is that such strides in mining geology have been made 
in Canada, the TTnitod States, India, South Africa, and Australia, 
where there has been a fair field to work upon, and where preliminary 
surveys have opened up the country and given an idea of its hidden 
resources. In no other areas of the world has the work of official 
surveys been watched more carefully by men of capital and enter- 
prise, and money has rarely been lacking for development where 
there seem to l)e prospects of a fair return for it. Fortunately, 
too, the training of official geological survej'ors has provided a type 
of geologist exceptionallj' well fitted both to prospect independently 
and to follow out in minute detail, and from a different viewpoint, 
the preliminary and less detailed examination which is all that is 
practicable in an official survey. These men have carried with 
them not merely competence and enthusiasm, but a thorough belief 
in scientific principles, an extensive knowledge of borderline sciences, 
and the ability to apply both principles and methods to the 
problems involved. In the hands of such men the surest guides 
are scientific principles, just as in the hands of those with '" a 
little learning " imperfectly understood principles are most danger- 
ous; and as the search for ores becomes keener, and as deposits 
smaller and more tenuous become worth working, the need for 
increased knowledge of principle and for minute detail in observa- 
tion steadily grows. 

Fortunatel}', we have not yet exhausted the existing stores of 
highly concentrated and singularly pure ores, salines, refractories, 
etc., and the need is less acute than it will become eventually for 
much improved methods of concentration and purification. When 
we feel the pinch it will be necessary to call upon the chemist to 
endeavor to make available the abundant suj)plies of less pure 
and less concentrated materials which will remain over for our 



GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN WATTS 277 

successors when Ave have picked out the best. This has ah-eady 
been to some extent effected for oil and it is beginning for coal ; 
it must eventually be done for the still less pure sources of these two 
substances, for less concentrated ores, and the like. 

Sto7ie, etc. — The geologist has alread}^ done much in the investiga- 
tion of the qualities of building stones, plastic substances, and the 
materials for roofing and cement. To a large extent the materials 
in use are satisfactory in the air and surroundings in which they 
occur in nature. But the added problems of a town atmosphere, 
accompanied by increased stresses in large buildings and the modern 
demands of the architect and sculptor, have still to be met, if our 
buildings are to be more permanent and our towns to present a loss 
weather-beaten aspect than they noAv do. New and reliable means 
of testing are required, and we need a more thorough understanding 
of the reactions produced by impure atmospheres and the effects 
of the presence or absence of protective or destructive organisms. 
Future investigation will react in the production of more satisfac- 
tory preservatives, and it ma}'^ lead to increased production and 
adoption of artificial stones devoid of the qualities which undermine 
the power of resistance of natural stones; at the same time more con- 
trol over color and shaping may be obtained. 

Roads. — Closeh" akin to the subject of building materials comes 
that of stones used for flagging, paving, and metalling of roads, to 
the provision and stud}^ of which the geologist has already very 
largely contributed. New problems are daily introduced as road 
traffic becomes heavier and as roads are required to be freer from 
dust and vibration. Already many waste products have come into 
valuable utilization, and a wide range of road metals which can be 
called upon for these purposes exists in almost every country. 

In the siting of roads, railways, and canals, however, geology 
could render much more useful service than it has yoX been called 
upon to give. The routes that are cheapest to make are by no means 
the cheapest to maintain, and the geological survey of routes Avould 
very often suggest slight deviations which Avould be more econom- 
ical in the end than when the shortest route compatible with the 
gradients is taken. 

The princes of road makers in the old world, the Komans, were 
perhaps too heroic in their dealings Avith gradients, but they exer- 
cised quite remarkable skill in choosing such directions as to secure 
the least formidable slopes consistent Avith the general design of 
their routes. Their roads Avere, however, constructed ju-imarily for 
strategic purposes and secondarily for transport, and it Avas neces- 
sary to sacrifice something. On the other hand, the constructors of 
76041—26 19 



278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1025 

the coach roads were, perhaps, too sensitive to the psyeholog}' of 
their horses and the limitations of their vehicles, and their roads are 
not ideal for present-day traffic. Some compromise seems to be 
required between the two methods, and not the method of the 
Romans tempered by the cuttin«ijs and tunnels of the raihvay engi- 
neer. Now that we have a vehicle that rejoices in a hill, whether 
lor or against it, and for the first time have a means for hill climbing 
at speed, it is a pity to flatten down gradients too much ; and though 
it is legitimate and even necessary to remove dangerous crossings and 
curves, it should be remembered that an everlasting straight vista 
is as exasperating to a driver as it is heartbreaking to a horse. And 
if roads of this most desirable type are to be satisfactorily and 
cheaply maintained, it will be more than ever necessary to study 
routes in relation to tho rocks that are traversed and the water 
contained in them. 

Something of what has been said with reference to roads applies 
with equal force to other engineering undertakings, railwaj^s, and 
canals, harbor-works, bridges, and large and heavy buildings, par- 
ticularly those intended to stand for centuries. The general success 
of such works is ample testimony to the Iniowledge and skill ex- 
pended upon them by engineers and architects, as well as to the 
elastic toleration of sites so heavily taxed; and one is tempted to 
believe that a much larger amount of stud}^ has been given to 
geological questions in these cases than is usually admitted. 

Wafer. — Of all engineering questions, that most closely involved 
with geological science is probablj^ Avatcr supply. So far as under- 
ground Avater is concerned, geologists and engineers working to- 
gether have amassed a A^olume of fact and principle which has not 
yet been completelj" codified and rendered accessible. An unex- 
pectedly large proportion of the available rainfall has in many 
instances been obtained by successful drilling, in spite of the com- 
plication of the question hj surface pollution, and in the face of 
many legal inanities and much charlatanry. And the extension of 
these methods to arid regions, as in Australia and north Africa, has 
brought under cultivation large areas Avhich needed nothing but the 
" striking of the rock b}^ the rod '■ of the driller to make new oases 
in the desert, and thus render available some of the richest soils in 
the world. 

Much the same is true of overground supplies, which have been 
a blessing not merely to the towns and lands supplied, but to the 
rivers and drainage basins regularized and protected in large 
measure from ever-recurrent floods and the damage consequent upon 
them. Although in such works geological conditions are often taken 



GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN WATTS 279 

into full account, an elaborate geological survey at a ver^^ early 
stage would in most cases more than pay its way. Such a survey 
Avould not only give a good preliminary idea of the nature and 
tectonics of the rocks underlying sites of dams and reservoirs, but it 
would save its cost in limiting the number and in giving rational 
direction to the inevitable pits which must be sunk, by restricting 
them to the elucidation of points which the surface mapping leaves 
obscure. It would at the same time direct attention to the innumer- 
able pitfalls which sites often present and would generally provide 
on the spot much of the requisite material for construction. 

It is an arguable question whether the expenditure of such vast 
sums as have been devoted to the supply of large towns is entirely 
justified. The provision of a single supply, of which large quantities 
are used for drinking, cooking, and industrial purposes, necessitates 
that the water shall be of immaculate purity, and this pure sub- 
stance, the purest of all the things we consume, is employed — may 
we not say wasted — for flushing, washing, and a host of other 
purposes for which a less pure water would suffice. Surely the time 
has come when people could be educated up to the use of a dual 
supply, and this should be a commercial possibility where the area 
served and quantity used are really large. The experience of London 
has shown the very high cost of a single supply to all consumers and 
for all purposes, and the limits of future supply are almost in sight. 
It seems to be time that the problems of a dual service should engage 
serious attention. 

Power. — Owing to the configuration and rainfall of the British 
Isles, and their congested population, Ave are apt to think of water 
questions in terms of supplj^, and, though we are using a certain 
amount of water for power, there is only a limited development pos- 
sible. In many other parts of the Empire, however, this is becoming 
a valuable asset, and nowhere more than in Canada, which is rapidly 
developing its resources on a very large scale. AVhat has been said 
with reference to water supply is of equal application here, for the 
physiographic conditions which bring about steep gradients accom- 
panied by large bodies of water, introduce factors of denudation, 
transport, and deposition by the water which call for most careful 
selection of sites for reservoirs and works, if the all too frequent 
disasters are to be avoided, and if the schemes are not to be ephem- 
eral in duration and excessively costly in upkeep. 

With sources of power other than coal and water — including that 
of the tides — the geologist has little concern. But there has been 
brought into service at Volterra, in Italy, a new source of power in 
the high-temperature steam from fumaroles which had previously 



280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

been used only as a source of borax. Now the steam is bein<r tapped 
by borinijfs adventurously carried out, and its chief heat is employed 
in runnin«!: <rreat power stations, only the residual heat being <riven 
up to the manufacture of borax. This may be but the befrinniuj; of 
the application of a new and valuable source of power in which 
the iiervices of jreolojry will be required and from which that science 
stands to learn much. AVe are haunted by the fear that a limit 
will be imposed by high temperature to deep mining, Avhile that very 
heat may provide energy as valuable as the material which would 
otherwise be mined; just as we dread the gas from certain coal 
seams when the gas might, if it could be exploited, give a return 
equivalent to that of the coal itself. 

AgHculture and Forestry. — Leaving aside relations already 
touched upon, the connection of geology^ with agriculture and forestry 
is through the medium of soils and subsoils, and, though tlie geolo- 
gist seems unsuited to deal unaided with soils, his methods are those 
wliich the soil investigator must use; and soil surveys are now 
being carried out by agriculturists working in conjunction Avith 
geologists. This results in giving new and valuable facts and infer- 
ences for the benefit of both sciences. On the geological side it is 
rendering more available the facts of plant distribution, and what 
has been called agronomics, which, speaking for myself, I have 
always found very hard to get hold of. On the other hand, the serv- 
ices of geologists are likely to be of especial value in the matter of 
tranported soils, loams, loess, l>rick earths, drifts, gravels, and the 
like. Avhere the conditions of formation may in nuiny cases provide a 
key to thrir peculiarities. The same considerations apply to forestry, 
and here, in addition, well-established facts, such as the successive 
forest types displayed in peat bogs, ma}' betray principles that will 
be of service in practice. Questions of site, sewage-disposal, and 
health are bound up with questions of water and agriculture and 
need no further notice here. 

Military Science. — It will be readily admitted that geology has 
been of consi)icuous service in connection with military operations in 
such ways as the siting of camps, trenches, and dug-outs ; while the 
minute study of the water table in northern France during the late 
war was not only of value in obtaining water supplies but was of 
conspicuous utility in mining and countermining, in which exact and 
detailed knowledge was successfully pitted against a knowledge 
which was "just there or thereabouts." 

The *' eye for a country," the visualizing of features plotted on 
maps and making the utmost use of them, qualities on which good 
strategy is founded, are the same qualities which are essential to 
a competent geological surveyor; and I can not help thinking that 



GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN WATTS 281 

strategic abilitj^ would reap as much advantage from a knowledge 
of the underlying canons of topographic relief as the geologist 
would from a study of the principles of military topography. It 
was a wise scheme to train the British home and overseas armies 
on ground similar in kind and in relief to that on which they were 
about to fight in France; but it should have been realized that 
physical causes and the resultant topographical relief differ in 
essential particulars in temperate and tropical climates. 

INTELLECTUAL SERVICE 

Innumerable as are the services which ih' science of geology 
has rendered to man on the material side, these are at least equalled, 
if not outweighed, by those rendered on the intellectual side, either 
in the direct application of its principles to the life of mankind, or 
in the aid given to other sciences and the confidence engendered in 
such of their conclusions as can be tested in the light of geological 
history. 

Througliout most of its range and in its more special directions, 
geology, like zoology and botany, is mainly an observational science. 
Multitudes of facts have to be observed and grouped, and as much 
skill is required in selecting from them the more significant and 
decisive as in collecting them. Experiment for the most part is of 
service in the criticism and verification of tentative theories; and, on 
the physical and applied sides more especially, it is becoming of 
great value. But the process of examination in chief, and the cross- 
examination in the field by a highly qualified and fully trained 
observer, are so exhaustive that not very much is L^ft to submit for 
checking to the experimenter. 

Even more than either of these two sciences is geology an open- 
air science and one which calls for and imparts a love of nature that 
can not but deepen as knowledge increases. Its most interesting 
work lies as a rule in the districts most attractive for other reasons. 
In the course of geological work the country must be thoroughly 
traversed, and, when possible, should be seen again and again, in 
all lights, under all aspects, and at all times and seasons. 
Hypotheses grow but slowly, and call for constant checking or 
verification in the field, the gradually growing ideas being an in- 
tensive spur in the collection of new facts or the reobservation of old 
ones, and in the comparison with like or unlike cases published or 
unpublished. But, as they grow, hypotheses give to their framer 
a power of prediction, more precise as the hypothesis is better 
founded ; and one of the most fascinating i)arts of his work is the 
testing out of such predictions and the making of crucial observa- 



282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

tions thus needed and inspired. It is for these reasons principally 
that geology has earned its reputation as a fighting science. It 
is hard to decide just exactly when evidence amounts to absolute 
proof; and different observers, having reached varying stages in 
the completeness of their observations, may be led by the sum of 
them to different explanatory theories; or in the sphere of their own 
work they may be specially influenced b}'^ facts current there. 

This seems to be the place to enter a protest against dominant 
ideas with regard to education and training in geology. The 
tendenc}' in early education has been to squeeze out other sciences 
in favor of those that are called fundamental, and to suppose that, 
because it makes use of most other sciences, training in geology 
ought not to be begun until all others have been mastered. This 
is to go counter to the history of the science itself. Its leading 
methods were evolved in the early days of physics and chemistry 
and by men often ignorant even of such principles as were then 
understood. As geology has grown it lias given to these sciences 
many i^roblems for solution in return for the solutions received, 
problems which would have long waited for attention had not their 
geological application been urgent. Further, as the solution of his 
problems requires not only a very extensive knowledge, but a work- 
manlike ability to apply both methods and principles, it is difficult 
to say at what stage even the most competent scientific man, if he is 
ultimately to deal wuth all his problems himself, can be ready to 
begin the .study of geology. 

Meantime, qualities of far higher value to a geologist, which in 
most cases can only be acquired young, are being lost, such as 
the habit of close observation, the aptitude to distinguish minute 
resemblances and differences, and the faculty of judging tendencies, 
together with the instinct and patience to make collections. These 
propensities come very early and speedily become blunted if not 
exercised. I would advocate, with all the earnestness of an old 
teacher, that some form of earth-knowledge involving observation 
of facts and collection of specimens, and the drawing of inferences 
from them, should find a place in schools and be encouraged at 
the universities side by side with the fundamental sciences. Such 
studies will not possess the meticulous exactitude of the others, 
but in this respect their tendency may be corrected by them. They 
will, however, bring the student into contact w'ith realities, things 
as they are, instead of inaccessible, abstract conceptions, things 
beyond experience — such as pure substances, or forces acting in 
the ab.sence of friction. They will give him the thrill of discovery 
and explanation, teach him that the end of science is to extract 
law and principle from observation and experiment, and, instead 



GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN WATTS 283 

of keeping him along rigid lines to an assured and preobtained 
solution, will give him a choice of approach and accustom him to 
frame and test hypotheses which to him at any rate will be new 
and his own. Further, they will do much to teach him his own 
shortcomings and give him a keen incentive to acquire the very 
sciences which in themselves may be dull or even repulsive until he 
has convinced himself of their utility and necessity to his own work. 

While acknowledging indebtedness to those sciences which have 
so generously contributed their results to geology, we feel that we 
have some ground for complaint that at times their votaries have 
not resisted the temptation to drop bombs which have exploded in 
our midst and produced a certain amount of trepidation and some- 
times legitimate indignation. We consider that it is up to those 
who feel compelled to do this to acquire some knowledge of geological 
principles and of the lines of reasoning on which they are founded. 
They should recognize that a pyramid is difficult to upset, because 
in the process of building it the materials and structure have been 
carefully selected and tested by the builders. To be told after 
a century's search and reasoning that we must take our time bill 
and " sit down quickly and write '' oif 80, or it may be 90, per cent 
of it, ought not to have disturbed us as much as it did, not more 
indeed than now does the permission of the representatives of the 
same science to multiply our original time bill, if we like, by 10 
or 20, or even more, so far as their present state of knowledge 
extends. Our answer is that we have not done the one and have 
no desire to do the other, so far as the sedimentary rocks at present 
known to us are concerned. 

The geologist, however, should be, and is, the last to deprecate 
the application of the liighest and newest conclusions of physical 
and chemical science to his own problems and to the criticism of 
his solutions of them, for it is certain that this will always result 
in doing much to reduce many of the barriers which retard his 
advance. For this reason we must welcome even so fantastic a 
hypothesis as that of Wegener, for the problem of the overthrust 
" nappes " of mountain regions is one of our greatest difficulties, 
and all explanations hitherto proposed are so hopelessly inadequate 
that we have sometimes felt compelled to doubt whether the facts 
really are as stated. 

But the phenomena have now been observed so carefully and in so 
many different districts that any real doubt as to the facts is out of 
the question, and we must still look for some adequate method by 
which the overthrusting could have been brought about. And if 
dozens of square miles of ground have been shifted over their founda- 
tions and away from their roots for many linear miles in the course 



284 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

of a single theological Period, who shall say what might not be ac- 
complished in the course of Eras? 

Important consequences flow from the fact that the goal and ex- 
pression of most geological research is the construction of a map of 
the area studied. To the layman who studies a country with a geo- 
logical nuip in hand, it is hard to resist the conclusion that the ma]) 
is merely fanciful; he can see no evidence for the lines laid down or 
the symbols employed, and he is astonished when trenching or drill- 
ing jjroves their correctness at any particular point. It is diflicult 
for him to see or to realize the cumulative force of the aggregation 
of minute pieces of evidence, slight differences in slope or soil, varia- 
tions in quality, quantity, or luxuriance of vegetation, variations in 
dryness or moisture, the distribution of culture, the extension into 
the area of some underlying tectonic plan — the laws of Avhich ma}^ 
have been worked out elsewhere — and the tliousand-and-one consider- 
ations which go to make up the mind of the geologist. 

It is, of course, perfectly true that the individuality of the surveyor 
enters not a little into the extrai)olation of geological lines, beyond 
the points where direct observation of the rocks is possible. So much 
is this the case, that it is feasible, from the inspection of his map, to 
gauge, not only the geological competence, experience, and attain- 
ments of the survej'^or, but his knowledge and grasp of physiographic 
form, his power to see into intricate solid geometry, his artistic skill 
of hand and eye, and, above all, that indefinable (puility liis ".eye for 
a country " on which so very much depends. 

The construction of a map has the further advantage that it grows 
by the alternation of periods of observation in the field with periods 
devoted to the thinking out of structure after each day's work and 
in the intervals between successive visits to the field, so that with 
every return to the ground, the facts may be reobserved and lines 
retested in the light of growing knowledge. It is true that ideal 
observation should be so complete and exact that icobservation has 
nothing to teach; but, as a matter of fact, with a map as with a book, 
what one takes from it is what one brings to it, clarified, improved, 
and extended. There should be allowed to professional geological 
surveyors as nuich elasticity as ix)ssible, so that, in addition to de- 
tailed and exhaustive primary sur\e_y, there may be fretjuent revision 
in the light of theii- own work and that of their neighbors. In this 
respect the hand-colored form in which geological uuips were oi'igi- 
nally published has an advantage over the newer, clieai>er, and more 
consistent color- printed maps. 

Geologists should give a cordial welcome to the new aid provided 
by aerial survey and jihotography. This provides the last point of 
view of their areas, which has been hitherto denied, though they 



GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN WATTS 285 

have been in the habit of making use of the only substitute open to 
them, prospecting and photographing from the highest points ac- 
cessible. Many unexpected results have thus been secured in arche- 
ology, and at least as much may be looked for in geological surveys 
even in settled and surveyed districts, while in unsurveyed and un- 
prospected regions its use is proving of the highest importance. 
Too much credit can not be given to Canada for its enterprise in 
using this method for the prospecting and preliminary survey of the 
animal, vegetable, and mineral resources of its great hinterland by 
means of the airplane. A great saving in time and cost has thus 
been secured, and tlie method bids fair to remove the reproach lev- 
eled at the British Empire that such vast areas of it are practically 
unknown. 

Physiography and Geografliy. — It is because of the variety and 
intensity of observation essential to geological surveying — in the 
course of which every acre of his ground must be traversed, and 
much of it retraversed — that the geologist must necessarih^ become a 
physiographer and geographer. There is a limit to the perfection 
of topographic maps and surveys, even when, as in the United States, 
there is close cooperation between the Topographic and tlie Geologi- 
cal Surveys; and it is the duty of the geologist to take note of in- 
numerable features Avhich have no delineation, still less explanation, 
on such maps. The geologist is probably the only class of person 
who has to traverse large areas with liis eyes open, not to one class of 
phenomena only, but to all that can help him to decide questions of 
concealed structure; and he naturally seeks to supplement this by 
personal contact with the inhabitants, and with their written and un- 
written records, which it is part of his business to interpret and ex- 
plain. Nor can he confine himself to the purely physiograj^hic as- 
pect of his area. He is led into bypaths as a byplav, and many facts 
with regard to the distribution of animals and ])lants, and of the 
dwellings, occupations, and characteristics of the people, can scarcely 
escape his observation; neither can lie shut his eyes to historic and 
prehistoric facts. Thus, Avhen a geologist leaves his district, lie is 
generally possessed of a store of knowledge reaching far beyond the 
strict bounds of his science. 

While geologists, from the conditions undei- which they work, 
have been able personally to make individual C()nrril)utions to these 
sciences, the most important service of geology as a whole has been 
the transformation of geography from a static into a dynamic sci- 
ence. In its earlier stages, geology discovered that jji'ogress involved 
the close study of the earth of the present and the application of 
that knowledge to explain its past changes; and tlie progress of ge- 
ology has onl}' intensihed botli the need of deeper study and the 



286 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

fuller application of it. To-day it is essential for geographers to be 
perfectly familiar with the past history of the earth in order that 
they may be able to explain the phenomena oi' the present. 

The question may be summed up by saying that geology has be- 
come a physiological study of the earth as an organism with a life 
all its o^Yn. We can watch the geographical changes through which 
the earth has passed, revealed as they are in the nature and distribu- 
tion of rocks and fossils. We can even discover the dry land — the 
actual landscape and physiographic relief itself — preserved in a 
fossil state, and judge from it the climates then prevailing and their 
distribution in distinct epochs. We can form some idea of the modes 
of origin and dates of appearance of continents and mountain chains, 
and other leading features of the relief of the crust. We are learning 
to read the evidence given by the interactions of igneous and aque- 
ous rocks as to the nature of the stresses by which the structure of the 
crust itself has been moulded. There are, it is true, many gaps in our 
Icnowlcdge, but their ver}^ existence is of value in quickening and 
directing research in order that our history may become as full as 
it can possibly be made. Each advance upon the technical side of the 
subject, the pursuit of detailed zonal stratigraphy, the application of 
the miscroscope in so many new directions, and the broadening of 
the area of study, all react sooner or later in improving, refining, 
and extending our knowledge of earth history. They combine v.ith 
the evidence of paleontology to convince us that this earth of ours is 
still young, active, and full of life, and that any process of " running 
down " is constantly being held by self-acting checks which are put- 
ting forward to vastly distant ages " all prospect of an end.'" 

Biological sciences. — While astronomy has given us the conception 
of illimitable space, it has done much to destroy Avhat has been 
called the anthropomorphic view- of creation. Geology, on the other 
hand has endowed us with an almost limitless conception of time, but 
it has done something to rehabilitate tlie importance of man as the 
higliest i)roduct yet reached in the long history of the earth. 

This it has done in the main through the intense reality that it has 
given to the conception of evolution. Although several authors, and 
two in particular, have pointed out that such a conception could not 
have been formed without the i)ostulates of time and continuity of 
existence contributed ])y geology, it is hardly realized how much 
geological labor on the life of the earth, and on life on the earth, as 
summed up b}'^ Lyell and grouped and presented by him in his great 
work on " The Principles of Geology." was necessary to give to 
evolution a concrete and cogent application. The function of this 
labor could hardly be better indicated than by the position of geology 
as displayed in I^yell's earlier editions. Tlie modern reader of them 



GEOLOGY IK SERVICE OF MAN WATTS 287 

is continually haunted by the feeling that the author was struggling 
for a single missing generalization which he failed to find; and 
although, in almost every branch of the subject treated, Lyell leads 
up again and again to the missing conception, and though the facts 
and inferences Avhich he marshalled can now be seen to be marching 
on this great idea, he never quite succeeded in attaining it for him- 
self. It was left for Darwin, than whom no one was more conscious 
of what he owed to Lyell, to see that the facts must rest on some great 
single fundamental principle, to realize that this principle was evolu- 
tion, and to apply it to his own branch, the development of life. 

Lyell had proved that the long history of the earth as recorded 
in the rocks revealed the operation of causes, small in relation to 
the earth as a Avhole, but persistent, the majority of them still in 
action. It was a further debt to Lyell that Darwin should bring in 
the continuous operation of small causes as the machinery operating 
and guiding the evolution of life. 

But though the work of geologists, as summed up by Lyell, pro- 
vided the starting point for the conception of organic evolution, it 
did not stop here. The idea of Uniformitarianism in which that 
work culminated was meant as a reaction against the fantastic opera- 
tions postulated by the Catastrophists, and was never intended to 
imply that these causes in the past were always balanced or distrib- 
uted as they are now. There was in Lyell's statements nothing to 
indicate that denudation or earth movement might not have been 
more active at periods of the past, that organic change might not 
accelerate or slow down, that there might not be variations in the 
trends of continental or oceanic development resulting in climatal 
and other changes, or that the very sources and intensities of energy 
from outside or inside the earth might not seriously vary. Only, 
warrant must be found for all such suppositions with regard to the 
earth of the past from fuller study of the earth of the present. And 
if we recognize the inner spirit which inspired the eloquent words 
of Lyell, when he had grasped that Darwin had supplied the one 
missing idea, we can not fail to see that his Uniformitarianism in- 
cluded evolution as one of the "existing causes" to be taken into 
consideration. 

The physiology of the earth, however, is that of a very complex 
organism, and we are sure that we do not yet know all the forces 
internal and external acting upon it, still less their relative value and 
intensity, their distribution and variation in the past, or the precise 
records which each is capable of imprinting on the rocks of the earth- 
crust. But it is becoming clearer that there has been a periodicity in 
the stages of development of the earth crust, and that on these great 
pulses of earth life there have been imposed innumerable Avaves of 



288 ANNUAL BEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

smaller cycles; and that, on account of their interference with, or 
reinforcement of. one another, the simpler type of cyclic repetition 
which mijiht have heen looked for in the history is masked and 
broken and diversified by actual happenings of an infinite variety. 

Van Hise more than once comi)lained of the tendency of <,feologists 
to adhere to single explanations of events, and advocated the neces- 
sity of considering the cooperation of many causes; and it may well 
be that in many outstanding pi'ol)lems such as past glacial or tro])i- 
cal periods, coral reefs, stages of earth movement, progression and 
regression of the oceans, we may find the ultimatxi explanation in the 
interaction of a number of " true causes." 

EVOLUTION 

During the long period of time comprised in the history from the 
Cambrian ])eriod onwards, the slow and persistent evolution of 
plant and animal life Avent forward and left ample record in the 
rocks. To warrant a belief in organic evolution, we are no longer 
solely dependent on reasoning founded on existing organisms or on 
the facts of their ontogeny and distribution. As M. Marcellin Boule 
says in his work on Fossil Man, " * * * pour tout ce qui a trait 
a revolution des etres organises en general, le dernier mot doit rester 
a la Paleontologie quand cctte science est en measure de parler claire- 
ment. Les plus fins travaux anatomiques, les comparaisons les plus 
approfondies, les raisonnements les plus ingenieux sur la morpholo- 
gic des etres actuels ne sauraient avoir la valeur demonstrative des 
documents tires de la roche ou ils sont enfouis et disposes dans leur 
ordre chronologiquc meme."*- Although we are only too painfully 
aware of the innumerable chances tlial conspire to prevent an animal 
or plant from securing immoi-tality by preservatictn as a fossil, the 
finding of better preserved material, the more skillful ])ieparation 
of it for examination, and the application to it of refined biological 
methods, such as careful dissecti(*n and (he serial sections of Profes- 
sor Sollas, are giving us more comi)lete and accurate knowledge than 
ever before. It may now be confidently stated that many of the 
most crucial links in the chain of e\<)l\ing life are in oiii- hands; 
that they actually lived in the past, and tluit their fossil forms show 
their rehvtionship to their predecessors and successors. The time has 
come when Darwin's famous chapter on the *' Imi)erfection of the 
Geological Record,'" an ai)()logy am-jUcu with the most balanced 
criticism and unbiased judgment, should be rewritten and revised. 

It is true that we seem as far as evei- fioni unNciling the points of 
divergence of the gi-eat phyla, and we can but I'eel that the time from 
the beginning of the Cambrian period onward is l)ut a small part of 

* Marcelliii Boule, Les Homnies Fossiles, li>23, p. 45;^. 



GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN WATTS 289 

the whole history of life on the earth. As with antiquarian research, 
each new discovery in geology, whether on the physical or the bio- 
logical side, only brings these distant ages more fully into view and 
emphasizes their modernity and their likeness to our own time. 
Hutton's famous dictum that he saw " no vestige of a beginning, 
no prospect of an end," is to-day more true than ever, when we 
regard the evidence of stratified rocks. But we know enough to 
convince us that Avithin post-Cambrian time evolution has steadily 
proceeded from general to special, from simple to complex, from 
lower to higher efficiency. 

In almost every subdivision of the animal kingdom, and in not 
a few branches of the vegetable kingdom, lines of descent and 
directions of specialization have been made out, sometimes visibly 
operatnig throughout whole Sj^stems, but more usually through 
smaller divisions of the record; and this in the former kingdom 
not only among vertebrates but among the invertebrates and even 
their lower subkingdoms. It may even be stated that in methods 
of defense, in food procuring, in the attainment of favorable posi- 
tions and attitudes, something very closely imitating what would be 
expected on the doctrine of the origin of species by "survival of the 
fittest " has again and again occurred. 

The essence of evolution is unbroken sequence, and Avhen Ave con- 
sider the extraordinary delicacy of the adjustment of life to its 
physical and organic environment, the mutual interdependence of 
life forms, and the necessity to them of such factors as favorable 
range of temperature, food, climatic conditions, soil, and the con- 
tinuity of the "element" in or on which they live, it is most Avon- 
derful that in the vast lapse of post-Archaean time it has been 
possible for life to exist continuously and continually to evolve, 
throughout those long ages. And this in spite of the fact that, 
although the main chain has been unbroken, conditions have, in 
many cases, been so unfavorable that whole groups have flourished 
and died out, while others haAC become so attenuated that only a 
fcAv surviA'ors haA^e been left, highly restricted in distribution, to 
burgeon out again Avhen the unfavorable conditions Avere removed, 
or in other places Avhere conditions have again become more favor- 
able to them. 

That life has survived continuously in spite of the vicissitudes 
through which it has been compelled to pass, and the frequent con- 
A^ergence upon it of unfaA'orable conditions, may Avell be taken to 
heart by those who fear that civilization Avill be brought to an end 
by the misuse of the poAAers that itself has evolved. They may 
surely take courage and trust that the remedy for these evils will 
come, as it has in innumerable other cases, not from conventions 



290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

and nn(lerstandin<:s that, as all liistor}^ shows, will be mere scraps 
of paper, but from the intensive application to them of the very 
science which has evolved them. 

Although the geological record is, and possibly will always remain, 
incomplete, it has yet proved remarkably representative, and cer- 
tain outstanding facts have been made out which are sufficient to 
show that the lines of organic evolution as recorded in geology are 
in accordance with what is theoretically probable, and with those 
taken by the evolution of domesticated organisms and by human arts 
and inventions. 

1. There can be no doubt that the stages of organic evolution 
are correlated with and were actuated by the stages in the inorganic 
evolution of the earth itself. That climatic change was effective 
in inducing migration, and thus in sharpening the struggle for 
existence against both enemy organisms and changed physical en- 
vironment; that extension and restriction of land and water areas 
in some cases brought about keener and more varied competition, 
change of habit or food, and in others the destruction of potential 
enemies and the securing of the advantages of a fair field for the 
survivors; and that activity of the earth-crust in such things as 
deposition and mountain building provided conditions for the exist- 
ence of an increased range of varieties and the conse([uent struggle 
between them: If we are not allowed to say that this brought about 
the survival of the fit, it at least caused the destruction of the unfit, 

2. It may be stated as a biological law that every locality becomes 
" full " of life, forms arriving or evolving to take advantage of the 
special facilities offered. In consequence, resistance to the incur- 
sion of new forms, even if they are exceptionally equipped, is very 
great, and it is only occasionally that such new forms can make 
good their immigration. There are, of course, marked exceptions, 
but these generally occur when degeneration or overgrowth in size 
accompanied by neglect of means of defense have occurred, or when 
an area has been for so long sheltered from the wider and more 
general course of evolution that it has fallen seriously behindhand 
in the race. 

The geological record giA-es indirect evidence of the same '' filling " 
of areas in the past in the extraordinary slowness with which 
advanced types that have eventually made great headway estab- 
lished themselves after their introduction; the earliest fishes, rep- 
tiles, and mammals are cases in point. Imperfect as the first mem- 
bers of these groups undoubtedly were, they must, even shortly 
after their introduction, have possessed considerable advantages 
over the older and established forms with which they found them- 
selves in competition. In size and strength they Avere doubtless 



GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN WATTS 291 

inferior, and probably they must have taken long periods to make 
wood their advantage. But in all such cases the new forms went for 
a long period into " retreat," and, in face of the apparent slowness 
of their evolution and the bitter competition to which they were 
subjected, it is remarkable that they overpassed the troubles of 
racial youth, and eventually took the place to which they were 
entitled in the scheme of life. It seems justifiable to believe that 
there must have been at least some well-equipped types which did 
not survive competition in these early stages, but went under with 
all their promise of future success. We can easily imagine that 
the survival of such, had it occurred, may have altered the whole 
course of evolution and produced a life-story very different from 
that we know to-day, and of which we ourselves form no small 
part. 

3. Not less remarkable than the period of " retreat " is that of 
booming development which at last came to each successful modifica- 
tion. In this connection we can instance the "pleine evolution " 
of the graptolites, the euechinoids, ammonoids, and belemnoids, 
the fishes, reptiles, birds, and mammals, each in its own time. 
Each slowly but surely built up its supremacy, and then wantoned 
through long ages as the lord of creation in its own element and 
in its own day. Both the period of sanctuary and the subsequent 
boom can be closely paralleled by the case of many human inven- 
tions and in the occupations and history of mankind. 

4. But while there are outstanding cases in which a line of ad- 
vance is taken that is capable of successive improvements and leads 
on to continuous success, there are many other instances in which 
the line of advance, though temporarily advantageous, has only been 
carried through a limited number of stages, and eventually failed 
either by its inherent inadequacy or by imposing so heavy a burden 
on the economy of the organism that it Avas unable to bear the cost. 

The only instance I need quote, though there are many others, 
is the use of defensive armor, spines, plates, hooks, horns, etc. 
These provide an obvious method of resistance to attack, and this 
defensive attitude has been practised by one group of organisms 
after another, but ahvays with the same disastrous result, the im- 
position of a fatal strain on the organism to meet renewed, perfected, 
and more vigorous attack. The spinose graptolites and trilobites, 
the armored fishes and reptiles, are cases in point, and in the last 
of these instances, at least, victory rested with tne acquirement oj 
swiftness xn movement, accompanied by increasing power of attack 
such as is given by the development of teeth or claws or both. 
Again and again in the Tertiary Era one group of mammals after 
another, before, or more usually after, the attainment of great size. 



292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

has taken to sonic means of sedentary defense, and in every case 
the cost of upkeep has been too great and the group has gone under. 
Every time the race has been to the swift, active, and strong, and 
those that trusted in " passive resistance," in " defence and not de- 
fiance," have gone under in competition with those that have been 
prepared to face the risks involved in attack. The fact that turtles 
and arniadiUos liave survived to the present indorses rather than 
vitiates the principle. 

Other cases of rapid decline or sudden disappearance are more 
diflicult to account for. The waning of the brachiopods, but not 
yet their disappearance, the disappearance of the pteridosperms, the 
rugose corals, the belemnoids and ammonoids synchronizing witli 
the vanishing of many orders of reptiles, Avill long furnish subjects 
for j-esearch by biologists and geologists. 

And it may well be that the explanation will often be along 
biological rather than physical lines, such as those suggested for the 
graptolites; Lapworth pointed out that their disappearance — in 
spite of a brave effort of passive resistance — synchronized with the 
great development of fishes, and the assumption by them of many 
of the functions previously discharged by the trilobites. In other 
cases the explanation may be more in the direction of that given for 
the reptiles, to be referred to later. 

The rarity in the geological record of some of the stages in evolu- 
tion, and the absence of others which must surely have existed, may 
receive some explanation from what has frequently occurred in the 
history of human iuAcntion. If variants arise and are subjected to 
intense competition, they have no chance in the struggle for exist- 
ence unless they show rapid improvement and development of the 
favorable variations within a few generations. Hence the numbers 
exhibiting each of the early stages of change will always be few and 
the chances of their preservation slight. Those who have tried to 
work out the stages in the history of an invention, for instance, will 
appreciate the rarity of '' missing links " and the difHculty of filling 
in every step toward the later perfection. These are looked upon as 
" freaks " and, imlcss they present real and marked improvement, 
are never manufactured on a large scale. Their numbers conse- 
([uently are few, and many of them are the victims of experiment 
and often do not survive the experience. 

5. Perhaps the most wonderful result disclosed b}'^ a study of the 
later part of the geological record is the steady and unbroken evo- 
lution of brain from the earliest vertebrate animals to the present. 
The exceeding slowness of the process in its early stages is not less 
wonderful than its acceleration during the latest stages of geological 
history. The disappearance of so many orders of reptiles at the end 



GEOLOGY IN SEE VICE OF MAK— WATT^ 293 

of the Mesozoic period, at the close of a long and most promising 
chain of evolution, indicates that there Avas some inherent weakness 
underlying the line of evolution entered upon by them, which pro- 
ceeded so far and favorably that it was impossible to retrace the 
path. This may well have been connected with the substance or con- 
struction of brain and nerve. If so, this side of evolution has to be 
seriously reckoned with, and it may be that the fundamental weak- 
ness of physical as opposed to intellectual evolution brought this 
flourishing and well-developed group to its end. 

It has, of course been suggested by Searles V. Wood, jr.,^ and 
others that the destruction of Mesozoic life types was brought about 
by physical changes; but, apart from the fact that the particular 
changes supposed b}^ the former did not as a matter of fact occur, 
the entire explanation provides a cause utterly insufiicient in com- 
parison with the potency of organic struggle against creatures better 
endowed with warm blood, adequate brain substance, and the ac- 
tivity and enterprise springing therefrom. 

In spite of the evidence of acceleration as the higher ranks of 
animals are reached, and in spite of the extraordinary efficiency of 
the human brain and all the benefits to the organism it brings about, 
Ave may Avell be appalled by the aeons which have been used up and 
the millions of varieties which have passed aAvay in the production 
of this, the most efficient scientific apparatus yet invented or evolved. 

6. But if it has taken long ages to evolve an animal capable of 
a broader geographical distribution than any other, with a consti- 
tution capable of withstanding the Avidest ranges of heat and cold, 
and of peopling the world from its tropical deserts to its polar 
wastes; and to endoAv him with a brain by A^rtue of which he has 
made himself master of the earth and all its living inhabitants; it 
has taken no less time for the evolution of the many factors Avithout 
which his present success Avould have been impossible. To pick out 
a single instance, probably fcAv things in the Avhole story of life have 
been more fruitful in effect than the appearance of the grasses in late 
P^ocene times, folloAved by their rapid evolution and spread in the 
Oligocene and under the direction of the critical events of the 
Miocene period. Starkie Gardner, in an admirable paper, first 
drew attention to the vital importance to the animal evolution of 
the AA'orld in general, and to the Avelfare of man in particular, of this 
t.tep forAvard. It Avas folloAved by great changes in the insect Avorld, 
by the rapid production of herbiA-orous mammals endoAved Avith 
speed, great migratory poAvers, special dental and other anatomical 

•Thil. Mag., Vol. XXIII, 1862. 
76041— 2G 20 



294 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

adjustment to the new foods, and the institution in their herds of a 
discipline, subordination, and leadership which are almost tribal. 
These last qualities were rendered doubly necessary by the consequent 
rapid development of carnivora, and the need for scrapping passive 
and even active means of defense in order to secure the power, speed, 
and reserve necessarv to follow their food harvests over great 
stretches of country. At the same time the habits and instincts thus 
brought about were those which man, by domestication, has been able 
to turn to liis own ends. Thus at a blow, as the outcome of this stage 
of Tertiary evolution, there became available for mankind not only 
his chief plant food and drink, his luxuries as well as his necessaries, 
but his chief animal foods, together with his aid from the speed, 
strength, service, and endurance of tlic animals which he domesti- 
cated, and to which he assumed the position of leader of the herd. 

But while with the aid just described it was possible for mankind 
to progress far on the road of civilization, progress would have been 
stopped, and as a matter of fact was seriously retarded, u.ntil the 
discovery and utilization of the solar energy stored up in the earth's 
crust during the Carboniferous and subsequent Periods in the form 
of coal and other fossil fuels. The very exceptional conditions, cli- 
matal, geographical, and botanical, requisite for coal formation, oc- 
curred all too seldom in geological history, but it has so happened 
that few areas of the earth are devoid of coal belonging to one Period 
or another; and the shaping of kingdoms and dominions, has been 
such as to include supi)lies of fuel in most of them. 

Whatever may be the main sources of energy in the future, radiant, 
intratelluric, hydraulic, tidal, atomic, we have been largely depend- 
ent in the past, and probably shall continue to depend for many 
years to come, on that poi"tion of the solar energy stored up by 
vegetation, and especially on that preserved in the earth crust in 
the form of coal. 

But again civilization must have been greatly hampered or driven 
into a different course but for the agencies which have sorted out 
from the medley of materials of which the earth is composed, simple 
compounds or aggregates of compounds, or in rarer cases simple 
elements, in such a form that they are available for human use 
without the expenditure on them of excessive quantities of energy. 
The concentration of metalliferous ores, salines, and the host of 
other mineral resources has made perhaps the most important con- 
tribution of all to the latest stage — in good and evil — attained by 
civilization. 

Finally, doubt may be expressed whether man could have attained 
his present position if he had not made his appearance compara- 
tively soon after a period of intense earth activity, when broad areas 



GEOLOGY IN SERVICE OF MAN WATTS 295 

of newly raised sediment were available for occupation, when the 
ajirents of denudation and renewal were in vigorous operation, and 
when a wave of rapid organic evolution was active. And a con- 
jecture may be permitted that human evolution itself was probably 
hastened by the latest climatal severity through which the earth 
passed, the effects of which are only slowly passing away. 

Much of what has just been said may revive recollection of an 
old Swiss guide book which praised the beneficence of Providence 
in directing the dreaded avalanches " into the desolate and unin- 
habited valley of the Trumleten Thai and in sheltering from them 
the beautiful, fertile, and inhabited valley of Lauterbrunnen." 
However, it is far from my intention to imply that " everything is 
for the best in this best of all possible worlds," but only to point 
cut in reviewing the long chain of events of which we see the 
present end-product in civilized man, that within the ken of the 
geologist there have been many critical stages in the earth's history 
when any marked change in the conditions which then prevailed 
must inevitably have reacted profoundly upon the development of 
the human race when at long last it stepped out from the lower 
ranks to take the earth as its rightful possession. 

CONCLUSION 

A review of the history and present position of geology shows 
that its better-known services to mankind have been in relation to 
the foundations on which industrial development and modern civili- 
zation have been built — the mineral resources of the earth. These 
are many and various, all of them explored by geological methods. 
In every application of them we are again brought back to the 
primal essentials — water, iron, and fuel — and it is in the discovery 
and exploitation of these that the services of geology have been of 
especial value. 

But in the course of the development of both the economic and 
the scientific sides of geology the principles discovered and elabo- 
rated have fertilized and enriched human thought as expressed, 
not only in other sciences but also in the sphere of literature. As 
it has become more precise and is able to give a more accurate and 
detailed picture of the stages through which the earth passed dur- 
ing the long stor}^ unfolded by the study of the stratified rocks, it 
has shown that the earth, though only a minute fraction of the 
visible universe, has had a wonderful and individual- history of its 
own. The keynote of this history is evolution, the dream of phi- 
losophers from the earliest times, now passed from the realm of 
hypothesis into that of established theory. 



296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

We are able to watch the evolution of the oceans and continents, 
of the distribution of landscape and climates, and of the long 
succession of living beings on the earth, throughout many millions 
of years. During these ages we see the action of the same chemical 
and physical laws as are now in operation, modified perhaps in 
scale or scope, producing geographical and biological results com- 
parable with those of to-day. Hutton and Lyell discovered for 
us in the present a key to unlock the secrets of the past; the history 
thus revealed illuminates and explains many of the phenomena of 
the present. 

And the outcome of it all is to endow man with a simi)le and 
Avorthy conception of the story of creation, and to fill him with 
reverence for the wondrous scheme .which, unrolling through the 
ages, without haste, without rest, has prepared the world for man's 
dominion and made him fit and able to occupy it. 

I desire to express my thanks to Mr. G. W. Lamplugh, Professor 
E. AV. MacBride, Professor W. G. Fearnsides, and Mr. G. S. Sweet- 
ing for kind assistance in the preparation of this address. 



THE YEASTS: A CHAPTEK IN MICROSCOPICAL 

SCIENCE ^ 



By A. Chaston Chapman, F. R. S., F. I. C, F. C. S., P. R. M. S. 



The subject on which I have the honor to address 3^ou this evening 
is intimately connected with phenomena in which mankind has 
taken a very deep interest from time immemorial. 

It is not my intention to deal with the antiquity of alcoholic 
fermentation, except just to say that references to the use of fer- 
mented beverages by ancient peoples, such as the Chinese and Egyp- 
tians, chiefly in connection with religious and ceremonial observances, 
appear to date back more than 4,000 years, and in the Vedic books — 
the oldest literary monuments of the Indo-European races — there 
are many references to intoxicating beverages. 

The word " fermentation," from fervere^ to boil or seethe, was 
at first applied to all cases of chemical change whose cause was 
unknown, and which were accompanied by the formation of large 
quantities of gas, giving the liquid the appearance of boiling or 
seething. In its widest sense the word is still occasionally applied 
to a number of chemical processes in which micro-organisms are 
the active agents, such, for example, as the souring of milk, the 
conversion of alcohol into vinegar, the production of butyric acid, 
and similar processes. In its restricted sense, hoAvever, and in the 
sense in which I shall use it this evening, it is applied to the con- 
version of sugar into (mainly) alcohol and carbon dioxide gas by 
means of the organism known as yeast. 

The subject of fermentation is capable of rough division into 
two parts — namely, the phenomenon, that is to say, the i^rocess, and 
the origin or cause of that phenomenon — yeast. 

With fermentation regarded as a chemical process I do not 
propose to deal, beyond referring very briefly to a few of the earlier 
attempts made to explain an occurrence which was characterized 
by so much that was mysterious. The word '• fermentation " is 
very frequently met with in writings of the alchemists from the 
thirteenth to the fiftenth centuries, but it is applied to a consider- 
able number of chemical processes of all descriptions, and the ideas 

* Address of the President of the Royal Microscopical Society, read Jan. 21, 1925. 
Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the Royal Microscopical Society, March, 1925. 

297 



298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

of the writers were vague and confused in the extreme. Perhaps 
the first philosophical explanations put forward were those of the 
German philosopher, Stahl (16G0-1734) and of the English physi- 
cian, Thomas Willis, who described himself as " of Christ Church 
in Oxford, and Sidley Professor of Natural Philosophy in that 
famous University." According to their view, fermentation is 
considered to be an induced action — that is to say, the ferment is 
a body endowed with a particular molecular motion, which motion 
is, by induction, communicated to other bodies with which it may 
be in contact, thus bringing about their decomposition. Thus, 
Willis in his tract, "De Fermentatione " (1600), says: "Fermenta- 
tion is the internal motion of particles, or of the principles of a 
body, either tending to the perfection of the same body, or its change 
into another. * * * There are many methods by which fermen- 
tation may be induced. The first, the chief one, is the adding of 
a certain ferment to the body to be fermented, the particles of which 
being first placed in vigour and motion, may arouse the other slug- 
gish and idle particles in the mass that is to be fermented, and may 
drive them into motion. * * * ]5y this means Barm or Yest, 
beaten eggs and such like, stir up a fermentation almost in every- 
thing." But in spite of the clearness of these statements, Willis, 
like the other philosophers of his time, included putrefaction, the 
formation of minerals in the earth, and a vast number of other 
natural phenomena under the general term " fermentation." 

The next important attempt to explain the nature of fermenta- 
tion w-as made in 1839, when the great German chemist, Liebig, 
put forward a theory which was a modification of that of Stahl 
and Willis. Liebig asserted that nitrogenous matter on oxidation 
underwent a change which determined the breaking up of the 
molecules of fermentable matter in contact with it, and laid con- 
siderable emphasis on the importance of the presence of oxygen. 
This theory of contact decomposition as the result of molecular 
vibration held the field for more than 30 years, but during the 
latter part of its life it was vigorously attacked by Pasteur, who 
was then engaged upon his epoch-making biochemical researches. 
The controversy was a long and vigorous one, and in the end 
Liebig modified his original views to the extent of admitting that 
the fermentation process was in some way connected with the life 
activity of the organism producing it, but he adhered so far to his 
earlier view as to hold that this life activity was not in itself the 
exciting cause, but was only necessary for the formation of some 
protein like substance which actually brought about the decom- 
position. This theory, which was put forward shortly before his 



THE YEASTS CHAPMAN 299 

death in 1873, is of special interest in connection with the view 
which is now universally held as the result of comparatively recent 
observations. 

I will now turn to a discussion of the nature of the investigations 
Avhich have led up to our knowledge of the character and life history 
of the exciting cause of fermentation — that is to say, of the yeast 
organism — and for this purpose it will be necessary for me to take 
you back nearly 200 years from Liebig's day. Although the phe- 
nomena of fermentation had been a matter of common observation 
for many centuries, it is obvious that no successful attempt could 
have been made to arrive at a knowledge of the originating cause 
until the microscope had been sufficiently developed for the purpose. 
The first examination of yeast itself of which we have any record 
was made by the great Dutch microscopist, Leeuwenhoek, in 1680. 

At this stage, and before dealing with the actual results of 
Leeuwenhoek's observations, it may be of interest to some members 
of the society if I refer in some little detail to the instruments 
employed by one who may justly be regarded as one of the greatest 
microscopists of all times. Tlie following description by Martin 
Folkes, published in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal 
Society in the year 1723, contains much that is historically of great 
interest, and something tl\at may not be well known to all who are 
present this evening. 
Mr. Folkes says: 

It is now above fifty years since the late Mr. Leeuwenhoek first began his 
correspondence with the Royal Society, when he was recommended by Dr 
Regnerus de Graaf as a person already considerable by his microscopical dis- 
coveries made with glasses contrived by himself, and excelling even those of 
the famous Eustachio Divini, so much talk'd of in the learned world ; and as 
he has ever since that time apply'd himself with the greatest diligence and 
success to the same sort of observations, no doubt can be made of the excel- 
lency of those instruments he so long use'd, so much improv'd, and upon the 
fullest experience so often commended in his letters ; great part of which at 
his decease he thought fit to bequeath to this society, for whom he ever ex- 
press'd the greatest esteem and respect. He had indeed intimated this design 
in several of his letters, and in his last will and testament gave orders that 
Uie glasses should be deliver'd as soon as conveniently might be after his 
decease ; which was accordingly done by the directions of his surviving 
daughter, Mrs. Maria van Leeuwenhoek, to whose great care we are oblig'd 
for the safe and speedy delivery of this very curious and valuable present. 

The. legacy consists of a small Indian cabinet, in the drawers of which are 
thirteen little boxes or cases, each containing two microscopes handsomely fitted 
up in silver, all which, not only the glasses but also the apparatus for manag- 
ing of them, were made with his own hands ; besides which they seem to have 
been put in order in the cabinet by himself as he design'd them to be presented 
to the Royal Society, each miscroscope having had an object placed before it, 
and the whole being accompany'd with a register of the same in his own hand- 



300 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

writin:,'. as l.oinK desirous the gentlemen of the sooioty should without trouble 
1k' enabled to examine many of those objec-ts on which he had made the most 
considerable discoveries. 

Several of these objects yet remain before the microscopes, tho' the greater 
number are broken off, which was proliably done by the shakinj? of the boxes 
in the carriage. I have nevertheless added a translation of the register, as it 
may serve to give a juster idea of what Mr. Lcuwenhoek design's by this 
legacy; and also be of use, by putting any curiims ob.server in mind of a 
number of minute subjects that may in a particular manner deserve his 
attention. 

Then follows a list of the objects, which maj' conveniently be 
omitted. 

For the construction of the.se instruments it is the .same in them all, and 
the apparatus is very siniide and convenient: they are all single microscopes 
consisting each of a very small double convex glass let into a socket between 
two silver plates rivetted together and pierc'd with a small hole ; the object 
is placed on a silver point or needle, which by means of screws of the same 
metal provided for that purpose, may be turn'd about, rais'd, or depress'd, and 
brought nearer or put farther from the glass as the eye of the observer, the 
nature of the object, and the convenient examination of its .several parts may 
require. 

Mr. Leeuwenhoek lix'd his objects if they were solid to this silver point 
with glew ; and when they were fluid or of such a nature as not to be com- 
modiously view'd unless spread upon glass, he first fitted them on a little 
plate of talk, or excessively thin blown glass, which he aftenvards glewed to the 
needle in the same manner as his other objects. 

The ob.servatinn indeed of the circulation of the blood, and some others, 
require a somewhat different apparatus, and such a one he had, to which he 
occasionally fix'd the same microscopes; but as it makes no part of this cabinet, 
I shall omit giving any farther account of it. only taking notice that it may 
be seen in a letter to the Royal Society of the 12th of January, 1GS9, and 
printed in his Arcana naturae Detecta, No. G9. But I was willing to mention 
just so much as it may serve to shew the universal u.se of these microscopes, 
and as it induces me, among other things, to believe, these were the kind 
of microscoites generally, if not solely, us'd by this curious gentleman in all 
his observations, and to which we are oblig'd for bis most surprizing discov- 
eries. 

Another particular to the same purpose, I would not omii, and that is, that 
upon the late (pieen Mary's doing Mr. Leeuwenhoek the honour of a visit at 
Delft, and viewing his curiosities with great satisfaction, he presented her 
with a couple of his microscopes, which as I have been inform'd by one who 
had them a considerable time in his hands were of the same sort as these, 
and did not any ways differ from one of the 13 cases contain'd in the drawers 
of this cabinet. 

The glasses are all exceedingly clear, and shew the object very bright and 
distinct, which nnist be owing to the great care this gentleman took In the 
choice of his glass, his exactness in giving it the true figure; and afterwards 
amongst nnmy, reserving such only for his u.se, as he upon tryal found to be 
most excellent. Their powers of magnifying are different, as different sorts 
of objects may require ; and, as on the one hand, being all ground glasses, 
none of them are so small, and consetiuently magnify to so great a degree, as 
some of those drops frfiiuciitly us'd in other microscopes; yet on the other, the 



THE YEASTS CHAPMAN 301 

distinctness of these very much exceeds wliat I have met witli in the glasses 
of that sort ; and this was what Mr. Leeuwenhoelv ever principally propos'd 
to himself, rejecting all those degrees of magnifying in which he could not so 
well obtain that end ; for he informs us in one of his letters where he is 
speaking of the excessive praise some give to their glasses on this account, 
that although he had above forty years had glasses by him of an extraor- 
dinary smallness, he had made but very little use of them ; as having found 
in a long course of experience, that the most considerable discoveries were to 
be made with such glasses as magnifying but moderately, exhibited the object 
with the most perfect brightness and distinction. 

But however excellent these glasses may be judg'd, Mr. Leeuwenhoek's dis- 
coveries are not entirely to be imputed to their goodness only : his own great 
judgment and experience in the manner of using them, together with the 
continual application he gave to that business, and the indefatigable industry 
with which he contemplated often and long upon the same subject viewing it 
under many and different circumstances, cannot but have enabled him to 
form better judgments of the nature of his objects, and see farther into their 
constitution, than it can be imagined any other person can do, that neither 
has the experience, nor has taken the pains this curious author had so 
long done. 

Nor ought we to forget a piece of skill, in which he very particulai'ly 
excell'd, which was that of preparing his objects in the best manner, to be 
view'd by the microscope ; and of this I am persuaded any one will be satisfied, 
who shall apply himself to the examination of some of the same objects as do 
yet remain before these glasses ; at least, I have my self found so much 
difficulty in this particular, as to observe a very sensible difference between 
the appearances of the same object, when apply'd by my self, and when 
prepared by Mr. Leeuwenhoek, though view'd with glasses of the very same 
goodness. 

I have the rather insisted upon this, as it may be a caution to us, that we 
do not rashly condemn any of this gentleman's observations, though even with 
his own glasses we should not immediately be able to verify them our selves. 
We are under very great disadvantages for v.ant of the experience he had, 
and he has himself put us in mind more than once, that those who are the 
best skill'd in the use of magnifying-glasses may be misled, if they give too 
sudden a judgment upon what they see, or 'till they have been assured from 
repeated experiments. But we have seen so many, and those of his most 
surprizing discoveries, so perfectly confirm'd by great numbers of the most 
curious and judicious observers, that there can surely be no reason to distrust 
his accuracy in those others, which have not yet been so frequently or carefully 
examin'd. 

Upon the whole, it is to be hoped some of the society will pursue those 
enquiries the late possessor of these microscopes was so deservedly famous for ; 
and that as we have lost in Mr. Leeuwenhoek a most worthy member and a 
most valuable correspondent, this last piece of his respect to the Royal Society 
will not only enrich our repository but both encourage and enable some other 
diligent observer to prosecute the same curious and useful discoveries. 

Unhappily the microscopes bequeathed to the Koj^al Society by 
Leeuwenhoek have ceased to enrich its repository, since, when the 
society removed to its present habitation, tlie miscroscopes disap- 
peared in a very mysterious manner, and their whereabouts— if 
indeed they still exist — has not been traced, even to the present day. 



302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

That the Royal Society were appreciative of Leeuwenhoek's great 
services to science is shown by the fact that in 1G79 a certain Mr. 
Hunt was " instructed to prepare a silver box for the diploma to be 
sent to Mr. Leeuwenhoek." 

In 1G80 Leeuwenhoek addressed to the Royal Society a communi- 
cation headed "De Fermento Cerevisiae," in which he announced 
that he had discovered that yeast consisted of small ovoid globules. 
Of these, which he api^eared to regard as consisting chiefly of batches 
of six, he gives several excellent drawings. When we remember 
the nature of the magnifying apparatus w^ith which he had to work, 
and that the average diameter of the yeast-cell is only y^^ millimeter 
(^-^ inch), it will, I think, be realized that Leeuwenhoek had 
accomplished a very remarkable feat. He did not, however, push 
the discovery any further, and in this position, curiously enough, 
the matter remained for more than a century. 

In the year 1814 Kieser, in the course of a paper by Dobereiner, 
described yeast as consisting of small spherical corpuscles, but this 
statement does not appear to have attracted attention, and about the 
year 1837 the microscopical character of yeast was again made the 
subject of investigation, and the true nature of the yeast organism 
was dotinitely and independently discovered by three observers, Cag- 
niard de Latour, Schwann, and Kiitzing. These observers recognized 
that yeast is composed of a vast number of small transparent glob- 
ules which reproduce by budding and which consist of a cell wall 
with granular contents. A year or two later Schwann appears also 
to have observed the formation ©f ascospores. These observers, and 
Cagniard de Latour in especial, put forward the view that it was 
owing to the vegetation of these cells that the disengagement of car- 
bon dioxide gas and the formation of alcohol were due. The re- 
searches of these observers having shown that yeast consisted of a 
lowly vegetable organism, capable of reproducing by budding, the 
question arose, how w^as yeast originally formed, and around this 
subject, as is well known, a fierce scientific controvers}'^ raged, the 
Heterogenesists, on the one hand, upholding the doctrine of sponta- 
neous generation, and the Biogenesists, on the other hand, asserting 
that all life must be derived from preexisting life. With this aspect 
of the matter, and with this controversy I do not propose on this 
occasion to deal, and it will suffice perhaps to say that the rigid 
experiments of Pasteur succeeded in proving to the satisfaction of 
practically the whole scientific world that every yeast cell was de- 
rived from a preexisting cell of the same kind, and that the doc- 
trine of spontaneous generation was not based upon any foundation 
of fact. 



THE YEASTS CHAPMAN 303 

The microscope having definitely shown yeast to consist of minute 
living cells — that is to say, of a living organism — it became of high 
interest and importance to study its life history, and to ascertain 
what connection, if any, there was between the vital functions of the 
organism and the phenomena of fermentation. It was very quickly 
recognized that yeast usually reproduced by budding, but in 1839 
Schwann appears to have observed for the first time that it was also 
capable of reproducing by the formation of ascospores. 

About the year 1856 Pasteur commenced his epoch-making re- 
searches on fermentation, and brought to bear on the subject that 
experimental skill and wonderful energy which were characteristic 
of all his work. To deal with this in any detail would be impossible 
within the limits assigned to a presidential address, and would, more- 
over, take me outside the scope of my subject. It will, however, 
suffice for my purpose if I point out that to Pasteur belongs the 
honor of having definitely enunciated a physiological theory of fer- 
mentation — that is to ssij, a theory which associated the formation of 
the various fermentation products directly with the life activity of 
the yeast organism. It is true that in some important respects his 
views have had to undergo modification as the result of more recent 
work, but the essential fact still remains that the production of 
alcohol and carbon dioxide during the process of fermentation is 
indirectly the result of the life activity of the yeast cell. 

In 1897 Buchner made the very important and interesting obser- 
vation that the liquid contents of the yeast cell, when added to a 
fermentable liquid, are able to excite fermentation without the 
presence of any cells at all. He showed that the production of 
alcohol and carbon dioxide were the result of the activity of an 
enzyme secreted by the cell, to which he gave the name zymase. 
As in the case of other enzymes, zymase is very sensitive to external 
conditions, and is also highly selective in respect of its chemical 
activities. Thus, so far as is known, the hexoses alone, and of these, 
only four (d-glucose, d-mannose, d-galactose, and d-fructose) are 
directly fermentable; and before the fermentation of other sugars, 
such as maltose and cane sugar, can take place, it is necessary that 
they should be converted into one or other of these hexoses. This 
is, in all cases, effected by enzymes which are secreted by the yeast, 
and it is very interesting to note that certain yeasts, while secreting 
invertase, and therefore capable of fermenting cane sugar, do not 
secrete maltase, and are therefore incapable of fermenting maltose. 
Then again, there are a few yeasts which, in addition to secreting 
invertase and maltase, secrete lactase, and are therefore capable of 
fermenting milk sugar. Every yeast cell is, in fact, a minute 
laboratory in which chemical changes of the utmost complexity are 



304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

brought about with apparently the greatest ease, and where processes 
of building up and breaking down are carried out in a manner of 
which even to-day we have but very little conception. 

We will now turn for a moment to the consideration of yeast as 
a living organism. 

The yeasts, as is well known, belong to the great family of the 
fungi, and may be described as unicellular fungi, reproducing by 
budding, and capable also of forming ascospores. This latter func- 
tion is of importance from the point of view of classification, as 
it serves to differentiate between what are regarded as the true 
yeasts and certain other closely allied organisms, such as the torulas 
and mycoderma. In the common process of budding, the bud, which 
occurs tirst as a small protuberance on the surface of the cell, quickly 
increases in size until it has attained roughly the dimensions of the 
parent cell, after which it usually becomes detached, leading a sepa- 
rate existence, and reproducing in turn by the same process. It 
often happens that before the offspring cell has separated from the 
parent cell it has itself connnenced to bud, and so chains or clusters 
of connected cells may frequently be seen. 

In the second mode of i-eproduction to which reference is made 
above, the yeast cell becomes changed into an asc, in which are 
formed a number of spores which may vary from one to as many as 
twelve, but is usually from two to four. The conditions which favor 
this mode of reproduction arc the employment of young and. vigorous 
cells, a moist surface, plenty of air, and a suitable temperature, usu- 
ally about 25° C. Under these conditions, and at the end of about 
ii4 hours, certain changes will be seen to be taking place in the pro- 
toplasmic contents of many of the cells, especially the more vigor- 
ous ones. The protoplasm becomes at first very granular, and then 
signs of segregation become visible, the contents of the cell separat- 
ing into a number of ill-defined portions, usually from 2 to -1, but in 
some species as many as 8 or 12. A little later each of these segre- 
gated portions of highly granular protoplasm becomes invested with 
a membrane, and it can then be seen that the cell contains a number 
of well-defined spores. During the formation and development ol 
the spores the parent cell often swells considerably, and in the end 
bursts, liberating the spores, each of which constitutes an individual 
yeast cell, and is capable of reproducing in the ordinary way by 
budding. It may be added that the line between budding and asco- 
spore formation is not very sharp, and that it often happens that 
budding and sporulation may be taking place simultaneously. As a 
general rule the spores are spherical, but in some of the yeasts they 
have very characteristic forms. It would seem that spore formation 



THE YEASTS ^CUAPMAN 305 

is a provision on the part of nature for securing the persistence of 
the species under conditions in which active budding is impossible. 
It appears, at an}^ rate, to play an important part in the hibernation 
of 3^easts, rendering it possible for them to live through the winter 
in the soil, or on surfaces from which very little nutriment can be 
extracted. 

In addition to reproducing by budding and by ascospore forma- 
tion, yeasts are capable of reproducing by still a third method, 
name!}', that of true conjugation. In these yeasts, constituting the 
genus Zygosnccharomyces^ certain of the cells form, instead of ordi- 
nary buds, long beak-like processes. When the " beaks " of two ad- 
jacent cells touch one another a union takes place, the tijis of the 
" beaks " disappear, and a tubular connection is established between 
the two cells, one or both of Avhich then proceed to produce asco- 
spores. Of these conjugating yeasts a number of different species 
have been described, and this sexual process in one form or another 
appears to be much more common than was until recently supposed. 

Finally, there is a group of organisms, usually included among 
the Saccharomijcetes^ which are capable of reproducing by the pro- 
cess of fission. In these so-called Schizosaccharomycetes the fission 
of the cell, often accompanied by conjugation, is preceded by the 
formation of a septum, which at once commences to divide into 
two lamellae. Budding does not occur, but the cells form spores, 
usually from two to eight. It will be seen, therefore, that in the 
great family of the yeasts many types of reproduction are exhib- 
ited — from true conjugation (heterogamic and isogamic) in the case 
of some, through isogamic conjugation of ascospores formed in the 
same asc, in oth«rs, to complete parthenogenesis, as in the case of 
many of the better knoAvn cultivated yeasts. The industrial yeasts, 
which appear to be entirely asexual, may perhaps be regarded as 
retrograde forms descended from higher types in which sexuality 
was quite clearl}^ marked. On this point I do not consider myself 
qualified to express an opinion. 

As may well be supposed, in the case of a group of organisms 
which, although presenting some very important differences, are 
yet so closely allied, and in which there are very many transitional 
forms, a great deal of confusion exists in respect of their classifica- 
tion. The system at present generally adopted is one based upon 
that suggested by Hansen in 1904, but it is customary to include 
the Schizosaccharomycetes which he excluded, and there has been, of 
course, a natural tendency to include a number of subdivisions. Tlie 
great family of the Saccharoniycetes is capable of being subdivided 
into a number of groups or genera, each of which in turn includes a 
number of species, considerably more than 100 of which have been 
described. 



306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

I will not attempt to deal with these various fjeneia in any detail, 
but it may be of interest just to ^rive some indication of the gen- 
eral nature of the principles underlying one of the systems of classi- 
fication, which differs, however, in some respects from that of Hansen. 
According to this, yeasts may be divided into five main groups. The 
first group includes the Schizosaccharomycetes^ characterized as I 
have indicated above by their method of reproducing by transverse 
division. The ascs often result from isogamic conjugation, and as a 
rule from four to eight ascospores are formed. 

The second group, or Zygosaccharomycetes^ consists of yeasts in 
which conjugation of a more or less well-marked character is con- 
nected with the formation of the asc. This may, perhaps, be a very 
primitive group, and one from which, possibly, the parthenogenic 
yeasts have been in process of time derived. This group has been 
divided into a number of genera, depending on the precise character 
of the conjugation process. 

The third group comprises all those yeasts which reproduce 
mainh' by budding, and in which the formation of the asc is not, 
so far as is known, preceded by any process of conjugation. This 
group, which has been subdivided into several genera, comprises the 
true Saccharomycetes — that is to say, the alcohol-producing yeasts 
of industry. 

The fourth group, which includes the genera Pichia and Willia, 
comprises yeasts which do not exhibit any trace of sexuality, and 
which usually develop in the form of a film or skin upon the 
surface of the liquids in which they happen to be growing. These 
organisms do not, as a rule, produce any appreciable (Quantity of 
alcohol, but some of them give rise to the production of fruity 
ethers. Finally, there is a fifth group, including tw^o or three 
genera, consisting of organisms w^hose connection with the Saccha- 
romycetes is somewhat doubtful. 

From what I have said it will have been gathered that the 
division of the yeasts into a number of more or less Avell-defined 
genera has been based almost entirely upon differences in their 
morphological and physiological characters. For the further dif- 
ferentiation into species it was found necessary, in many cases, to 
adopt other methods of investigation, such as the behavior of the 
yeasts toward certain selected carbohydrates, and observations on 
the optimum conditions required for the formation of ascospores 
and of films. 

With regard to the first point, on which I have already touched, 
it has, for example, been found possible to subdivide the genus 
Saccharomyces — which is included in the third of the main groups 



THE YEASTS CHAPMAN 307 

to which I have referred above — into five subgroups, each of which 
again is capable of subdivision into a considerable number of well- 
defined species. 

With regard to film formation, this again is a character of 
considerable importance in connection with the differentiation of 
species. As I have indicated, certain of the yeasts — especially 
those included in the fourth of the nuiin groups above referred to — 
grow normally on the surface of nutrient liquids, forming dry 
greasy films, and producing, as a rule, little or no alcohol. It is 
not, however, of such films as these that I am now speaking. 
Although the true Saccharomycetes do not readily exhibit the 
phenomenon of film formation, yet under proper conditions this 
is capable of being brought about. In order to obtain films, the 
culture, in wort for example, must be allowed to remain at rest 
for a considerable time with an abundance of air, and at Avarm 
room temperatures. Under these circumstances small specks of 
yeast will generally appear on the surface of the liquid some con- 
siderable time after the actual fermentation has come to an end. 
These gradually coalesce, forming isolated patches of different 
forms and sizes, and, finally, these patches unite to form a con- 
tinuous and generally glutinous film which may extend to the walls 
of the vessel. A study of the time and temperature factors involved 
in the formation of these films affords, as I have indicated, one 
method of distinguishing between certain yeast species. So far as 
the purely morphological differences are concerned, it was observed 
at a comparatively early period that the yeasts exhibited consid- 
erable differences in shape, some being spherical or ovoid, whilst 
others were decidedly ellipsoidal, and others, again, elongated and 
sausage-shaped. On the other hand, in one and the same species 
very great differences in shape and size were frequently noticed, 
depending upon the general environment and growth conditions of 
the organism. No great advance, therefore, could be made in dif- 
ferentiating between the various species until Hansen, in 1879, 
devised and explained the technique for obtaining any quantity of 
yeast by starting with a single cell. In this way absolutely pure 
cultures could be obtained, and the uncertainty which had previously 
existed was removed. 

Of the very large number of yeast species known, it may be said 
at once that only a comparatively few are of industrial importance, 
and it is customary to divide the various yeast species for technical 
purposes into the " cultivated " and the '' wild " yeasts. The former 
include brewers' and distillers' yeast in all its varieties — that is to 
say, yeast which has from the earliest times been used for the pro- 



308 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

(liiction of alcoholic beverages, and has in a sense been cultivated for 
(he purpose. This 3'east represents, as far as is loiown, one species — 
namely, ^accliaromyces cercvisicp — altliough there are many races 
and varieties which differ considerably in certain respects, as, for 
instance, in the rapidity Avith which they bring about fermentation, 
(he degree of attenuation which the}^ can effect, and the flavor of 
the finished product. 

The "wild"' yeasts are yeasts which occur wild in nature, fre- 
(juently having thoir habitat on the surface of ripe fruits, and often 
linding their way into the brewery. Some of these yeasts, such as 
(he wine yeasts, are capable of fulfilling useful functions; others 
again are, so far as is known, Avithout effect good or bad; whilst 
others ai'e industrially i)athogenic — that is to say, give rise to prod- 
ucts which are un[)leasant in respect of flavor or smell or which 
I'xhibit some other defect, such as pronounced and persistent 
turbidity. 

The im[»ortance of these observations in connection Avith industrial 
fermentation processes may easilj' be imagined. Prioi* to the isola- 
tion and study of the various yeast species, and to the microscopical 
(ontrol to wliich it naturally h'd, industrial fermentations were very 
largely a matter of chance. Sometimes the results were good, some- 
times they were bad, but none could say precisely why. Now all that 
IS changed, and Avhen it is remembered that the industrialist who is 
concerned Avith any fermentation process is threatened on .all sides 
by intruding organisms which may have the effect of reducing his 
yields or spoiling his products, the need for scientific control, and 
for the constant employment of the microscope will be evident, 

I noAv propose to turn for a feAV minutes to a consideration of the 
cytology, or, if I may be permitted the expression, the anatomy- of 
the yeast cell. For a great many j-ears after 3 east had been subjected 
to microscopical examination there Avas much uncertainty as to 
whether the cell did or did not contain a true nucleus. Although the 
existence of a nucleus is noAV Avell established, there is still some 
doubt as to the precise nature — to say nothing of the functions — of 
certain of the internal structures Avhich the microscope reA-eals. 
Wager and Peniston, Guilliermond, Fuhrmann, Ilcnnebcrg, Me3'er, 
and others have published important papers dealing Avith the cytol- 
og}' of the yeast cell, and have shoAvn that it possesses a well-definetl 
and complex internal structure. 

According to Wager and Peniston the main vacuole is to be re- 
garded as the nucleus, and they consider that this is the structure 
Avhich is cliiefly concerned in the promotion of metabolism, Avhilst 



THE YEASTS CHAPMAN 309 

the deeply staining structure in close contact with it, and which is 
generally regarded as the nucleus, is to be looked upon as the nucleo- 
lus. This is a view in which I have never felt myself able to concur, 
although much, of course, depends on the precise meaning giA^en to 
the words nucleus and nucleolus, respectiA^ely. 

In addition to the nucleus with a clearly differentiated structure 
and a nucleolus, the cell contains cytoplasm, a chondrium, metachro- 
matic granules, a nuclear and other vacuoles, and certain thread-like 
structures. The cell wall, about which a good deal of uncertainty 
exists, appears to consist as a rule of a single membrane, and to have 
a complex chemical composition. 

In addition to these elements, which may be regarded to some 
extent as structural, there exist in the cytoplasm accumulations of 
materials concerned in the nutrition or metabolism of the cell, such, 
for example, as glycogen and fat. 

With regard to the functions of these various cell elements it is not 
yet possible to speak with very great certainty. As in all cells the 
nucleus is the main seat, or rather the directing organ, of the physio- 
logical functions of the cell. It is all important in cellular reproduc- 
tion and division ; it plays apparently a prominent part in nutrition, 
and doubtless in it reside the properties which are hereditary, and 
in virtue of which one species Ta2ij be distinguished from another. 
The chondrium, consisting of two forms of mitochondria, appears to 
be concerned in processes of nutritional elaboration, and the nuclear 
or main vacuole appears to be largely concerned with metabolic 
processes, and is according to some observers the seat of fermentative 
activity. This latter function has, moreover, been observed to be 
dependent on the amount of metachromatic granules contained in the 
cell, the larger the amount of metachromatin (volutin) the greater 
the fermentative activity ; and Henneberg has gone so far as to sug- 
gest that the metachromatic granules may be the parent substance 
from which the enzyme zymase is derived. From this necessarily 
brief and sketchy account of the yeast-cell anatomy it will at least be 
gathered that our knowledge is very imperfect and that we have 
much to learn, and it may be hoped that some of the expert cytolo- 
gists who are members of our Society may be induced to turn their 
attention to the elucidation of the subject. There can, I think, be 
very little doubt that the results would be of important industrial as 
well as of purely biological value. 

The ordinary microscopical examination of cells which have been 
subjected to the drastic processes of fixing and staining obviously 
has its limitations, and modifications of structure, such as must al- 
most inevitably be brought about by the above processes, may very 
76041—26 21 



310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

easily give rise to incorrect conclusions in regard to the internal 
structure of such a delicate organism as the yeast cell. It would al- 
most appear, in fact, that we have gone as far as it is possible to go 
in this direction, and some improved method of inA^estigation will 
have to he resorted to if many of tlie questions which are at present 
in doubt are to b;- satisfactorily solved. It is possible, for instance, 
that a very careful microscopical study of the unstained cell by means 
of ultra-violet light may be helpful in giving us a better insight into 
its internal structure, and Mr. Barnard has already caiTied out some 
interesting experiments of a preliminary character in this direction. 

When one remembers that the whole of a miniature solar system 
is comprised within the compass of an atom, it is not, perhaps, alto- 
gether fanciful to suppose that the yeast cell — small as it is — may 
have a much more highly d 'veloped internal organization than has 
been revealed with our present imperfect means of investigation, and 
that there may be more or less distinct localization of the different 
functions of the cell. In this connection two sets of facts may be 
briefly referred to. 

In the fii-st place, it is well known that the yeast cell, like other 
living organisms, may be made to perform different functions accord- 
ing to the conditions under which it is compelled to carry out its 
activities. Thus, whilst the ordinary Scvccharomyces cerevisioi nor- 
mally decomposes sugar with the production of alcohol and carbon 
dioxide, and only about 3 per cent of glycerine, it has been found that 
when the fermentation is conducted in the presence of a considerable 
quantity of sodium sulphite the main products of the fermentation 
consist of acetaldehyde and gl3'cerine in roughly equal molecular 
projiortions, and that instead of the normal 3 per cent as much as 36 
per cent of glycerine can be produced. In other words, it would 
appear that the well-known equation representing fermentation, 
viz : 

CeH,,Oe = 2C,HeO + 2CO2 
alcohol 

has, when the process is carried out in the presence of sulphite, to 
be written in the following very different and unfamiliar form, 

C,Hi20„=CH,COH-fCO,+C,H,03 

acetaldehyde glycerine 

In the next place, it is of considerable interest to note that the 
behavior of the enzymes within the cell appears to differ materially 
from that of the same enzymes in the expressed juice. Thus, the 



THE YEASTS CHAPMAN 311 

acceleration of fermentation by the addition of aldehydes is niiich 
greater in the expressed yeast juice than in the case of the living cell, 
and there are other respects in which the actions proceeding in the 
juice differ from those occurring within the cell. This i-eems to 
suggest that the mechanism of fermentation is in some way directly 
connected with the organized structure of the cell. In the living 
cell, again, the velocity of fermentation is much greater than in 
the expressed juice, and it would seem that in its natural surround- 
ings within the cell zymase is free to act without the disturbing 
influences wdiich probably exist in the expressed juice where all the 
cell contents are mingled, and some substances may well interfere 
with the activity of others. 

Cramer (Proc. Roy. Soc, 1915, 88, B, 584) has dealt with this 
important and interesting point, and has shown that the most 
striking difference between the action of enzymes within the living 
cells and their action after extraction is the extreme sensitiveness 
with which, in the former case, they respond to very slight changes 
in the surrounding medium, being sometimes retarded, sometimes 
accelerated, and sometimes reversed. According to Cramer surface 
tension would appear to be an important factor, such surface tension 
being operati>'e, for example, at the periphery of the cell and at 
the boundaries of the nucleus, vacuoles, granules, colloidal aggre- 
gates, etc. Thus the conditions for enzyme action may be very dif- 
ferent in one part of the cells from those occurring in another part. 
Under the influence of very slight changes in external conditions 
there inaj, for example, take place within the cell a movement of 
the cytoplasm, or changes in the concentration of the cell constituents 
which, by altering the surface tension at different parts, may al- 
together change the conditions for enzymic action. Even assuming 
Cramer's explanation to be correct, it still means that the great 
variations in the physiological and chemical activities of the cell 
are dej^endent on internal structure, and it is to this problem that 
future research may usefully be directed. Any great increase in 
our Imowledge of this subject might prove to be of the highest im- 
portance, not merely in regard to industrial operations, but as af- 
fording a deeper insight than we yet possess into the true character 
of the vital activities ot the living cell. It may be hoped that our 
society, which has done so much to direct and foster the study of 
microscopical science, may figure prominently in connection with 
an investigation, the results of which might well prove to be of 
fundamental importance. In the living cell we have, in fact, a 
chemical laboratorj^ of the highest efficiency, and of the most re- 



312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

markable character; and could we but understand and imitate arti- 
ficially the processes of building up and breaking down which are 
so quietly and so regularly occurring in a single cell of yeast, we 
should be not only within measurable distance of a new organic 
chemistry, but also we should be appreciably nearer to an under- 
standing of that greatest of all problems, the nature of life. 



TROPICAL CYCLONES AND THE DISPERSAL OF LIFE 
FROM ISLAND TO ISLAND IN THE PACIFIC ^ 



By Prof. Stephen Saegbnt Visheb 
Indiana University 



EVIDENCE FOR AND AGAINST A PACIFIC CONTINENT 

One of the mooted questions concerning the Pacific is how the 
biota now found uj3on the scattered islands got there. There are two 
great schools of thought in respect to the matter. One believes that 
the presence of numerous Asiatic forms can only be explained on the 
assumption that at some earlier time many of the now remote islands 
were connected into a continent. Some members of this school think 
that the continent extended as far as the Low Archipelago and Ha 
waii." Others do not ask for so much land, but assume a southeast- 
ward extension of Asia, to include the East Indies, Philippines, New 
Caledonia, Fiji, and Samoa. Certain large islands are also believed 
to have existed, for example, one that would include all the Hawaiian 
Islands and another that would unite the Cook, Austral, Society, and 
Tuamotu islands.^ 

The other school of thought is opposed to the idea of a Pacific con- 
tinent, or of vast islands in it, and to the extension of Asia and 
Australia beyond New Caledonia.* They contend that the agencies 
distributing life from island to island are sufficiently efficient to have 
enabled the land forms to spread to the remote islands upon which 
they are found. 

However, there are several features of the distribution of land 
forms that are difficult to explain on the basis of prevailing winds 
and ocean currents. One is the fact that many of the forms of 
even the easternmost islands are related to Asiatic forms rather 
than to American forms. That is not true of all types of life; a 

1 Reprinted by permission from Tlie American Naturalist, Vol. LIX, January- 
February, 1925. 

^ Campbell, Douglass H., " Some botanical and environmental aspects of Hawaii," 
Ecology, Vol. I, pp. 257-269, 1920 ; Bryan, Wnr. A., " Hawaiian fauna and flora," Pro- 
ceedings First Pan Pacific Scientific Conference, Vol. 1,. p., 158, Honolulu, 1921 ; Scbarfif, 
R. F., " Distribution and Orisin of Life in America." 1911. 

^ Pilsbry, H. A., " Tlie dispersal and affinities of Polynesian land snails," Proc. 
pan-Pacific Scientific Conf., Vol. I, pp. 147-151, 1921. 

* Many geologists and biologists belong to this school. Including T. C. Chamberlin, 
C. Schuchert, H. E. Gregory, D. S. Jordan, F. Muir, etc. 

313 



314 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

considerable number of Hawaiian forms, for example, being derived 
from a few American ancestors. Many of the seed plants, birds, 
and some insects were derived from Central American ancestors.-'^ 
But a lar<^e enough percentage of the forms are so Asiatic as to 
have led those scientists who have examined this j)articular typ(i 
of evidence to doubt if the existing distribution can be explained 
on the basis of existing conditions. They have shown, for example, 
that a favorable wind (the prevailing trades) and current (the 
drift set in motion b}' the trades) should have given Hawaii many 
Californian and Mexican forms of littoral mollusca, if these agencies 
were effective in transporting these forms.'' Likewise, the believers 
in the theory of widespread lands and certain other workers point 
out that the prevailing winds and currents throughout the Pacific 
tropics are westward, and the mnnerous species of Asiatic descent 
must have advanced eastward against the prevailing winds and 
currents. Yet the wind and currents are the only important agencies, 
aside from nuin, that miglit have transported the plants and aniuials 
in question from island to island. 

HOW HURRICANES CAN DISTRIBUTE LIFE 

Is it not highly probable that tropical cyclones have played a 
part in the dispersal of life from island to island in the Pacific? 
Upon their equatorward side there are often violent westerly winds, 
completely overcoming the prevailing easterlies. As pointed out 
in discussions of the courses followed, many storms move eastward, 
within the tropics, or just beyond the tropics.^ In moving east- 
W'ard, the strong westerly wind on its equatorward side carries 
much with it, and sets up a strong drift as well. An illustration of 
the occasional power and persistence of this westerly wind is given 
by the renowned missionary John Williams, who, driven by canni- 
bals from Herve}' Island, drifted in an oj)en boat 500 miles to 
Tahiti with a constant westerly wind.^ Normally, easterlies prevail 
in that portion of the ocean. 

The power of the wind to transport light objects through the air 
is frequently illustrated during hurricanes, as, for example, when 
land birds and insects are carried out to sea in large numbers. 
Indeed, the presence of butterflies and birds far out at sea has 

^ Brown, F. B. H., " Oilgln of Hawaiian flora," Proceedings First Pan-Pacific ScienUfic 
Conforoncc, vol. 1, pp. 131-142, 1920 (seed plants) ; Muir, F., " Some problems in 
Hawaiian entomology" (insects), ibid., and Henshaw, "Fauna ITawaiiensis," volnrae 
vertebratos (birds). 

8 Muir, F., loc. cit. 

' Visber, S. S., " Tropical cyclones of the Pacific witb charts of tracks," Monthly 
Weather Bevlew, Vol. 50, pp. 288-297, 583-589, 1922, and Bulletin 20 of Bishop Museum 
of Honolulu, 1925. 

» Williams, John, " ilissiuiiary Knterpri.scs In tlu> South Sea Islands," London, 1838. 



DISPERSAL OF LIFE VISHER 315 

often been mentioned in connection with hurricanes. A specific case 
of interest is mentioned by Dr. F. Woods-Jones ^ concerning insects 
at Cocos-Keeling Island in the Indian Ocean. During a severe 
northwesterly wind associated with a hurricane, hundreds of dragon- 
flies were driven the 700 miles from* Sumatra and Java, the nearest 
land, to this little island. However, as the island possessed no suit- 
able environment for dragonflies the introduction was ineffectual 
in spite of the large numbers driven there. But if a marsh or other 
favorable environment for these insects should develop on the 
island, there is no question that within a short time some storm 
wind would stock it with dragonflies. 

An actual increase of the permanent fauna of Cocos-Keeling 
Island took place dui-ing Doctor AVood- Jones's residence there, shortly 
after they had added a new plant, tomatoes grown from seed. At 
first the tomatoes had no enemies, but before the first crop was 
ripened an insect pest was brought by the same cyclonic gale that 
brought the dragon flies from Java and Sumatra. Although Cocos- 
Keeling Island is in the belt of trades, which blow Avitli exceptional 
strength and persistence from Australia, almost no Australian species 
are found in the fauna. Doctor Woods-Jones believes this fact is 
an illustration of Alfred Russell Wallace's generalization that fly- 
ing forms are rather well adjusted to the prevailing winds, just as 
aquatic forms living in a regular current commonly are adjusted 
to it so as not to be swept away. But the sudden, irregular, violent 
winds and currents sometimes associated with tropical cyclones take 
many individuals by surprise and carry them aAvay from land. 

Not only are animals with wings sometimes carried long distances 
by hurricane winds, but many forms attached to leaves are thus 
carried. The stripping off of almost all the leaves occasionally ac- 
complished by hurricanes has been mentioned often. Some of these 
leaves are carried far, and on these parachutes are sometimes at- 
tached worms, larva? eggs, or small snails. ^° 

HURRICANE CURRENTS AS DISPERSING AGENCIES 

The strength of the abnormal ocean currents set in motion by 
liurricane winds is mentioned repeatedly in the Pacific Islands 
Pilot.^^ The significance of such abnormal currents may be illus- 
trated by a statement concerning the Hawaiian Islands. A few 
years ago the mangrove was introduced upon the island of Molokai. 

» Professor at Adelaide University, Australia. Remarks following my paper before the 
Koyal Society of New South Wales, November, 1921. 

1" nisbry, H. A., " The dispersal and afBnities of Polynesian land snail faunas," Proc. 
First Pan-Pacific Scientific Conference, vol. 1, p. 149, Honolulu, 1921. 

" U. S. Hydrographic Office, Washington, 1920. 



316 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

In spite of strong normal currents at right angles to the favorable 
direction, seeds are occasionally floated to Oahu by abnormal cur- 
rents, and the tree is now establishing itself there, niore than 25 
miles from Molokai." 

The facts that most of the lowland plants and animals of the 
wide stretch from Fiji and the Carolines to the Low Archipelago 
and Hawaii are of the same or closely allied species, and that at 
the same time there is a progressive dropping out of species east- 
ward, suggest strongly that the distribution of life forms has been 
from scattered island to island and has been accomplished by trans- 
porting agencies that are rather efficient, though not perfectly so. 
The fact that relatively few forms are of American origin (except 
remotely) suggests the inadequacy of the normal trade winds and 
normal currents as agencies of dispersal, in accord with Wallace's 
law concerning normal winds and currents. However, the relatively 
small part that South America has played in supplying forms to the 
Pacific Islands doubtless is due partly to two special conditions. 
One is found in the few islands in the eastern part of the tropical 
Pacific. Indeed, good atlases show no islands between the Low 
Archipelago and South America, about 3,000 miles awa3^ The Gala- 
pagos Islands, on the Equator, are almost the only islands north of 
that zone in similar longitudes. South of 24° S. latitude are only 
Easter Island (28° S.), Sala-y-Gomez (261/2° S.), and a few other 
islets or rocks to the west and northwest of Easter Island, and also 
San Felix and Juan Fernandez Islands near the eightieth meridian, 
not very far from South America. 

The second special condition highly unfavorable to the spread of 
South American forms over the Pacific Islands is the fact that much 
of the western portion of tropical South America is almost barren 
of life, on account of the extreme aridity of the lowlands and the 
presence of the lofty Andes only a short distance from the coast. 
Somewhat similar conditions obtain over a wide belt in the North 
Pacific. There are almost no islands between Hawaii and North 
America, and most of the coast of Mexico is almost barren on account 
of aridity. On the other hand, the southeastern coast of Asia and 
the East Indies teem with forms adapted to the climatic and soil con- 
ditions which obtain in most of the Pacific Islands. 

Another argument of advocates of great extensions of the lands 
is the following : They say that wind and currents, even those asso- 
ciated with hurricanes, apparently are not effective in the dispersal 
of certain types of life, as shown by the absence from the coast of 

" Oral communication by C. S. Judd, Territorial forester. Several illustrations of the 
significance of changes in ocean currenta in the Atlantic are given in papers In the Pro- 
ceedings of the First Pau-Paclflc Scientific Conference, vols. 1 and 2. 



DISPEESAL OF LIFE VISHER 317 

Queensland of certain forms known in New Caledonia. Both the 
normal trades and numerous hurricanes pass over New Caledonia 
and thence to Queensland, and yet the coconut is established at only a 
few points on the Queensland coast, and certain species of land snails 
abundant in New Caledonia are unknown in Queensland. 

The general lack of the coconut in Queensland appears not to be 
due, however, to a lack of seed there, for they are often noticed 
sprouting along the shore. The severe droughts during the cooler 
season of each year, characteristic of this part of Australia, may 
be the factor preventing their widespread establishment on this 
coast. 

The absence from Queensland of the large showy land snail {Pla- 
costylus), common on the islands to the eastward, may be due to 
the presence in Australia of enemies that prevent their establish- 
ment. The Australian bush turkey feeds upon similar Mollusca, 
and it has been suggested by Curator Charles Hedley, of the Aus- 
tralian Museum, as possibly responsible for the absence of this island 
snail in Queensland. 

HURRICANE FLOODS AND LIFE DISPERSAL 

Another way in which hurricanes have influenced the dispersal of 
land forms is in connection with the floods they cause, whenever 
excessive amounts of rain fall in a short time. There are numerous 
records of the fall of more than 10 inches in two days, and some rec- 
ords of more than 60 inches in three days.^^ Under such conditions 
normally rather small streams become rivers and carry to sea vast 
quantities of driftwood. The river banks are eroded badW, and 
many trees are undercut and carried out to sea. During the excessive 
rains, large masses of dirt and loose rock upon steep hillsides often 
slip or slump, sometimes temporarily damming valleys. In case the 
dam breaks, the sudden rush of waters does its part to contribute 
natural rafts of driftwood, with their load of land animals and 
seeds. Furthermore, the animals are not nearly so likely to be picked 
off a raft by sea gulls or other birds during a hurricane as they are 
in ordinary weather. Hence, the absence of long rivers flowing into 
the Pacific, with the exception of the Chinese rivers, should not lead 
to the assumption that natural rafts of considerable size and bio- 
logical dispersing possibilities are lacking in the Pacific." 

1^ Visber, S .S., " Tropical climates from an ecological viewpoint," Ecology. Vol. IV, 
pp. 1-10, 192.3, and " Tropical cyclones of the Pacific," Bull. 20, Bishop Museum, Hono- 
lulu, 1925. 

" Pilsbry, H. A., (loc. cit.) has made this erroneous assumption. He states : " The 
argument for distribution of animals by natural rafts has never been more convincingly 
stated than by W. D. Matthews In his paper ' Climate and evolution.' Much of his argu- 
ment, however, is not applicable to the Pacific islands. Here we have no large rivers to 
give forth natural rafts. If a single tree Is washed to sea It must be very exceptional." 



318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Tropical cj'clones have also played a part in the distribution of 
peoples over the Pacific. Legendar}^ accounts indicate that a num- 
ber of island groups were discovered by occupants of boats that had 
been blown out of their course by storms. The discovery of New 
Zealand by Polynesians en route from Samoa to the Cook Islands is 
a specific illustration.^^ 

MAN AS AN AGENCY OF DISPERSAL 

The great importance of man in distributing plants and animals 
of economic importance and, incidentally and inadvertently, of 
numerous smaller species concealed in the soil or bark or on leaves has 
been emphasized by several scientists.^*^ 

GEOLOGIC CHANGES 

The dispersal of life from island to island over the Pacific has 
been accomplished slowly. Undoubtedly, during the geologic ages, 
there have been geologic changes that have been significant. For 
example, it is known that long ago there was more than once a 
strait where the continuous Central America now is. Conceivably at 
such times the drift induced by the trade winds, and which is now 
diverted northward in the Atlantic to form the Gulf Stream, may 
have continued westward carrjnng with it some of the seed plants 
and animals of the islands situated where Central America now is." 

Likewise, any tropical cyclones that occurred then in the Carib' 
bean region would have been more likely than now to sweep west- 
ward far into the Pacific, for the atmospheric pressure conditions 
prevailing over the land, especially mountainous land, seem often to 
divert tropical cyclones. 

Likewise, it is known that Australia was formerly connected with 
Asia by way of the East Indies and New Caledonia. At such times, 
it is probable that the normal ocean currents were distinctly different 
from the present. While now part of the equatorial current finds its 
way westward between the islands and enters the Indian Ocean, for- 
merly the continuous land necessarily diverted the warm equatorial 
current into higher latitudes. 

Another change during the geologic past, which is much jnore 
frequently mentioned, is the lowering of tlie sea level during the 
accumulation of the continental glaciers of the several ice ages. It 

"^ Best, KIstoii, " Polynesian navigators, their exploration and settlement of the Pacific." 
Geographical Review, vol. r>, pp. 169-181;, 1018. 

" For exanTple, by Mayor, Alfred G., and Safford, W. E., in Proceeding's First Pnu-Paciflc 
Scientific Conference, vol. 1, pp. 15, 147, 183-187, and by P.est Elston, loc. cit. Safford 
lias mndo ospocial .study of the cultivated plants of Polynesia, loc. cit., pp. 183-187. See 
also Guppy, II. B., " Observations of a Naturalist in tho Pacific," vol. 2, on " The dis- 
tribution of plants and animals," Loudon, 1908. 

>' Brown, F. B. II., loc. cit. 



DISPEKSAL OF LIFE^ — VISHEK 319 

is thought by some that the sea level was lowered about GO feet dur- 
ing the Pleistocene glacial epochs. Unquestionably there was some 
lowering of the sea level, but probably not nearl}^ that much, for the 
glaciers probably were not nearly so thick as some have assumed." 
However, any considerable lowering of the sea would result in an 
inci'ease in the land area, sometimes connecting neighboring islands, 
and hence facilitating the local spread of land forms. 

DURATION OF GEOLOGIC TIME 

The recent great increases in the estimates of the duration of the 
geologic past also has a bearing upon the subject of tropical cyclones 
and the dispersal of life in the Pacific. It is conceded that the 
chances of a single hurricane doing mucli along this line are small. 
The great reason why hurricanes have been largely ignored by the 
students of this problem is because hurricanes were believed to occur 
only at long intervals and were thought to be too rare to play much 
of a part. But now that it is Icnown that more than a score occur 
annually, on the average, out in the Pacific (in addition to those in 
the Philippine region) they take on a different aspect. Their sig- 
nificance is also increased by the fuller appreciation of the diverse 
ways in which they affect the lands, streams and currents. They are 
also less likely to be ignored as a factor in the dispersal of life when 
it is realized that the interval since the beginning of the Mesozoic 
era probably is many times the 20,000,000 to 50,000,000 years it was 
thought to be a few decades ago. Indeed, the remarkably convincing 
evidence, derived by leading physical chemists from the study of the 
products of the disintegration of radioactive substances in igneous 
rocks of various geologic ages, indicates that probably more than a 
billion years have elapsed since life became abundant upon the earth. 
Hence, fortuitous happenings, such as the dispersal of living forms 
by hurricanes, have had a long time in which to succeed. 

" Huntington and Visher, " Climatic Changes, tlieir Nature and Causes," New Haven, 
p. 125, 1922. 



ISOLATION WITH SEGREGATION AS A FACTOR IN 
ORGANIC EVOLUTION 



By David Starr Jordan 



The purpose of the present paper is to stress the fact known to 
every field worker in zoology or botany, that the molding of species 
is mainly due to the separation by barriers of one kind or another of 
related forms. There is probably not a genus in which separate spe- 
cies have arisen in nature, that does not show that these forms have 
some sort of geographical basis. There is not a case on record in 
which the origin of a distinct species in nature can be traced with 
any probability to " mutation " or to Mendelian or other hybridism. 
That striking mutations occur in nature, as well as in the garden is 
well known. Selective breeding will carry these very far, but in 
open competition such variants are either crowded out or else 
swamped by interbreeding with the mass. No normal definition of 
species can be drawn from variants of this kind. A species is a 
recognizable kind of organism produced in the natural divergence 
of life, and which has run the gauntlet of time, and which has en- 
dured. The problem of the origin of species relates to forms which 
have lasted. The study of impermanent variants, whether due to 
mutation or to artificial selection and segregation is a matter of 
great importance. Among other things it should throw light on the 
origin of actual species, but the problems involved in the two cases 
are quite distinct. 

To begin with, forms actually found in nature we must consider 
as genuine species. Nothing can be more real than that which 
really exists. Natural species, nevertheless, have as a rule indefinite 
boundaries shading off into subspecies, geminate or representative 
species, ontogenetic forms and the like, and may be variously altered 
by artificial selection in conjunction with artificial segregation. All 
their multifarious eccentricities command attention. As Darwin once 
observed, such facts are fascinating to us " as speculatists, however 
odious to us as systematists." They must be reckoned with, not 
through speculation but by intimate understanding of actual realities. 
But to extend our knowledge of a species we must ring the changes 
on the variations to which it is susceptible. For the degree of vari- 
ability is also a specific character. On such problems hundreds of 

321 



322 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

irenetifists are now at work, with the handicap that their studies 
look forward to chan«::es that may be crt'ected, not backward to ancient 
responses to shifting environment. 

In the study of any species whatever, we encounter four factors: 
Two intrinsic — heredity and variation; two extrinsic — selection and 
isolation or separation, with its accompanying segregation, the one 
insuring the nonsurvival of the nonadaptable, the other leading to 
mating by propinquity, through biological friction Avhich prevents 
wide crossing by interrupting the fluidity of life. Factors other 
than these four may exist, but in the history of every individual of 
which a species is composed, each of these has been potent. With 
that fact in mind, in view of the great range of investigation cover- 
ing these matters, one may affirm that no wide-reaching biological 
problem is more completely explained than that of "the origin of 
species.'' 

The historic origin of individual species of living organisms runs 
closely parallel with the origin of individual words in a language. 
One may trace the derivation of thousands of words, while yet hesi- 
tating or " expressing agnosticism " as to the origin of language. 
In like fashion, we may trace back to their original stocks thousands 
of anin)al or plant species and still hesitate about or " express 
agnosticism " as to a complete definition of biological origins. For 
after all each one has its own liistory, including vicissitudes of 
migration, selection, and separation; and the theoretical generaliza- 
tion can be only an inductive summing up of all evidence obtained. 

In the study of species as related to geographical conditions, one 
is most impressed by the recognition of " twin " species, forms closely 
related but nevertheless distinct, separated from each other by some 
kind of barrier. To similar parallel forms I gave, in 190S, tlie name 
of "geminate species." These agree wnth each other in generic 
structural traits. In all matters of adaptation to environment, pre- 
sumably results of selection, they may be absolutely identical, as 
also in habits unless confronted by some novel condition. They 
differ in minor regards, presumably of later origin than the generic 
traits. 

I indicated the "law of geminate species" as follows: Given 
any species in any region, the nearest related species is not likely to 
be found in the same region, nor in a remote region, but in a neigh- 
boring district separated from the first by a barrier of some sort or 
at least by a belt of country the breadth of which gives the effect 
of a barrier. 

The ornithologist. Dr. Joel A. Allen, accepted this generalization 
and called it "Jordan's Law," though of course it rests on the 



ORGANIC EVOLUTION — JORDAN 323 

observation of many Avorkers. For it is a matter of common Imowl- 
edge among field naluralists that the minor differences which sep- 
arate species and subspecies are due to some form of isolation with 
segregation. Selection produces adaptation, but the distinctive 
charactei's of species (m-e, in general, nonada'ptive. By some barrier 
or other the members of one minor group are prevented from inter- 
breeding with those of another minor group or Avith the mass of the 
species. As a result, local peculiarities are fixed. " Migration holds 
species true, localization lets them slip," or rather leaves them in the 
backwash of currents of evolution. Peculiarities thus set off by isola- 
tion become intensified by in-and-in breeding, or segregation, and 
the particular environment exercises some continuous type of selec- 
tion until at last there emerges a new form, recognizable as distinct. 
And while its range rarely coincides with that of the parent species, 
or with any other closely cognate form, neither is it likely to be 
located far aAvay. In the few cases where the range of geminate 
species overlaps in any degree, the fact seems to find an explanation 
in the surmounting (to some extent) of a barrier by one or other of 
the twin forms. The obvious immediate element in the formation 
and molding of species is therefore isolation, wdth (behind) the 
factors of heredity, variation, selection, and others as yet more or 
less hjq^othetical. 

Illustrations of geminate species of birds, mammals, fishes, rep- 
tiles, snails, and insects are well known to all students of these 
groups; examples may be found on every hand. I have myself 
gathered the record of hundreds of pairs of zoological twins, an 
enumeration for which the present paper has no space.^ 

It is clear enough that species change with space and Avith time. 
With space, because separation takes place and new environment 
brings new stress of selection while isolation of individuals involves 
some difference in parentage. In like fashion, species change wnth 
time, because new conditions arise, new enemies, new foods, new 
separations, new selections. That notable differences obtain in time, 
even in pure strains, and when there is no visible reason for change, 
is clearly shown by the experience of stock breeders. In geologic 
time one geminate species often follows another and in the same 
locality, a fact lately shown by the writer in an extensive survey 
of the Miocene fish fauna of California. - 

The application of Jordan's Law to plants has been denied. 
But geminate species are just as prevalent in botany as in zoology,, 
and the effects of isolation in species forming among plants are 

' See Dudley Memorial Volume, Stanford University Tress, 1913. 

^ Fossil Fisiies of the California Tertiary : Stanford University Itess^ t9-l. 



324 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

just as distinct. They are merely obscured by special conditions 
which obtain among plants. 

Crossing the Temperate Zone anywhere on east and west lines, 
we find plant after plant replaced across barriers by closely related 
forms. Illustrations may be taken from among the higher types— 
equally well no doubt from among lower ones. Some genera belt 
the earth or come very near doing so, each form having its twin 
as next neighbor. A single example, that of the plane tree, 
Platanus, may suffice. xVnother would be the blackberry, Ruhus 
villosus, and related species. 

A natural law is not invalidated by the presence of effects due to 
other causes in the same environment. Actual conditions in nature 
are everywhere products not of single and simple forces, but re- 
sultants of many causative influences, often operative through the 
long course of ages. 

As a rule, related species in almost every group are connected by 
a fringe of intergradations or subspecies. Where barriers are sharply 
defined, geminate species also are sharply defined. Where diffuse, 
geographical subspecies connect them, either wholly or in part. We 
recognize no difference between species and subspecies except that 
involved in sharpness of definition. If the particular barrier can 
not now be crossed, a species resultant from the presence of the barrier 
will be well defined and therefore unquestionable, however small the 
elements of difference. Subspecies are almost invariably associated 
with some feature of geographical distribution. 

It has been claimed that geminate forms are not true species be- 
cause they often intergrade one with another, and would probably 
be lost by intermingling were the barriers removed. Some maintain 
also that only physiological tests can be trusted, as true species will 
not blend and their hybrids, if they exist, are sterile. This assump- 
tion is purely hypothetical. Interbreeding is no test of species. 
Closely related species in almost any group of plants or animals can 
usually be readily crossed. As the relation becomes less intimate, 
we find partial sterility of varying grades and at last total incom- 
patibility. 

In most groups, probably in all, the characters which distinguish 
species from one another are elements neither useful nor injurious. 
Unless we take " natural selection " to cover both processes, as 
Darwin certainly did, we must assign to "selection" the preserva- 
tion and intensification of adaptive characters, and to " isolation " 
the seizing and fixing of the nonuseful — usually fluctuating — ele- 
ment. It is a fact well known to breeders that these indifferent 
or nonuseful characters are generally more persistent in heredity 



ORGANIC EVOLUTION JORDAN 325 

than traits which are plainly adaptive. The slight traits which 
mark races are in themselves not obviously valuable in the struggle 
for existence. 

Moritz Wagner, the pioneer in this line of investigation, showed 
plainly that in the study of the evolution of any form we need to 
know where its has lived, what it did, how it was bounded, and what 
was its relation to other forms, geographically as well as morpho- 
logically. His work, a most necessary supplement to that of Dar- 
win, has never received the attention it deserves. This is due in part 
to the fact that most investigators do not travel. They know little 
of animal or plant geogra]Dhy at first hand. They have had nothing 
to do with species as living, varying, reproducing, adapting, and 
spreading groups of organisms. Another reason lies in Wagner's 
attitude of opposition to Darwinism. For natural selection he sub- 
stituted separation, " rdumliche Sonderung^'' denying altogether the 
potency of the former factor. He saw the two as competing, not coop- 
erating elements, and thus threw on isolation the impossible task of 
accounting for adaptation. One need not ascribe to natural selec- 
tion the '"'"AllmacJit " which some Neo-Darwinians have claimed for 
it, yet on the other hand those who reject it as a factor in organic 
evolution give no rational explanation of the universality of adaptive 
organs and adaptive traits, no clue to the most universal characters of 
organisms in general. 

Certain writers urge that neither selection nor isolation are factors 
in evolution, but rather elements in species forming, a process de- 
fined as something distinct from evolution. They say that these 
obstacles in the stream of life only help to split on-moving groups 
of organisms into different categories, while the impulse to forward 
movement is internal and the changes of evolution proper affect 
groups as a whole, and are not concerned with dividing them into 
species. 

Such a view may be questioned on two gi'ounds; it is untrue as 
to facts, or else merely a matter of words. We know nothing of 
evolution in vacuo, of change in life unrelated to environment. All 
forms of life are split up into species, with adaptation to external 
conditions visible in every structure. We know of no way in which 
organisms become adapted to special conditions except by the pro- 
gressive failures of those which do not fit. No organism has escaped 
or can escape the grasp of selection. In like manner, the world being 
full of physical barriers, no organism escapes biological friction 
which prevents uniformity in breeding. There must be some degree 
of '"'' roMmliche Sondei^ng^'' even in a drop of water. As Wagner 
truthfully observes : " Ohne Isolirung keine Arten^ 
76041—26 22 



326 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

To admit known facts and yet say that selection and isolation are 
not factors in evolution would appear to make the matter a mere 
question of words. If by evolution we mean the theoretical progress 
of life, due solely to forces intrinsic in organisms, then outside 
influences are of course not factore in such evolution. If, however, 
we mean the actual life movements of actual organisms on this 
actual earth, then extrinsic influences and obstacles are factors in 
continuous diverging change. 



THE BIOLOGICAL ACTION OF LIGHT ^ 



By Prof. Leonard Hilt., F. R. S. 
From the National Instilute for Medical Research 



While the heat spectrum, including infra-red, visible and ultra- 
violet rays, extends from a wave-length of some 60,000 /xfi ^ to one of 
100 ixfj,, beyond the outer dark heat rays are the Hertzian waves used 
in radio with wave lengths extending to a thousand meters or more. 
The inner dark heat rays merge into the visible, Avhich are Avave 
lengths from 700 fifi (red) to 400 i^ix (violet). Beyond the visible 
lie the invisible ultra-violet raj's with wave length from 400 fx/x to 
100 fifx, and beyond these come the soft X-rays and then the hard 
X-rays and the y rays of radium with wave lengths so short as 
0.01 fifi. 

The body of a man is surrounded with a horny layer of skin 
beneath which lies the living cells of the epidermis in thin layers and 
myriad in number. Beneath them circulates the blood through close 
Avoven networks of capillaries, in streams some 0.01 mm. thick. The 
epidermis reflects and scatters rays which fall upon it, but some part 
of the visible rays penetrate and are absorbed by the blood beneath, 
Avarming it. The dark heat rays, on the other hand, absorbed mostly 
by the epidermis, warm it more than the blood in the dermis. Set as 
windoAvs in an almost impenetrable skin, the eyes have been evolved 
Avith extreme sensitivity to a narrow portion of the spectrum^— 
namely, the visible rays. To Hertzian waves we are insensitive ; their 
energy has to be converted into sound and heard. Likewise we can 
not feel ultra-violet, X or y rays; a latent period of two or three 
weeks folloAvs exposure to X or y rays before an erythema of the 
skin and irritation result. A latent period also follows exposure to 
ultra-A'iolet rays, but one limited to hours. While the hard X-rays 
and y-rays and secondary rays started by these penetrate in part to 
deep tissues, the active ultra-violet rays are Avholly absorbed by the 
epidermis and exert their effect there. 

Sonne found that if dark heat rays are brought to bear on the 
skin up to the just endurable sensation of burning, the temperature 
just beneath the skin Avill be raised to about 43° C. On the other 

1 Substance of two lecturos given at the Royal Institution on Mar. 12 and 10 ; reprinted 
by permission from Nature, No. 2896, vol. 115, May 2, 1925. 
= ^^=0.000001 mm. 

327 



328 ANNUAL BEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

hand, if visible rays alone are concentrated on the skin to the just 
bearable degree, the temperature just beneath the skin will be raised 
even to 47° C. This result, confirmed by Argyll Campbell and L. 
Hill, is due to the greater absorption of dark heat by the surface 
layer of the skin and a deeper penetration of the visible rays. Sonne 
ascribes heliotherapy to the local heating effect of the visible rays 
and has tried to find evidence that such local heating of the blood 
increases specific antibodies of the body — e. g., the diphtheria anti- 
toxic content of the serum. However, P. Hartley has reinvestigated 
this matter with great refinement and accuracy of method, both in 
regard to the diphtheria antitoxin content of the serum and the 
agglutinin content of the serum against B. typhosus, and finds that 
light baths have not the least effect on such a specific immunity. 
The baths have power, on the other hand, to increase the general 
resistance of the body to infection, as was shown by L. Colebrook, A. 
Eidinow, and L. Hill, who found that a light bath intense enough to 
produce erythema put up the haemo-bactericidal power of the blood 
as tested in vitro. Blood which before the bath killed say 80 per 
cent of staphylococci mixed with it, two hours after a light bath 
killed 100 per cent. Such an effect followed no less when a lasting 
erythema was produced by exposure to heat or a mustard poultice. 

In the case of the light bath the relative activity of visible and 
ultra-violet rays is proved in the following way : If an arc light with 
"• Avhite flame " carbon poles (direct current and about 2,500 kilo- 
watts) is focussed sharply through a quartz lens on to the arm, an 
unendurable burning sensation results almost at once. If the arm is 
immersed in a quartz vessel full of cold water and the experiment 
is repeated, no burning sensation results, but if the exposure is con- 
tinued for 5 minutes, erythema develops some hours later at the ex- 
posed spot, and this may advance even to a blister, to be followed by 
a long, lasting, brown pigmentation. Repeating the last experiment 
with a quartz screen filled with 3 per cent quinine solution inter- 
posed between the arc and the arm, all ultra-violet rays shorter than 
330 ix}jL are thus cut out, as can be shown by the quartz spectrograph. 
In this case no erjiihema results even after over an hour's exposure. 
The visible rays then, apart from their heating effects, have no effect 
on the skin. The ultra-violet rays, acting on the cooled skin, have, 
on the other hand, a profound effect. 

Using a quartz spectroscope and a blackened thermopile for meas- 
uring the energy of various parts of the ultra-violet spectrum, it was 
found by Hausser and Vahle that the maximal power for producing 
erythema of the skin was with the wave-lengths 300-290 /iju,, just the 
region wliicli comes through with the high sun on clear days. Little 
effect was given by rays 313 /x/t and 250 /n/t. A screen of uric acid 



BIOLOGICAL ACTION OF LIGHT HILL 329 

(1 in 40,000 solution) in a quartz container absorbs rays shorter than 
306 fjiix (Dhere). The mercury-vapor Lamp through this screen pro- 
duces no erythema even after giving six times the erythema dose for 
the unscreened lamp. Lines 275 and 257 /x/a of the cadmium spark 
spectrum produce erythema, but not line 232 fj^ix. Such short rays 
do not penetrate the horny skin but actively kill infusoria.^ 

How slight is the penetrating power of the ultra-violet tsljs is 
shown by interposing in place of the quinine solution a thin fdm of 
the horny layer of the skin taken off a blister, or the mesentery of a 
rabbit. Such a film protects the skin no less that the solution of 
quinine. 

The active ultra-violet rays penetrate to the deeper epidermic cells 
but no farther. Among these cells there takes place multiplication 
and growth, formation of pigment and transition into the horn}^ 
material, which is pushed outwards by the growth of cells within 
In these cells the ultra-violet rays provoke changes which we may 
assume are similar to those which have been photographed in living 
anthrax bacilli by Mr. J. E. Barnard, using a microscope with quartz 
lenses and a band of ultra-violet rays from the cadmium spark. 
Under the ordinary microscope they have been observed by A. Eidi- 
now and L. Hill on infusoria. An increasing aggregation of parti- 
cles takes place in the bioplasm; in the case of infusoria this leads 
to cessation of movement, death, rupture, and setting free of the 
particles. So, too, the surface film of egg white exposed in a quartz 
chamber is coagulated by ultra-violet rays. Positive particles are 
dispersed and negative ones aggregated (Clark). 

These rays displace electrons in atoms according to present ph} si- 
cal theory and so alter the charge of the particles, some of which 
are to be seen in bioplasm by dark ground illumination and high 
microscopic magnification in active Brownian movement. This 
leads to aggregation started by the displacement of electrons in 
the atoms. Chemical change in molecular structure ensuing in the 
epidermal cells after a latent period, reaches such an irritative na- 
tiu-e as to lead to dilatation of the subcutaneous blood vessels, exuda- 
tion of lymph, increase of lymphocytes, and rise in the hsemobac- 
tericidal power of the blood. In cases of rickets the abnormally 
low inorganic phosphorus content of the blood which is significant 
of this condition is put up also in a striking way. Subsequent to 
these reactions there results desquamation, due to death of some 
epidermal cells followed by pigmentation. The pigment melanin 
is laid down as granules in that layer of living cells which lies close 
underneath the horny layer. Melanin is stated to be formed by the 
action of an oxydase in the deeper epidermic cells, as may be seen 

" I am indebted to Messrs. J. E. Barnard and J. Smiles for the use of the spark. 



330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

in the fresh sections of skin (cut frozen) when radiated and wet 
with a sohition of dioxyphenyhihmin ; this substance is said to be 
the specific precursor (Bloch). The closely allied compound, ty- 
rosin, is said to diminish in amount in the blood at the time when 
melanin is being formed in the skin after a light bath. 

Ultra-violet rays act more quickly on warm than on cold skin. 
Tested on infusoria the coefficient for temperature (for a rise from 
10° C. to 20° C.) is about 2-3 (A. Eidinow and L. Hill) ; for the 
frog's mesentery it is less, about 1-2 (Argyll Campbell and L. 
Hill). While heat of the sun may aggravate a sunburn, it is not 
a necessary adjuvant. Ultra-violet radiation can intensely burn the 
cooled skin; it is w^ell known that glacier sunburns may be very 
severe. Dewar killed microbes with ultra-violet rays at the tempera- 
ture of liquid air. 

The power behind the sun w^as worshipped by the heretic pharaoh, 
Akhnaton, and modern science leads us back to veneration of this 
power. The imagination tries to think of the infinitely intricate 
energy complex which goes to form a living cell, of electrons being 
displaced in atoms by iiltro-violet rays, of molecular movement en- 
hanced by heat rays, of radiation provoking reactions which mani- 
fest themselves as life, of the spirit of man ensuing in the evolution 
of energy transformations. 

The law holds that absorption of rays precedes action. Rays 
which pass through a cell have no action upon it at all. The skin 
screens itself from excessive light by its horny layer and by pig- 
ment. Pigment by absorbing visible and ultra-violet rays screens 
the deeper cells and blood. It absorbs dark heat rays and con- 
verts visible rays into heat, and this heat, stimulating the nerve 
endings in the skin, may reflexly lessen body heat production while 
provoking sweating and dilatation of cutaneous blood vessels. 

Melanin is a screen, not a sensitizer, transforming light into heat. 
It is present in a fine particulate form and scatters and diffusely 
reflects rays. The spectrograph shows that melanin in fine sus- 
pension and thin layers screens off and greatly weakens but does 
not wholly absorb the ultra-violet spectrum. This is in sharp con- 
trast to a 3 per cent solution of quinine which in an equally thin 
layer wholly absorbs rays shorter than 330 fxfi. A layer of 
sweat wetting the skin helps to reflect light, wliile a laj^er of evapo- 
rating moisture surrounding the skin helps to absorb heat rays. The 
pigmented naked body with sweating skin is thus favorable to 
the cooling of the native in the tropics, while clothing retards heat 
loss of the white man. 

By local concentration of an arc light on a rabbit's head, it is 
easy to heat its fur up to 150° F. and its brain even to 107° F., 
while with the body in the shade the rectum is only 101° F. (Argyll 



BIOLOGICAL ACTION OF LIGHT — HILL 331 

Campbell and L. Hill). Pith helmets prevent local heating of 
the head and sunstroke in the tropics. In the West Indies, these 
are not needed owing to the screening of the sun by water vapor. 
There is rarely any danger of sunstroke in Great Britain, The sun 
is powerfvd enough only on few summer days, and bare heads offer 
no risks except on these rare occasions. Heatstroke from overheat- 
ing of the whole body due to exhaustion of sweating in warm 
stagnant air is much more common — overclothed as we are for with- 
standing hot weather. 

Downes and Blunt (1877) proved that the bactericidal action of 
light was due to ultra-violet rays, and much has been made of this. 
It has been claimed recently by Wiesner that the infra-red rays, 
apart from their heating effect, have a bactericidal action, but this 
is not so (A. Eidinow and L. Hill). The only rays which kill, 
apart from any lethal heating effect, are the ultra-violet rays. The 
bactericidal power of these rays is not nearly so important as has 
been thought, for the rays can only kill the surface bacteria. They 
can not penetrate into filth any more than through the epidermis. 
In their curative effect on lupus these rays act, not by directly 
killing the bacilli, but by increasing the immunizing powers of the 
tissues. This is so, exen when the rays are focussed as in the local 
Finsen light treatment. Nodules so treated, when injected into 
guinea pigs, produce tuberculosis. 

Mr. J. E. Barnard, by photographs taken with ultra-violet rays 
and a quartz-lensed microscope, has shown structures hitherto un- 
revealed in living yeasts, bacteria, and blood cells. This is due 
to the selective absorption by the outer membrane, the nucleus, 
and certain other granules in the cells. Infusoria vary in their 
susceptibility to the lethal effect of ultra-violet rays, and this prob- 
ably bears a relation to the age, nutritional state, and absorptive 
particles within them. The lethal power on cells increases wath 
shortening of the ultra-violet rays; for example, using the cadmium 
spark, a 20-minute exposure sufficed to kill infusoria placed in the 
275 fxix band, and a 3-minute exposure in the 232 fx/x band. The 
penetration of the shorter rays, however, is far less, and these there- 
fore have no action on the skin. Thus, as stated above, while 
bands 275 and 257 fi/x of the cadmium spark produce erythema of 
the skin, the intense 232 /x/x, band has no effect. 

In the case of the very short rays, Mr. J. E. Barnard finds one 
anthrax bacillus screens another lying beneath it. With rays of 
weak intensity, processes of repair may keep pace with injury, and 
no effect be produced in living cells. A screen which allows ultra- 
violet rays to pass so as to give an excellent spectrum, as photo- 
graphically recorded by means of the quartz spectrograph, may be 



332 ANNUAL REPOET SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

found to reduce biological action very greatly, as is shown when the 
lethal power of the screened rays is tested against that of the un- 
screened on infusoria or the skin. The photographic method is so 
exceedingly sensitive that deductions can not safely be drawn from 
it alone. 

It is claimed that immunity is set up in the epidermis by one 
exposure to a subsequent one, and this long before pigment is 
formed (Perthes). Thus if an area of the skin be exposed for five 
minutes and again for five minutes some hours later, and a second 
area be given 10 minutes exposure all at one time, the erythema will 
be much more marked in the second area. Choosing a small dose, 
a second one given a few hours later increases erythema and soreness. 
Maximal er3^thema, of course, can not be further increased by a 
second dose, but this seems to be true for soreness also. The im- 
munity is no doubt due to coagulation of the outer layer of living 
cells, whence comes peeling. When pigmentation is still well marked 
weeks after an exposure, susceptibility of the epidermis may be 
shown to have returned by the erythema following a further dose 
of ultra-violet rays. 

To measure the therapeutic action of the ultra-violet rays we can 
use the lethal dose for infusoria contained in a quartz cell at 
15-20° C, or the erythema-producing dose for the skin of the 
average white arm, or the rate of bleaching of a standard solution 
of acetone and methylene blue. The last has been standardized 
againsfe the tw^o former, and each degree on the scale is twice to four 
times that required to produce a moderate erythema. (A. Webster, 
L. Hill, and A. Eidinow.) The acetone blue solution is exposed 
in a quartz tube of standard diameter, and after exposure the degree 
of bleaching determined by comparison w^ith a set of blue tubes of 
depths of tint 10 to 3. The acetone solution absorbs the ultra- 
violet rays shorter than 360 nfi, and the chemical reaction set up in 
it bleaches the blue. Observations have been taken daily with full 
exposure to sun and sk}" at various places and show the intensity 
of ultra-violet radiation in clean air and the effect of smoke and 
pollution. During a fine summer day the quartz tube ma}^ have to 
be changed two or three times in the day, and the liighest total 
reading last summer at Peppard, Oxon, equaled 23. In the Alps a 
reading of 41 was obtained in one day. In dull cloudy weather of 
winter the reading may be 1 or 2 and in smoke polluted towns 0. 

Using in addition a clock to keep moving the quartz tube together 
with a small screen to shade it from the sun but not from the sky 
except that immediately round the sun, we have found that the 
total ultra-violet radiation from the sky is far more than from the 



BIOLOGICAL ACTION OF LIGHT HILL 333 

direct sun. Dorno at Davos showed that this was so using a cad- 
mium photo-electric cell for recording the ultra-violet radiation. 
Even with the sun at its zenith, the ultra-violet radiation from it is 
only about 90 per cent of that from the blue sky. With the low 
sun, the sky yields far the more. 

Smoke pollution robs us of half or more of the ultra-violet rays. 
AVhile seeking to abolish this evil, we require to make the loss good 
by the use of artificial sunlight baths. Screened as he is by window 
glass, clothes, fog, and smoke, the citizen is cut off from ultra-violet 
rays almost wholly in winter, and in consequence his general health 
and resistance to disease goes down. The evil is enhanced by indoor 
life spent in heated stagnant air of rooms, and by lack of open air, 
exercise, and by a diet deficient in vitamins. Thus the resistance 
to catarrhal infections, which spread in the crowded stagnant air 
of rooms, is lowered. Those who live open-air lives and are well 
fed, exposed however much they are to weather, are far less often 
attacked. 

It has already been stated that the hsemobactericidal power of the 
blood (as tested in vitro) is put up in an animal by an exposure to 
ultra-violet radiation which is sufficient to produce erythema. It 
has also been found by A. Eidinow that if a little blood is with- 
drawn from an animal, irradiated by rotation in a quartz flask, and 
then put back again into the animal, this puts up the hsemobacteri- 
cidal power, and yet the irradiated blood itself has this power 
actually destroyed in itself by radiation. The putting up of the 
haimobactericidal power depends on the corpuscles and not on the 
serum. In man it is naturally high, and can be put up less than in 
such animals as rabbits and pigs. It is known that ferments, 
serums, agglutinins, and the anaphylactic power of blood are alike 
destroyed by ultraviolet radiation in vitro. 

Recent research on rickets has shown that the diseased calcifica- 
tion of the growing bones results from a diet deficient in antirachitic 
substance and lack of ultra-violet rays. If young rats are put on 
a diet deficient in antirachitic substance and having a minimum of 
salts of phosphorus, the latter is not absorbed from the gut. Either 
the addition of antirachitic substance in cod-liver oil or ultra-violet 
radiation for a few minutes a day will wholly stop rickets developing 
and cause a minimal amount of phosphorus in the diet to be ab- 
sorbed and utilized in bone building (A. Webster). It has been 
proved that the antirachitic substance present in cod-liver oil is not 
vitamin A, and that it can be put into an inactive food by ultra- 
violet radiation (Hess, Steenbock). Thus, inactive linseed oil, 
casein, flour, and lettuce leaves can be made effective as cod-liver oil 
in preventing rickets, b}^ rotating them in a quartz flask in front of 



334 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

the mercury vapor lamp. "Water, fat, starch, sugar, mineral oil, 
glycerine, can not be so activated. Oils retain their acquired anti- 
rachitic power for months. It has been claimed that " active " 
food substance on oxidation gives off ultra-violet raj^s, but this is 
not so. The error has arisen through the fluorescence of certain 
quai-tz screens used in the photographic tests (A. AVebster). Drum- 
mond has shown that radiated cholesterol makes an extremely active 
radiated rats absorb this from the skin. The antirachitic vitamine 
activated b}^ radiation this is the activated body. Probably too, 
radiated rats absorb this from tlie skin. The antirachitic vitamine 
or vitamine D is then sterol activated by radiation. 

We have no evidence so far that radiation can endow an inactive 
food with the growth qualities pertaining to vitamin A. If thin 
vrere possible, the margarine makers would have found a fresh source 
of fortune in being able to claim that their product was made equal 
to butter. Kickets can be prevented by making the diet more ade- 
quate — e. g., by cod-liver oil — and also by teaching mothers the need 
of exposing infants' and children-s bodies to the sunlight and by the 
use of artificial sun baths at infant welfare centers. 

Prolonged exposure to intense ultra-violet rays either of the sun 
or an arc light produces destruction and sloughing of the white skin. 
While the visible rays, beside their heating effect, have no lethal 
effect on the normal living animal cell, it is easy to produce a most 
powerful effect from these rays by sensitization of the cells. Many 
fluorescent dyes have this effect, eosin, erj^throsin, etc., forming a 
compound with the bioplasm and so making the latter absorb and 
be affected by rays longer than the ultra-violet. The action of visible 
rays on sensitized cells depends on the presence of oxygen. 

The most interesting .sensitizer is htpmatoporphyrin, an iron-free 
derivative from hemoglobin, closely allied to phyloporphyrin, a 
derivative of chlorophyll. Traces of porphyrin (uro or stereo) are 
present naturally in the body and may possibly give to the skin 
some very slight natural sensitivity to visible rays. An excess of 
porphyrin is present in some rare individuals endowing them with 
an unfortunate sensitivity which causes skin eruptions and even 
ulceration of extremities on exposure to bright light — a disease 
called hydroa aestivalis, which has to be met by the greatest care 
against their exposure to sunshine or bright daylight. 

When the mesentery is exposed in a cool glass irrigation chamber 
to concentrated visible rays of an arc, no effect results, the ultra- 
violet rays being filtered off by the glass. Add now a trace of 
hffimatoporphyrin to the bath (1 in 10,000) and in a very few 
minutes stasis occurs in the blood vessels. The lymphocytes gather 



BIOLOGICAL ACTION OF LIGHT HILL 335 

to form thrombi which block the vessels (Argyll Cami^bell and L. 
Hill). -While pigmented animals are jjrotected, albinos made sen- 
sitive by injection of haematoporphyrin die after exposure to light. 
Meyer Betz was daring enough to inject some haematoporphyrin 
into himself and siiifered from oedema of the face and hands on 
exiDOSure to light. He remained sensitive for weeks. It seems 
possible that sensitization may prove useful in light therapy, but 
great caution in dosage is required. Painting patches of lupus 
with glycerin and eosin has been tried so as to endeavor to secure 
a greater local effect from light treatment, but definite evidence for 
this has not been found (A. Eidinow and L. Hill). 

Sudden exposure to ultra-violet rays stimulates to contraction 
such an organ as the uterus of the guinea pig or the stomach of a 
frog. The excised iris by pigment is made sensitive and contracts 
on exposure to visible rays. Harmful ultra-violet rays do not pass 
through the cornea and lens, and when the retina is damaged by 
overexposure to an arc light or to sun (as in viewing an eclipse 
without smoked glasses) it is injured by excess of visible rays act- 
ing on its extremely sensitive substance. The lens may be damaged 
by overheating through rays entering the eye through a large solid 
angle and concentrated therein. Photo-electric effect produced by rays 
acting on a specific retinal substance or substances may be the first 
stage in the excitation of vision. Russ has claimed that the owl's 
eye transmits ultra-violet rays. As far as concerns rays shorter 
than 300 /t/x, this is not the case with the cat's eye, which has good 
nocturnal vision, nor with the cod's eye, a fish which swims in dim 
lights of somewhat deep water. Tested by putting the cornea in a 
band of biologically active ultra-violet rays, using the cadmium 
spark, none reach a fluorescent screen placed at a window 
cut in the posterior part of the eye (A, Eidinow and L. Hill). 

It has been suggested that there is a biological interference be- 
tween infra-red, or visible rays, and ultra-violet rays. Hess found 
a longer daily exposure to the mercury-vapor lamp necessary in 
order to prevent rickets in young rats (fed on a deficient diet) 
when a glass screen was interposed which let red and yellow rays 
through as well as ultra-violet, than was the case with a glass 
screen which only let ultra-violet rays through. The photographs 
of the spectra of the two screens seemed to show equality of the 
ultra-violet radiation, but a difference in intensity is the most 
probable explanation. Pech claims that both bleaching of cotton 
and production of erythema by ultra-violet rays is delayed by a 
concomitant beam of infra-red rays. Infusoria seemed to move 
activel}^ longer in the light of a mercury-vapor lamp when red 



336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

rays were also thrown on them than without these rays. The 
lethal times, however, on further trial came out to be the same in 
the two cases, and further research on the circulation in the mesen- 
tery and on infusoria exposed to ultra-violet bands in the cadmium 
spark spectrum proved negative. Not the least evidence of inter- 
ference with the lethal effect was found. (A. Eidinow and L. Hill; 
Argyll Campbell and L. Hill). So, too, in the case of excitation of 
involuntary muscle (Azuma and L. Hill). 

Ultra-violet rays improve the growth and breeding power of 
fowls. Acting directly on embryos they produce monsters. The 
loss of breeding power in man and domestic animals such as cattle 
is probably due largely to indoor life. It has been established by 
abundant clinical experience that light treatment is excellent for 
surgical tuberculosis, rickets, and wounds (O. Bernhard, Rollier, 
Gauvain, and others). Trials recently made on many other diseases 
have shown that we have in artificial sun treatment a powerful 
stimulant to general health and in particular of the defensive 
mechanism of the body against chronic infections. Skin diseases such 
as psoriasis, ichthyosis, eczema, and boils, chronic anaemias of obscure 
origin, nutritional weakness and wasting in infants, chronic bron- 
chitis and the fat flabby condition of the sedentary over-fed middle- 
aged person, chronic phthisis, the debility following actute infec- 
tious disease, etc., are alike greatly benefited (A. Eidinow and L. 
Hill; P. Hall, etc.). The open-air sanatorium and school have 
shown how^ ailing feeble children can be turned into happy vigor- 
ous ones. 

A very great benefit to general health can at once be secured by 
the installation of arc baths in schools and public baths. If in 
winter all children stripped but for a loin cloth, danced to music 
for 15 minutes twice a week a yard or two away from and round 
a powerful arc lamp — e. g., one taking 100 volts and 30 amperes 
with white flame carbons — a great improvement in vigor, alert- 
ness, and health would be obtained. .It is by such means that our 
misty, smoky, winter climate can be immediately remedied. At the 
same time, we can set about to secure and use smokeless fuel and 
clean away the hideous smoke pollution of the air. We can also 
set into windows and sky-lights of schools, hospitals, and nurseries 
the new " vitaglass," w'hich lets the ultra-violet ra3^s through, and 
use such glass for the bulbs of incandescent tungsten filament lamps, 
which would then be a source of ultra-violet rays of mild intensity. 

Many interesting experiments are now being carried out con- 
cerning the growth of plants and fruits with and without ultra- 
violet rays, and on the effect of continuous lighting. 



ANIMAL LIFE AT HIGH ALTITUDES^ 



By Maj. R. W. G. Hingston, I. M. S. 
Naturalist to the Mount Everest Expedition of J92.fi 



[With 2 plates] 
(Read at the meeting of the Royal Geographical Society January 12, 1925) 

This paper is a condensed account of certain observations in 
natural history made while serving with the Mount Everest Expe- 
dition. It refers to life on the Tibetan plateau, especially with 
regard to the struggle for existence in those bare inhospitable tracts 
above the limit of the Himalayan tree line. 

First, a word as to physical features. Tibet is a desert, a high- 
altitude mountainous desert at an elevation of about 14,000 feet. 
This is a point we must thoroughly realize, for the life of Tibet 
is in many particulars the life of a desert waste. Compare it for 
a moment with a low-lying wilderness, such as the sweeps of open 
sand in Arabia, Sahara, or Sind. It differs from these in one 
particular: It has none of their intense heat. But otherwise Tibet 
is essentially a desert — empty, bleak, and bare. As we travel across 
it we see all the features of the desert, the wide tracts of brown and 
barren soil, the vast distances spread out before the eye, the fierce 
display of light. Here, as in the desert, we meet tracts of sand, 
often loose and crumbling and at the mercy of the wind. In one 
place we see how its surface is rippled, in another how it is covered 
with a saline incrustation, in another how it stupifies the scanty 
vegetation or piles itself into crescent dunes. Here, too, we observe 
the same cloudless skies, the same glare from the platea'u soil, how 
the air rises in shimmering waves or clothes the surface in a true 
mirage. There is the great range of temperature characteristic of 
the desert, often 50 degrees between day and night. The rainfall 
is scanty. The atmosphere is so dry that it splits the skin and nails, 
and prevents the ordinary decomposition of flesh. Fierce winds 
blow across it from the main range, and these might be compared 
with the Sirocco or Shamal. Frequently they raise up vortices of 
dust which career over the empty plain. As in the desert, we ob- 

' Reprinted by permission from) The Geographical Journal, Vol. LXV, No. 3, Mhrch, 
1925. 

337 



r38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

serve the same scantiness of vegetation, the monotonous growth 
that gives no color to the landscape, the absence of trees, the thorni- 
ness of the plants, the short active season in which flowers rapidly 
bloom and as rapidly die away. These are some of the desert 
features which we meet with in our journey through Tibet. 

Let us consider the life of this high-altitude desert. How do th'j 
creatures live? How do thoy protect themselves? By what moans 
are they adapted to the conditions of the heights? 

Anyone who has traveled in a low-lying desert knows how impor- 
tant is protective coloration in the general scheme of things. It is 
exactly the same in Tibet. Examples are apparent on every side. 
Most of the common animals of the plateau are inconspicuous against 
the soil. But Ave must remember that the plateau is littered with 
stones, and not like many low-lying deserts, an even layer of sand. 
This gives an additional advantage to the animals. For not only do 
tlioir colors blend with the surface, but their shapes and outlines are 
often lost to view, being confused Avith the scattered stones. 

I Avill give some examples of protective color in Tibet. Every- 
Avhere on the plateau we meet Avith colonies of pikas, delightful 
little creatures Avhich sit near their burroAvs and blend Avith the 
sand}'^ soil. In the gorges of the main range we find another species. 
Its surroundings are more gloomy; it lives amongst rocks, and in ac- 
cordance Avith this its coat is darker so as to fit it to these special 
haunts. The marmots likewise blend Avell with the altitudes. They 
like to occupy the bare passes as high as 17,000 feet. The Tibetan 
hare is a good example of harmonization, especially Avhen it sits 
amongst fallen stones. Some of the larger animals are protectively 
colored. The Tibetan gazelle is the color of the plateau, and a herd 
of burhel is inconspicuous against a hill. 

The majority of the birds are protectively colored. The different 
kinds of mountain finches, the Tibetan skylark, the short-tood lark, 
the calandra lark, the ^Mongolian sandplover, are all colored so as to 
harmonize Avith the soil. They all live on the open plateau where 
there is nothing to conceal them from vicAv. Two of the birds liaA'o 
conspicuous markings, but these do not interfere Avith the concealing 
effect. The desert chat, for example, has white patches on its wings 
Avhich disappear from view Avhen the bird alights. The horned lark 
has black markings on its neck and breast, but these are sufliciently 
well concealed from a hawk or other enemy soaring overhead. The 
Tibetan sand grouse is an excellent example of harmonization; .so 
IS the magnificent Tibetan snow cock Avhen feeding amongst the 
boAvlders and crags. The cliffs and torrents also provide examples. 
The wall creeper lives around the fort at Shekar, and as it climbs 
about the slaty rocks the color of its back blends Avith the stone. The 



LIFE AT HIGH ALTITUDES HINGSTON 339 

ibis bill is a more strikino; instance. As it feeds amongst the bowlders 
in the bed of the torrent it is lost to view in the midst of the stones. 

Some of the birds are not thus protected. But in such cases they 
are able to defend themselves from enemies or have special places 
into which they can escape. The raven, the steppe eagle, the kite, for 
example, are so powerful that they need no protection. Certain little 
birds, like the sparrows and accentors, are conspicuous, but they 
keep near villages or piles of stone amongst which they can escape 
from birds of prey. 

We see numerous examples amongst other creatures. The lizards 
on the plateau are very variable in coloration. Some are uniformly 
sandy, others coarsely speckled, but all harmonize with the arid soil. 
There are different kinds of grasshoppers that haunt special situa- 
tions. One, a large central Asian migratory species, is rich green in 
color and li^•es in patches of fresh grass. Another, a new genus, 
minute and wingless, lives on the moraines and decomposing granite 
as high as 18,000 feet. It is finely mottled in grey and black, and 
difficult to see because it closely resembles one of the granite flakes. 
There is a third kind which keeps to tracts of coarse loose sand. In 
its color scheme are patches of blue and red, and these harmonize 
with similar colors in the grit. Still another kind haunts the water- 
worn pebbles on the banks of the Chiblung Chu. This little grass- 
hopper is a uniform blue color, and exactly the same shade as the 
layer of stones. 

It would be tedious to mention all the other examples. But I must 
refer to the high-altitude moths which frequent the moraines at 
17,000 feet. These resemble a species of tiny Annrta. Their under 
surface is very conspicuous, but is concealed when the insect alights 
on the rock. Their upper surface, on the other hand, is a mottled 
grey, which blends with the granite and the decomposing grit. 

Thus we see how important is protective coloration in the struggle 
for existence at these great heights. It is in the vast and open tracts, 
the deserts, the snows, the elevated wastes, that we have this prin- 
ciple most lavishly displayed. The reason for protection of this 
kind is clear. In the wilderness hiding places are seldom available. 
There are no trees, no scrub, no profusion of grass in which the 
animals can conceal themselves when enemies approach. To avoid 
destruction they must seek evasion of some sort. Their only chance 
is to resemble their natural surroundings and escape by being passed 
unseen. 

I pass to another problem. How do the animals of these high 
altitudes adapt themselves to the physical conditions that exist? 
Consider first their reaction to the wind. Tibet is notorious for its 
fierce winds. The morning sun heats the surface of the plateau, the 



340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

hot air rises, and in order to fill the deficiency the wind sweeps down 
from the main range. Near our base camp we saw an excellent 
example of its force. The camp stood in a contracted gorge through 
which the wind poured down from the mountain to the plain. 
Kound about the camp were piles of boulders which the Rongbuk 
•rhicier had (loi)osited in the gorge. These bowklers were remark- 
ably eroded by the wind. Deep pits and furrows had been eaten 
into them; they were polished, and broad grooves had been cut into 
their surface, in places an inch in depth. They were composed of 
granite and recently deposited, yet from their windward side they 
looked like lumps of coral while their sheltered surface was ordi- 
narily smooth. 

Let us see how the animals react to a wind wliich can eat into the 
granite rock. The mammals are often clothed in thicker coats of 
hair. We see this in the herds of domesticated goats, delightfid 
little animals with long hair that hangs down like a kilt around their 
legs. The Tibetan dogs are often thickly clothed. Sometimes we 
may see them in the early summer shedding large patches of winter 
wool. Near Gautsa I saw pigs at 12,000 feet, and they were covered 
in a thick rusty-colored hair quite different from the half-naked 
animals of the plains. The Tibetan hare has a dense coat, and it 
ascends to 17,000 feet. But the ordinary yak is the best example. 
Next its body is a layer of wool. Over this is a hairy coat which 
hangs down like an apron from its huge body, especially around its 
legs. Its neck is provided with a strong mane, and behind it supports 
a large tail of thick and bushy hair. When the yak is grazing we see 
the value of this coat. The animals like to feed with their backs to 
the wind. The thick tail then acts as a kind of wind-proof screen; 
the long hair around the hind legs adds to the shield, while the head, 
being kept low, is sheltered by the body and protected above by the 
hairy mane. 

Everywhere we see the birds adapting themselves to the wind. 
The little birds escape it by getting behind obstacles. Thus we often 
see the larks, the finches, the ground choughs feeding on the sheltered 
side of villages and Avails. When in the open they persistently face 
the wind ; if they stand across it they may literally be lifted off their 
feet. The larger birds follow a similar habit. The choughs face 
the wind when feeding on the pastures; the ravens do likewise when 
scavenging for refuse; the lammergeyer always heads it when de- 
scending for bones; the kites persistently come round to windward 
before swooping down to take garbage "from the ground. Those 
birds that live around rocks and habitations creep into some shelter 
when the wind blows. We see the sparrows hiding in the holes of 
the houses, choughs getting into the lee of rocks, rose finches nestling 



LIFE AT HIGH ALTITUDES HINGSTON 341 

under ledges and stones. A great number of the birds make their 
nests in holes, and in this ^Yay shelter their offspring from the wind. 
The mountain finches and the ground choughs place their nests in 
pika burrows, often at a great depth. The magpie builds an enor- 
mous nest. I think it serves the parent birds as a permanent shelter 
in addition to serving as a home for the young. The birds that build 
on the ground place their nests behind tufts. The short-toed lark 
showed in one case an interesting modification; it built a rampart 
of pebbles on the exposed side of its nest so as to protect the struc- 
ture by an artificial wall. 

Certain of the butterflies show interesting adaptations. The 
Parnassius or Apollo butterflies are characteristic of high altitudes. 
In Tibet they haunt the passes up to 17,000 feet where the wind 
sweeps furiously across the range. They are capable of only feeble 
flight, and are easily carried along by a gale. They escape being 
swept away by their unwillingness to fly, except when the air is com- 
paratively still. Moreover, when disturbed, they made but short 
flights; also when they alight they choose sheltered nooks, and 
their resting attitude is to spread their wings, pressing them down 
close against the ground so as to offer the least resistance to the air. 
Furthermore, their wings are stiff and rigid and not likely to be torn 
when being battered about. Also their bodies are clothed in fur, 
which must serve as a protection against both cold and wind. 

The Swallowtails and Vanesidse also haunt the plateau. They 
used to come about our base camp at 17,000 feet. But these butterflies 
are particularly powerful fliers, and by their strength alone can con- 
tend with the wind. Other kinds live at slightly lower altitudes. 
There is a Melitea on the plateau which has the habits of the ApoUos. 
It escapes the wind in the same way by flattening itself tight against 
the ground. The Lyceenids like to keep in sheltered places. One 
kind ^ets into the tufts of vetches, another conceals itself in coarse 
grass. The high-altitude moths that resemble Anuria adapt their 
habits to the fierce winds. They haunt the tracts of fallen rocks, 
the bare hills, and deposits of moraine. They fly about by day, 
alighting on the sand. When the wind is strong they enter clefts in 
the rocks or else shelter between the stones. Their flight is swift 
and of short duration. When they alight they behave like the 
Apollo butterflies, flattening themselves with outstretched wings 
against the rock, thus offering the smallest obstruction to the wind. 

The Diptera that haunt the cliffs at 16,000 feet like to keep close 

in amongst the stones and rocks. Moreover, they make only short 

quick flights. Their actions are more like the leaps of a grasshopper 

than the ordinary movements of a fly. There is one kind, a Tachimd, 

76041—26 ^23 



342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1025 

which haunts bo^vlders at the edge of the rivers. It has a black hairy 
body, a spined abdomen, and <rrayish speckled wings. Now this fly 
seems almost incapable of flight, so reluctant is it to take to the air 
m a wind. Its habit is to seek for shelter beneath bowlders, and, 
when these are upturned, it can be taken in the fingers, allowing 
itself to be captured rather than escaping by flight. There is an- 
other kind of the genus Gonia which likes thorny bushes. It comes 
out on sunny mornings Avhen the air is calm. But its flights are 
short, only a few feet, as if it feared to trust itself to any distance in 
the air. ^loreover, it strives to keep witliin the shelter of the scrub, 
flitting about from twig to twig or coming to rest on the sand be- 
neath. Thus it manages to evade the wind, partly by reason of its 
short flights and partly by keeping Avithin the scrub. 

Some of the digger wasps avoid the wind in the same way. They 
have learned to keep close in amongst the bow^lders, also make only 
quick short flights in order to avoid being swept away. Many of the 
insects on the plateau are wingless. Numbers find continual shelter 
under stones. Grasshoppers ascend to 18,000 feet. But at this alti- 
tude they are minute and wingless and escape the Avind by their 
inabilit}' to fly. The Pseudahris beetles provide an interesting ex- 
ample. These beetles are conspicuous and brilliantly colored with 
rlternate bands of black and red. They usually hang in clusters on 
the A'et<3hes, where they feed on the young shoots and flowers. Watch 
tliem when a strong wind suddenly springs up. They let go their 
hold and throw themselves to the ground. There they lie, all appar- 
ently' dead. Each is on its side; its head is bent at right angles to 
ts body; its antennae are turned downwards; its legs are collected 
into a cluster and thrust out like lifeless tags. They all lie in the 
attitude of death like a crowd of corpses strewn over the ground. 
When the wind lessens thev quickly revive, thev run over the soil, 
regain the vegetation, and climb back to their places on the vetch. 

Thus we observe that the animals of high altitudes contend with 
the wind in many different ways. Some grow denser coats, others 
seek sheltered places, and there is a great tendency to burrow in the 
soil. Certain butterflies and moths flatten themselves on the ground ; 
many insects make only quick short flights; certain flies keep in 
amongst stones and bushes; high-altitude grasshoppers and other 
kinds are wingless; certain beetles throw themselves for safety to 
the ground. 

Let us pass to another phase in the struggle. How do the animals 
at high altitudes contend with the scarcity of food? The domestic 
animals show us how severe is the struggle. It is wonderful to .c:ee a 
herd of yaks grazing on the hillsides. To all appearances the moun- 



LIFE AT HIGH ALTITUDES HINGSTON 343 

tain is absolutely barren, yet the animals manage to pick up some 
food. When snow is on the ground they dig through it to the vege- 
tation. The Tibetans said that they scraped up roots. I have seen 
them eating the fresh dung of a pony which had been well fed on 
grass and grain. In April, when the grass is just commencing to 
appear, the sheep struggle hard to obtain food. With their fore feet 
they dig into the soil and shuffle aside the superficial sand in order 
to get at the buried blades. When food is scarce, the ponies do like- 
wise. I have seen them cutting up the ground w^ith their hoofs in 
order to expose the hidden roots. Also they w^ade into icy lakes, 
wdiere they feed on the water weed that grows up from beneath. 
The mules and donkeys will sometimes eat quantities of yak dung, 
which does not seem to do them any special harm. The pikas show 
an excellent example of husbandry. They store up quantities of 
seeds in their burrows to serve as a winter supply of food. 

The bills of certain birds seem specially suited for penetrating 
frozen soil. This is of importance for the insectivorous species, 
since in Avinter, when the ground is hard, all insects are hibernating 
underneath stones or in the superficial layer of the earth. Compare 
the bill of the chough, an inhabitant of high altitudes, with that of 
its allies, the rook and crow. The chough's bill is proportionately 
longer and sharper and better fitted to penetrate the frozen soil. It 
is also used as a kind of lever with which the bird upturns the lumps 
of dung in order to reach the good things underneath. The ground 
chough is a delightful Tibetan bird of a sandy color that harmonizes 
with the soil. It is about the size of a lark, but is supplied wdth a 
long and poAverful bill, slightly curved like that of a chough. Now 
this bill fulfils an important purpose. The bird is an insect feeder, 
and must find great difficulty in securing food during the cold 
months of the year. All insects are then in a state of hibernation. 
But the ground chough can dig them from their places of retirement. 
We may often see the bird boring in the soil, driving its stout bill 
into the hard plateau until it finds the insects hidden underneath. 
Unless it had this special instrument of excavation it could scarcely 
exist through the winter months. 

The larks supply another example. In India there are two kinds 
of Calandra larks : One the Eastern Calandra lark, which lives on 
the plains; the other the long-billed Calandra lark, which occupies 
the plateau of Tibet. They are powerful birds of heavy build, and 
utter a loud call note when in flight. Compare the bills of these 
two species. That of the plain bird is comparatively small, about 
four-fifths inch in length. That of the Tibetan bird is distinctly 
longer, its length being ll^ inches. The longer bill of the Tibetan 



344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

bird is explained by its environment. It ploughs into the ground 
after the manner of the ground chough, hammering the surface with 
its powerful bill and securing its food by boring into the soil. And 
since the soil is often frozen and difficult to penetrate, this species 
of the plateau must have a sharper bill than the closely allied species 
of the plains. 

That remarkable bird, the ibis bill, provides an excellent example 
of how the bill of a bird is adapted to its method of securing food. 
It is a high-altitude wader with a long hard and slender bill curved 
something like that of a curlew. This bird is met with in the moun- 
tain torrents that pour from Tibet into the Himalayan range. It 
specially likes those places where the stream is broad and meanders 
through a bed of stones. There it runs about upon the layer of 
boulders, sometimes wading into the torrent up to its breast, thrust- 
ing its long bill under the stones in the hope of finding insects be- 
neath. Sometimes it curves its bill around the front of the stone, 
sometimes inserts it from one side. The bill is an excellent instru- 
ment for this purpose. Were it straight, it would not suit the round- 
ness of the i)ebbles. The curve is a necessary feature of the 
implement, and is excellently adapted to the habits of the bird, for 
it is curved in such a way that it fits neatly around the boulders 
when the bird is probing for food. 

The peculiar environment of the Tibetan plateau has caused some 
of the high-altitude birds to change their customary habits, of life. 
Some kinds, owing to the absence of trees, have become almost 
exclusively village birds. Thus the tree sparrow is to be found near 
every habitation. The accentors, which usually haunt bushes, in 
Tibet live amongst houses and in streets ; also the rose finches, which 
naturally like jungle, are frequently seen on the village walls. The 
magpies are like house croAvs in the way they keep to the villages, 
and, like choughs, they frequent precipitous cliffs. Many of the 
wildest birds have lost their sense of fear. The rudd}' sheldrake 
and the bar-headed goose, which in India are amongst the most 
timid of birds, in Tibet swim about the ponds near the villages as 
fearlessly as in a city park. The hill pigeons fed as boldly at 
our Everest base camp as if they were the tame birds in a London 
street. We observe the same tameness in the case of some of the 
mammals. Wild sheep, for example, are naturally very timid, yet 
at the base camp they came within 20 yards of our tents, and they 
are said to visit the caves in the mountains, where they take food 
from the hermits' hands. Thus we see how pliable is animal instinct. 
This usual tameness must be due to the absence of persecution, and 
shows that the sense of fear is not altogether innate, but is developed 
as a result of persecution by man. , 



LIFE AT HIGH ALTITUDES HINGSTON 345 

Certain birds of the plateau have formed communities with other 
animals, this being a help to them in securing food. The most inter- 
esting of these is the mouse hare community. The mouse hares 
are most engaging little animals about the size of a large rat. They 
live in burrows on the open plateau, where they are usually seen feed- 
ing at the entrance or running from hole to hole. A number of birds 
associate with these mouse hares. Amongst them were three kinds 
of mountain finches and Elwes' horned lark. All these little birds 
were remarkably tame ; there was a perfect confidence between them 
and the mouse hares, the whole making a charming society of pro- 
tectively colored mammals and birds. What is the object of this 
friendly association? It is one of the ways in which the birds of 
the plateau contend with the scarcity of food. For these birds are 
sted-eating species, and find special attraction near the mouse hares' 
holes. The mouse hares possess an instinctive forethought. They 
store up a winter supply of seeds, which they carry into their dens. 
But where storage takes place there must certainly be some refuse. 
Little seeds will lie about in the vicinity of the burrows, and it is 
these waste fragments that attract the birds. Very possibly the birds 
also pillage the mouse hares, for we often observed them entering 
the holes. 

At greater heights, on the almost barren mountains, a less con- 
spicuous society may occasionally be seen. This is an association of 
choughs and v;ild sheep. The chough sits on the wild sheep's back, 
where it searches for insects in the animal's hair. The sheep seems 
pleased with the bird's attention, and remains still while being 
explored. It is an interesting association at the highest altitudes. 
I have seen it on the crumbling snow-clad slopes as high as 17,000 
feet. Thus the stress of food at these elevations drives certain birds 
to associate with mouse hares; others to keep company with wild 
sheep. The wild sheep at high altitudes are continually displacing 
small rocks and stones. At different times my notice was first at- 
tracted to the animals by the clatter of stones falling down the slope. 
It is thus likely that these animals play no small part in the denuda- 
tion of high-altitude cliffs. 

I pass to another point. How do the animals escape the cold of 
winter^ A number, of course, migrate to lower altitudes; but of 
those which remain, most go into hibernation and sleep the winter 
through. When we reached the plateau, early in April, we found 
it almost destitute of animal life. Everything was hibernating 
underneath stones or in clefts of the rock or in the surface earth. 
The ants were hidden in subterranean galleries. Under stones were 
weevils quite motionless, also carabid beetles so torpid that they 



346 ANXUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

were scarcely able to move. We found centipedes rolled into motion- 
less coils, spiders lying dormant in the interior of snail shells, ear- 
wigs in a slu<j:jii^^h state with their antenna' thrust back along their 
sides. Under some stones were numbers of dead insects, as though 
many had sought concealment in the autunui and died during the 
winter cold. 

Hibernation must be a valuable protection to the animals. At the 
base camp I made an artificial burrow like that in which the pikas 
are accustomed to hibernate. At a foot beneath the surface its tem- 
perature was almost uniform. From 8 a. m. to 9 p. m. it remained 
at 33° F., while during the same period the temperature of the air 
varied through 19° F. Thus by burrowing the animals gain great 
advantage. They escape extremes of temperature and find uniform 
conditions. In winter they gain it even still more when they hiber- 
nate in the soil under thick snow. The conditions under a stone are 
also favorable for hibernation, though not to the same extent as a 
burrow in the soil. At an altitude of 17,000 feet the temperature 
beneath a stone varied through only 12° F. during the 24 hours. In 
the same period the temperature of the air varied through 44° F. 
Thus the beetles, the spiders, and many other creatures gain more 
equable conditions by hibernating under stones. 

The hot springs of Tibet supply a place of refuge in which 
animals can escape the cold. In one place we found these springs 
bubbling through the soil and flowing away in warm streams. The 
temperature of the water was 60° F. A varied life inhabited these 
springs, chiefly Crustacea and different kinds of sliells. The only 
snake from the Tibetan plateau that I know inhabits the hot springs. 
In my original report on the fauna of the plateau mention was made 
of small leeches found at a height of 16,000 feet. It was found, 
however, on more careful examination, that these little animals 
were in reality planarians. 

In the struggle for existence at these great altitudes many animals 
are driven to extreme heights. It indicates how relentless is the 
force of nature to spread into every habitable corner of the earth. 
The wild sheep and mountain hares struggle up the ranges even to 
the barren slopes at 17,000 feet. There is a little redstart which 
places its nest at the same inhospitable height. We found grass- 
hoppers at 18,000 feet, near the farthest limit of vegetable growth. 
We frequently saw the magnificent lammergeyer soaring round the 
mountain at 20,000 feet. We found bees, moths, and butterflies at 
21,000 feet, spiders at 22,000 feet, choughs at the immense height of 
27,000 feet. We found traces of a permanent animal existence far 
above the Himalayan snow line and 4,000 feet above the last vege- 
table growth. These were small spiders, and are the highest exist- 



LIFE AT HIGH ALTITUDES HINGSTON 347 

iii*^ animals on the earth. They live in islands of broken rock sur- 
rounded by snow and ice. There is no sign of vegetation or living 
creature near them, and for food they eat one another. 

Nothing illustrates better this high-altitude struggle than the 
manner in which animals secure a livelihood on tracts of snow and 
ice. We found an interesting fauna on the Rongbuk glacier at an 
altitude of 17,000 feet. The surface of this glacier was deeply fis- 
sured and to a large extent covered with broken rock. It seemed at 
first sight utterly barren, yet some grass grew amongst the rocky 
fragments, and patches of lichen appeared on the stones. Certain 
animals found existence in this desolation. I have seen a herd of 
wild sheep sitting on the glacier surrounded by pinnacles of ice and 
stones. Certain birds used to frequent the icy tract. The snowcock 
came down to it from the sides of the gorges, perhaps to find a little 
food on the surface moraine. I saw Guldenstadt's redstart high up 
on the glacier where nothing existed but debris and ice. A little 
stint, while migrating through the gorge, halted for a rest near a 
glacier pool. A tortoise-shell butterflj'^ was sometimes seen on the 
glacier at 17,000 feet. A number of protectively colored moths used 
to live on its surface; moraine. Beetles and small spiders found a 
i-'helter on it. It was the home of some minute flies. Even in the 
deep blue pools on the surface of the ice some creatures managed to 
secure a place. These pools were so cold that after sweeping them 
with a net the gauze remained frozen into a rigid bag. Yet in 
these pools were the larvas of both stone flies and may flies, and 
other equally delicate kinds skated on the surface of the water. 

We may sum up with the impression that the struggle is fierce in 
the high altitudes of the Mount Everest region. AVe have seen that 
numbers escape death through protective coloration; that many 
kinds have devices for escaping the strong winds; that at certain 
seasons the struggle for food is intense ; that some birds are specially 
equipped to dig into the soil; that other birds are forced to change 
their habits of life, and some to form communities with mammals; 
that burrowing and hibernation are the great resorts by which ani- 
mals escape the extreme cold; and finally that the ceaseless and 
relentless competition has driven animals to extreme altitudes, where 
the^^ live above the snow line and on the surface of the glaciers in 
one of the most inhospitable regions of the earth. 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Hingston 



Plate I 




I. Young of Tibetan Snovvcock 



^ ' ^* -^^ ^. ^r^ m.^*<j» fj-'y' K.Mi;-i /* ^^ , , 



- <;^-^is«^' 






.^r 

-•*•<' Z**^'^ 






^> -^ -."^ 









r- 



7 m fT-K'^'^'^-- *' ^''^' ' *^' 



2. BuRHEL ON Cliffs Near Base Camp 



%/^ ^-iC^, 







3. A Yak 



smiinsanian K?porc. i^za. — nciigsiui 



r-L.A 1 c z. 




I. Attid Spider Found at 22,000 Feet 




m.:^^. 



1. Yellow-Billed Chough in Base Camp 




3. Blue Hill Pigeons in Base Camp 



THE NEST OF THE INDIAN TAILOK BIRD 



By Casey A. Wood 



[With 5 plates! 



Very few people have actually found a nest of Orthotouius s. 
sutoHus (also known as Sutotius s. sutoHa) — the Indian tailor bird. 
After reading one of the numerous descriptions of this wonderful 
structure published any time during the past century, the impres- 
sion is gained that its discovery is an everyday occurrence. Investi- 
gation, however, reveals the fact that those who have lived for a long 
time in a compound where these pretty little wren-like birds are seen 
every day and in whose gardens they are laiown to breed, have never 
discovered a nest or even the tree where it was built. A number of 
amateur ornithologists who have studied the habits of these birds 
have told me that they failed to find the nests in spite of a careful 
search for them. To emphasize this peculiarity the birds seemed 
quite tame and raised one or more yearly broods under their very 
eyes. 

The well-known writer on natural history, Capt. W. W. A. Phil- 
lips, to whom I am indebted for one of the nests figured in this 
paper, writes me, " This is the first tailor bird's nest I have found 
during a residence of nine years in Ceylon. The species is common 
enough but is such an adept at concealing its nest tliat it is very diffi- 
cult to find it. The sample I sent you was discovered only because 
I observed the birds frequently in the vicinity of the bush." 

The main reason that the nest is difficult to find is that it is built 
in the midst of thick foliage which is very little disturbed by the 
operation of nest building. In consequence it is almost impossible to 
separate, visually, the components of the nest from the surrounding 
leaves. Moreover — and this is important — the leaves used by the 
bird are always apposed so that only their upper surfaces are ex- 
posed. There is no contrasting of upper and under surfaces to at- 
tract the eye. Nor is there generally any alteration in the direction 
of the leaves ; if they have a natural downward disposition, the nest 
is also pendent. If the foliage stands out horizontally the nest 
shows the same direction. To complete this camouflage, perforation 
of the leaf by the bird's beak rarely kills it, so that there is little or 
no dead foliage to indicate the probable whereabouts of the nest. A 

349 



350 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

final reason why more nests are not discovered is that they probably 
do not hold to^a'thor more than a few weeks after desertion by the 
birds. The leaves composing the nests die and shrivel up or may fall 
otl'. Soon tlie neglected cornucopia-like structure disintegrates under 
the influence of wind and weather; it does not remain and become 
visible for a year or so — as many nests do — for the benefit of the 
collector. 

The impression that the nest of the tailor bird is more common 
liian it really is arises in part from mistaking other structures for it. 
For example, the ashy wren warbler, Frlnia s. soeialis, occasionally 
builds a nest that looks like that of the tailor bird; and there are 
otlier birds' nests that externally reseml)le it. However, the struc- 
ture that conmionly passes for the nest of Orthotomus is a small- 
sized house of the red ant, which is made of leaves whose edges are 
brought together and held in place by means of glutinous silk secreted 
by the ant itself. Many a time have I been shown an alleged nest 
of the tailor bii'd which was really built by this remarkable insect. 

I congi-atulate myself, accordingly, on having seen a recently con- 
structed nest built in a tree where I could study it at my leisure. I 
was s})ending a few days at Sigiriya, in the jungle of northeastern 
Ceylon, studying the remarkable flora and fauna of that district. 
The rest house where I lived had several plants flanking the front 
entrance, one of them a year old Sapu {Michclia chmnpaca) seedling 
about 7 feet high, planted in that ever-useful container — a kerosene 
tin. Tliese fast-growing sapus always make effective ornamental 
shrubs, with their large lanceolate leaves and sweet-scented, ci-eamy- 
wliite flowers. Although people constantly passed within a few feet 
of the Michel'ia. not until the small birds were noticed flying in and 
out of the foliage was it suspected that they were nest building. 
One day the rest-house keeper noticed that one leaf of the small sapu 
was marked with white dots and, wliile examining it more closely, 
he saw a tailor bird fly from behind it. Having marked the exact 
sj^ot he was able to locate the nest and to watch the processes of rais- 
ing the family of two small tailors. It was quite shortly after the 
birds had left the nest that I saw it. 

Orthotomus sutorius^ which we maj' translate " the straight-cutting 
tailor," loves to dwell in gardens and in the vicinity of human habi- 
tations, but it is also found in the grass lands and jungle scrub of 
Ceylon, Burma, and India. These lively, yellow-green, sharp-billed, 
Avren-like birds generally go about in pairs, building their nests 
I'arely more than 5 feet from the ground in trees provided with long 
and rather bioad leaves. The females are smaller than the males. 
Both, when out of the breeding season, have short tails and present 
a " bunty " appearance, but duiing nidification the male gi'ows a re- 
markably long tail which he flirts about with great eftect and takes 



NEST OF INDIAN TAILOR BIRD \VO0I> 351 

on all the airs and graces of the true wren, rapidly sounding his clear 
double note, "te-weet, te-weet," so that all the world may hear. 

Except as a wedding garment one can hardly understand the use 
of the long tail of the male sutonus, especially as he is a good hus- 
band and takes a great interest in the raising of the family. When 
it is his turn to sit on, or in, the pocket-like nest he presents a most 
curious appearance: his long tail must perforce be applied all along 
his back so that it and his beak almost meet, surely an uncomfortable 
position for a long siesta. 

AVhen she (because only the female bird constructs the nest) can 
find them, the tailor bird prefers certain favorite trees for building 
her nest. Among these is the so-called lettuce tree, Pesonia alba, 
from the appearance of its pale yellow foliage and because the leaves 
are sometimes used as a salad. This is a small evergreen from 25 to 
30 feet high. Draccena and other umbrageous trees are also utilized. 

If the tree chosen has very long and large leaves the bird may be 
satisfied with a single leaf, or at most two leaves; if the leaves are 
of medium size or small a larger number are sewn or riveted together. 

Dewar, in his work on Birds of the Indian Plains, details the con- 
struction of a nest by the tailor bird from a single leaf, as witnessed 
bj^ Mr. A. G. Pinto. Some of the operations he describes are quite 
apparent in the Sigiriya nest, some are not. 

The first thing she did was to make with her sliarp little beak a number of 
inmctures along each edge of the leaf. Having thus prepared the leaf, she 
disappeared for a little and returned with a strand of cobweb. One end of 
this she wound roimd the narrow part of the leaf that separated one of the 
ininctures from the edge ; having done this, she carried the loose end of the 
strand acra'^s the under surface of the leaf to a puncture on the opposite side, 
where she attached it to the leaf, and thus drew the edges a little way to- 
gether. She then proceeded to connect most of the other punctures with those 
opposite them, so that the leaf took the form of a tunnel converging to a 
point. The under surface of the leaf formed the roof and sides of the tunnel 
or arch. There was no floor to this, since the edges of the leaf did not meet 
below, the gap between them being bridged by strands of cobweb. 

When lining the nest, the bird made a number of punctures in tlie body of 
the leaf, through which she poked the lining with her beak, the object being to 
keep the lining in fiitii. All this time the margins of the leaf that formed the 
nest liad been held together by the thinnest strands of cobweb, and it is a 
mystery how these can have stood the strain. However, before the lining was 
completed, the bird proceeded to strengthen them by connecting the punctures 
on opposite edges of the leaf with threads of cotton. Her modus operandi was 
to push one end of a thread through a puncture on the opposite edge of tht? 
leaf. The cotton used is soft and frays easily, so that the part of it forced 
through a tiny aperture issues as a fluffy knob, which looks like a knot and 
is usually taken as such. As a matter of fact, the bird makes no knots ; she 
merely forces a portion of the cotton strand through a puncture, and the 
silicon of the leaf catches the strands of cotton and prevents them from 
slipping. Sometimes the cotton threads are long enough to admit of their 
being passed to and fro, in which case the bird uses the full length. 



352 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

I may say, in passing, that I have never known the tailor bird — ■ 
unlike tlie architect of the quite as wonderful w^eaver bird's nest — to 
breed in captivity, or to make a good cage or aviary pet. 

To return to my treasure trove — the nest at Sigiriya — it occupied 
a position in the very center of the Sapu, 41/2 feet from the ground. 
It was made of three long, lanceolate, horizontally-placed leaves, 
measuring respectively 12 by 3 inches, 13 by 314 inches, and 121/^ by 
3 inches. It measured quite 3 inches at the widest and 21/^ at the 
narrowest diameter. The whole nest took the form of an irregular 
cornucopia. The cup cavity was lined more or less completely for a 
distance of TV^ inches from the tip, thus leaving about 2 inches to 
the free edge of the horn. The lining of the nest varied in thickness, 
but was quite half an inch in some sectors of the cornucopia. The 
nuiterial used in upholstering the nest was mostly the cotton-like 
material taken from a neighboring species of Euphorbia, whose seeds 
are provided witli a closed umbrella-like tuft of soft, shiny fibers. 
There were in addition a few threads, some dried grass, cocoimt 
fibers (probably from the house mats), two small feathers, and some 
black hairs. The last named were probably from bullocks as no 
horse had been seen in Sigiriya for over a year. There was also 
among the lining materials some kapok, or native tree cottons, the 
silk cotton tree {Geiba fentwndra) and red cotton tree {Bonibax 
malabaricuvi) . Both those flosses were available in the neighbor- 
hood and are nmch used by birds for lining nests. 

The solidarity of the nest as a whole was increased by the arrange- 
ment of the fibrous material in the lining, the coconut fibers, dried 
grass, and feathers being interwoven to form rings or bands that 
ran around and were fitted into the interior of the cornucopia, the 
cotton floss lining the cup cavity and padding the space below it. 

Most Avriters on the subject speak of the act of sewing as the chief 
means employed by the tailor bird on the leaves that cover her nest, 
but there were (as will be seen) but few signs of this method in 
the Sigiriya nest. Close investigation of the free end of the leaf 
pocket shows that a shred of fiber from tlie cotton mass had been 
drawn through each of the small marginal openings and that these 
strands had spread out as dot-like buttons on the exterior of the leaf, 
preventing'the cotton from slipping back. In this way the margins 
of the leaf had been drawn together by a sort of cross-riveting, that 
also welded leaf edges, nest lining, and the cotton mass together as 
one whole. The same process is seen all over the outer surface of 
the joined leaves. 

The bird makes with her %^-inch bill a puncture in the leaf, grasps 
a strand of nest lining, pulls it out through the small opening until 
the mass of which it forms a part is firmly drawn against the inner 
surface of the leaf. The external cotton then expands and forms a 



NEST OF INDIAN TAILOR BIRD WOOD 353 

minute button that effective!}'' holds the leaf and nest contents in 
close apposition. When the riveting has been repeated, as in 75 
places on the Sigiriya nest, it holds firmly. In this nest the Euphor- 
bia cotton made excellent rivets for holding the leaves in position. 

The Euphorbia pod is filled with seeds attached to a small plume 
of compressed floss. When the seed is detached there remains a 
minute umbilicus that holds the cotton fibers together. It was fre- 
quently this coherent plume whose seed the bird pulled — end on — 
through the opening made in the leaf. Once through the aperture 
it expanded and held in place the remainder of the cotton, with its 
attachments to the nest lining. 

If we number the three leaves that formed the casing of the nest, 
leaf I had b}^ careful count 20 holes through which a tuft of cotton 
had been drawn, while 9 had been unused. Leaf II had 25 filled 
and 9 unoccupied perforations; while leaf III had no less than 31 
filled and 14 empty holes. 

Where the leaf edges touched, the perforations, both filled and un- 
filled were placed a quarter of an inch apart. These marginal holes 
were more numerous, as in the body of the leaf, on leaf II and leaf 
III, the latter showing 8 filled and 5 empty perforations, while the 
former had 5 occupied and 8 unoccupied. 

It maj be said in explanation of the manner in which the female 
tailor fashions her nest that there are four distinct processes em- 
ployed in binding together leaves and nest — sewing, rivetting, lacing, 
and matting. 

The nearest approach to sewing occurred in three or four instances 
when the out-drawn strand was not that nearest the perforation but 
was seized beneath the farther leaf and riveted into the neighboring 
leaf. Such an arrangement gave the appearance of stitching the 
edge of one leaf to the margin of the other. This appearance may 
be seen in one of the photographs. 

In one of the earliest descriptions given of the tailor bird's nest, 
Jerdon, a most acute and careful observer, says the bird makes a 
knot in the silk or cotton to keep it in place. Now, the most minute 
survey of the external surface of the three leaves fails to show the 
slightest approach to such a device, and it may be added that the 
expanded, button-like process in the instances described seemed to an- 
chor the nest mass as effectually as if it had been tied in a regular knot. 

The second nest of the tailor bird was made from a single leaf. 
This was the one presented to me by Captain Phillips, of Kitulgala, 
Ceylon, August 1, 1925. He found it, June, 1925, in the middle of 
a croton bush, 3 feet from the ground. It is evidently an unfinished 
nest and in early stages of construction, but shows very plainly the 
processes commonly employed in nest building. The leaf itself is 
81/^ inches long and 8 inches at its widest part. The interior 



354 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

measures 2i/4 inches in diameter at the rim, taperin<j^ to the end so 
that the length of the unoccupied cup is about 6 inches. It was 
built in one of the large, broad, yellow-blotched, cordate leaves of 
the parasitic creeper, Pothos aureus^ or " Colombo agent." This 
epiphyte was introduced from the Solomon Islands and is noAv quite 
a common plant in Ceylon. 

As shown in the photograph, the bird has made IG perforations 
on the edge of the left half of the leaf, none of them more than one- 
quarter of an inch from the margin; there are 17 holes on the other 
edge. These openings Avere placed within 4I/2 inches of the edge on 
both sides — leaving free borders above and below. As shoAvn by a 
powerful glass, about one-half the perforations on cither side are 
occupied by threads of various sorts. From abov» downward three 
perforations on one side and four on the other were draAvn together 
by a single fine fiber that was firmly attached to the leaf margin by 
winding it around the free border of the leaf. The very thin thread 
at first appeared to be spider's silk, but a close examination by means 
of the lens and a dissecting needle proved it to be a much stronger 
fiber — like that of an agave or a disintegrated coconut fiber. This 
web-like thread was then passed five times across the inter\al in the 
upper borders of the apposed leaf edges, and firmly anchored at 
the four openings by winding it in and out around the leafy bridge 
made by the perforation near the leaf margin. To consolidate this 
part of the interlacing a sliver of dried grass was worked in (see 
the photo) across the intermarginal opening. 

At this point the two leaf edges overlap, and the next four open- 
ings are superimposed so as to allow the passage of small shreds 
of cotton, pulled through both holes and tufted down. Several grass 
and other coarse fibers were now placed beneath the overlapping leaf 
edge, and through two perforations in the latter are run strong 
threads that pass through the minute bundle of fibers to the opposite 
openings and back again — a combination of stitching and lacing. 

The last two holes are held in apposition with the margins of the 
corresponding leaf edges by threads that were evidently drawn 
taut by a sort of pulley-like motion so that this apposition of the 
edges is as firm as any part of the stitching. 

Constructed in this fashion the infolded leaf j^resents a remark- 
ably regular horn of plenty with its rounded, outer surface j^re- 
sented to the observer, and showing no trace of tailoring that had 
gone on in the unexposed margins. 

Captain Phillips thinks that occasionally these incomplete struc- 
tures do not pass beyond the stage of invagination, but that the 
infolded leaf is used as a shelter for the bird awaiting his or her turn 
to occupy the near-by nest, just as some observers believe the weaver 
bird uses his " canopy " for the same purpose. 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Wood 



Plate I 




Tailor Bird's Nest as It Appeared in the Midst of Foliage 



Smithsonian Report, 1925.— Wood 



Plate 2 




Tailor Bird's Nest, With the Surrounding Leaves Removed 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Wood 



Plate 3 




Photograph of a Tailor Bird's Nest, to Show the Method of Rivet- 
ing THE Leaves to the Nest Lining 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Wood 



Plate 4 




Tailor Bird's Nest, Showing the Lining of Cotton, Etc. 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Wood 



Plate 5 




Tailor Bird's Nest Made from a Single Leaf. Note the Sewing 

AND Lacing 



THE NEEDS OF THE WORLD AS TO ENTOMOLOGY ^ 



By L. O. HowAKD 



I have chosen an ambitious and rather sweeping title for this 
address. It woiikl make a good title for a book, I may possibly use 
it as a title for a book I have been preparing for some time. It Avill 
serve my present purpose, however, to head soms thoughts that ha^'e 
come to me after about 60 years of greater or less attention to insects. 

Not so many years ago this would have been considered a mixed 
audience, an audience surely at one in that all are interested in ento- 
mology, yet mixed since it contains inv stigators whose sole aim is 
apparently the study of this vast assemblage of extraordinary forms 
of life in some one or several of its aspects from that ennobled curi- 
osity Avhich lies at the bottom of so much valuable scientific re- 
search — the effort to answer the continual questions "why" and 
" how " — and since it contains also investigators Avho are striving to 
overcome the agencies which are destroying many of the vital needs 
of the human species. 

But now it is coming fully to be recognized hj all of us who are 
working with insects that, while the man who is trying to supply 
imtnediate relief from great loss by the most immediate measures 
is the man for the immediate emergency, every man who studies 
insects and who records his results is doing greatly needed work and 
work that sooner or later will help to lead to a close understanding 
of insect life which may bring about its control by man. 

I will not speak here of the rapidly increasing appreciation by 
the intelligent part of the public of the tr> mendous importance of 
entomological work; but of another fact, which is that, in spite of 
the good we have done and are now doing, month by month the 
insect problem becomes more serious. It is far more serious to-day 
than it was 20 years ago, although the workers in economic ento- 
mology have doubled in that time and the money expended in 
entomological investigations has probably trobled. It is enormously 
more serious than it was 50 years ago when a mere handful of men 
were laying the groundwork for our rapidly growing structure. 

1 Annual Address before the Entomological Society of America, Washington, December 
31, 1924. Reprinted by permission from Annals of the Entomological Society of America, 
Vol. XVIII, No. 1, March, 1925. 

355 



356 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

This may look to the carper or to one who loves to chaff his ento- 
mologist friends as a possible case of cause and effect — the more 
entomologists, the more insects and insect damage ! But to the 
knowing mind it is perfectly obvious that, just at the time when the 
crisis of overpopulation of the earth is approaching, just at the time 
when the total human food supply must rapidly be increased, the 
multiplication of injurious insects is helped in a way by the very 
methods man has adopted in his civilized lifel 

Instance after instance in illustration of this fact will occur to 
you. Let us look at the cotton boll weevil. Here is a species that 
gradually di^veloped its close adaptations to cotton in Central 
America where the cotton tree grows wild. It was a nearly unlmown 
creature of slight economic importance. Brought by accident across 
the Rio Grande at Brownsville, and then more or less by accident 
to Alice, it found itself in a boll weevil heaven — a whole State 
growing its favorite food, and growing it in just the waj^ to make 
life a delight, in just the way to promote to the utmost limit its 
extraordinary powers of multiplication, and so its enormous pro- 
gressive spread until now the whole vast Cotton Belt is occupied. 
Incidentally it may be said that all this might have been prevented 
had the advice of entomologists been followed in the beginning, and 
that at a later date the spread might gi'eatly have been retarded 
and the damage very greatly lessened had the Southern cotton 
planters generally heeded the advice of the experts. 

This will answer as an illustration in regard to agriculture. 
With regard to human health the same conditions hold. For ex- 
ample, it may be shown that the advance of civilization in a new 
country at first reduces malaria, by the drainage of swamp areas 
and the reclaiming of moist " bad lands " for agriculture, only to 
be followed, as the country becomes densely settled, by the reap- 
pearance of malaria, since man has made new and even better 
breeding places for the malarial mosquitoes than were the old 
swamps: the making of milldams, of stone quarries, the stopping 
of extremely small streams of running water b}' railway embank- 
ments, the digging of borrow pits, the accumulation of old tin cans 
and disused vessels of one sort or another about towns, even the 
footprints of cattle in soil that is not too dry, especially during a 
rainy season, and in coimtless other ways, such as water troughs for 
cattle, small ornamental ponds for aquatic plants, the water recep- 
tacles for grindstones, poorly-protected cesspools, imperfectlj''- 
covered water tanks, the catch basins of sewer systems, the badly- 
cared-for roof troughs of houses and barns, even the perfected and 
up-to-date water-closets in houses temporarily vacated, and so on 
and so on. 



ENTOMOLOGY HOWARD « 357 

Attention has often been called to the increasin^^ spread of in- 
jurious insects from country to country by the rapidly increasing 
speed of ocean voyages. Our latter-day Japanese beetle and Euro- 
pean corn borer inspectors appreciate as can no one else how the 
hundreds of thousands of automobiles and our greatly improved 
roads help the spread of these and many other pests. As early as 
the peace conference at Portsmouth at the close of the Russo- 
Japanese War, when thousands of vehicles from regions infested 
by the gipsy and brown-tail moths brought their loads of sightseers 
to Portsmouth, there resulted an immediate extension of the range 
of these imported pests. And when T. Chalmers Mitchell and his 
companions attempted to fly from Cairo to the Cape a few years 
ago, the possibilities of the airplane as a spreader of insects was 
demonstrated, as I heard Mitchell state at a meeting of the 
Zoological Society of London in 1920. 

So what is termed " advancing civilization " is not only encour- 
aging insects to multiply almost heyond hounds^ hut it is facilitating 
and hastening their spread in many ways. 

In the face of all this, what we have done and what we are doing, 
much as we have accomplished, especially during the past 20 years, 
is a trifle — a comparatively insignificant series of things done and 
learned compared to what we have still to do and to learn. 

In the first place we must have the public behind us. The public 
must be made to appreciate the fact that it is a vital necessity to the 
future of humanity that we should learn everything about insects; 
that keen and highly trained men should be studjdng everj' aspect 
of insect life, and that chemists, engineers, plant physiologists, bac- 
teriologists, and scientific men of many specialties must be called in. 
They must learn that the study of no aspect of insect life is a trivial 
pursuit, as their fathers thought, and they must learn that the ento- 
mologists are the men on whom the world must depend for much of 
its future prosperity. 

This education of the public is going on rapidly, but we must 
help to speed it up. A number of strong writers in the newspapers 
and in the magazines have found the topic attractive and interesting. 
Many of us have grasped opportunities to address lay audiences of 
all kinds on the general subject, and all of us who can speak more 
or less forcefully in public must never lose a chance to drive this 
particular lesson home. 

Incidentally there is an enormous opportunity in the teachers' 

colleges, in the great summer sessions of such institutions as the 

Teachers College of Columbia University in New York, for example, 

where 12,000 teachers from all over the United States come together 

76041—26 24 



358 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

hungerino; for information to take back to their hundreds of thou- 
sands of jiupils everywhere. 

Many of you may have noticed that a committee '' on the place 
of the sciences in education " has been constituted by the American 
Association for the Advancement of Science. This committee in- 
cludes representatives of high schools as well as of universities and 
others. There is a place under this committee for the consideration 
of secondary school science. In an article by Dr. O. W. Caldwell, 
in the journal Science for December 12 last, tliere is mucli informa- 
tion regarding the teaching of science. A significant table, for 
example, is given of the distribution of over 47,000 high school 
pupils in Washington in the different subjects in which they were 
enrolled. Of a total of G,;j;j2 in science, 1,061 were enrolled in 
zoolog}^ Here, obviously, is an opportunity for the stressing of 
the duty of teachers to include work in entomology, and the repre- 
sentative conmiittee in charge of this subject should add an ento- 
mologist to its members as a ])reliminary step to the securing, not 
only in higli schools, but in secondary schools as well, of such in- 
struction in entomology as wmU arouse the interest of boys and girls 
in entomology and make them realize its enormous importance. 

I am perfectly aware that what I have just said may sound as 
though it were intended for economic entomologists only, but I 
must emphasize again and again that there is no entomologist, 
whatever his line of work, wdio is not concerned and Avho is not 
helping very greatly. 

Next to the education of the public, tlie number of workers must 
very greatly be increased ; and i)ub]ic education Avill undoubtedly lead 
to this increase, since, by the stimulation of (he interest of the people, 
the minds of capable young men and young women will be open to 
the call for service, funds Avill come from legislative Dodies, and 
the waj^ will be opened. 

With the education of the public should come (and I hope it will) 
a great increase in the number of so-called amateur entomologists. 
We all know that men of this class have done magnificent work in 
the past; that in fact they did the bulk of the work down to compara- 
tively recent years, and that they still constitute a very large per- 
centage of the numbers of most of the great entomological societies. 

How many so-called entomologists are there now? It is difficult 
to say. In the last edition of Cattell's "American Men of Science " 
there are approximately 9,500 names. Of these, 217 are recorded as 
entomologists. I have recently estimated the number of members of 
the large publishing entomological societies of the world and find 
that they probably reach o^•er G.OOO and of these more than 2,000 
are American. This latter number must be reduced, however, on 



ENTOMOLOGY HOWARD 359 

account of the fact that so many individuals belonf? to two or more 
of our societies — notably the Entomological Society of America 
and the American Association of Economic Entomologists. In the 
1924 edition of Cassino's Naturalists' Directory, Avhich includes all 
kinds of collectors, teachers, and so on, there are approximately 
4,450 names. I have checked the names of those indicating any in- 
terest in entomology and they number 928. 

But this stimulation of popular interest must go farther than the 
man in the street — the average citizen ; it must uncloister our schools 
and colleges, not alone the minds of the students, but especially the 
minds of the teachers. The insect complex should receive the prime 
attention of a vastly greater body of trained research men in the 
universities. 

In my presidential address before the American Association for 
the Advancement of Science in December, 1921, I stated that I had 
examined the titles of theses for doctorates in American universities 
for the preceding eight years and found that only a very small per- 
centage of the output " represents work which can be of the slightest 
use to humanity in its immediate problem regarding the insect world, 
and, even those which may prove of use, bear some evidence that 
the lines of study had already been adopted by students who used 
them incidentally to gain their degrees and were not suggested by 
their teachers as promising lines leading toward some great prac- 
tical outcome." 

I have recently examined the titles for theses for the doctorate 
degree in American universities for 1922, and find that of 442 such 
theses 39 concern zoology. Of these 39, 19 were concerned with 
insects, which is apparently an improvement on the earlier situation; 
but of these, 5 were papers on genetics m which Drosophila was 
used, and only 6 of them had any apparent economic bearing. The 
other 8, however, represented good, sound work, and the results of 
the investigations on which they were based undoubtedly will help 
in our broad aim to understand the insect class. 

Dissatisfied as I am with this small proportion among the zoolog- 
ical theses, I am naturally equally disappointed in the small pro- 
portion of theses that concern any aspect of zoology, and I am 
disappointed at the small number of all of the theses for doctorates. 
The time is coming — and we must do all that we can to hasten it — 
when not only will research students be at work in our universities 
in much greater numbers, but when those applying themselves to 
entomological subjects Avill be multiplied many times. 

In this broader training of the coming workers in entomology 
the latest conceptions in biology and the latest methods will become 
known to them and will influence their Avork. We see this coming 



360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

rapidly to-day. The mathematical trend in biological work has not 
been sufficiently noted by many entomologists. We can not afford to 
neglect this movement. If we do neglect it we will lose the signifi- 
cance of much of the research literature of biology, and in our OAvn 
work will lose the good to be gained from these mathematical 
methods. 

This has naturally led up beyond the discussion of the needed in- 
crease in numbers among the entomologists into the need for 
broader and sounder training. And this in turn will lead us to a 
consideration of the direction of this research training and the 
vast opportunities which exist for the most important research. 
To do this properly we must know comprehensively where we 
stand to-day. 

In morphology we are most fortunate at this present moment 
to have at hand (only a month from the press) that magnificent 
" Introduction to Entomology " by Comstock, its thousand pages 
displaying this side of entomological accomplishment to date, the 
result of long years of close and careful work by a great student 
and teacher. 

I have used the term " morphology," in referring to this great 
work, as including external and internal anatomy and taxonom3^ 
Physiological information occurs frequently in the consideration 
of anatomical points, and embryological data are touched upon here 
and there. In the consideration of metamorphoses also the treat- 
ment is broad beyond the usual understanding of the term " morph- 
ology;" and habits, behavior, life history data, and points suggest- 
ing ecological work are touched all through the bulk of the book. 
So in a big way this " Introduction " is much more than an intro- 
duction to entomolog}' ; it is an introduction to the new entomology 
that is to come. We may take it as a starting point from which to 
proceed, just as the older entomologists took West wood's famous 
"Introduction" and, later. Sharp's "Insecta," and as the men of 
the generation of AValsh and Riley and Thomas and Le Baron 
took the classic "Insects Injurious to Vegetation" by our own 
Thaddeus William Harris. 

Before leaving the subject of morphology, attention should be 
called to the advanced and most competent work of Snodgrass, 
some of which is already available and much more will soon be 
available. Comstock's mention of the work of this gifted ento- 
mologist, on page 205 of the new " Introduction," is a deserved and 
gracious act of the A'eteran. 

I think that the subject that has been most in the minds of 
many of us in recent years has been insect physiology. After scores 
of years of work by brilliant men, our knowledge of the physiology 



ENTOMOLOGY HOWARD 361 

of the human species still has many gaps. How much more, there- 
fore, with its pitifully small number of workers, is there to be 
learned about insect physiology ! Fundamentally radically dif- 
ferent from the vertebrate structurally, how importantly must their 
physiology differ! And upon their physiology as greatly as upon 
their structure must their behavior depend. In the main, we know 
what they do only as it affects our interests. We must know every- 
thing that they do and why and how they do it. Here phj^siology 
is basic. To understand their reactions, to be able intelligently 
to explain their tropisms, we must know how they direct their 
movements, how they communicate, how they hear, how they see, 
how they digest their food, and the scores of other things upon 
which a complete knowledge of their physiology would throw 
light. 

I think it is quite certain that this is the largest as it is sm'ely 
the most important of the comparatively unexplored fields in en- 
tomology. What information there is exists in scattered papers 
in many languages, and many of the investigations in so-called 
physiology are really little more than studies of internal anatomy 
in which the histology of organs is considered from a more or less 
comparative point of view. Enlightening work has been done on 
the structure of the sense organs, notably that of Mclndoo on the 
olfactory organs of insects of several different orders. But phys- 
iology in general from its experimental and chemical aspects has 
hardly been touched. Such studies as have been made are not as- 
sembled so that we can readily know where we stand. Although 
the fii*St part of Packard's text book is entitled "Morphology and 
Physiology," and covers over 500 pages, it is almost wholly anatomi- 
cal, and it is 26 years old. 

One of the greatest and most important fields in human phys- 
iology and in that of domestic animals, and one which is being 
most intensively worked, is that of nutrition. AVliat do we loiow 
about the food elements necessary to insects? And just how is 
this food utilized ? Here is a field Avhich is crying for investigation 
by the best trained men, using the most advanced methods and 
able, in fact, to invent new methods — men of the genius of Krogh, 
of Denmark, for example. 

As already indicated, upon our knowledge of the physiology of 
insects must depend our understanding of their tropisms, and upon 
a clear understanding of these tropisms will depend many of our 
future methods of warfare. 

When we speak of tropisms and behavior we are touching upon 
what stands for psychology with insects. Kecently, in the AVorld 
War, we have had a striking example of the enormous handicap to 



362 ANNUAL REPOET SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

a battlinf^ nation of a lack of understanding of the psycholooy oi 
its antagonists. It is a far cry from the varying psychology of the 
different races of human beings to the vastly diflferent psychology of 
insects. But how important it is to attempt at least to understand 
such psychology as they possess, and how little do we know about it 
now! But we have a beginning, Bouvier's admirable "La Vie 
psychique des Insectes " brings together what we know now, and 
therefore forms a starting point for experimental work and study 
which may lead to important results. 

The psychology of insects, of course, brings us at once to the 
disputed borderland of instinct and intelligence. We are none of 
us ready to adopt Ferenczy's classificatory name for the human 
species {Hoiiio immwralis semisapiens) as contrasted with his ant 
name {Formica sapiens diligens)^ nor do we misunderstand 
Wheeler's exquisite satire on human society which he entitled " Ter- 
mitodoxa," but, for want of a better name, we may call psychological 
a lot of insect phenomena which need investigation. 

Insects are controlled by nature very much better and more 
effectively than by man himself — assuming tliat man's efforts are 
not a part of nature (as they surely are, since man is a true ecological 
factor). Many more insects are destroyed by their parasites of dif- 
ferent kinds and by their other natural enemies than are destroyed 
by man. In fact, man has really been making things easy for the 
insects — he has been facilitating the multiplication and spread of 
his own worst enemies, and at the same time he has been groaning 
and complaining and suffering from the effects of his own stupidity. 

The trite words " going back to nature " have an especial signifi- 
ance in this connection. We can not go back to nature, in a way, 
if we wish to preserve our rank as the dominant species and still 
keep on increasing all the time. We must continue to "upset the 
balance " and keep on upsetting it more and more if we are to feed 
our increasing millions. We must control all possible food resources. 
But we must get back to nature in so far that Ave must study all these 
natural control factors as they affect antagonistic species, and we 
must utilize them. 

But to utilize them we must first understand them, and the word 
" understand " does not mean half knowledge. Generalizations are 
nowhere more dangerous than here. I have been studying some of 
the smaller aspects of this subject for more than 40 years, and I have 
seen my imagined or expressed generalizations fall by the dozen 
through the work of keen-eyed and competent younger observers. 
And yet the enormous complex of interacting organisms, really fight- 



ENTOMOLOGY HOWARD 363 

ing desperately among- themselves, is only just becoming apparent, 
and offers a field for many keen workers for many years to come. 
And it is a field of very great promise. It is one of the fundamentals. 
The complexity of the problem is growing on us. What we once 
thought simple become the more involved the deeper we go into the 
subject. But these very complications as they arise should only 
render the subject the more attractive to the truly scientific mind. 
Nowhere do we run up against a stone wall ; but the more we observe 
and the more we study, the more the field opens before us and the 
closer we come to a true understanding of relations and the more 
apt we will be to find principles and ideas that will be of value from 
the human standpoint. 

Insects are a healthy race. They have in these 50,000,000 years 
bred out the unfit. And their very prolificacy more than compen- 
sates for the losses caused by occasional epidemics. But in the study 
of natural control, insect pathology, a largely neglected field, must 
have more workers. We must know here, just as in every other 
possible line of insect research, every fact that can be ascertained. 
Of course, the insect pathologist will be working for an end 
diametrically opposed to that of the human pathologist, but the basic 
technique of the latter will help the former, and the causative 
organisms of disease have a certain zoological or botanical grouping 
which will render the work of both groups of pathologists at least 
comparable. There are great gaps to be filled in our Imowledge of 
the forms of parasitism in which protozoa, bacteria, fungi, helminths, 
and filterable viruses are concerned. 

In this direction the work of Pasteur on pebrine stands out, and 
the results of subsequent investigations of this disease have been 
incorporated in a number of papers, especially by Italian investi- 
gators. The diseases of bees have been investigated by our own 
G. F. White and A. P. Sturtevant; and Burri, of Switzerland, 
Bahr, of Denmark, and Maassen, Bochert, and Zander, of Germany, 
have contributed to the study of bee diseases. Kudo, of Japan, 
has worked upon the protozoa of insects, and a number of medical 
investigators have been led to study the microorganisms in the diges- 
tive tracts of insects that bite man. 

Paillot, of France, is making profound studies of the micro- 
organism fauna of the insect body. Metalnikov, of the Pasteur 
Institute in Paris, has been working on the blood of insects and 
making studies relative to the problem of immunity, using largely 
the larvae of the wax moth. Rudolph Glaser and G. F. White, of 
the United States, are studying the pathology of insects. 



364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Nearly all of these workers, however, have spent only a portion 
of their time upon such studies and have each contributed only a 
few papers. Systematic, consecutive, well-planned work by many 
men, perhaps in cooperation, must be brought about. 

From the fact that certain disease organisms inhabit both insects 
and w'arm-blooded animals and that with some of them this dual 
host relation is a necessity in their lives, we are led to the subject 
of medical entomology. 

It seems to me that no wise man can for an instant believe that 
medical entomology has passed its infancy. To all intents and 
purposes this branch of knowledge was first opened up less than 
30 years ago. Its increase has been dramatic. Three years ago, 
at the invitation of the president of the American Public Health 
Association, I wrote the " Sketch History of Medical Entomology." 
It was a subject with which I had been connected since its begin- 
ning. It was a subject of vital interest. Discovery had followed 
discovery with such rapidity and the results which followed these 
discoveries were of such enormous importance to humanity that the 
story fairly w^rote itself. The subject has developed so rapidly and 
has spread out in so many directions that it invites and in fact 
demands the keen attention of many workers. 

It is true that most of the main discoveries have been made by 
medical men, but all future work demands the intimate cooperation 
of pathologists and entomologists. The control of an insect-borne 
disease, whether of man or domestic animals or cultivated plants, 
means primarily the control of the vector; and who so competent 
to investigate the possibilities in that direction as the man trained 
in economic entomology ? 

Not so many months ago, traveling for a day or two in the com- 
pany of the principal officer of one of the great medical research 
institutions, I suggested to him that a well-equipped service should 
be started, preferably at some great scientific center, wdiere the 
intimate biology of all insects known to be carriers of disease should 
be investigated by competent men, untrammeled in their work and 
assisted to the limit of their necessities in a financial way; that these 
men should include in their investigations not only all Imown vectors 
but all of the close relatives of such species. I am sure that my 
suggestion was sound; that the establishment of such a laboratory 
or series of laboratories is a great desideratum; that the results to 
be gained by such work could not fail to be of very great benefit; 
and I, therefore, advanced the project with some assurance. To my 
disappointment, however, it was received with an interest which was 
obviously only a matter of courtesy, and I dropped the subject in 
discouragement. But why should not such a plan be pushed? Let 



ENTOMOLOGY — HOWARD 365 

some man yet in his forties draw up a scheme in as much detail as 
possible; let him consult with his wisest associates; let him look 
over the field with a prophetic eye; and then push the plan with 
an enthusiasm and energy which belongs rather to the fourtli de- 
cade of life than to the sixth (now occupied by the writer). Of 
course, it is quite possible that this idea may not be adopted, but 
in the very outlining of the plan it will be necessary to bring to- 
gether all the sidelights with the main idea, and out of it will come 
unquestionably a stimulation to research of the broadest kind in this 
vital direction. 

And now we come to ecology. Originating as a name not so long 
ago among the botanists, this term has broadened in its significance 
to include certain aspects of the whole biological field. 

In his masterly address delivered before this society in 1915 en- 
titled, "The Ecological Foundation of Applied Entomology," that 
deep and sound thinker, that broad naturalist, that man whom this 
society and our sister societies have been proud to honor as the dean 
of the economic entomologists of America, Dr. S. A. Forbes, pointed 
out in his clear and forceful way that nowhere does the broadening 
of biological studies into the field of what is now termed " ecology " 
promise better results or greater opportunities than in applied ento- 
mology. In fact, he says, " The economic entomologist is an ecolo- 
gist pure and simple — whether he calls himself so or not * * *." 
This wonderful address and the contemporaneous and subsequent 
writings of Shelford and others have opened the eyes of many work- 
ers — in fact, have made many productive workers — and all leaders 
of main projects having insect control in mind are now looking upon 
their problems with ecological eyes. 

The revolution which has come is well illustrated, for example, in 
the October, last, number of the Canadian Entomologist, where the 
leading article, by W. C. Cook, tells of a study of the noctuid moths 
caught at light at Bozeman, Mont., in 1919 by K. M. King and in 
1923 by himself. Even a dozen years ago the moths so caught, if 
they were good specimens, would have been pinned, identified, and 
put in the college collection or in a private collection, accurately 
labeled, of course, with date and locality, and there the matter would 
have rested. But with our present growing knowledge of the fac- 
tors concerned in the ecology of insects and the importance to be 
placed upon an accumulation of individual notes, Mr. Cook has gone 
far : He has analyzed the results, taking into consideration the food 
plants and habits of the species involved, the question of temperature 
and rainfall and elevation and character of the country inhabited by 



366 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

the inuividiKil species, and has been able to draw from all this the 
following conclusion : 

The insect fauna of a given region is not a single stable unit, varying only in 
abundance from year to year, but is a composite of smaller groups, each of 
which has more or less definite optimum. The composition of the fauna in a 
given season is very definitely related to the climatic conditions prevailing at 
the time of growth. Three dry years culminating in 1919 enormously in- 
creased the proportion of prairie elements in the Bozeman fauna, while reduc- 
ing the eastern and mountain forms. The trend of the climate toward normal 
has resulted by 1923 in a great reduction in these prairie intruders, and the 
reestablishment of the eastern and mountain forms. How much farther thi.s 
movement will go can not be predicted, but it is certain that a return of dry 
weather will reverse the direction of the trend. 

I select this instance because it concerns a paper that was published 
only the other day, but recent entomological and ecological journals 
contain numbers of articles of equal or greater significance. Wliat 
an advance ! In the general warfare again.st insects tho.se conclu- 
sions will seem to have no immediate bearing upon any problem, 
but they are valuable and very suggestive and indicate great prog- 
ress in entomological thought and methods. 

I find a confident prophecy as to the effect of work of this character 
in a paper by C. H. T. Townsend in the journal Ecology for January, 
1924. He says in closing: 

Environment work will l)e the first and last steps in the insect control of the 
future. The normal favorable environment must be changed to an unfavorable 
one. Given the factor values in the environment classes to which the insects' 
phases are subjected, with the insects' responses to the same, we are in the 
most advantageous position for deciding which phase to attack and which en- 
vironment class to manipulate in order to gain control. 

Here the factor values include heat, sunlight, rainfall, atmospheric 
humidity, atmospheric pressure, wind, soil texture, soil moisture, 
vegetation, food supply, predators, parasites, and disease. 

I remind you of this prophecy without absolutely complete indorse- 
ment, but as an especially notable paragraph. 

We must not leave this subject of ecology without mention of Hop- 
kins' promising work on bioclimatic laws. It is a subject to which 
this able thinker is now fortunately able to devote his principal at- 
tention. He has already arrived at conclusions of far-reaching 
value — far beyond the confines of economic entomology — and it is 
hoped that this great work will receive the appreciation it deserves. 

To be able to know precisely and definitely what creature is before 
one — to be able to write about it in such a way that all other Avorkers 
will understand — necessitates a system of classification and the nam- 
ing and technical description of a host of forms. The comparative 
stuSy of morphological characters, of course, indicates relationships. 



ENTOMOLOGY HOWARD 367 

presupposes similar methods of development and similar behavior 
among the related forms, and in addition it affords evidence as to 
lines of descent and the general trend of evolution. 

In spite of the hundreds of thousands of species of insects that 
have been named and described, a greatly larger number remain 
unnamed, while the stability of the names already adopted and 
of many of the classificatory details and systems has by no means 
become fixed, and there is a sad lack of comprehensive catalogues 
of groups — a t3^j>c of publication of the greatest use to all ento- 
mologists. There is, therefore, a crying need for many more capa- 
ble taxonomists. 

Further than this, there is also a crying need for bigger and 
broader taxonomists — for the men now at work to become bigger 
and broader, and for the men entering the field to consider a host 
of things unconsidered in the old taxonomy. The average taxono- 
mist of to-day is lagging behind in the advance of science. New 
species continue to pour in at such a rate that his time is constantly 
occupied with descriptive work. He is seldom able to apply him- 
self to an extended revision of a given group, and if he does at- 
tempt such a revision he fails to consider even the small amount 
of work that has been done in internal anatomy, embryology, 
physiology, and paleo-entomology. His system can not be abso- 
lutely sound, because he is not able to go deep enough. We need 
a sounder and better based classification all through the group 
" Insecta," and this is one of our prime needs to-day. The basic 
value of a stable nomenclature to all workers in all phases of 
entomological effort, applied or not, needs no argument here; it 
is obvious to all of us who are engaged in economic work; it is 
obvious to those who have done work in embryology, morphology, 
genetics, or any other branch of biology in which insect material 
is being used. 

Taxonomy with the class " Insecta " is complicated beyond that 
of most other groups of animals by the existence of complete meta- 
morphoses and the radical difference in the lives of the larvae and 
of the adults; a fact which brings to bear on each stage many 
evolutionary factors entirely different from those acting on the 
other. This demands the consideration in taxonomy of what we 
used to call " life history work," and it is in this life history 
information and in exact knowledge of early stages that there are 
very great gaps. Fortunately, the work on the life history of any 
one species or another is fascinating, and always attracts w^orkers. 
The number of such investigators is increasing rapidly, and gaps 
are beinir filled. 



368 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

We are sadly lacking, however, in our knowledge of larval forms 
and in our ability at once to identify larvte without first rearing 
the adults. In practical work, and especially in international or 
intersectional quarantine, the most comprehensive knowledge of 
larval forms is necessary, since in the operation of commerce in- 
sects are carried accidentally quite as often in the larval form as in 
the adult form. 

Work upon larval stages is going on at the present time with 
some groups of lepidoptera, certain diptera, and the coleoptera. 
Perhaps the most ambitious effort of this kind is that with the 
last-named order. It is a great pleasure to know that Boving and 
Craighead have almost finished characterizations, keys, and short 
diagnoses of the families and subfamilies of the entire order 
coleoptera. 

And, speaking of quarantine work, we should not only be able 
to identify material found in whatever stage, but there is a great 
deal that should be known which does not come properly under 
this portion of this paper. It is becoming plain that (quarantines 
may be promulgated which are unnecessar}'. We have been obliged 
to go on the presumption that a pest in a given counti-y may be 
and probably will be a pest in another country ; but such a decision 
can not be made with full justice without a knowledge of the 
ecology of the species in its original home. It would virtually be 
imjjossible for any nation to carry out investigations of this kind 
within the territory of another nation for any number of species 
without international agreements and without the expenditure of 
large funds, but, if we had known, for example, in this country, 
in advance of the advent of the European corn borer, the ecological 
facts concerning this species in Europe, which Mr. K. M. Babcock 
is at present studying over there, we would have been in position 
to attack tlie problem, perhaps not much more confidently, but 
with a more exact idea concerning the possibilities of spread. 

Cooperation is the keynote to success in all great undertakings. 
(Pardon this trite statement, tritely put!) In this effort to gain 
a periect knowledge of insects and, through this knowledge, to 
control them, we are engaged in one of the greatest of all under- 
takings; and it is not alone for the benefit of our own people — 
it is for the benefit of humanity. Therefore, in this great effort 
let us never forget that we must freely urge the help of men work- 
ing in other branches of science — that we must be keenly on the 
lookout for points where they can help us — that we must plan 
our investigations with the idea that others will help, and we 
must call them in consultation in making our plans. 



ENTOMOLOGY HOWAED 369 

For many of the needed types of investifjation we as entomologists 
must train ourseh'es to be self-reliant, but as we broaden out we 
must beg the help of experts in many different lines. Any one of 
the many discoveries being made in physics, chemistry, or other sci- 
ences may touch or may be made to touch our investigations looking 
toward the control of insects. Some discovery now on the point of 
being made in one of these sciences may lighten our task.^ 

Primarilj^ in agricultural entomology must we consult the wisest 
experts in farm management — the clearest-thinking agronomists. 
We realize, as I have already pointed out, that with many of our 
methods of farm practice we are encouraging the multiplication and 
spread of many insects; we are fairly inviting them to overwhelm 
us. Why waste years of work trying to fight them in one way or 
another under existing conditions if it be possible, after a full under- 
standing of their ways, so to vary crop methods as to hit a vital 
point in their economy without materially lessening crop pro- 
duction? This has been done in a number of instances. Only the 
other day one of our English colleagues (Frew) advised a slight and 
inexjDensive variation in the manuring and cropping of barley, which 
will do away with the damage b}' a serious insect enemy. A careful 
study by an expert agronomist of the life-history facts already 
learned by us about a number of our principal injurious insects will 
undoubtedly lead to valuable ideas and to the indorsement, from a 
far-seeing practical side, of suggestions in this direction which some 
of us may have made. 

There is no scientific man whose cooperation the entomologist more 
needs than the skilled organic chemist. There are scores of prob- 
lems of great importance to which the labors of such a man or men 
should be turned. In the chemistry «f the physiological processes 
in the insect body he is needed, and he is especially needed in the 
study of the chemistry of the plants upon which insects feed, in the 
effort to understand fundamentall}'^ what there is about certain plants 
that attracts certain insects. For many months, now, that famous 
investigator, Dr. Frederick B. Power, with the able assistance of Mr. 
V. K. Chestnut, has been studjdng the chemistry' of the cotton plant, 
and this is being done on a scale and with an expenditure of time 
and care never before equaled in such a study. The results already 
obtained have been of the highest interest from the chemical point 
of view, and also from the point of view of plant structure and 
physiology; and there have been developments which may prove to 

' Mention may be made here of Prof. C. K. Brain's just-announced discovery in South 
Africa of the adaptation of certain radio principles to insect Investigation in which he 
shows that by the use of microphones the presence of insects may be determined, not only 
of wood-boring insects, boring in wood, but of Insects In stored grains. 



370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

be of great importance to the economic entomologist. It would not 
be proper for me to make more than this mere statement, but a pre- 
liminary pajjor is being prepared which will contain man}^ astonish- 
ing facts. 

The Chemical Warfare Service of the Army is carrying on an 
elaborate series of tests against insects with different gases, and 
has a great accumulation of records which when published will be of 
undoubted value if only as records. These tests, in the main, have 
been made in cooperation with the Bureau of Entomology. There 
is an exception in the case of tests against the cotton boll weevil, for 
which a direct appropriation was made to the War Department on 
the initiative of a southern Senator. Even the tests from which 
there have been no obviously valuable results will have an ultimate 
value to future experimenters. It is, therefore, to be hoped that the 
secrecy which necessarily must surround Army experimental work 
with poison gases that may be used in warfare will not prevent 
the near publication of a record of the exact experiments of the 
Chemical Warfare Service against insects. 

It is true that certain other chemists have entered this field. 
George Gra}'^, of California, has a large manuscript on the chem- 
istry of insecticides, not yet published, but he has been drafted into 
the service of the State in a somewhat different capacity and is no 
longer able to devote his whole time to this important side. William 
Moore, from whom we expected and still expect great thijigs, has 
joined a commercial organization. There is this to be said for chem- 
istry, that industrial corporations are employing numbers of research 
men and that therefore the very research which we need maj^ be and 
is being supported financially by such organizations. 

We must look to the chemist for the development of the most 
perfect insecticide, which as likely as not will be a synthetic organic 
compound. We must look to him for that greatest desideratum — a 
cheap compound that will at once stimulate plant life and deter or 
destroy insects. 

There has grown up in these past j^ears a beautiful spirit of coop- 
eration among the entomologists all over the world. I doubt that 
such a spirit exists among the workers in any other branch of 
science. Each one of us has held himself in readiness to be of as- 
sistance to any one of his colleagues of whatever nationality. But 
we must not be satisfied with this. The needs of humanity demand 
both a broader and a closer association. The prime insect pests 
of the world are, through commerce, as we have shown, becoming 
widespread, and the self-protection of nations demands the most 
intimate knoAvledge of the injurious insects of all countries, since all 



ENTOMOLOGY HOWARD 371 

of them are potential pests of other regions. This subject was con- 
sidered at some length at the recent Pan-Pacihc Food Conservation 
Conference, and one of the resolutions adopted at that conference 
recommended the af)pointment of an international crop protection 
committee to promote surveys, to encourage research work, to pro- 
mote the development by each countrj' of larger numbers of trained 
workers, and to obtain agreements and understandings between 
countries regarding the giving of prompt notification of the appear- 
ance of new pests and to secure the cooperation of countries in the 
prevention of spread. 

All these points that I have considered will no doubt be sufficiently 
obvious to you, and very possibly have been in your minds. There 
is a host of lesser suggestions that may be made, our needs are so 
very great. But this is not the place to go into an extended cate- 
gory of lesser things. 

As I come to this point I realize more than ever that I have been 
writing all the time as an economic entomologist. Down to very 
recent times there has been a class distinction between the economic 
entomologists and the other workers, especially the taxonomists of 
the museums and Avorkers in many laboratories. As the field lias 
widened out, as the seriousness and vastness of the situation confront- 
ing humanity becomes apparent, these workers have been coming 
closer together ; the economists have felt the importance of the labors 
of the others. The vastly greater part of the work of the economist 
has not been basic; it has consisted largely of an effort to apply 
known facts to special problems. The emergencies confronting him 
have been so great that he has had no time to conduct the long 
investigations that might give him other weapons than those nearest 
to his hand. His fight has been so strenuous that in a way he has 
lost his perspective. 

But he has done magnificent work. He has confronted many diffi- 
cult situations with success, and Avith simple weapons. But the 
great basic principles which have brought about the conditions 
which he has been called upon to meet have not been considered by 
him in his haste for immediate relief measures. He has available 
no more than a superficial knowledge of the forms he is trying to 
fight. It is true that he has carefully worked out in a more or less 
general way the life histories of many of the crop pests, but beyond 
that he knows little of what must be known. 

I haA^e just stated that he has waged a good fight " with simple 
weapons," but this must not be taken in a derogatory way. An 
admirable book, Avhich (patriotically) I Avish had been written by 
Americans, was published in England in 1923 by R. A. Wardle, of 
the University of Manchester, and Philip Buckle, of the University 



372 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

of Durham, which gives a review of an advanced and encouraging 
character of our knowledge of " the principles of insect control." 

It so happens, to consider things concretely, that an appropriation 
bill now before Congress allots for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 
1925, more than $2,500,000 to the Bureau of Entomology: but of this 
large amount more than $1,200,000 must be spent on the three specific 
problems of the gipsy moth, the European corn borer, and the 
Japanese beetle, in the effort to prevent their spread and to gain at 
least partial control. And the remaining sums are for the most part 
to be spent in the study of special crop pests. In other words, at 
least half of the amount, although it may be continued in future years 
and will probably be so continued, should really be termed emergency 
funds — funds appropriated to meet immediate and specific emer- 
gencies. 

It is an interesting thought that^ looking toward the future^ this 
large su7n would frohahly he much more productive in the long 
run if it viere spent in the effort to learn fundamental things along 
some of the lines we have touched. If this idea seems overdrawn, in 
view of existing conditions, it is none the less surely true that large 
sums must be forthcoming to support these greatly needed lines of 
research. 

Last winter, toward the close of the Cincinnati meeting, I felt 
growing within me a conviction that we are on the eve of startling 
discoveries in economic entomology. I spoke of this to several 
leaders, and found that they shared the feeling. The conviction has 
been growing since, and may well be realized. But this does not 
lessen tlie certaintj' that it is our dut}'' to labor diligentlj^ in our 
efforts to gain a complete understanding of insects. The compara- 
tive paucity of our present knowledge should be a tremendous 
incentive. 

The entomologist has come into his own. He is acknowledged 
and respected by workers in other branches of science. The impor- 
tance of his labors is recognized by the most important part of the 
general public. To justify this, and to increase it, demands that 
we work earnestl^y, that we make a strenuous effort to increase our 
numbers, and that we broaden our views and our methods. 



FROM AN EGG TO AN INSECT 



By R. E. Snodgrass 
Bureau of Entomolo{/y, United States Department of Agriculture 



INTRODUCTION 

It is perhaps an inheritance from more primitive clays that we 
are so prone to estimate value by size, and that we hold small things 
in contempt. Though we have learned full well from science that 
the most minute of living creatures may be vastly important or 
inimical to our welfare, we still persist somewhat in belittling the 
study of them. Especially is this true if the creature is an insect. 
Yet, the study of insects has contributed much to our knowledge of 
the general principles of life, and in particular to an understanding 
of certain phases of reproduction and heredity. This, because the 
fundamentals of life are the same for all living things, ourselves in- 
cluded, and because some life processes have been found more easily 
studied in insects and other lower forms of animals than in the 
more complex ones. 

The microscope, however, makes the flea the equal of the dog, and 
on the printed page the discrepancy between the large and the small 
disappears, for the description of one may require just as many words 
as that of the other— and, we might add, words of equal size. 
Words ! Words are the curse of scientific writing ; but it should be 
recognized that any description is likely to be far more complicated 
rhan the thing described. If the object could be seen or pictured 
directly instead of being portrayed in words, how much simpler and 
clearer it might appear! We can not all, however, be students of 
nature at first hand, and it becomes a part of the business of the 
scientist to present his information to the public, or to such part of 
the public as is interested, and this he can do fully only through the 
medium of language. The true scientist, however, is usually so fear- 
ful of saying something that might possibly in some way be mis- 
construed by technical critics that he puts his statements in the 
terms adopted and defined by his particular branch of science. As 
a consequence, scientific vocabularies, w^hile becoming more and more 
concise to specialists, are becoming less and less euphonic and 
76041—26 25 373 



374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

farther and farther removed from the understanding of the gtneral 
readier. This state of affairs is to be deplored, because one of the 
purposes of science, at least of scientific institutions that employ 
scientists, is the diffusion of knowledge, and knowledge is not dif- 
fused by writings in wliich the secrets of nature seem to b? just as 
carefully guarded from the public understanding as they are in the 
various realms of nature herself. 

Another thing that contributes to the unreadableness of much 
scientific writing is the laudable desire of the scientist to give full 
credit where credit is due; but this often overloads his text v/ith 
citations of references and authorities, and so breaks up the con- 
tinuity of his account that the general reader soon tires in an attempt 
to follow it. What then shall we do? The only solution seems to 
be that for scientists we must write as scientists, for the general 
reader we must clear away all but the essentials, though letting it 
be known that we do not pretend to first-hand knowledge of more 
than a small percentage, if any, of the facts related. 

In the following pages an attempt will be made to tell, with a 
minimum of technical terms, the story of the development of an 
insect from the germ cells to the creature at hatching. The facts 
of development and heredity, however, are exceptionally difficult to 
put into ordinary words, for the reason that they constitute phases of 
growth that are in many ways quite different from those with which 
we are more familiar. And yet, for descriptive purposes, things must 
have names. Therefore, where only a scientific name is available, 
that name must be used, and if the writer makes all possible conces- 
sions to a popular vocabulary, the reader, on his part, must agree 
to learn a few indispensable terms of technical embryology. 

THE GERM CELLS 

The materials of which living matter is composed consist mostly 
of substances that the chemists call unstable — which is to say, they 
are complex compounds that naturally break down into their simpler 
and more stable components. For this reason the physical substance 
of life must be continually renewed. All animals and most plants 
have a limited space of time during which they are able to repair 
their waste and remain alive. A large proportion of them, too, never 
attain their possible old-age limit, falling victims at an earlier age 
to other devouring animals, to parasites, and to diseases. Hence, 
even though each individual were capable of living forever, its chance 
of doing so would be slim ; sooner or later it would almost certainly 
be destroyed in one way or another. To insure continuity of life, 



FROM EGG TO INSECT SNODGRASS 375 

therefore, the individuals of each species are endowed with the power 
of reproducing: themselves. Some of the lower animals can regen- 
erate themselves from pieces of their own tissues, but most animals 
pi-ocreate b}'^ means of special cells that have the property, under 
certain conditions, of reproducing a complete form like the parent. 
These special reproductive cells are known as the germ cells. Some 
of the germ cells of plants, called spores, have no distinction of sex, 
but in animals the germ cells are always of two kinds — male and 
female. The two kinds may be borne by the same individual, but 
ordinarily each is carried by a different kind of individual of the 
same species, and these individuals are accordingly distinguished 
also as male and female. The visible differences between male and 
female individuals, however, are mostly of a secondary nature, hav- 
ing a relation to the different demands of the germ cells on the indi- 
viduals that mature them; the fundamental differences of sex are in 
the structure of the body cells themselves, which are distinguished 
by the same characters as are the germ cells. 

The mature male germ cells are known as the spermatozoa^i or 
sperms; the mature female germ cells as the ova, or eggs; but at 
any stage these cells may be called the male and female germ cells. 
Ordinarily the germ cells must be united in pairs of opposite kinds 
in order to produce new individuals. This kind of development con- 
stitutes sexual reproduction, and the union of the two cells is knowm 
as fertilization. In some invertebrate animals, however, including 
many species of insects, the Q^g is capable of developing alone, and 
development of this sort is distinguished as asexual reproduction, or 
parthenogenesis. The male germ cell never develops by itself; it 
must always be united Avith at least a part of an egg cell. 

The female germ cell, then, being the one on which the responsi- 
bility of development depends, is usually protected in some way from 
destroying influences, either by being inclosed in a tough shell, or by 
being retained wuthin the bodj^ of the mother during the earl}^ part 
of its developmental period. If the egg is extruded from the body 
of the parent and must develop after that without receiving any 
nourishment from the mother, there is provided within its shell an 
amount of nutrient material sufficient to carry it through to the time 
when the newly formed creature can leave the shell and obtain food 
for itself. This nutrient material within the egg is called yolh. 

The eggs of insects have a great variety of shapes, determined by 
the shell (fig. 1). Some are round, some are oval, some are flat; 
some are smooth on the outside, some ridged or variously sculptured. 
Some are laid by the female in the most exposed places, others are 
deposited where they will be protected, as under bark, in the ground, 



376 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 




Fig. 1. — Various forms of insect eggs (all itiucli enlarged, but not to same scale) 
A, egg of a housefly ; li, stnlki'd eggs of a lacewing fly, the goKien-eye, attached 
to under surface of a leaf; C, egg of a cabbage butterfly; D, flat, overlapping egg^ 
of a leaf-roller moth; E, eggs of potato beetle on under surface of a leaf; F, egg of 
the snowy treo-criclcet inserted into an apple Iwig. 

in the stems of plants, or in the bodies of other insects. Eggs such 
as the latter, including the eggs of grasshoppers, beetles, flies, are 
iisiiall3' of a long-oval form, slightly curved, 
and a trifle smaller at one end than at the 
other. An egg of this kind will be the most 
convenient to take as a type for studv (fig. 1, F, 
fig 2). 

The external covering of the insect egg is 
called the citorion (fig. 2, Gho). It is composed 
of a tough, flexible substance, quite unlike the 
Ijrittle shell of a bird's e^g^ deposited upon the 
fcrg from the wall of the egg tube. The young 
insect when ready to hatch either splits the egg 
shell or gnaws a hole in it large enough to 
allow it to emerge. An example of the first 
method of emergence was given in the descrip- 
tion of the hatching of a young cicada in the 
Smithsonian Report for 1919, page 407, and 
an example of the second method in the hatch- 
ing of a young cankerworm described in the 
Smithsonian Eeport for 1924, page 384. 

The newly laid egg appears to contain noth- 
ing but a clear, watery, or creamy liquid, but 
when examined under the microscojie in speci- 
mens prepared and stained for microscopic 
study, the interior of the egg is seen to have a 
complex organization. Its fundamental substance is protoplasm, 
but most of its bulk consists of yolk materials (fig. 2, Y) that 
are mixed with the protoplasm. The protoplasm itself is visible 
principally as a thin layer at the surface of the egg {CL) ; 




Fig. 2. — Section of a 
typical insect egg, 
showing its internal 
structure 
Cho, chorion, or 
outer shell ; CL, cor- 
tical layer of proto- 
plasm ; Mic, micro- 
pyle ; Vm, Nucleus ; 
Vit, vitelline mem- 
brane ; Y, yolk. 



FROM EGG TO INSECT SNODGRASS 



377 



elsewhere it appears to be reduced to a mere network of strands 
in the yolk. Near the center of the egg, or usually nearer one 
end, in an island of protoplasm, is the nucleus {Nu)^ a small body, 
but one of great importance and of complicated structure. The soft 
pai'ts of the egg are all contained in a delicate vitelline niembi'wne 
{Vlt), just within the chorion, which is a product of the egg itself. 
The egg nucleus consists of a nucleus plasm separated from the 
surrounding egg plasm and yolk by a nuclear membrane. Within 
the plasm of the nucleus is a fine network upon which, during 




Fig. 3. — Diagram of cell division, involving special activities in tbe nucleus 
A, cell in ordinary condition with chromatin (Cm) distributed througli nucleus 
(Nu), and centrosome (Cen) undivided; B, cell preparing to divide, chromatin 
in spireme tlireads (/S'pt), centrosome divided and halves moving to opposite poles 
of nucleus, nuclear membrane disappearing ; C, spireme threads condensed to 
chromosomes, centro.somes at opposite poles of nucleus with spindle between 
them, nuclear wall gone ; D, chromosomes in plane between the centrosomes, each 
splitting into two ; E, chromosomes divided and half of each drawn to opposite 
ends of nucleus, cell dividing ; P, chromatin dispersed in two new nuclei, and 
cell completely divided. 

ordinary periods of inactivit}' (fig. 3 A), are scatered many small 
grains of a dark-staining substance called chromatin {Cm). 

The ^f^g, and the sperm are cells, and the most important activity 
of cells in general is that of division, a process by which a single 
cell becomes two cells; and upon this depends the power of groAvth 
and reproduction. The usual method of cell division involves in- 
teresting changes in the nucleus, and must be understood before we 
can proceed with the subject of development. 

When a cell is preparing to divide, the chromatin granules of its 
nucleus arrange themselves in a number of long thread-like strand« 
(fig. 3 B, fS/n), or in a single strand tluit later breaks up into pieces. 



378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

In either case the threads contract and thicken till they form dark- 
staining bodies or masses of chromatin material. These bodies are 
the chromosomes (C, Chr). The number of chromosomes is in gen- 
eral constant for each species, there being in insect cells commonly 
between 2 and 30 of them, though in some species there is a much 
larger number. The chromosome number, however, is t3'pically not 
the same in male and female cells of the same species, the male cells 
usually having one less chromosome than the female cells. But in 
some insects this rule is reversed, while in others the male cells have 
as many chromosomes as the felnale cells, though in such cases one 
is usually very small, as if in the process of being eliminated. The 
different chromosomes in each cell of many species, moreover, have 
characteristic individual shapes and sizes by which they can always 
be identified and distinguished from one another. In the diagrams. 
Figures 3 to G, and 9, three varieties of chromosomes are represented, 
but these are conventional figures not intended to represent cells of 
any particular species, and the reader must not get the impression 
that chromosomes are necessarily of these forms. 

The division of the cell starts with the nucleus, and, indeed, with 
the chromosomes themselves (fig. 3D), each of these bodies splitting 
lengthwise into halves. Preceding this division of the chromosomes, 
however, a minute sj^eck, called the centrosome (A, Cen) lying just 
outside the nucleus, has divided and its two parts have moved to 
opposite poles of the nucleus (B, C). The nuclear wall noAV dis- 
appears and fine colorless lines radiate through the nucleus from 
the two centrosomes, forming a spindle-shaped figure between them 
(C). The chromosomes {Chr) become arranged across the middle 
of the spindle (D) and then, as if pulled by a contraction of the 
threads, their separated halves move to opposite ends of the nucleus 
(E). Here they form two new nuclear groups, each of which 
becomes surrounded by a new nuclear membrane (F). At the same 
time, the cell itself constricts between the nuclei (E) and finally 
separates into two daughter cells (F), each of which increases in 
size and becomes in all respects a replica of the original cell. Growth 
in all animal and plant tissues takes place by cell division, and most 
cell divisions involve these complicated changes in the nucleus. 

We have seen that the original germ cells of any species ordinarily 
contain the same number of chromosonies as the body cells of this 
species. What, then, happens when two of them come together in 
fertilization — is the number of chromosomes doubled? No; for in 
the course of a few generations the number of chromosomes would 
increase to impossible numbers. For a while, the germ cells mul- 
tiply by divisions of the ordinary sort just described, resulting in 



FROM EGG TO INSECT — SNODGRASS 



379 



more cells like the original ones. But finally there comes a time 
when a new kind of division intervenes which, instead of preserving 
the original number of chromosomes, reduces it. The chromosome 
threads may appear in the ordinary manner and in the usual num- 
ber, but they develop an attraction for one another which leads them 
to come together and unite in pairs (fig. 4 A, B, C). This mating 
of the chromosomes is called synapsis (from two Greek words mean- 
ing a union), and a most interesting thing about it is that it con- 
sists, not of a haphazard union of any chromosome with any other, 
but of a definite pairing of corresponding male and fenuile chro- 
mosomes descended from the parrent chromosomes that came together 









Fig. 4. — Diagram of synapsis, or the mating of the chromosomes prior to the 

maturation divisions 
A-C, synapsis in a female germ cell nucleus with six chromosomes, including 
two x-chromosomes {x, w), resulting iu a nucleus (C) with tliroe double chromo- 
somes, including one double x-chromosome ; D-F, synapsis in a male germ cell 
nucleus with four orthochromosomes and one x-chromosome, resulting in a 
nucleus (F) with two double orthochromosomes, but with one single x-chromo- 
some. 

at the fertilization of the egg from which this generation of germ 
cells was derived. At least, there is very good evidence that this 
is what takes place; it is even suggested by some writers that there 
is an interchange of substance between the chromosomes while 
mated, thus bringing about a redistribution of hereditary characters 
carried by the chromosomes. 

We have seen that the chromosomes are often distinguished by 
visible differences in size or shape. Two of the chromosomes in the 
female egg cell before synapsis are of special interest, for reasons 
that will appear later, and are usually referred to as the female 



380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

aj-cliromosomes, the others collectively beinjj; known as the aiito- 
chroniosomes, or orthochromof^oiiws. One a;-chromo.sonie came from 
the female parent cell, the other from the male. At synapsis the 
two .^'-chromosomes pair with each other, prodiicint^ one double 
a'-chromosome. Thus, for example, if an egg cell contained orig- 
inally six chromosomes in all (fig. 4 A), two of which were 
a?-chromosomes (a?, a?), its chromosome formula after synapsis is 
2-[-lft? (fig. 4 C), hut W'itli each chromosome now of double value. 
With all egg cells having an even number of cliromosomes, as we 
have seen most female cells have, the mating of tlic clnoinosomes in 
synapsis reduces the number of chromosomes to just one-half tlie orig- 
inal number. Chromosome reduction in the egg, tlierefore, is a simple 
matter of dividing by two in most cases. But what happens during 
synapsis to a male germ cell with an odd number of chromosomes? 
Simply the most natural thing: The corresponding orthochromo- 
somes pair with each other; the .7?-chromosome, being without a 
mate, remains single (fig. 4 D, E, F). Hence, in a male cell with 
five original chromosomes, the chromosome formula after synapsis 
becomes 2-j-la?, the same as in the egg cell of the same species, except 
that the .r-chromosome is of single value. In male cells that have 
an even number of chromosomes, the a-chromosome has a small 
mate, which is designated the y-chromosome. After synapsis in 
one of these cells having ^-\-x-\-y chromosomes, the chromosome 
formula becomes 2-|-a?y, in which xy represents a single double 
chromosome. 

After the chromosomes are paired off, the chromatin material 
may again become strung out in the form of threads, but in any 
case the threads soon take on the typical chromosome forms as in 
the stage preceding cell divisions, for there is now about to take 
place two special divisions of the germ cell which wall prepare 
it for the eventual union with a germ cell of the opposite sex in 
fertilization. These two divisions of the germ cells constitute the 
process known as maturation. Synapsis, in nearly all cases in 
animals, precedes the first maturation division; in a few species of 
insects, however, it precedes the second division. 

The insect egg up to the time of maturation has been still within 
one of the egg tubes of the parent female, wdiere it has grown 
enormously by the accumulation of yolk in its j^rotoplasm. In its 
early stages it divided entire, like any other cell, but now^, on ac- 
count of its bulk, it can no longer conveniently do so. Hence- 
forth all its divisions will affect only the nucleus. At this stage the 
egg is usually laid, and maturation takes place immediately after- 
ward. At the beginning of maturation the nucleus moves nearer 
the surface, and at the first maturation division the halves of each 



FROM EGG TO INSECT^ — S'lQODORASS 



381 



chromosome pair, united in synapsis (fi*>;. 5 A, a), are again sepa- 
rated on a division spindle and pass to opposite poles of the nucleus 
to form the two new nuclei. After this division, therefore, each 
new nucleus contains the same reduced number of chromosomes 
as before (fig. 6 A, 6), but the chromosome material itself has 
undergone a redistribution between the new nuclei, since the indi- 
vidual chromosomes were not divided between them as in ordinary 
cell division. The separated halves of the paired chromosomes do 
not necessarily all go in the same direction, the male or female ele- 
ment in some going to the one pole and in some going to the 




Fig. 0. — Maturation of an egg 
A, diagram of chromosome division In maturation : each double chromosome 
in nucleus (a), after synapsis (fig. 4C), divides into single chromosomes of nuclei 
of first division (b) ; in second division, each single chromosome splits into two, 
resulting in four nuclei (c), each with same number of chromosomes, but with 
half the number contained in the original cell (flg. 4A). B, section of upper end 
of egg of a honeybee just after maturation, showing the three small polar body 
nuclei {PB), and the large functional egg nucleus {Nu) now ready for fertiliza- 
tion. (Figure from Potrunkevitch.) 

other, so that whatever hereditary influences they may carry will 
be distributed by chance in all possible combinations. The second 
maturation division immediately follows the first, but in this di- 
vision the original chromosomes divide lengthwise each into two 
as in ordinary division, thus producing four nuclei, two of which 
are replicas of one of the first-formed nuclei, and two of the other 
(fig. 5 A, c). The chromosome number, however, is the same in 
ail, the formula being 24-l<^ for nuclei descended from one with 
six original chromosomes. 

Figure 5 A represents diagrammatically only what takes place in 
the nucleus of the maturating egg cell; a truer picture of the results 
of the maturation divisions is shown at B. Three of the new nuclei 



382 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



produced are very small, while one maintains the normal size. This 
large nucleus becomes the functional nucleus of the maturated egg 
(Nu); the three small ones, known as the polat' ladies (/V>), are 
rudimentary nuclei that move to the surface of the egg plasm 
where they degenerate and are absorbed in the yolk. Only in ex- 
ceptional cases do the polar bodies play a special part in 
development. 

The egg is now ready for fertilization. The nucleus sinks back 
again into the deeper part of the egg plasm and yolk, and the egg, 
unless it is one of those capable of parthenogenetic development, 

has no further history until a sper- 
matozoon unites with its nucleus. 
In the course of normal events 
with most insect eggs, however, a 
spermatozoon has already entered 
the egg plasm, or more probably 
several have entered (fig. 8), so that 
one is almost certain to accom- 
plish its purpose. Before going on 
with the subject of fertilization 
we must, then, learn something of 
what has happened to the sperm 
cells during maturation, how they 
have become transformed into sper- 
matozoa, and how" the spermatozoa 
gained an entrance into the egg. 

The original male germ cells 
ordinarily contain the same num- 
ber of chromosomes as the body 
cells of the male insect that bears 
them, but male cells in general, as 
we have seen, differ from female 
cells of the same species by having only one a?-chromosonie in the 
nucleus, or in having a small y-chromosome as a mate for the 
a?-chromosome. The male of a species in which the female germ cells 
have six chromosomes would most likely have five chromosomes in 
the nuclei of its germ cells (fig. 4, D), which would mean a chromo- 
some formula of 4-f-la?. The single a?-chromosomo, having no mate, 
remains single after synapsis (fig. 4 F), when the chromosome 
formula of the male becomes 2+la?. At the first maturation divi- 
sion (fig. 6, a), therefore, the a;-chromosome can not divide, and it 
has to choose between going with one group or the other of the 
orthochromosomes. As a consequence, one of the new nuclei will 
contain an aj-chromosome, and the other will not. Two kinds of 




Fig. 6. — Diagram of chromosome divi- 
sion during maturation of a sperm 
nucleus (a) containing two double 
orthochromosomes and one single x- 
chromosome after synapsis (fig 4F). 
The first division produces two nu- 
clei (b), of which one contains two 
single orthochromosomes and one x- 
chromosome, and the other only two 
orthochromosomes. The second divi- 
sion produces four nuclei (c), two 
with an x-chromosome, and two with- 
out an x-chromosome. 



FROM EGG TO INSECT SNODGRASS 



383 



sperm cells are thus differentiated, one having the usual chromo- 
some formula of 2-|-la?, the other having simply two orthochromo- 
somes (fig. G, h). At the second maturation division, Avhen all the 
chromosomes divide in the usual manner, four cells are formed, two 
of which are of the Ix variety, and two of the no-a? variety (fig. G, c). 
In cases where a y-chromosome is present with the aj-chromosome, 
there are still two classes of sperm cells produced, one having the 
a?-chromosome, and the other the y-chromosome, since these chromo- 
somes are separated in the first division after their union in synapsis. 




Fig. 7. — Spermiogenesis, or the transformation of the male germ cell after maturation 
into a spermatozoon, and the mature spermatozoon 
A-J, spermiogenesis in a grasshopper (figures from H. S. Davis) : a, head of the 
spermatozoon ; h, the middle piece, from which a long filament extends out into the 
tail ; c, the tail, formed by elongation of the cell body (B, C, D) ; d, a body in the 
cell (A, B) that eventually surrounds the tail filament (D, E) ; Nu, the nucleus, 
which remains in the head (J). K, bundles of spermatozoa from the spermatheea of 
a female broad-winged katydid. 

The divisions of the male germ cells always affect the entire cell, 
since the male cells do not accumulate yolk, and remain small. Fur- 
thermore, the maturation of the male cells, with few exceptions, pro- 
duces four equal-sized cells, all of which ordinarily will become 
functional spermatozoa. At this stage each sperm cell, now known 
as a spermatid^ still has the rounded or oval form of an ordinary cell. 
To become a fully-formed spermatozoon it must undergo a meta- 
morphosis, a process too complicated to be described here in detail, 
but which results in a transformation of the simple spermatid into a 
thread-like spermatozoon (fig. 7). The mature spermatozoon, how- 



384 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



Mic 



ever, is not a simple filament ; under a high-power microscope there 
can be distinguished in it a number of parts: First, there is a head 
(fig. 7. I), E, J, a) containing the nucleus (Nu), then comes a short 
body or middle piece (b), and finally a long, tapering tail (c). The 
tail acquires the po^Yer of movement and can be lashed sideways 
with a wavy motion, which lashing drives the sperm forward with 
much speed when the sperm is innnersed in a liquid. The male 
germ cell has now become virtually a minute one-celled animal, and 
has arrived at the stage in which it is capable of fertilizing a ma- 
turated egg cell. 

All the processes thus far described concerning synapsis and ma- 
turation of the germ cells, antl the transformation of the si)ermatids 
into .spermatozoa aj)i)ly to animals in general, including man, and it 

must not be supposed they are limited to 
insects. The processes have been exten- 
sively studied in insects becau.se they are 
more easih^ seen in many in.sect germ 
cells than in the cells of higher animals. 
The same is true of fertilization, a de- 
scription of which will soon follow, but 
many of the accessory })rocesses as the}' 
occur in insects are peculiar to insects. 
During uniting, for example, the sper- 
matoz(ja from the male insect are stored 
in a special .sac within the body of the 
female. This sac, known as the sper- 
matiieca. is connected with the outlet 
duct of tlie female's ovai'ies. Tiie eggs may not be deposited for 
some time after mating, tiie time varying with different species, 
sometimes a few hours, sometimes a few days, or a considerable 
length of time may elapse. With the honeybee the spermatozoa are 
capable of remaining alive and functional in the queen for three or 
four years. 

Whenever an egg is laid a number of spermatozoa in a spermatic 
rupiid are discharged from the sperm sac upon the upper end of 
the egg as the latter goes by the mouth of the sperm sac. Some of 
lhe.se spernuitozoa almost invariably find their way into the egg 
through a minute aperture in the shell, the micropyle (fig. 2, Mic), 
penetrating the vitelline membrane and entering the egg plasm by 
the force of their own motion (fig, 8). The first of these sperma- 
tozoa to reach the egg nucleus is the one that mates with it; the un- 
successful i)ci-ish in the egg and are probably abs()i'])ed in the yolk. 




k;. S. — Diagram rcpresautiiig the 
eutranee of spermatozoa il^pin) 
into the ess tlnougli tlu' mic- 
ropyle (1/Jc). ChOj cliorioii ; \'u, 
egg nucleus after niatuiation ; 
I'J{, polar bodies 



FEOM EGG TO INSECT — SNODGRASS 385 

FERTILIZATION 

Once the spermatozoon is within the plasm of the eg<^ it travels 
inAvard, at first straight a^Yay from the point of entrance, though 
such a course is not necessarily toAvard the egg nucleus. The hitter, 
as we have seen, is moving at the same time deeper into the egg from 
the place Avhere it gave off the polar bodies. The sperm soon alters 
its course to one that will intersect the path of the eg:g nucleus. The 
two bodies then eventually meet as if mutually draAvn to the same 
point in the egg plasm, but the influences that effect the meeting are 
entirely unknoAvn, as are also the forces that bring about the subse- 
quent activities of fertilization. Consequently we may confine our- 
selves to a narration of the facts as they occur, which are interesting 
enough in themselves, Avithout bothering for the present Avith specu- 
lations as to Avhat causes them. When the sperm and the egg nucleus 
meet, the sperm casts off its body and tail into the e^g plasm while 
its nucleated head fuses with the egg nucleus. The substance of the 
tA\'o nuclei then becomes inclosed in a common membrane, thus estab- 
lishing a new nucleus, in which the original chromosome number is 
restored, since this nucleus noAv contains the sum of the female and 
the male chromosomes. 

The union of the male and female germ cells is the visible phe- 
nomenon of fertilization, but it brings about such remarkable results 
in the egg as to shoAv that there are most important processes in- 
A^olved not j'et rcA'Caled under the microscope. Fertilization accom- 
plishes at least three things: First, it stimulates the egg to begin 
dcA^elopment ; second, it adds to the egg a ncAv set of hereditary char- 
acters or influences deriA'ed from the male line of descent; and third, 
it apparently determines in the egg of most animals the sex of the 
future individual. 

The nature of the stimulus given to the egg by the sperm is not 
i^ertainly known, but that it is a chemical one is indicated by the 
fact that some eggs can be stimulated to begin deA'elopment by be- 
ing artifically treated Avith certain substances. Perhaps, on the 
other hand, the effect is due to the destroying of some inhibiting 
influence, since insect eggs that develop Avithout fertilization clearly 
demonstrate that the sperm element is not necessary to them. The 
hereditary influences brought together by the two conjugating cells 
constitute a subject too large to be discussed here; the facts asso- 
ciated with the establishment of sex in the ensuing individual, 
however, are too interesting to be passed over. 

It is clear that the number of chromosomes in the fertilized egg 
nucle'us w'ill depend on the number in the particular spermatozoon 



386 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



that fertilized it. If the sperm was one of those having the same 
number of cliromosomesastheegg — i.e., one with an a'-chroniosome — 
the new nucleus will have just twice the number of chromosomes 
that was in the maturated egg nucleus, and, therefore, the same 
number as that of the original female germ cells and the female 
body cells of its species. The resulting individual will consequently 
be a female. If, on the other hand, the fertilizing sperm happened 

to be one of those with no 
a;-chromosome, the number 
of chromosomes in the new 
nucleus will be one less, 
and will be the same as 
that in the original male 
germ cells and in the male 
body cells. The new indi- 
vidual will be a male. To 
illustrate with our hypo- 
thetical example used be- 
fore: If a maturated egg 
nucleus containing 9,-\-lx 
chromosomes (fig. 9 A, &) 
is fertilized by a sperm 
nucleus {a) with 2-[-la? 
chromosomes, the new nu- 
cleus (c) will have 4+2aj 
chromosomes, the female 
formida; but if the same 
egg, or another like it 
(B,e), should be fertilized 
by a sperm (c?) having only 
two ordinary chromo- 
somes, the new nucleus (/) 
will have 4-1- la; chromo- 
somes, the male formula 
for the same species. 
Sperms containing y-chromosomes give the same result, differentiating 
the eggs by the chromosome formulas of 4+2a? and 4-|-xy. Therefore, 
apparently according to the presence of two a;-chromosomes or of only 
one, the number resulting by " chance " in the fertilization of the egg, 
the new individual developed from the egg will be either female or male. 
The reader must understand, now, that in spite of appearances, 
it is not certain that sex is actually determined by the a?-chromo- 
somes, or by any of the chromosomes. Though in the great 
majority of animals the number of a;-chromosomes appears to be 





Fig. 9. — Diagram showing results of fertilization 
of eggs by the two kinds of sperm (flg. c) 
A, a maturated egg nucleus (b) containing 
two orthochromosomes and one x-chromosome, 
fertilized by a spermatozoon (a) having the 
same number of chromosomes, producing a fer- 
tilized ogg nucleus (c) with four orthochromo- 
somes and two x-chromosomes, which now con- 
tains the original female assortment of chromo- 
somes (flg. 4A). B, a maturated egg nucleus (e) 
of the same species fertilized by a sperm (d) 
containing only two orthochromosomes, produc- 
ing a fertilized egg nucleus (f) with four ortho- 
chromosomes and only one x-chromosome, which 
is the original male assortment of chromosomes 
(flg. 4D). 



FROM EGG TO INSECT SNODGRASS 387 

the deciding tiling, it ma}' be that the real determining influence 
is something that escapes the scrutiny of the microscopist, and 
that the chromosome combination is merely coincident with it. 
This doubt is raised by the fact that in some plants and in some 
of the lower animals, sex is not necessarily fixed at the time of 
fertilization, and may either be established; later or influenced 
by external circumstances. It is certain, however, that with the 
great majority of animals of all kinds sex is determined at the 
time of fertilization and that nothing can change it subsequently. 

Certain other characters that will appear in the new individual 
as a part of its inheritance, besides those of sex, are known to be 
linked with the chromosomes, but these are mostly traits that char- 
acterize individual lines of descent, or varieties within the species. 
The determining factors of the inheritance of fundamental species 
characters by individuals of both sexes are supposed to be contained 
in the bodies of the germ cells themselves. 

DEVELOPMENT 

Growth and development are not the same thing, but they are 
so closely associated in animals that usually the animal continues 
to develop as long as it grows, and grows only during its develop- 
mental period. 

Growth takes place through a repeated division of the egg cell 
or of a part of it to form a mass of cells that continue to multiply 
by similar divisions. Development consists of a gradual, definite 
arrangement in the growing mass of cells to form the various 
parts and organs of the future adult — a new individual having 
all the structural details characteristic of the species to which it 
belongs, as well as some or all of the peculiarities of its parents 
and immediate ancestors, but having also, in most cases, minor 
characters of its own. Thus, heredity keeps each new individual 
close to the ancestral path and maintains the line of descent; but 
the freedom of each individual to deviate slightly from the ances- 
tral path has made evolution possible, and has resulted in the vast 
number of species of animals and plants in the world to-day. 

THE liEGINNING OF DEVELOPMENT 

With those species of animals whose eggs contain only a small 
amount of yolk, development starts with the division of the entire 
egg into two cells. A few insect eggs develop by entire division, but 
most of them are so enlarged with 3'^olk, like a bird's egg, that 
it is only the neucleus and a small amount of the surrounding 



388 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, "1925 



protoplasm that divides, the rest of the egg remaining intact 
(fig. 10 A). As the newly formed nuclei redivide, the residting 
nuclei scatter through the yolk (B) and "migrate outward in 
all directions until they come into the i^rotoplasmic layer at the 
surface. Here they eventually become evenly arranged in a single 
layer (C), and then the containing protoplasm condenses about each 
luiclcus (D), resulting in a layer of small nucleated cells envelop- 
ing the yolk (E). This cell layer, having now the form of the 
eg^fi:, is the hlastoderm (D, P], Bl). Eggs that divide by the entire 
method arrive at the blastoderm stage simply by multiplying until 
they form a hollow ball of cells. This is a simpler procedure, but 
one that is practicable only with eggs that are not heavily loaded 
with 3'olk. 




KiG. 10. — Formation of the blastoderm 
A, development begins with the division of the egg nucUnis into several 
cleavage nuclei (JVw) within the yollc (V). B, the multiplying nuclei migrate 
outward into the cortical layer of protoplasm (CL) ; several at the posterior 
pole of the egg become the germ cells (OCls). C, the nuclei in the cortical 
protoplasm soon form a definite layer at the surface of the egg ; a few nuclei 
remain in the yolk ; the germ cells increase in number. D, the cortical proto- 
plasm condenses about each surface nucleus to form a layer of cells, the blasto- 
derm (Bl), surrounding the yollf beneath the vitelline membrane (Vit). E, 
the blastoderm in surface view. 



FORMATION OF THE GERIM CELLS 

The cells of the blastoderm are in general all alike, but in many 
insects a group of cells appears at the posterior end of the .egg 
(fig. 10 B, C, GCls) at the time the blastoderm is forming which 
remain distinct from the true blastoderm cells. These cells like- 
w^ise are immediate descendents of the egg nucleus, but their 
destiny is quite different from that of the other cells — ih&y are 
the primitive germ cells of the future individual whose body is 
to be formed by the blastoderm cells. Here we have, then, differ- 
entiated at this early stage, two sets of cells, one of which will 
form the body cells of the generation now developing, while the 
other will form the body cells and the germ cells of the succeed- 
ing generation. This relation is easily seen in the diagram, Eig- 



FROM EGG TO INSECT SNODGRASS 



389 



lire 11, in which for convenience the products of only one germ 
cell are shown for each generation. As the new individual de- 
velops, the germ cells wander among the body cells for a while, 
but at last they become lodged in the reproductive organs (figs. 
24, 27, GCls). Here they multiply in number and undergo their 
development into the mature eggs or spermatozoa, according to 
the sex. 

The mass of body cells, consequently, appears to be but a mere 
side issue from the germ cells, a specialized group of nonreproduc- 
tive cells that the germ cells have produced for their own protec- 
tion. It is most probable that in the evolution of animals all the 
cells were originally alike, and that the division of labor between 
them has had the usual consequence; the germ cells, in leaving the 
vegetative functions to the body cells, have lost most of their capac- 
ity for functions other than that of reproduction; while the body 
cells, in specializing on the vegetative functions, have lost the 
reproductive function. The one-celled animals, however, having 



GCls 




BCls 



Fig. 11. — Diagram sliowing relation of germ cells (QCls) and bo(l.v cells 
(BCls) in successive generations. A germ cell of A forms the germ cells 
and bod.v cells of B ; a germ cell of B forms tlie germ cells and bod.v cells of 
C, etc. The offspring (C) of B derives nothing from the body cells of the 
t)areiit (B), but both offspring (C) and parent (B) have a common origin 
in a germ cell of A, the grandparent of C 

never differentiated into the two sets of cells, retain in themselves 
all the normal functions of a cell. But, in some of the lower many- 
celled animals, the body cells also have not entirely lost the power 
of reproduction, since in some species a body cell or a group of 
them detached from the body may multiply and reproduce a new 
body. The first-formed body cells of the developing egg, too, are 
rejjroductive cells in this sense, since it is they that carry on the 
constructive w^ork delegated to them by the parent germ cell; and 
all the body cells, in retaining the power of division, retain the 
power of reproduction. All such forms of reproduction, however, 
are of the asexual type; the distinctive quality of the true germ 
cells is their ability to unite in fertilization and produce a new 
individual combining the qualities of two others, though this is not 
always a necessary condition with the egg cell. 
76041—26 26 



390 ANNUAL EEPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Diirin;^- (he period oi the first divisions in the developing insect 
egg, tliere is no evidence to sho^Y that any cell may not become either 
a body cell or a germ cell, or that any particular body cell has from 
the beginning a special destin3\ When the body cells later become 
organized into layers and gron])s, they become more and more re- 
stricted in their reproductive powers, each group forming only cer- 
tain organs and tissues of the future animal. In the adult stage even 
this j)()wer is largely lost in the cells of higher animals, Avhich can 
now multiply only to the extent of healing wounds. Lower in the 
scale of organization, however, lost members of the body can be 
regenerated from a stumj), or even the greater part of the body may 
be re-formed from a fragment. At last, though, there comes a time 
when the vitality of the body cells is lost, or is completely sup- 
pressed, and the animal dies. 

Though the body cells are by nature merely the servants of the 
germ cells, we look upon the structure that they form as the reason 
for the existence of the germ cells, because it is the visible, sentient 
animal in which are developed all the powers of reaction to external 
stimuli, the instincts, self-consciousness, and intelligence that is 
potential in the germ cell. But these faculties are all developed for 
the i3urpose of maintaining the germ cells, for bringing them to- 
gether, for nourishing, protecting, and educating the offsprmg. No 
creature, therefore, according to the plan of nature, lives for itself; 
its whole reason for existence is the next generation. This does not 
mean, however, that every individual of a species should be a repro- 
ductive individual. Among the social insects, the ants and bees, for 
example, certain individuals are designed to be accessor}^ to the re- 
productive individuals. These are the so-called workers and soldiers 
that build the nest or comb, protect the community from invasion, 
attend to the collecting and storing of food, rear and feed the 
young — members of the community which, in short, are indisi^ensible 
to it through tlicir services to the reproducing castes and to the 
offspring of the latter. 

Since the germ cells and the body cells of each individual are pro- 
duced side by side, and not one from the other, heredity, as a conse- 
quence, is not directly from one generation to the next, but between 
alternate generations. In figure 11 it is seen that the germ cells and 
tlie body cells of generation C, for example, find their common ances- 
tor not in the parent generation B, but in a germ cell derived from 
the grandparent generation A, which cell is contained and deA^eloped 
in B. The common resemblance between parent and offspring, then, 
is due to the dcA^elopmental influences embodied in the germ cells, 
which produce similar results in the body cells of successive genera- 
tions, and not to influences exerted by the body cells on the germ 



FROM EGG TO INSECT SNODGRASS 391 

cells. It is fortunate that the body cells do not impress their char- 
acters on the germ cells, else the offspring would inherit all the mal- 
formations of the parents and all the results of accidents, amputa- 
tions, and diseases that may befall the parents. 

Enough has now been said of the germ cells, since we have traced 
both their origin and their final development into mature reproduc- 
tive cells. Something might be said of the intervening part of their 
history in the reproductive organs of the parent individuals, show- 
ing how they are here multiplied and nourished, but this would 
take too much time from our main theme, which from here on will 
be concerned only with the history of the body cells, or the develop- 
ment of the young insect from tlie blastoderm. 

THE GERM BAND 

In the blastoderm stage (fig. 10 C, E), the developing insect 
consists of a mere cellular sac {Bl) inclosing the yolk {Y) and a 



DBl DBl 





A GB B GB 



Fia. 12. — The formation of the germ band (OB) as a thickening 
of the cells of the ventral side of the blastoderm, the cells of 
the dorsal side, or dorsal blastoderm (DBl), remaining thin. 
A, lengthwise section of egg. B, cross-section. 

few nuclei left behind in the latter, and is surrounded by the 
vitelline egg membrane (D, Vit) and the chorion (fig. 2, Oho). 

The next thing that happens in development consists simply of 
a thickening of the cells in a band along what is generally the 
more convex side of an elongate-oval egg (fig. 12 A). This sur- 
face is called the ventral side of the egg, because it is to be the 
under surface of the fully formed insect. The ventral thickening 
of the blastoderm is known as the ge7'm band {GB). It must be 
explained here that the word " germ," unfortunately, will appear 
in many embryological terms, but without implying that the parts 
so named have anything to do with the germ cells. The use of the 
word " germ " in two senses was started long ago when distinc- 
tions were less finely drawn than now, and more exact terms have 
not yet come into general usage. The germ band may be regarded 
as the beginning of the embryo; its edges grade off into the thin 
blastoderm cells still covering the rest of the egg, and known as 
the dorsal blastoderm (fig. 12 A, B, DBl). 



39i 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



THE GERM LAYERS 

Soon after the werm band is formed, its middle part begins to 
sink inward, and may become separated from the part to either 
side by a slight ridge. The germ band thus becomes divided into 
two lateral plates (fig. 13 A, LP, LP) and a middle plate {MP). 
The middle plate is destined to form the strictly internal organs 
of the future insect, and it continues to sink inward, in some cases 
forming a deep median groove (B), which is then converted into 





Meso E'ct 

c 



Ect Meso 




F 



-Ect 



Fig. 13. — Showing diagrnniuiatically tlirof methods of formation of mesoderm 

l;..vcr ill iiiwct.-; 

A, cross-section of egg with geim hand differentiated into lateral plates (LP, 
LP) and middle plate (MP). H, later stage of same with middle plate rurved 
in to form a tuliular groove, edges of lateral plates coming together helow 
it. C, still later stage, with edges of lateral plates united, forming the 
ectoderm (Ect), and middle plate spread out above the latter as internal 
layer oT cells, the mesoderm (Meso). D, K, second method of mesoderm 
formation : middle plate, separated from edges of lateral plates, becomes meso- 
dernn (Meso) wlioi) lateral plates unite beneath it. F, third method, in 
which mesoderm (Me.so) is formed of cells given off from inner ends of 
middle plate cells. 

a sunken tube by the approach and union of (he edges of the 
lateral plates beneath it. Finally, this middle plate foruis a solid 
ma.ss of cells which flattens out into a ventral layer (C, Meso) 
between the yolk and (he outer layer {Kct) which is now con- 
tinuous beneath it. The process of the formation of (he inner germ 
layer differs somewhat from the above type in certain other insects. 
In some, for exauiple, (he edges of the lateral plalcs .separa(e from 
the middle plate (fig. 13 D) and then giow together beneath it 
(E), (he middle pla(e being (lius cut off from the lateral ])latcs 
and, b}' a more direct course, converted into the inner germ layer. 



FKOM EGG TO INSECT — SNODGRASS 393 

In still other species, the cells along the middle part of the germ 
band, which part may be slightly grooved (F), multiply by hori- 
zontal division and give off cells from their inner ends which 
constitute the inner layer (F, Meso). The first method of forming 
the inner layer is probably to be regarded as the typical oue, and 
the others as modifications; it is to be noted that the modifications, 
as is usually the case in developmental processes, are but short-cuts 
to the same end as that attained more laboriousl}^ b3^ the oiubnary 
method of procedure. 

By one or another of these methods the insect embryo comes to be 
changed from a one-layered to a two-layered condition. In this it 
follows the rule of all other animal embryos, though all do not arrive 
at the two-layered stage in the same way. Those embryos that con- 
sist of a hollow ball of cells in the blastoderm stage become two- 
layered simply by an infolding of one wall until they have the form 
of a double-walled cup. This method is regarded as typical of 
animals in gen ral, and such processes as those that occur in insects 
are presumed to be derived from it in some way. With most embryos, 
furthermore, the next step consists in the formation of a third layer, 
derived from the second, which comes to lie between the other two. 
The three embryonic layers are then known as the ectoderm (the 
outer layer), the mesodenn (the middle layer), and the endoderm 
(the inner layer). These cell layers constitute three separate sets of 
embryonic building material, each of which will develop into sj)ecific 
tissues of the adult, and no one of which will normally substitute for 
another. Tln' ectoderm, for example, always forms the outermost 
covering of the body and all parts derived from it; the endoderm 
forms the alimentary canal, or the essential parts of it ; and the meso- 
derm forms the tissues between, including those of the muscks, the 
fat, the heart, the internal reproductive organs. Organs and sys- 
tems of organs, however, often result from a combination of tissues 
produced by two or by all thiee of the embryonic layers. In de- 
scriptions, therefore, it is better to follow th? development of organs 
rather than to trace separately the tissues that are produced from 
each embryonic layer. 

Insect embryos do not closely observe the general rule for the 
formation of the embryonic layers. In the two-layered stage, the 
outer layer is the ectoderm (fig. 13 C, E, F, Ect)^ but the inner 
layer, as its subsequent history shows, is mostly the mesoderm 
{Meso). The endodermal tissues arise from ingrowths at the two 
ends of the mesoderm, as will later be described in tracing the forma- 
tion of the alimentary canal. 

Development proceeds by different rates of growth in the dif- 
ferent parts of the germ band and the tissues resulting from it, 
shapes being attained by gradual infoldings or outfoldings, with 



394 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



here and there a separation of one part from another. The processes 
of development might be imitated with a piece of soft chiy or model- 
ing wax, manipulated without adding anything and without taking 
anything away, pushing it in there, pulling it out here, until the 
form of the new creature is at last produced. The insect embryo 
ordinarily does not grow in size, except as it utilizes the yolk and 
replaces the latter with its own tissues. 





Th 



>Ab 



Fig. 14. — Two stages of the Insect embryo, drawn dlagrammatically, 

probably representing two periods in the evolutionary history of 

insects 

A, early embryo consisting of embryonic head, or procephalon (Pre), 
formed of three segments, and of a body (Bdy) with as many as 18 
segments, each but the last with a pair of ventral appendages (Apn). 
B, a later stage, showing segment grouping of adult insect: head (H) 
of six segments; thorax (Th) of three segments; abdomen (AB) of 
at most twelve segments. 

Ah, abdomen ; Ant, antenna ; 2Ant, rudimentary second antenna ; 
Bdy, body ; Cer, cercus ; E, compound eye ; H, head, of adult com- 
position ; L, legs ; Lin, labrum ; Md, mandible ; IMx, first maxilla ; 
iMx, second maxilla ; Pre, primitive embryonic head, or procephalon ; 
Proc, opening of protodeum (the anus) ; Stom, opening of stomodeum 
(the mouth) ; Th, thorax. 

SEGMENTATION 



Very early in tlie development of the insect embryo the two- 
layered germ band becomes marked by crosswise impressions, the 
lines appearing near the anterior end first and increasing in number 
backward. The continuous germ band thus becomes divided into 
a series of segments separated from one another by thinner inter- 



FROM EGG TO INSECT SNODGRASS 395 

segmental lines. There are never more than 21 segments formed 
in all ; the number is usually fewer, and it is possible that the last 
division is not to be regarded as a true segment. Segmentation of 
the body is one of the fundamental characters of insects, but it is 
characteristic also of one large group of worms, of the crabs, lob- 
sters, and shrimps and all their relations, of the centipedes, and of 
the spiders, as well as of other less familiar animals related to these 
several gro'ups. Evolutionists take this to mean that all these 
creatures have had a common ancestry, and that the primitive 
ancestral forms were something similar to the segmented worms, 
since the latter are the simplest representatives of segmented animals 
living to-day. The segmented worms belong to the zoological group 
known as the Amielida, of which the common earthworm is a mem- 
ber; the other segmented animals mentioned above constitute the 
Arthropoda, of which the insects form one class, the spiders an- 
other, the centipedes another, and the shrimps, lobsters, crabs, and 
their relations another called the Crustacea. 

In the insect embryo, the first three segments are usually but in- 
distinctly marked, since they unite at an early stage to form a large 
bilobed swelling at the front end of the body (fig. 14 A, Pre). This 
swelling is the first embryonic head, named the procephalon 
("kephale" being Greek for head), and the embr3^o at this stage 
most likely represents an early ancestral stage in the evolution of 
insects, when an insect consisted of a three-segmented head and a 
long segmented body. As the embryo develops, however, it adds the 
first three primitive body segments to the procephalon and comes 
to have a head formed of six segments (fig. 14 B, H). This is the 
structure of the head of a modern adult insect, in which, though it 
eventually becomes a solid cranium-like piece, there is always to be 
discovered traces of a six-segment origin. The next three body seg- 
ments become grouped to form the middle division, or thorax (fig. 
14 B, Th), of the adult -insect. The remaining segments constitute 
the abdomen {Ah), the number of segments in which varies in the 
adult in different insects, since some of the terminal ones may be 
lost during development, or have been lost in the course of evolution. 

It is clear that insects in their evolution have tended toward a 
grouping of their segments to form a three-part body, and this body 
division becomes most accentuated in the higher members of the 
class (compare fig. 21, a grasshopper, with figure 15 D, a fly). 
Now, the members of the other classes of the Arthropoda have fol- 
lowed other lines of specialization in the grouping of the body 
segments and in the uses to which they are put. The crustaceans 
have aimed at a two-part division of the body, Avith the principal 
viscera in the first, and the second specialized as a swimming organ, 



396 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



and the crustaceans have attained a high degree of development 
along this line. The spiders likewise have evolved a two-piece 
body (fig. 15 B), but Avith this difference from the crustaceans, 
that the principal viscera are contained in the second body division. 
The centipedes (C), on the other hand, have progressed but little 
farther than the acquisition of a six-segment head similar to that 
of the insects, the rest of the body being composed of a series of 
segments all pretty much alike. The insects (D) are chai-acterized 
by liaving a head well separated by a neck from the thorax, by the 




Fig. 15. — I'rincipal types of animals ovolved lu the pbyluin Aitliropoda by difforeiU 
groupings of the segments 
A, a crab (Crustacea) with a two-piece body, no distinct bead, the principal 
viscera in the lirst body division. B, a spider (Arachnida), also with a two-piece 
body and no distinct head, but witli principal viscera in second part. C, a centipede 
(Myriapoda), with a bead, and undivided body of many segments. D, an in^^ect 
(He.xapoda), composed of lu'ad, thorax, and abdomen, with principal viscera in the 
last. 

specialization of the thorax as the locomotory part, since it carries 
the legs and the wings, and by the developinent-of the abdomen as 
a container for the larger viscera. 



THE PRIMITIVE APPENDAGES 

Closely connected with the evolution of the segments, in both 
insects and other arthropods, is the development of the external 
organs attached to them. One of the most conspicuous features 
of nearly all members of the Arthropoda is the number of legs or 
leg-like structures they have — " crawly " things these creatures are 
to most people on this account. Insects, it is true, have only three 



FIJOM EGG TO INSECT SNODGltASS 397 

pairs of legs (fig. 29, Z), but on the head there is a pair of long 
antennae (Ant) arising from the face, and other paired organs at- 
tached about the mouth {Md, Mx, Lb), while on the abdomen there 
is commonly an ovipositor, or egg layer, composed of two or three 
pairs of blades (Ovp), and near the tip a pair of slender cerci {Cer). 
All these members arising from the ventral parts of the several body 
regions are known collectively as the appendages. The wings (W) 
are not appendages in the technical sense, since they arise from the 
back and are not of the same nature as the antennae, moutli ])arts, 
legs, and cerci. 

The appendages appear on the embrj^o soon after the segments 
are distinguishable, and are at lirst mere swellings of the germ band, 
forming a row of buds on each side along the lines that will later 
be the edges of the under surface of the insect. The first and the 
last segments never acquire appendages, but the other segments, the 
second to the twentieth, inclusive, may have each a pair. Hence, 
though few embr3^os have the entire possible number of appendages, 
a " generalized " embryo would have the structure shown at B of 
figure 14, and this may be taken as the primitive embryonic structure, 
and probably as the ancestral one. In most insect embryos the 
abdominal appendages are but weakly developed, or are not formed 
at all at this stage, those that are present on the adult being devel- 
oped at some stage after hatching. 

To follow the development of the simple embrj^onic appendages 
into the various adult organs they become would be most interesting, 
but it would involve a long dicussion, and the following brief state- 
ments are all that can be given here. The first pair of appendages, 
those of the second segment (fig. 14 A, Ant), simply elongate into 
the antenmc of the mature insect and move forward from their orig- 
inal lateral position to one usually near the middle of the face. The 
appemlages of the third segment, often called the second antenme 
{2 Ant), are at best but rudimentary organs in insects and disappear 
as the embryo develops (B), except in one species in which they are 
said to })ersist as small lobes in the adult. The appendages of the 
next three segments, the segments which are added to the primitive 
head (A, Pre) to form the head of the adult (B, H), become the 
feeding organs, or mouth parts, of the adult. These are the man- 
dibles (B, Md), the first maxillae {IMx), and the second maxillae 
{'JiMx), the last uniting with each other to form the liplike labium 
of the adult (fig. 29, Lh). The appendages of the thoracic seg- 
ments develop into the three pairs of legs (fig. 14 B, L). The ab- 
dominal appendages form various structures of the adult. In most 
insects those of the first seven segments disappear ; parts of those of 
the eighth and ninth segments form the blades of the ovipositor 
(fig. 29, Ovj)) ; and those of the eleventh segment (or perhaps of 



398 



ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



the tenth) become the cerci {Cer), when these organs are present. 
In some of the lower forms of insects there are rudimentary ap- 
pendages in the adult stage on some of the first seven segments of 




Fi«. 10. — Three methods by which the insect embryo becomes 
protected within the egg 

A, embryo (Emh) of a springtail (Isotoma cincrea) curved 
into the yolk on under side of egg. (Figure from Phillp- 
tschenko.) 

B, C, embryo of Leplsraa (a flsh moth) : first (D), at early 
stage when deeply sunken into yolk near posterior end of egg, 
the opening of the cavity closed to a small pore (a) ; and 
second (C), in later stage when partially revolved to out- 
side of egg, In which position it completes its development. 
(Figures from Heymons.) 

D-F, diagrammatic lengthwise sections of an egg in which 
the embryo revolves roar end first into the yolk (D), becom- 
ing entirely shut in the latter (E) in reversed and inverted 
position, and then again revolves to surface (F) in original 
position before hatching. 

G-I, diagrammatic cross-sections of an egg In which embryo 
becomes covered by meml)ranes originating In folds of the 
blastoderm around its edges (G, b), the folds extending beneath 
the embryo (IT), and finally uniting to form two membranes 
(I), the outer the serosa (Ser), the inner the amnion (Am). 

the abdomen, and the caterpillars have tubular legs on this part of 
the body (fig. 28), which are perhaps true abdominal appendages 
of a primitive structure. 



PROM EGG TO INSECT SNODGRASS 399 

From all the evidence bearing on the segments and the appendages, 
we may conclude, then, that the ancestral insects were creatures 
somewhat like centipedes, consisting of a series of segments having 
each a pair of appendages, and that modern insects have evolved 
from this simple form to their present complex structure by a defi- 
nite grouping of their segments and a specialization of certain ap- 
pendages, accompanied by a loss of those appendages that were 
found to be useless. This is not to say that insects are descended 
from centipedes. The centipedes have had their own line of descent 
from ancestors, which, perhaps, were the same as those of the insects. 
The insects have departed farther from the primitive type than have 
the centipedes. 

THE EMBRYONIC COVERINGS 

The embryos of most insects become protected in one way or an- 
other from the egg shell during a part or all of their period of de- 
velopment. With some of the more primitive species the germ band 
doubles upon itself ventrally at an early stage and sinks into the yolk 
in the form of an inverted U, in which position it may remain until 
the embryo is almost fully formed. A simple procedure of this sort 
occurs with the little insects known as springtails, an embryo of 
which is shown at A of Figure 16, taken from the work of Philip- 
tschenko. It is significant to note that this method is characteristic 
also of centipede embryos and of the embryos of many arthropods 
other than insects. Another of the lower insects, the fish moth, or 
more entomologically, Lepisma, begins its development on the sur- 
face of the egg in the usual manner, but it too soon curves and sinks 
into the yolk (fig. 16 B), as shown in an account of its development 
by Heymons. Lepisma, however, sinks so deeply into the egg that a 
part of the surrounding thin blastoderm is turned in also, and the 
mouth of the cavity closes to a small pore. Later, the Lepisma em- 
bryo partially emerges and completes its development with its head 
and thoracic parts again on the surface (C). Many insects that de- 
velop entirely on the surface have the tail end bent forward as if they 
had, at some time in their past history, likewise partiall}^ emerged 
from a sunken position. 

Again, there are embryos of other orders of insects that turn into 
the yolk tail end first (D) and stretch out within it in a reversed and 
inverted position (E), in which position they remain until some 
time before they are ready to hatch, when they revolve back to the 
surface of the egg (F). 

The usual style of embryonic protection among insects, however, 
is by means of covering membranes that grow over the embryo from 
the surrounding thin part of the blastoderm. In typical cases of this 
kind a fold of the blastoderm erows out around the sides of the jrerm 



400 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



band (fi<r. IG, G), the edges of which come together beneath the band 
and unite below it (H). The corresponding layers of the folds then 
beconie continuous, and the embryo is now shut in beneath two cellu- 
lar membranes (I). The outer membrane is called the serosa (Ser), 
the inner, the amnion (.l?/i). The serosa commonly separates from 
the entire surface of the yolk, forming a complete envelope about 
the egg inside the vitelline membrane, the amnion covering usually 
only the ventral part. 

There are many other variations in the details of the formation of 
the embryonic coverings in the eggs of diiferent species of insects, 
but since these protective membranes have nothing to do with the 
true history of development, w^e need say no more about them here, 

Nbl 




Fig. 17. — The origin of tbe central nervous system 
A, diagrammatic cross section of young embryo, showing ventral neural ridges 
iNlR) and median neural groove (NIO) , with masses of primitive nerve cells, 
or neuroblasts (Nbl) separated from the ectoderm (Ect) of the ridges and 
^iDove, I'orniinf,' twu lateral cords (LC), and a median cord (MV). 

15, Cross section through ventral part of young bee embryo, showing neuroblast 
cells (Nbl) separating from cells of ectoderm (Ect) iu tbe neural ridgos and 
groove. (Figure from Nelson.) 

C, cross section through older bee embryo, sliowing tlie ventral nerve trunk, 
consisting at this stage of the lateral cords (LC) and median cord (MC) 
entirely separated from the ectoderm (Ect) of body wall. (Figure from Nelson.) 

except to note that they are usually broken up, or are drawn back into 
the yolk where they are absorbed, before the young insect hatches. 

THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 

It is most interesting to learn from embryologj' that the tissue of 
the central nervous system, which in the adult is entirely inclosed 
within the body, is derived from the ectoderm. Yet, if the develop- 
ment of the individual follows the path of ancestral evolution, this 
should not be surprising, because the outer surface of the animal, 
being the part that comes into contact with the environment, should 
be the part in which sensitive tissues would be most likely to develop. 



FROM EGG TO INSECT — SNODGRASS 401 

In the insect embryo, after the mesodermal fri-oove has (dosed, there 
appears another median ventral jj^roove alon<2; the entire lenpjth of 
the germ band (fig. 17A, NIG), while a ridge {NIR) swells out on 
each side of it. Large cells now separate internally from the ecto- 
derm of the ridges and the groove, which are the primitive nerve 
cells or neuroblasts {NBl). The neuroblasts multiply and form 
strands of smaller nerve cells along the midline of the embryo be- 
tAveen the ectoderm {Ect) and the mesoderm {i\Ieso), and these 
strands of nerve tissue are the foundation of the central nervous 
system of the insect. There is a lateral cord {LG) generated in each 
ridge, and a median cord {MC) formed above the median groove. 
Figure 17 A shows the relation of these various tissues in a diagram- 
matic way; at B and C of the same figure, taken from the work of 
J. A. Nelson on the honeybee, the developing nerve cells are shown 
more as they actually appear in cross sections. 

Note that the position of the central nerve cord of insects (fig. 21, 
YNC) is just the opposite of that of the nerve cord of vertebrates. 
Are the nervous systems of these two groups of animals, therefore, 
of independent origin, or do insects and other invertebrates with a 
ventral nervous system, and vertebrates with a dorsal nervous sys- 
tem carr}^ themselves in reversed attitudes? 

Almost from the beginning, the insect nervous system sliows a 
segmentation corresponding with that of the body; indeed, the nerve 
segments are often more conspicuous than the body segments. The 
segmental nerve cell masses are known as ganglia., and the connective 
parts as confimisures. Each segment at first contains a \)i\iv of 
ganglia (fig. 18 A. Gng), and the two of each pair are connected 
crosswise by a pair of connective strands [Con), besides being con- 
nected w4th the preceding and following ganglia by the commisures 
{Com). In the first head segment an optic ganglion {OpGng) is 
formed on each side between the central ganglia and the ectodermal 
rudiments of the eye {E). 

As the embryo develops, the simple and primitive condition of its 
nervous system is more or less obscured and lost by a uniting and 
condensing of some of the ganglia into larger and more complex 
ganglionic masses. First, the central ganglia of the first three head 
segments (the segments of the procephalon) and the optic ganglia 
unite to form the brain of the adult (fig. 18 B, Br). Next, as the 
segments bearing the mouth appendages become added to the liead, 
the ganglia of these segments unite to form the second compound 
ganglionic mass of the head {SmGng). When the anterior part of 
the alimentary canal is formed (fig. 20 B, Stom) it grows inward 
between the crosswise connectives of the second and tliird pairs of 
brain ganglia. As a consequence the connectives of the third ganglia 



402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

form a loop beneath the a3Sophagus (fig. 18 B, 3 Con), and the secon»l 
nerve mass of the head also lies below the oesophagus, for which 
reason it is known as the suboesophageal ganglion (figs. 18 B, 21, 
SoeGng). The pair of ganglia in each body segment of the adult 
condenses into one segmental ganglion. These segmental ganglia 
may all remain separate, but usually some of them draAv together and 
unite, though in different combinations in different insects. The 




>ThGna 



lAbGn^ 



Fig. is. — Diagrams showing the development of the central nervous 
system of an ' insect 

A, the nervous system at a stage when it consists of paired seg- 
mental ganglia {Gng) united by lengthwise commissures {Com) between 
segments, and by crosswise connectives {Con) in each segment, with 
lateral optic ganglia (OpGnu) in addition to median ganglia in flrst 
head segment. (Other symbols as on Figure 14.) 

B, the mature nervous system, consisting of a brain {Dv) formed of 
first three pairs of segmental ganglia and the optic ganglia (A), a 
suboesophageal ganglion {SwGng) formed of the three pairs of raouth 
part ganglia (A), and of a series of double ganglia in the Iwdy seg- 
ments, the first three {ThGna) in the thorax, the rest In the abdomen. 
The cross connective of the third brain ganglia (SCon) lies behind the 
cesophagus {(E), because the stomodeum (tig. 20 B, 8toin) penetrates 
between the second and third pairs of head ganglia. 

first three ganglia following the head belong to the thorax (fig. 18 B, 
ThGnu)^ and the rest to the abdomen. There are seldom more than 
eight separate ganglia in the abdomen, since the terminal ones unite 
into a compound ganglion. 

A creature, now, with its nervous system buried within its body, 
must find itself again in need of means of communication between 
the nerve centers and the outlying parts of its system. To supply a 
l^art of this need, nerves grow out from the ganglion cells to the 



FROM EGG TO INSECT SNODGRASS 



403 



other organs, and these nerves, carrying stimuli outward, are col- 
lectively the motor nerves. To receive information from the ex- 
terior, it is necessary that there should be another set of sensory 
nerves. These nerves ordinarily ha\'e their origin in cells of the 
ectoderm and grow inward to the central ganglia, but the develop- 
ment of the sensory nerves in insects is not definitely known. 



THE BODY WALL 

The body wall of an insect deserves especial consideration for 
several reasons : First, it serves as a protection against the outer 
world, and its modifications of form distinguish the great host of 
insect species from one another; second, it serves as a skeleton for 
the attachment of the body muscles; and third, it is the seat of a 
great variety of sense organs. 

The ectoderm layer of the embryo event uallj^ covers the entire 
surface of the body and forms also various ingrowths that become 





Fig. 19 — Structure of the body wall of an insect 
A, piece of body wall, showing outer chitinous cuticula {Ct), cellular hypo- 
dermis (Hy), and inner basement membrane {DM). B, movable "joints" of 
the body wall: a, fold, as between segments, where cuticula is soft and flexible; 
bj a membranous suture. C, a ball-and-socket articulation between bard parts 
otherwise united by membrane. 

organs or parts of organs of the interior. The nervous system, as we 
haA^e just seen, is one of these external derivatives of the ectoderm; 
others, we shall see presently, are the anterior and posterior parts 
of the alimentary canal, the tracheal s^^stem, various glands, and 
the outlet ducts of the reproductive organs. The part of the ecto- 
derm that remains at the surface to form the body wall is commonly 
know^n in insect anatomy as the hypodermis (fig. 19 A, Hy). The 
cellular hypodermis is lined by a thin basement membrane (BM), 
and it forms over its outer surface a chitinous covering, the cuticula 
(Ct), the three layers constituting the body wall. 

The character of the body wall of an insect is due to the texture 
of the cuticula. In caterpillars, maggots, and other soft-bodied in- 
sects, the cuticula is soft and flexible ; in most adult insects it is hard 
and hornlike. The body of the insect, however, is not incased in a 
continuous shell, the areas of hard cuticula being interrupted by 
lines of soft cuticula. At some places the dividing lines are but 



404 



ANNUAL EEPOKT SMITHSONTAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



AMR 



Stom. 
AMR 



narrow sutures (fig. 19 B, &), but at other places, as between the 
body segments, the soft " membranous" areas are infolded (a), pro- 
ducing a movable joint. In many cases the hard parts of the skele- 
ton are articulated by ball-and-socket joints, as at the bases of the 

jaws and between the seg- 
ments of the legs, but an ar- 
ticulation of this sort in an 
insect is merely one between 
two extensions of the hard 
cuticula from the opposing 
edges of the neighboring 
plates (fig. 19 C) on the 
outside of the continuous 
though membranous part of 
the body wall. The articu- 
lations in the skeleton of in- 
sects are thus of quite a dif- 
ferent nature from tlic joints 
of a vertebrate skeleton. 

The various kinds of 
hairs, spines, and scales that 
may cover the body and 
appendages of an insect are 
outgrowtlis of the cuticula. 
Internal ridges and arms 
that brace the skeleton or 
furnish attachment points 
for muscles are ingrowths 
of the cuticula within in- 
foldings of the hypodermis. 
All the sense organs of in- 
sects ai-e products of the 
ectoderm, and consist of 
both cuticular and hypoder- 
mal parts, the sensory cells 
being specialized hypoder- 
mal cells with nerve con- 
nections. 




MtK 



Fig. 20. — Formation of the alimentary caual 
(diagrammatic lengthwise sections) 
A, the ventral blastoderm differentiated into 
ectoderm (Ect), mesoderm {Meso), and a mass 
of cells growing inward at each end, the an- 
terior and posterior mesenteron rndiments 
(AMR and PMR). B, mesoderm disappearing 
along midline ; mescntpron rudiments extending 
as cups around the yolk (Y) ; an ectodermal In- 
growth taking place at each end of embryo, the 
stomodeum (Stom) in front, the proctodeum 
(l'roc\ belilnd. C, stomodeum and proctodeum 
deeper; lips of mesenteron rudiments approach- 
ing eiich other. D, mesenteron rudiments united 
about yolk to form the stomach, or vontrlculus 
(Vent) ; stomodeum and proctodeum opened into 
stomach, the first becoming the oesopliagus 
(G<!) and associated parts of alimentary canal 
(fig. 21) opening from mouth (Mth), the second 
the intestine (Int) opening to exterior through 
the anus (An). 



THE ALIMENTARY CANAL 



To follow the development of the embryo in all its parts at the 
same time would be something like tiying to follow the plot in one 
of those old-fashioned novels that drags along through the lives of 
a dozen or more characters and only lets you Imow what they all 



FROM EGG TO INSECT SNODGRASS 405 

have to do with one another in the last chapter. Since this account 
is not written as a mystery story, it is necessary to mention some 
thinjis before we come to them, and go back continually and begin 
over again Avith each set of organs. 

The alimentary canal has been developing along with the appen- 
dages, the nervous system, the body wall, and other parts not yet 
described. Its rudiments appear very early, soon after the mesoderm 
is formed, as two masses of cells that grow inward, one at each end of 
the latter (fig. 20A, AME, PMR). These cell masses probably be- 
long to the same layer of cells as the mesoderm — i. e., they and the 
mesoderm together may constitute the second or inner embrj^onic 
layer. This is clear in the embryos of animals that have a simpler 
form of development than insects. Anyhow, the two cell masses are 
destined to form the stomach of the insect, and for this reason 
they should be the endoderm. They are called the anterior and the 
posterior viesenteron imdijnents {AMR and PMR), since embryolo- 
gists prefer to call the insect stomach the " mesenteron," w hich is 
scientific Greek for " mid intestine." As the stomach rudiments 
grow, the first backward, the other forward in the interior of the 
embryo (fig. 19 B), they take the form of cups in some species and of 
long bands in others, the edges of which overlap the yolk (P), and 
come together all around the latter (C), and finally completely in- 
close it (D). The yolk thus comes to be contained in a closed sac 
of endodermal tissue, and this sac is the stomach (D, Vent)^ usually 
known in the adult insect as the ventricuhis, which is scientific Latin 
for " little stomach." From now on the yolk, which is the food of the 
embryo, must be absorbed through the walls of the stomach in order 
to reach the other growing tissues. 

The mature insect, however, needs more than a stomach for ali- 
mentary purposes. Since it must acquire its food from without, there 
must be an intake opening from the exterior at one end, and like- 
wise an opening through Avhich waste parts of the food may be 
ejected. At the time the stomach rudiments are developing, or in 
some species before they appear, there is formed a hollow, tubular 
ingrowth of the ectoderm at the base of each, which elongates inward 
with the stomach rudiments attached to its inner end (fig. 20 B, C). 
The anterior ingrowth is known as the stomodeum {Stom), the 
posterior one as the proctodeum (Proc). Before the insect hatches, 
usually the inner ends of the stomodeum and the proctodeum open 
into tiie corresponding ends of the stomach (Z>), and the insect in 
this manner comes to acquire a continuous alimentary canal open 
at each end to the exterior, the stomodeum becoming the gullet, or 
oesophagus {(E), and the protodeum the intestine {Int). With some 
76041—26 27 



406 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



insects, such as bees and wasps, whose larvae live m cells, and para- 
sites of the same order whose larvae live in the bodies of other living 
insects, the opening between the stomach and the intestine is not 
made mitil near the end of the larval life. 

In adult insects, the stomodeal part of the alimentary canal becomes 
dillercntiatcd into a pharynx, a true oesophagus, a large saclike 
crop (fig. 21, Cr), and often a fourth part, or proventriculus. Like- 
wise, two parts are usually distinguished in the intestine. From the 
anterior end of the latter there grow out a varying number of excre- 
tor}^ tubes, the Malphigian tubules (fig. 21, Mai). All the parts 
derived from the ectodermal stomodeum and proctodeum are char- 
acterized by being lined with an intima continuous with the cuticula 
of the outer body wall. The stomach, being of endodermal tissue, 
has no such lining. 




SoeGng 



Fig. 21.- — Diagrammatic lengtliwiso siection of a grasshopper, showing 
general location of principal internal organs 
An, anus; Ant, antenna; Br, brain; Cr, crop (a part of the stomod- 
eum) ; Ht, heart; Int, intestine; Mai, Malpighian tubules; Mth, mouth; 
Ql, oesophagus ; iioeOng, suba?sophageal ganglion ; Vent, stomach (ven- 
triculus) ; VNC, ventral nerve cord ; W, wings. 



THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 

The chemical changes that the protoplasm of living things under- 
goes in the process of keeping alive require a supply of oxygen and 
produce an excess of carbon dioxide. Hence, there goes on a 
constant " exchange " or respiration of these gases between the 
organism and the outer world. Small, soft-bodied animals, and 
embryos within the egg respire directly through the skin. But 
mo.st animals in the adult stage have some special anatomical ar- 
rangement for bringing the outside air into the body where the 
tissues Avill have closer or easier access to it. Some have adopted 
and evolved one method, some another. Insects have developed a 
system of air tubes, or tracheae, that brancli profusely through- 
out the body (fig. 22) and end in thin- walled tracheoles on all the 
tissues that need oxygen for their maintenance. 



FEOM EGG TO INSECT SNODGEASS 



407 



The tracheae are in<rrowths of the ectoderm and appear first as 
pits along the sides of the body. The pits deepen into tubes, the 
tubes fork out into branches, the branches subdivide until the 
tracheae from each opening, or spiracle, become a finely branched 
system like the roots of a plant. In most insects, some of the first 
branches unite with corresponding branches 
from successive and opposite spiracles, thus pro- 
ducing lengthwise and crosswise connecting 
trunks. 

It is not certain whether the primitive spir- 
acles are to be regarded as segmental or inter- 
segmental in origin; they are later subject to 
considerable shifting of position, though in 
general they remain on the sides of the seg- 
ments. There are usually two pairs on the 
thorax and eight on the abdomen in adult 
insects (fig. 29 Sp), but there is evidence to 
suggest that there was originally a pair of 
spiracles to each of the segments. The tracheae, 
being of ectodermal origin, are all lined 
Avith a continuation of the cuticula of the 
body wall. 

ECTODERMAL GLANDS AND CENOCYTES 

A great variety of glands are found in 
insects that open on the surface of the skin or 
parts derived from the ectoderm. Chief among 
these are the salivary glands opening near the 
mouth and the glands of the female that form 
a substance used either to glue the eggs to a 
support or to make a covering for them. 
Other glands, however, form disagreeable- 
smelling substances, the odor of which is sup- 
posed to ward off enemies, and some glands 
secrete substances that are used as food by 
other members of the species or by members of 
other associated species. Honeycomb is a waxy 
product of glands in the Avail of the abdomen of worker bees, 
and the same bees feed the brood with a " royal jelly " secreted by 
glands opening into the mouth. All these glands are simply ecto* 
dermal cells that have acquired special functions. Some glands are 
one-celled (fig. 23 A, GlCl) and remain flush with the surface, 
perhaps penetrated by a tubular ingrowth of the surface cuticula, 




Fig. 22. — Respiratory 
system of a cater- 
pillar, showing the 
large tracheal trunks 
(a) along sides of 
body, the crosswise 
connectives (6), the 
principal smaller 
branches in head (H) 
and in the lower half 
of body, and the se- 
ries of breathing ap- 
ertures, or spiracles 
(Sp), on each side. 



408 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



which serves as an outlet eaiial. or duct {Dct). Others are simple. 
lioUow. tubular, or saclike ingrowths of the body wall (B), while 
still others are of the same nature but are complicated in form by 
bein<i- branched or by having secondary outgroAvths from the main 
tube (C), the latter often being enlarged to form a reservoir {Res.). 
Not much is known concerning internal ductless glands in in- 
sects, but many species have certain large, free cells within the 
bod}' cavit}'^, laiown as amocyfes, Avhich appear to be of this nature. 
Most investigators claim that the oenocytes arise from the ectoderm 
of the embryo along the sides of the bod3\ If they are glandular 
in function, the}' are probably, then, ectodermal glands cells de- 




FiG. -3. — Three t.vpt's of insect glands derived from the ectoderm. 

A, a one-celled gland (fJICl) which is an enlarged cell of the hypo- 
dormis (Hy), containing often a tubular ingrowth (Det) of the cutic- 
ula (Vt) serving as an outlet duct. B, a simple many-celled gland 
(GO formed as a hollow ingrowth of the body wall, in which the cutic- 
ula becomes the lining intima (In), and the narrowed neck serves as a 
duct (Dct). C, a compound many-celk-d gland produced by a branching 
of type B, often with an enlarged part of the common duct (Dct) 
serving as a reservoir (Res). 

tached from their original sites and become free, internal, one- 
celled organs. In the head, just behind the brain, there is a pair 
of small cellular bodies, Imown as the corpora aUata, likewise 
deriA'ed from the ectoderm, and these, too, are often supposed to 
be internal ductless grlands. 



THK MUSCLES 

The muscle tissue is derived from the mesoderm, though it later 
becomes intimately attached to the ectoderm. The mesoderm is at 
hrst usually a solid layer of cells (fig. 13, C, E, F, 3feso) in the 
ventral part of the young embryo, continuous from one side to the 
other, but as it grows upward in the sides it breaks apart in the 
middle and leaves an empty space beneath the alimentary canal. 



FROM EGG TO INSECT — 3N0DGRASS 



409 



The mesodermal wings then become split into outer and inner 
layers, and the spaces between them, joined with that just noted 
beneath the alimentary canal, constitute the body cavity of the 
insect (fig. 24, BC). The outer mesoderm layers {t\Meso) become 
applied to the body wall; the inner ones {IMeso) to the wall of 
the alimentary canal {End). From the first are formed principally 
the muscles of the body and appendages, and the fat tissue; the 
second forms the muscles of the stomach, and the reproductive 

organs. 

A muscle consists of fibers, and each fiber appears to be a highly 
specialized cell, except for the fact that it contains many nuclei. 
Investigators differ as to 
whether the fiber is a prod- DpK 

uct of many cells that have 
united, or whether it is a 
single cell, the nucleus of 
Avhich has many times di- 
vided without accompany- 
ing division of the cell itself. 
In either case the building 
of the complex muscular 
system of the adult, per- 
fectly adjusted to all the 
mechanical needs of the in- 
sect, from the layers of 
simple mesodermal cells is 
one of the most remarkable 
things in insect development, 

THE FAT TISSUE 




IMesoN 



Fig. 24. — Diagrammatic cross section tlirougli 
abdomen of an embryo when internal organs 
are mostly deflned 

Apn, segmental appendage (if present) ; BC, 
body cavity ; Dph, dorsal diaphragm ; D», dorsal 
sinus ; Ect, ectoderm ; EMeso, external mesoderm 
layer (somatic layer) ; End, stomach (endo- 
derm) ; GCls, germ cells; Ht, heart; IMcso, 
inner mesoderm layer (splanchnic layer) ; Rep, 
reproduclive organ ; Tia. outer end of trachea 
and opening to exterior (spiracle) ; T'-VC, ventral 
nerve cord. 



In the body cavity of 
insects there is a widely 
scattered tissue consisting 
of large cells, sometimes compactly united, sometimes loosely held to- 
gether, that constitutes what is ordinarily called the " fat body." The 
name is onlv partly appropriate, for, though the cells always store up 
within them a large amount of fatty oil (fig. 25, Ft), they also form 
and hold in storage proteid materials in the form of small granules 
(AJh) and, in some insects, animal starch or glycogen. The fat body 
is really an organ for elaborating reserve food materials, and is of 
greatest importance in those insects that change from a wormlike 
larva to the adult through an intervening pupal stage. The ma- 
terials in the fat cells then serve as nutriment during the recon- 
structive period, when the insect takes no food. 



410 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



The fat tissue is derived from the mesoderm. It is present only 
in small amount in the embryo, but increases rapidly in the young 
insect after hatching, often forming great masses filling all avail- 
able space in the body cavity, particularly in the larvae of those 
insects that must prepare for a final metamorphosis into the adult. 




THE CIRCULATORY ORGANS 

Different kinds of animals do not necessarily have every system 
of organs equally developed. The insect, for example, has an 
elaborate respiratory system, but its circulatory equipment is com- 
paratively meager. Its "blood" is 
the slightly tinted liquid that fills 
the body cavity and directly bathes 
the tissues in the latter. This fluid is 
kept in circulation by a long pulsating 
tube, or heart, lying just beneath the 
midline of the back. 

As the upper undivided edges of 
the mesoderm la3^ers approach each 
other from opposite sides in the dorsal 
part of the embryo, their apposing 
faces become hollowed lengthwise, and 
when finally the two layers meet the 
edges unite to form a tube about the 
space between them. This tube is the 
heart (figs. 24, 27, Ht). The meso- 
derm cells extending outward from 
the heart on each side are reduced to 
thin sheets, together forming the diaphragm (Dph), a membrane in 
the adult, in which are developed fan-shaped bundles of muscle 
fibers attached at one end to the body wall and at the other to the 
ventral wall of the heart. The diaphragm shuts off a space, the dor- 
sal sinus (fig. 24, D/S), in the upper part of the body, which incloses 
the heart, and the blood must, therefore, first enter the dorsal sinus be- 
fore it enters the heart. It gains access to the former either through 
open spaces along the edges of the diaphragm or through perfora- 
tions of the latter, and it then enters the heart through apertures in 
the sides of the heart w^alls. In the abdomen the heart becomes seg- 
mentally enlarged into chambers, but in the thorax it remains tubular 
and extends into the head where it opens beneath the brain. 

The course of the blood and the structure of the heart in the adult 
insect are shown diagrammatically in Figure 26. The pulsations of 



Fig. 25. — Typical fat cells of an 
insect during a stage preceding 
metamorpliosis : The cell proto- 
plasm filled with globules of 
fatty oil (Ft) and smaller 
granules of proteid material 
(Alb) 



i'EOM EGG TO INSECT SNODGRASS 



41] 



the heart suck the blood into it through its lateral openings, or ostia 
(Ost), drive it forward, and then expel it into the head. From here 
it percolates backward between the organs of the body cavity, goes 
into the dorsal sinus, and finally reenters the heart. The number of 
chambers in the heart varies in different groups of insects. Usually 
there is a pair of ostia to each chamber 
and one pair of " wing muscles," but ^ 

these features, likewise, are not constant 
in different insects. 



THE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS 

The internal parts of the reproductive 
organs, in which the germ cells are lodged 
and in which these cells undergo their 
development into the spermatozoa or 
eggs, according to sex, appear first as 
thickenings of the upper parts of the 
inner mesoderm la3'^ers in the abdominal 
region of the body. A strand of cells 
proceeds rearward from each, which be- 
comes the duct, opening usually into a 
single, median outlet tube formed as an 
ingrowth from the ectoderm near the 
posterior end of the body. The germ 
cells (fig. 10 B, C, GCls), during the 
growth of the embryo, wander about for 
some time in the other tissues, but at last 
they come to their abiding places in the 
reproductive organs (figs. 21, 27, Rep.). 

THE YOUNG INSECT 



Ao 



Mel 




Fig. 26. — Diagram of the typ- 
ical structure of the heart 
and diaphragm of an insect, 
and the cour.se of the circu- 
lating blood (indicated by 
arrows) 

Ao, aorta, or anterior tubu- 
lar part of heart without lat- 
eral openings ; Dph, membran- 
ous diaphragm ; Tit, anterior 
three chambers of heart ; McJ, 
muscles of diaphragm, attached 
laterally to body wall ; Ost, 
ostium, or lateral opening into 
heart chamber. 



The story of insect embryology, as 
briefly outlined in the preceding de- 
scriptions, shows how a complex animal 
comes into existence from the simplest 
possible beginning. First, a group of 
primitive body cells is formed by the 
repeated division of a fertilized Q,gg, 
nucleus. These cells continue to multiply and their increasing 
descendants segregate themselves into other groups, which subdivide 
again into minor groups, until there is a group of cells representing 
each tissue of the adult animal. Compound organs are formed 
either from specialized cell groups all of the same tissue, or by the 
union of parts derived from cell groups of independent origin. 



412 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



There is nothing visible or otherwise discernible yet discovered 
within the <j^rowiTif( orf^anism to show what endows its cells M'ith this 
wonderful power of arranf!;ing themselves into a new animal, which 
is at the same time almost a replica of the parent form ; but there is 




End 



-LMe30 



Fig. 27. — Cross section through dorsal part of abdomen of 
embryo of male honeybee. (Figure from Petrunkevitch) 
Dph, dorsal dianhragm ; Ect, ectoderm ; EMeso, external 

mesoderm layer; End, stomach (endoderm) ; GCls, germ 

cells ; Ht, heart ; IMeso, inner mesoderm layer applied to 

stomacli wall ; Rep. reproductive organ. 

also no good reason for supposing that our ignorance of the secrets 
of development and heredity is diiferent from any other special case 
of ignorance that has been dispelled by research. There is un- 





_JP X.J'. 



Fit). 2S. — Various forms of young insects 
A. a young grasshopper. B, a young roach a few minutes after liatchin?;. (", tlie 
young of a moth ( a caterpillar). 1), a young wasp. E, a young lly (a maggot). 

doubtedly a cause for the vital processes that transform the egg into 
the mature embiTO, and this cause will l)e un(lerstandal)le when it 
is discovered, though, as with all other things in nature, it will be 
understandable only in terms of incomprehensible forces. 



FROM EGG TO INSECT SNODGRASS 



413 



Along with the buildino- of the tissues and organs within the body, 
there goes on a modeling of the external form into that which the 
creature will have at hatching. With most of the higher animals, 
the young at hatching or at birth is recognizable as the progeny of 
its parents, and this is true of many insects, such as grasshoi)pers 
(fig. 28, A) and roaches (B). A young fly (E), a young bee or wasp 
(D), or a young moth or butterfly (C), however, comes out of the 
egg in a form whose parentage would never be guessed from its 
physical characters; those insects must later undergo a transforma- 







Fio. 29. — Diagram of external structure of a theoretically coinpleto 
mature insect (female), sliowing appendages of one side only 
Ah, alxlomen, of 12 segments (I-XII) ; Ant, antenna; C'er, ccrcus ; 
E, compound eye ; H, head ; Lu U, L,„ legs of first, second, and third 
thoracic segments; Lh, labium (the united second maxillae, fig. 14B, 
2Mx) \ Lm, labrum ; Md, mandible; IMx, maxilla; Dip, ovipositor; 
^It, spiracle; Th, thorax, of three segments (/, -', .(} ; TV^, W-.-., wings, 
attached to second and third thoracic segments. 

tion, or metamorphosis, before they attain the form of the mature 
insect of their species. The double lives that such insects lead en- 
ables them to take advantage of two quite different envircmments 
during their lifetime. In the first, or larval, period the young in- 
sect specializes on feeding, and its anatomy is modeled to that end; 
in the second period the mature insect devotes its energy mo.stly to 
the business of mating and egg laying, and its construction is adapted 
to these purposes, but, being the adult, its form is already that of its 
species. Hence, it is clear that the form of the young is one acquired 
by a departure from the ancestral path. To understand the advan- 
tage of this duality to the insect, we have only to imagine how much 



414 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

siini)ler our own existence would be if, during the Hrst half of our 
life, we could earn and lay by a sufficient amount of money to be in- 
dependent during the second half, when we could marry and raise 
families without working at anything else, and without worrying 
over the need of providing food, or paying the rent, or the mortgage. 
Insects, in fact, have adopted many advanced ideas during their evo- 
lution, and as a consequence they own the earth. The principle in- 
convenience of tlieir double life is in getting from one stage into the 
other. This involves a process of thorough reconstruction, or meta- 
morphosis, during which the creature is helpless and assumes the 
form known as the pupa. The subject of metamorphosis is one of 
the most interesting phases in the study of insects, but metamorpho- 
sis belongs to the postembryonic period of development and is, there- 
fore, beyond the limits of our present theme. 



THE ROLE of vertebrates IN THE CONTROL OF 

INSECT PESTS 



By W. L. McAtee 

Assistant in charge. Division of Food Habits Research, 

United states Biological Survey. 



[With 7 plates] 



That vertebrates eat insects is common knowledge. What their 
destruction of these creatures means to the welfare of man, however, 
is appreciated by comparatively few. Indeed, even at this late date, 
it must be confessed that we know so little about the food habits of 
vertebrates other than birds that it is impossible to give a very 
satisfactory account of them. The unavoidable result of this situa- 
tion is that the present paper while technically embracing all of the 
vertebrates, practically is devoted very largely to birds. 

However, to give other members of the backboned clan their due, 
we may begin by adverting to a fact made familiar by the worlc of 
the Bureau of Fisheries, as well as by that of the Bureau of 
Entomology, that certain small fishes are effective enemies of mos- 
quito larva^, and that they can be used to advantage by man in his 
warfare against these pests. This seems to be the only outstanding 
credit to the fishes, although trout, and no doubt other fishes in 
infested Avaters, devour many black-fly larvae. The feeding of fishes 
on land insects dropping into the water is of little economic sig- 
nificance, because desultory, and affecting individual insects, a large 
proportion of which would be eliminated anyway by drowning. 

Among the class that is ranged next to the fishes — namely, the 
amphibians — we have numerous insectivorous forms, but because of 
iheir aquatic habitat many of them come but little in contact with 
insects injurious to man. The toads constitute a striking exception 
to this rule, especially the common forms that frequent cultivated 
fields and gardens. Toads are practically omnivorous in relation to 
invertebrates occurring in their habitat, and if an insect living on or 
near the ground is abundant enough to be the cause of damage we 
may be sure that any toads in the area will be feeding upon it. The 
common toad has a good record as a predator upon miliipeds, ants, 

415 



416 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

cutworms, the army worm, tent caterpillar, gypsy caterpillar, ,) ane 
buo^s, rose chafer, potato beetle, and the alfalfa weevil. 

The food-habits of the class of reptiles are less definitely known 
than those of any other vertebrates. So far as snakes are con- 
cerned it appears that only a few of the smaller species are de- 
cidedly insectivorous, and they are such comparatively scarce ani- 
mals that they can have but little effect upon the numbers of insects. 
The turtles, bein<; chiefly aquatic, are in the same position as the 
water-loving amphibians — that is, they come in very slight contact 
Avith insects noxious to man. The lizards are highly insectivorous, 
but are rather meagerly represented over most of the United 
States. Some of the western and southwestern species, how- 
ever, appear to be important enemies of grasshoppers and ants, 
and to be genera II3' useful as insect destroyers. In hot countries 
lizards are more numerous, active, and voracious, and have been 
credited by some writers with being as valuable individually as are 
insectivorous birds. 

Among mammals we have some highly insectivorous groups as 
the bats, shrew's, and moles. The exact nature of the food of bats 
is little known but it includes all sorts of flying insects of sizes 
these animals can swallow, including mosquitoes, but the latter 
certainly to no such extent as has sometimes been claimed. Shrews 
and moles get numerous ants, wireworms, cutworms, and white 
grubs, and doubtless do more good than harm. The short-tailed 
shrew has proved to be one of the principal enemies of the larch 
sawfly and in New Brunswick, it has been ascertained that 40 
per cent of the cocoons are destroyed by this shrew. Arboreal 
squirrels sometimes feed freely on scale insects and other tree 
pests; the western ground squirrels eat quantities of injurious in- 
sects, such as cutworms, wireworms, and grasshoppers; and the 
so-called grasshopper mice perhaps deserve their name, and un- 
doubtedly are more highlj^ insectivorous than the majority of their 
tribe. The armadillo, which occurs in the United States only in 
Texas, is a voracious consumer of insects, especially white grubs 
and their adults, caterpillars, and ants, and the badger occasionally 
makes a hearty meal of grasshoppers, immature cicadas, or beetles. 
Of our larger mammals, skunks certainly are the greatest enemies 
of insects. Army worms, tobacco worms, a nil white grubs are 
favorite prey of these animals. In INfanitoba, Mr. Norman Criddle, 
field officer, Canadian Entomological Service, estimated that on one 
8-acre tract skunks destroyed 14,520 white grubs to the acre. Cut- 
worms, the i)otato beetle, and grasshoppers are other insect pests 
eaten by skunks, and the common eastei-n skunk once proved so 
efficient an enemy of the hop grub in New York, that the first 



CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS McATEE 417 

legislation protecting the animal in that State was passed at the 
demand of the hop growers. Investigations in New Mexico by 
the Biological Snrvey showed skunks also to be the most important 
natural enemies of the range caterpillar. 

While we must confess that we do not know as much about the 
food habits of vertebrates, other than birds, as we should know and as 
we shall know when investigations now in progress are completed, 
Ave can safely assert that no investigation is likely to upset the 
present assumption that as enemies of insects, birds stand supreme 
among vertebrates. If for no other reasons, Ave are thus confident 
because birds are more numerous in species and individuals than 
other insectivorous Aertebrates, and their greater mobility enables 
them to concentrate quickly where unusual food supplies become 
aA'ailable — that is, at the scene of insect outbreaks. 

The most extensive studies of the food of birds ever made hav3 
been carried on by the United States Biological SurA'ey, but these 
investigations for the most part haAC been directed toAvard learning 
Avhat birds eat in general, rather than determining the explicit effect 
of their food habits upon certain insects or other pests. The SurA^ey 
has a great store of data as to the items of bird food, and the num- 
bers and proportions in Avhich they are taken; it can furnish com- 
prehensive lists of the bird enemies of a A^ast number of insects, but 
it is not in a position to report from its OAvn resources, Avhat degree 
of control birds attain OAer this or that particular insect pest. 

In fact opportunities to get such information come infrequently 
and the observers most likely to be favored are the men in the field 
who are working continuously upon an insect outbreak. These men, 
usually, are economic entomologists, numbers of whom, fortunately, 
liaA^e made good use of their opportunities, and it is largely upon 
their work that the remainder of this article is based. The writer 
is the more justified in quoting their findings so freely since economic 
ornithology, not only in this, but in other countries, has been fostered 
and inspired chiefly by entomologists. 

Among the earliest champions of the value of birds in this country 
were Dr. William Le Baron, of Illinois, and Dr. Isaac P. Trimble, of 
New Jersey, both well-known entomologists. These gentlemen did 
not neglect the examination of tlie contents of bird stomachs, but it 
may be a surprise to learn that Dr. ToAvnend GloA^er, first entomolo- 
gist of the United States Department of Agriculture, not only ex- 
amined the stomach contents of many birds, but had in the old agri- 
cultural museum a collection of mounted birds Avith their food in 
vials beside them. Furthermore, one of his annual reports, that for 
1865, was devoted largely to a genoi-al account of the economic A^alue 
of birds including results of his original investigations. The United 



418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

States Entomological Commission of the seventies did not fail to 
give due credit to bird enemies of the insect pests it studied, and in 
the report on the Rocky Mountain locust, gave to the world the most 
extensive paf)er on the food of birds that had appeared up to that 
time. The researclies and philosophical writings of Dr. S. A. Forbes, 
of Illinois, during the eighties earned for him the name of founder of 
the science of economic ornithology. The Biological Survey which 
has carried the study of the economic relations of birds farther than 
has ever been done elsewhere, had its origin as a section of economic 
ornithology in what then was the Division of Entomolog3\ Al- 
though this arrangement did not last long, the first two reports pub- 
lished by the new organization on the food of insectivorous birds 
contained technical sections on the insect food, written by those emi- 
nent entomologists, Dr. C. V. Riley, and Dr. E. A. Schwarz. 

Not onlv did entomologists have much to do with the origin and 
establishment of economic ornithology in this country but their in- 
terest in the subject has been actively maintained to the present day. 
References to the value of birds are especially numerous in the writ- 
ings of the later entomologists, Lintner, Slingerland, and Hewitt, 
among the deceased, and among the living. Weed, Bruner. Sanderson, 
Felt, Hopkins, and Chittenden. In Canada Dr. John D. Tothill has 
been especially active and has published a series of splendid pape 's 
on the natural control of insects, in every one of which birds have 
been given great credit. 

In a recent work on the Principles of Insect Control,^ the 
authors, Messrs, Robert A. Wardle and Philip Buckle, devote an 
entire chapter to bird encouragement. In summing up the economic 
status of British birds they state that the " cuckoos, swifts, lap- 
wings, woodpeckers, and the majority of Passerine birds, particu- 
larly Paridae (tits), Turdidse (thrushes), Muscicapida? (flycatchers), 
and Hirundinidae (swallows), are of the utmost value " (p. 61). 

Having by now made the impression, the writer hopes, that eco- 
nomic ornithology after all is very much an entomological subject, 
we will proceed to a systematic discussion of the value of birds in 
insect control. But while so doing we must avoid anthropomorphic 
reasoning to the effect that birds prey upon this or that insect to 
assist mankind. On the contrary, whatever they do in the way of 
feeding upon insects is for reasons entirely their own, but it so hap- 
pens that in carrying on their customary activities they sometimes 
do great good in the suppression of insect pests. 

We must remember also that insects are not the sole food of birds 
but that the birds draw on all the sources of food available to them, 

1 Manchester Univ. Tress, 1923, 295 pp. 



CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS McATEE 419 

including the vegetable as well as the animal kingdom. Probably 
half of the total food of birds in general is of vegetable origin. 
Again, all sorts of animals from protozoans to mammals are eaten, 
and insects do not contribute more than their due proportion. In 
short, we must bear in mind that birds feel no obligation to help us, 
nor do they, as we might wish, feed exclusively upon insects. These 
limiting factors understood, we shall be the more able to appreciate 
the activities of birds at their true worth. 

Despite the adaptive radiation in food habits which birds exhibit, 
and which leads to more or less specialization in various groups, 
few kinds are so absolutely bound to peculiar feeding methods that 
they can not forsake them temporarily when some food becomes 
available in unusual abundance. For a simply stated illustration 
of this phenomenon the writer draws on Dr. Isaac P. Trimble, the 
pioneer economic entomologist of New Jersey, who, in his Treatise 
on the Insect Enemies of Fruit and Fruit Trees, published in 18G5, 
wrote : 

On the 5th of May, 1864, I shot seven different birds; they had all been 
feeding freely on small beetles, and some of them on nothing else. There was 
a great flight of these small beetles that day; the atmosphere was teeming 
with them. A few days later, the air was filled with ephemera flies, and the 
same species of birds were then feeding upon these (p. 113). 

A more elaborate example of the same tendency on the part of 
birds is Prof. Samuel Aughey's findings during his studies of bird 
enemies of the Rocky Mountain locust in the sixties and seventies. 
Tempted by the abundance and accessibility of these insects, birds 
of every kind flocked to the feast. Land birds and water birds, tree 
frequenters and plains dwellers, whether normally fish, flesh, seed, 
or fruit eaters — all, from the diminutive humming bird to the 
largest hawks, came to feed upon grasshoppers. 

Not only is a further striking instance of this phenomenon re- 
corded by Dr. S. A. Forbes as a result of his study of birds in relation 
to cankerworms in Illinois, but the conclusions to be drawn are stated 
so clearly as to be well worth quoting. Dr. Forbes says : 

Birds of the most varied character and habits, migrant and resident, of all 
sizes, from the tiny wrea to the bluejay, birds of the forest, garden and meadow, 
those of arboreal and those of terrestrial habit, were certainly either attracted 
or detained here by the bountiful supply of insect food, and were feeding freely 
upon the species most abundant. That 35 per cent of the food of all the birds 
congregated in this orchard should have consisted of a single species of iasect, 
is a fact so extraordinary that its meaning can not be mistaken. Whatever 
power the birds of this vicinity possessed as checks upon destructive irruptions 
of insect life was being largely exerted here to restore the broken balaiKie 
of organic nature.^ 

^ Forbes, S. A. : The Regulative Action of Birds upon Insect Oscillations, Bull. 111. ►Stale 
Laboratory of Natural History, Vol. I, No. 6, May, 1883, pp. 20-21. 



420 ANNUAL BEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Whether the pressure thus put on iiruptions of insects is ever effec- 
tive in siH iirini!: a uorth while degree of control is a topic upon which 
it is naliiral to be skeptical. Insects are so numerous and propa<;ate 
so rapidly that it woukl seem they would ahyays evade control bj^ 
so limited a force as the bird i)opulation. Yet when we consider the 
results of the feeding habits of birds in other and more easily ob- 
served directions we begin to see that their consuming capacity is 
certainly impressive. For instance, consider the devouring of wild 
fruits b}' birds; it is quite the customary thing for a flock of birds 
to resort constantly to a certain tree or group of trees for food until 
the entire crop of fruit is consumed. This process is illustrated 
nearly every je'dv in the })arks of Washington. When the spring 
migrating impulse is on, cedar birds usually come to the parks in 
large numbers, and it is their habit to devote themselves to one kind 
of berry until it is gone. For instance, should they begin on holly 
ihey will finish all the holly berries in the Smithsonian Grounds, 
let us say, then they will next be found in the Capitol Grounds or 
in some other park w^orking on the hollies there. Then they may 
turn their attention to cedar berries, if there is a crop, or to barber- 
ries, or to other fruit available. I have observed in various years that 
after cleaning up the berries they have even consumed the pods of 
the Sophora trees, feeding wastefully upon them at first, but later 
descending to the ground to go over again the remnants of the feast. 
1 have seen on different occasions flocks of blackbirds, or of purple 
finches, or robins consume the entire crop of dogwood berries, not 
only of one or a few trees, but of all the trees in a woodland. Indeed, 
this manner of feeding is quite characteristic of birds. 

If birds can do such things, if they consume in a brief time all 
the berries on a tree, is it not equally possible that they can consume 
likewise all of the insects? The answer is an emphatic and in- 
disputable "yes." Such clean-up work not only can be, but has 
been done, and there is here given a summary of the recorded in- 
stances so far as they have been assembled. 

For convenience the cases are arranged by orders of insects, and 
it will be understood when the word <;ontrol is used, that our 
authority has made a statement indicating a high degree of control, 
and the Avord suppression when the insect concerned has been locally 
extirpated. The latter cases have already been treated at length 
in an article entitled " Local Suppression of Insect Pests by Birds," 
published in the Smithsonian Report for lOSO."* All data used in 
the following notes on control pertain either to the United States 
or Canada. 

3 1022. Pp. 411-438, ■{ pis. 



CONTROL. OF INSECT PESTS McATEE 421 

TERMITES OR WHITE ANTS (ISOPTERA). 

At least three times the writer has personally made the observa- 
tion, and he has had similar reports from others, that English 
isparrows, discovering a swarm of winged termites emerging from 
the nest, prey upon them so persistently that but few individuals 
escape. 

GRASSHOPPERS AND CRICKETS (ORTHOPTERA). 

There are at hand 31 instances of control and 19 of suppression 
of these insects in 13 States and 1 Canadian province. Among 
the authorities for the statements are included the following en- 
tomologists: Prof. Cyrus Thomas, Prof. Lawrence Bruner, Dr. E. 
Dwight Sanderson, Mr. Norman Criddle, Dr. H. C. Severin, and 
Messrs. A. C. Burrill, J. E. Horton, C. E. Pemberton, C. L. Corkins, 
and Max Reeher. Doctor Sanderson, in his report* on the differ- 
ential locust {Melanoplus diff erentialis) in Texas, states that birds 
" undoubtedly did more than any other natural agency to check 
the pest." Mr. Reelier remarks that birds were so efficient in con- 
trolling the coulee cricket {Peranahmis scabricolUs) in the Dry 
Coulee region, Washington State, in 1918, that arrangements for 
a 1919 control campaign were abandoned. Meadowlarks were al- 
most entirely responsible for a complete clean-up of the area.'^ 

Mr. C. C. Clute relates the following instance of money saved 
through attracting bird enemies of grasshoppers in Iowa: 

I know one farmer in particular who lost durin;? one summer three rows 
of corn 40 rods long. The corn grew next to a fence row heavily sodded with 
bluegrass, which produced swarms of grasshoppers. For the sake of the 
exi)eriment alone, for this farmer was a skeptic, last spring he put up 21 
bird houses, placed 2 rods apart, on the fence along the 40 rods. The houses 
were some that he and the boys had made, during the winter months, from 
dry goods boxes obtained in town. Thirteen of the 21 liouses were inhabited 
during the following summer, 6 by wrens. 4 by bluebirds, and 3 by colonics 
of purple martins. The grasshoppers that summer made a rich living for 
the birds, and when the fall came that farmer had the satisfactio;i of gather- 
ing 25 bushels of corn from the three rows that grew next to the fence, 
right where there had been no corn at all the year before." 

An account of bird control of Orthoptera can hardly omit refer- 
ence to the historic case of s'uppression of the Mormon cricket 
{Anahrtis simplex) by California gulls in the early days in Utah. 
Hon. George Q. Cannon, speaking of this insect and its bird enemies 

* Bull. 57, U. S. Bur. Ent. 1906. p. 22. 

8 In Burrill, A. C. Calif. Fish and Game. 6, No. 1, Jan., 1920, p. 38. 

" Iowa Conservation, .Tanuary-March, 1917, Vol. I, No. 1, p. 12. 

76041—26 28 



422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

in an address before the Third National Irrigation Congress, in 
Denver, 1894, said :' 

After our grain had been sown and our fields looked promising, black 
crickets came * * * by the millions and devoured our crops. I have seen 
fields of wheat as promising as they could be in the morning and by evening 
they would be as bare as a man's hand — devoured by these crickets. * * * 
To us who lived in Utah about that time it seemed there was a visitation 
of Providence to save us. Sea gulls came by hundreds and by thousands, and 
before the crops were entirely destroyed these gulls devoured the insects, so 
that our fields were entirely freed from them. 

This testimony is corroborated by that of a correspondent of the 
first entomologist of the United States Department of Agriculture, 
Dr. Townend Glover, who records * that " Mr. James Mclvnight, who 
lives in Salt Lake City, states that when the Mormons first emigrated 
to Utah this cricket appeared in immense swarms, destroying their 
whole crops of wheat, etc., and that the second year they also 
appeared, but providentially, or miraculously, as it was deemed by 
the Mormons, vast flocks of white gulls suddenly appeared and 
destroyed the crickets to such an extent as to almost eradicate them 
for the time being, thus saving the remainder of the crop, upon 
which alone the half-starved Mormons had to rely for food for the 
next season. Since that time these birds are held almost sacred in 
Utah." It may be added that a monument commemorating the 
valuable aid of the gulls has been erected in Salt Lake City at a cost 
of $40,000. 

CICADAS, PLANT LICE, ETC. (HOMOPTBRA) 

Among entomologists, Dr. John B. Smith, Prof. F. M. Webster, 
and Dr. C. K. Marlatt agree that the periodical cicada is practically 
doomed to extinction in city parks or other localities where numerous 
English sparrows have a chance at them. Five cases of practically 
complete local extirpation of this insect by these sparrows are on 
record for the States of Illinois, Ohio, New York, and the District of 
Columbia. Doctor Marlatt also records the absolute failure of these 
insects to establish themselves even after artificial planting of 
enormous numbers in the Agricultural Grounds, because of the at- 
tacks of crow blackbirds. 

For the pear psylla Prof. M. V. Slingerland gives an instance of 
control by birds in New York, Mr. E. H. Forbush one of the sup- 
pression in Massachusetts, and Mr. H. A. Surface another for New 
York State. An account of the latter instance is of value in showing 
how birds were put to practical use in solving a problem in economic 
entomology. 

' Irrigation Age, Vol. VII, No. 4, pp. 188-189, Oct., 1894. 
* Rep. Commr. Agr., p. 79, 1871. 



CONTROL, OF INSECT PESTS McATEE 423 

A prominent grower of pears iu New York reported to us that he had lost many 
of his pear crops, amounting to thousands of bushels, by this pest, and in the 
fall, as it was present in great numbers on the trunks of the trees, it appeared 
that it would pass the winter there and destroy his crops again next year. 
However, the white-breasted nuthatches came to the orchard in numbers, and 
he encouraged them to remain by fastening pieces of fat meat iu his trees and 
protected them from molestation. The nutliatches remained and fed on the 
pest all winter and cleaned up the trees so effectively that he could scarcely 
find any of the insects in the spring." 

In the case of jjlant lice we have one record by Mr. H. A. Surface, 
of control of the apple aphis, in Pennsylvania, and the following 5 
cases of suppression : Pea louse, one in Massachusetts, by Mr. E. H. 
Forbush, and one in New Jersey, Dr. John B. Smith; rose aphis, 
one in California, Mr. H. M. Kussell; and unidentified aphids, one 
in Washington State and one in IMassachusetts. 

The writer has made one investigation of the bird enemies of 
jjlant lice, the insect being the green bug or wheat aphis. On a 200- 
acre farm in North Carolina, where wheat, rye, and oats were 
severely attacked by green bugs, it was found that birds were very 
effective in destroying the pests. The outbreak was at its height 
during the migration season of such birds as the goldfinch and the 
vesper and chipping sparrows, which with other species on the 
farm numbered more than 3,000 individuals. It was found that 
these birds were destroying green bugs at the rate of nearly a million 
a day, and on days when additional flocks of migrants were present 
this destruction was doubled. During the season such numbers of 
birds flocked to the grain fields that the aphis infestation was re- 
duced by an incalculable number. Destruction of the aphids was at 
its height during that stage of cool spring weather that permits the 
green bug to breed freely yet holds in check its parasites. It will 
readily be agreed that under such circumstances every economic ento- 
mologist would welcome the assistance of any agency that would 
account for one or two million green bugs daily on a single farm. 

In two further items relating to Homoptera, birds are credited 
with being the most important enemies of the clover leaf hopper 
{Agallia sanguinolenta) , and in one instance with locally extirpat- 
ing black olive scales. These complete the instances on hand for the 
order, 3 being of control, and 14 of suppression. 

TRUE BUGS (HETEROPTERA) 

Contrary to the impression prevailing among many naturalists, 
birds feed rather freely on Ileteroptera. Nevertheless, there are few 
instances of great activity in this direction by field observers. Prof. 

•Zool. Bull. rcnn. Dcpt. Agr.. Vol. V, No. :!, p. 79, July, 1907. 



424 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Franklin Sherman reports^" English sparrows as an efficient aid in 
keeping Harlequin cabbage bugs in check in Robeson County, N. C, 
and Dr. A. W. Morrill notes that his studies of natural enemies of 
the conchuela {Pentatoina ligata) " point to the strong probability 
that birds are the useful agents^ in the reduction of the numbers of 
the adults." ^^ 

BEETLES (COLEOPTERA). 

For the extensive order of Coleoptera we have records of local 
control or suppression by liirds, of beetles of nine families compris- 
ing nearly all of those including seriously destructive species. 
These will be taken up in order. The Biological Survey has found 
wireworms or adults of the family Elaterida3 in the stomachs of about 
170 species of bii'ds, and the value of birds as enemies of these pests 
has been freely acknowledged by Mr. J. A. Ilyslop, of the Bureau of 
Entomology, specialist on the family, who sa,ys in his bulletin '- on 
"Wireworms attacking cei'cal and forage crops," "Prol:>ably the 
most impoi'ant factor in keej)ing wireworms in check are tlic birds." 

Passing to the family Buj>restida.\ we have an instau'e by Prof. 
R. A. Cooley, of Montana, of effect-ive depredations by woodpeckers 
upon larvae of the flat-headed apple-tree borer {Chrysohothrls femo- 
rafa), and the statement by Dr. T. E. Snyder, of the United States 
Bureau of Entomology, that woodpecker enemies of the mangrove 
borer {Chrysohothrls tranqueharica) often obtain a high percentage 
of the larva) infesting introduced Australian pines in Florida.^^ 

The long-horned wood borers also are attacked by woodpeckers, 
and the activities of these birds sometimes result in a considerable 
degree of control of the pests. Mr. Walter N. Hess says of the 
ribbed pine borer {R/io(/'rHm lineatum) : " Birds, chiefly the wood- 
peckers, are probably the most important of the predatory enemies. 
It is not uncommon to find infested trees where these birds have 
removed from one-half to two-thirds of the larva} and adults during 
a single winter."'* Mr. Fred E. Brooks has found woodpeckers 
to be highly effective enemies of the round-headed apple-tree borers. 
Of the spotted species {Saperda cretata) he sa5^s : 

By far the most effective natural check to the increase of this borer seems to 
be the woodpeckers. The borers feed in positions easily accessible to these birds 
and empty burrows are to be found on almost every infested tree, with the 
marks of the birds around the wounds jiiving unmistakable evidence of the 
cause of the borer's disappearance. During the present studies every attempt 
to rear larvaa in unprotected trees met with a loss of all the individuals as 
u result of woodpecker attack. * * * It seems probable that the spotted 

'MUiIl. N. C. Dept. Agr. 32, No. 7, July, 1011, p. 21. 

" Hull. SG, IT. S. Bur. Ent., 1910, p. 67. 

"Bull. 156, U. S. Dopt. Agr., 191."), p. 25. 

".Totirn. Agr. Research 10, No. 6, Fel)., 1019, p. 101. 

" Mem. ?,:\, Cornell Agr., K.\p. Sta., May, 1920, p. 379. 



CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS McATEE 425 

apple-tree boi-er would be a much more widely known and destructive pest 
were it not for the constant depletion of their numbers by woodpeckers." 

Relative to the striped species he makes still stron<^er statements. 
''Wliile the control effect of parasites and predacious foes on this 
borer is negligible," he says, " woodpeckers play an important part 
in holding it in check. * * * In several orchards where counts 
were made from 50 to 75 per cent of the borers had been de- 
stroyed. " 1" 

Among the Chrysomelidse or leaf beetles, probably the most noto- 
rious pest is the potato beetle and it is just the species for which we 
find recorded the most emphatic statements relating to birds as agents 
of control. There is on record one case of control in Wisconsin, and 
seven cases of local extermination occurring in Minnesota, Iowa, 
Illinois, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and South Carolina. There is 
one instance of local suppression of asparagus beetles by birds occur- 
ring in New York, one of control of the locust-leaf miner in Mary- 
land, and four instances of effective depredations upon the elm-leaf 
beetle in Massachusetts. One writer had the temerity to venture 
that birds do not eat this beetle, but the cedar bird feeds freely 
upon it, in two recorded cases at least, exercising notable control of 
infestations and in two others entirely eliminating them. 

Coming to the family Scarabaeidse, we find that white grubs 
are the most frequent objects of investigation by economic ento- 
mologists and we learn also that high rank is invariably given to 
bird enemies of these pests. Dr. John J. Davis, a specialist on 
white grubs, gives birds first place among the natural enemies. 
Of his own observations he says: 

Fields of timothy sod have been literally overturned by crows in their 
search for grubs, and in some fields the grubs were almost exterminated 
by them. Crows have often been observed following the plow in infested 
fields, eagerly picking up every grub that was unearthed." 

Mr. Norman Criddle also writes in favor of the same bird and 
says that while plowing he has personally observed that fully 90 
per cent of white grubs exposed were picked up by crows. He is 
so convinced of the value of birds in controlling white grubs that 
he recommends that farm practice in Manitoba be planned chiefly 
with a view of best utilizing the services of birds in destroying- 
white grubs; a remarkable tribute to the effectiveness of practical 
economic ornithology. He says : 

Birds are most persistent followers of the plow during their breeding 
season or while migrating; gulls and terns from IMay 1(J to June 22, and 



"Bull. 88G, U. S. Dept. A>,'r., Oct., 1920, pp. 8-1). 
1" Hull. 847, U. S. Dept. Agr., August, 11)20, p. 29. 
"Farmers' lUilI. No. 543, U. S. D.partnient of Ajjriculturo, July, 19K!, p. i:!. 



426 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

for a short time late in July; crows and blackbirds, including grackles, 
from the time grubs appear in May until July 1. 

From the foregoing we reach the conclusion that to attain the best possible 
results under conditions existing in Manitoba, plowing should be done between 
May 14 and July 1, and at an average depth of 5 inches. The idea is, of 
course, to turn up as many grubs, eggs, or pupa? as possible, a majority of 
which will, in all probability, be picked up by birds. " 

The wireworms of the Far West usiinlly are Tenebrionid larvoe, 
and it is presumed these are meant in a report by Mr. A. L. Ruth- 
erford, horticultural commissioner of Stanislaus County, Calif., in 
whicli he credits blackbirds with having eradicated the wireworms 
in the Turlock and Modesto irrigation districts. " 

All families of weevils contain injurious species and we have 
records of effective destruction by birds of members of three of the 
families. Of one of the Otiorhynchids, the rose beetle {Aramigus 
fulleri), Mr. John G. Tyler, of Fresno, Calif., says: 

One spring vast numbers of rose boe'des (Arinniyus fullcri) invaded the 
country about Clovis [California], and after destroying the rose flowers they 
took to the vineyards, doing con.siderable damage to the foliage by boring 
numerous holes through the leaves, causing them eventually to wither up and 
drop off. Every day for nearly a week a great flock of Brewer blackbirds 
hovered over a certain vineyard that I had an excellent opportunity to 
observe. Crawling over the branches or alighting on the topmost shoot, these 
black-plumaged birds were conspicuous objects against the green of the tender 
new foliage. As a result of the efforts of these birds, in a short time the vine- 
yard was almost entirely free from the beetles. 

Of the Curculionids, two closely related pests are knovvn to be 
eaten very freely by birds. The Biological Survey has found the 
clover-leaf weevil {llypera punctata) in the stomachs of nearly 50 
species of birds, and Messrs. D. G. Tower and F. A. Fenton, authors 
of a Farmers' Bulletin ^" on this weevil, consider that " Birds are 
valuable and important checks on this insect." In two summers' 
investigation in Utah of bird enemies of the alfalfa weevil by the 
Biological Survey, 45 species of birds were found to attack the 
weevil. The killdeer was one of the most active of these, making 
alfalfa weevils a third of its food during part of the summer; one 
stomach contained no fewer than 383 individuals, 376 of them in the 
larval stage. The record for numbers — 442 in one stomach — was 
held by the Brewer blackbird, an abundant species in Utah. A sur- 
prising discovery was that as a species the English sparrow was the 
most effective enemy of this insect; alfalfa weevils formed about a 
third of the food upon which its young were reared, and it was 
estimated that the number fed to growing English sparrows on a 

«Agr. Gaz. Can., Vol. 5, No. 5, May, lOlS, pp. 449-4.54. 

10 Weekly News Letter, Coium. Hort. Calif., Vol. :^, No. l.*?. April 5, 1010. 

=» No. 922, Dec, 1920, p. 17. 



CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS McATEE 427 

typical Utah farm was about 500,000. To this must be added the 
number eaten by the adult sparrows, which made of them about a 
fifth of their food. Most of the common birds of northeastern Utah 
were depending upon alfalfa weevils for almost a sixth of their 
entire food, and the destruction of these pests by this warfare is 
almost beyond conception. 

The good work of birds in preying upon another weevil pest, the 
cotton boll weevil, must not be overlooked. Sixty-six kinds of birds 
are known to feed upon this formidable cotton destroyer, probably 
the most effective being the orioles, which actually remove the boll 
weevils from the place where damage begins — that is, the squares, or 
flower buds, of the cotton plants — and the swallows, which feed upon 
the weevils when in flight and extending their range. No fewer than 
41 boll weevils were found in a single stomach of the Bullock oriole, 
and large numbers are habitually taken by all species of swallows; 
every one of a series of 35 eaves swallows had eaten them, the largest 
number in any stomach being 48, and the average 19. 

All the students of bark beetles (Scolytidce) have been impressed 
with the usefulness of woodpeckers as enemies of these pests, and 
there are at hand six different statements indicating their control 
value from the pens of Dr. A. D. Hopkins, Mr. J. L. Webb, Dr. 
M. W. Blackman, and Dr. J. M. Swaine. We will quote only one of 
these, and that from Dr. Hopkins. He says with regard to the 
spruce-destroying bark beetle which has been responsible for the loss 
of many billions of feet of timber in the Northeastern States : 

The principal enemy of tlie spruce-destroying beetle, and other bark-infest- 
ing enemies of the spruce, consists of the woodpeckers, which destroy, it is 
believed, from 50 to 75 per cent of the broods of the spruce beetle in many 
hundreds of trees each year." 

FLIES (DIPTERA) 

Only a single instance of control by birds of a dipterous pest has 
come to notice, and that is one in which artificial use was made of 
the birds. Dr. Samuel G. Dixon, late health commissioner of Penn- 
sylvania, writes: 

After trying the ability of fish to devour larvae and pupne of mosquitoes 
with varied success, I built two dams near together on the same stream, 
so that each would have the same environment for the breeding of mos- 
quitoes. Each covered nearly 1,400 square feet. In one 20 mallard ducks, 
Anas platyrhyncha, were permitted to feed, while the other was entirely pro- 
tected from waterfowl, but well stocked with goldfish, Carassius auratus 
variety americanus. 

The one in which the ducks fed was for several months entirely free from 
mosquitoes, while the pond protected from ducks and stocked with fish was 
swarming with young insects in different cycles of life. 

"Bull. 28, U. S. Bur. Ent, 1901, p. 48. 



428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

To the iiifestod pond 10 well-fed mallard ducks, Anas platyrhijncha, were 
then admitted, and as they entered the pond they were first attracted by the 
larval batraehiaus, tadpoles. They, however, soon recognized tlie ])reseuce of 
larvie and pupre of the mosquito and immediately turned their attention to 
these, ravenously devouring them in preference to any other food stuffs present. 
At the end of 24 hours no pupa? were to be found and in 48 hours only a few 
small larva; survived. The motion of the water made by the ducks, of course, 
drowned some of the insects — what proportion can not be estimated. 

For some years I have been using ducks to keep down mosquitoes in swamps 
that would have been very expensive to drain, but I never fully appreciated 
the high degree of efficiency of the duck as a destroyer of mosquito life until 
the foregoing test was made.^" 

LEPIDOPTERA (BUTTERFLIES AND MOTHS) 

When we use tlie vernacular terms butterflies and moths as equiva- 
lents of the order name Lepidoptera we obscure the fact that it is the 
immature stages, almost exclusively, that are of economic interest. 
Not only are the caterpillars most important from this point of 
view, but tliey are also most important in the food of avian predators 
upon this order. Tliey are devoured by nearly all kinds of insectiv- 
orous birds and are used in quantit}^ especially for feeding the 
}'oung. They are favored for this latter purpose even by numerous 
birds that are not highly insectivorous when adult. 

The avian attack upon the immature stages of Lepidoptera is a 
heavy one and, as we shall see, it has resulted in numerous observed 
cases of control or local extermination of various pests. Representa- 
tives of 15 families of Lepidoptera are involved in these statistics 
and they will be taken up in order. 

The larvie of a butterfly {Agraulis vanillce) of the family Nymph- 
alidai were eaten so persistently by road runners in one case in 
California that, according to Mr. A. W. Anthony, a fence row 
covered with their food plant was entirely cleared of them. In 
another butterfly family are those well-known pests, the cabbage 
w^orms. Mr. Otto Lugger, former State entomologist, made an 
interesting observation on their vertebrate enemies in Minnesota. 
He had th«» ]K)sition of .500 chrysalides of (•ab])age butterflies marked 
on a board fence and observed them through the winter to note 
their fate; by May 1 the number had been reduced from 500 to 
43, a destruction of more than 90 per cent, chiefly by birds. Dr. J. 
Schneck observed in Southern Illinois one instance of complete 
elimination of worms from a cabbage patch by chipping sparrows. 

Beginning the moths with the Sphingida^ we have on record one 
case of local extirpation of the catalpa sphinx in Alabama by 
cuckoos, and two of the tomato worm in Indiana by crows. One 

-.louin. Aiuer. Med. .\ssii., Vol. 0.!, No. 14, p. 1208, Oct. 3, 1914. 



CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS McATEE 429 

of the latter instances was observed by Mr. Frank N. Wallace, 
State entomologist. 

In the case of another large moth — namely, Samia cecrojna of the 
family Saturniidte — the late Prof. F. M. Webster recorded the 
destruction of all but two of the cocoons of this species in a grove 
in Illinois by hairy woodpeckers. Dr. John D. Tothill, who has 
published so much interesting information on natural enemies of 
insects, concludes that in his region (Nova Scotia) nearly three- 
fourths of the cecropia caterpillars are eaten by orioles, robins, 
and other birds, and about 85 per cent of the pupae are destroyed 
by woodpeckers. When M. Leopold Trouvelot was experimenting 
with the so-called American silkworm {Telea polyphemus) he found 
birds to be the most formidable enemies of the caterpillars, and 
he says : " It is probable that ninety-five out of a hundred worms 
become the prey of these feathered insect hunters."-^ In one case, 
to test the birds, he jjlaced 2,000 of the larvae on a tree near his door, 
and in a few days the birds had eaten all of them. 

Excessively hairy larvae are characteristic of the family Arctiidae, 
but at least one of them, the fall webworm {Hyphatitrla textor), 
is freely eaten by birds. Dr. C. Gordon Hevv^itt informs us that, 
" The study of the natural control of the fall webworm was extended 
to Nova Scotia in 1916, and it is interesting to record that of the 
different factors operating in the reduction of this insect the red- 
eyed vireo, Vireosylva olivacea L., appears to be the most important. 
It was estimated that about 40 per cent of the larvae had been 
destroyed in the webs by this bird at the five observation points." -* 

The observations referred to are those of Doctor Tothill, who 
credits birds with percentages of destruction of the broods, varying 
in different years, from 11.4 per cent to 89.5 per cent. In 1912, 
when the insect was fairly plentiful, a reduction in numbers was 
brought about chiefly by parasites. In succeeding years the para- 
sites gradually died out as the insect became rare, and control was 
maintained almost exclusively by birds.-^ 

While it may not be well known that hairy caterpillars are eaten 
so freely by birds, it is common knowledge that cutworms are favorite 
meat. Cases of local control of cutworms by birds must be of fre- 
quent occurrence. However, only the following cases seem to be on 
record: Three instances relating to unidentified cutworms — namely, 
control of ground cutworms in Massachusetts by starlings, and in 
Utah by meadowlarks, and of climbing cutworms in California by 
crows— and the following relating to identified forms. Prof. J. R. 

2»Am. Nat. I, No. 2, April, 1867, p. 89. 

-' Rep. Dominion Ent., 1917, p. 8. 

2E Proc. Eut. Soo. Nova Scotia, 1918, pp. 10-14. 



430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Parker and associates found wild birds to be the most beneficial 
check upon the pale western cutworm {Porosagrotis orthogonia) in 
Montana. In Texas the boat-tailed grackle, locally called jackdaw, 
has several times been observed to clean up infestations of the cab- 
baj^e loopcr {Autographa hrassicae). The fall army worm has 
been extirpated from a peanut field in Florida by blackbirds, and 
from a millet field in Georgia by English sparrows. There are 
recorded instances of control of the common army worm in Canada 
and New York, and of local extirpation in Pennsylvania and Min- 
nesota. Dr. Townend Glover reports that " a southern planter 
once stated to me that the cotton boll worm, which was destroying 
his cotton crop, had entirely disappeared after the visit of an im- 
mense flock of blackbirds, which, after devouring the worms, imme- 
diately left the neighborhood." ^^ 

The oak caterpillars {Dataim) are large and conspicuously col- 
ored and have threatening actions, but all these characteristics com- 
bined do not prevent attacks by birds. In the District of Columbia, 
Mr, Robert Ridgway observed cuckoos feeding so persistently on 
a colony of Datana integerrima on black walnut that within a week 
it was absolutely exterminated. The destructive Zimmerman pine 
moth {Pinipestis) of the same family has serious bird enemies, and 
;Mr. Josef Brunner reports that in the Rocky Mountain region the 
hairy woodpecker is unquestionably the most efficient natural force 
restraining the species. 

Only a few species of birds have been observed feeding on the 
European corn borer, but among them the woodpeckers seem to do 
considerable good in some cases. Messrs. G. J. Spencer and H. G. 
Crawford, reporting on their studies in Ontario, state that " the 
downy and hairy woodpeckers have frequently been seen digging 
the borers out of the stalks and stubbles in the field. In one field 
these birds were computed to have taken GO per cent of the borers."-^ 

The tussock moth caterpillar is generally supposed to be too hairy 
for birds, but this is another strained assumption. When they are 
common in Washington, nearly every robin seen carrying food to 
its young shows a telltale white fluff at the end of its bill. Dr. J. M. 
Swaine and Mr. Alan G. Dustan report birds to be important 
enemies of the tussock moth in Canada, Mr. Dustan especially 
having made some interesting observations along this line. He 
found that birds and ants are responsible for holding the insect 
at par in forests. When he exposed larva? to birds, the supply dis- 
appeared regularly and he credits birds with destroying half of the 

so Rep. U. S. Commr. Agr. (1865) 1866, p. 42. 
" Hull. 295, Ont. Dept. Agr., March, 192:{, p. 7. 



CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS McATEE 431 

larvse hatching in forests. He further says that " practically every 
egg mass laid above the snow line (and over 90 per cent of them are) 
had been either partially or wholly destroj^ed by birds."-^ Cases of 
local extermination of tussock moths are recorded for the English 
sparrows in Massachusetts and the hairy woodpecker in Ohio. 

Even such obnoxiously hairy caterpillars as those of the brown-tail 
and gypsy moths are eaten by many birds and sometimes to an 
extent effective in control. Dr. L. O. Howard, chief, United States 
Bureau of Entomology, states that " Observations extending over a 
number of years show that birds are important in checking the 
spread of the brown-tail moth."^" There has been reported to Mr. 
E. H. Forbush a case in which starlings had locally extirpated a 
mixed infestation of brown-tail and gypsy larvae, and when Mr. 
Forbush was in charge of the gypsy-moth campaign for the State 
of Massachusetts birds were observed to so hold the gypsy moth 
in check at one locality for several years that work by the State 
force was suspended. In connection with this early work Dr. E. P. 
Felt was employed as entomologist, and he found it almost impos- 
sible to complete certain experiments with larvae protected by net- 
ting bags because so many caterpillars were taken from the nets by 
birds. Sixty per cent of the gypsy-moth larvae used in these experi- 
ments were destroyed by birds. 

The insects of most economic importance in the next family to 
be taken up — namely, the Lasiocampidae — are the tent caterpillars. 
These are conspicuous species and many observations have been 
made of their bird enemies. For the less common species known as 
the forest tent caterpillar {Malacoso'nia disstria) there are at hand 
3 records of control and 1 of local extermination, and for the 
common tent caterpillar {M. mnericana) , G of control and 9 of sup- 
pression. Entomologists contributing to these records include Misses 
Mary Treat and Caroline Soule, Prof, Clarence M. Weed, and Dr. 
John D. Tothill. 

Among the Geometridae or loopers, all smooth caterpillars, readily 
eaten by most birds, the larvae of the linden-moth {Ennomos sub- 
sig7iarius) once a pest to shade trees, were so no longer after English 
sparrows had been introduced and became common. Dr. A. R. 
Grote and Dr. J. B. Smith cit6 cases of local extermination in New 
York and New Jersey, and Prof. Glenn W. Herrick says : 

The testimony regarding tiie activity of tlie English sparrow in exterminat- 
ing this pest in cities seems to show rather conclusively that this much- 
disliked hird did actually hring about the destruction of this insect. Nearly 
every writer on the snow-white linden-moth makes acknowledgment to the 

28Proc. Acadian Ent. Soc. 1922, p. 109. 
»» Farmers' Bull. 264, 1906, p. 18. 



432 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

sparrow and declares that the cities owe their freedom from this insect to 
that bird."* 

Cankerwoims, also of the family Geometridse, are a treat for most 
birds, and in special investigations of outbreaks it has been found 
that practically all birds of the infested region were feeding freely 
upon them. This has resulted in noticeable control, recorded in two 
cases, and in local suppression in live. 

Canker worms, as well as many of the other larvae heretofore con- 
sidered, are well exposed to birds and other enemies, but caterpillars 
that are concealed by no means escape, for example, larvae of the 
leopard moth, which are very destructive to shade trees, but which 
in various localities have been noted to be held in check by native 
birds. " No other explanation," says Dr. W. E. Britton, " can be 
given of the scarcity of the leopard moth in the country, adjacent 
to infested towns, except the presence of insectivorous birds. 
* * * Mr. James Walker, of Newark, N. J., states ' that infested 
elms placed in a nursery outside of the city limits of Newark were 
rid of the larvae by woodpeckers.' " ^^ 

Among the Tortricidae the codling moth is the greatest pest, and 
almost every entomologist who has written on the subject substan- 
tially agrees with Prof. M. V. Slingerland that " by far the most 
effective aids to man in controlling the codling moth are the birds." ^- 
The two facts that have chiefly led to this conclusion are the great 
scarcity of intact hibernating cocoons and the abundance of empty 
ones which have evidently been rilled by birds. Long ago Messrs. 
Benjamin D. Walsh and C. V. Riley, noted entomological collabo- 
rators, said :^^ 

From the careful inspection of several large orchards in the early spring 
months, we are convinced that almost all of the cocoons of the apple-worm 
moth that have been constructed in the autumn on the trunks and limbs of 
apple trees are gutted of their living tenants by hungry birds long before the 
spring opens. 

In Virginia, according to Mr. J. E. Buck, " counts of over 400 
cocoons observed on apple trees revealed the fact that * * * 
birds had destroyed fully 85 per cent of the worms." ^* 

From New Hampshire comes this report by Dr. E. D. Sanderson : ^^ 

Only 5 to 20 per cent of the larvae survived the winter. An examination of 
seven trees, which averaged over 38 cocoons per tree in the fall, showed but 
5 per cent alive in the spring, 87 per cent having been killed by birds, 4 per 
cent by disease, and 3 per cent by cold. In another orchard 1,096 cocoons 

""Cornell Univ. Exp. Sta. Bull. 1!8G, p. G2, 1010. 
81 Ann. Uep. Conn. Agr. Kxp. Sta. 1911, p. 329. 
"Bull. 142, Cornell Agr. Exp. Sta., p. 41, 1898. 
^"American Entomology, I, p. 11,3, 1.SC9. 
3* .Ann. Rep. Va. Exp. Sta., p. 5"., 1908. 
"^Agr. Exp. Sta. Bull. 143, pp. C4 and 82, 1909. 



CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS McATEE 433 

were examined in May, 1907, with 19 per cent alive, 66 per cent having been 
killed by birds, 6 per cent by disease, and 9 per cent by cold. It is quite 
evident that the birds, particularly the downy woodpeckers and the nuthatches, 
are the most important enemies of the codling moth in New England, and that 
they should be given every protection and attracted to the orchard in every 
way possible. 

One instance is at hand also in which a California orchard ap- 
parently was freed of codlinn; moths by red-shafted flickers. 

In relation to other Tortricidse, Prof. W. S. Regan has .stated that 
blackbirds do much good by feeding on the fruit-tree leaf-roller in 
Montana,^" and jNIr. E. H. Forbiish records the local suppression of 
a spruce moth in Maine by warblers.^' The spruce budworm {Tor- 
trix fumiferana)^ a prime pest of firs and spruce, also has very effec- 
tive bird enemies. In times of great abundance of the insect in New 
Brunswick birds were observed to take over 13 per cent of the broods, 
and under more normal conditions in British Columbia more than 
38 per cent.^^ " In this case," says Doctor Tothill, " the natural 
checks brought about a reduction of the insect before any trees were 
killed, and in the following year the outbreak subsided entirely, due 
to continued activity of the birds against the smaller number of 
larvae." 

The remaining families of Lepidoptera for which we have records 
of effective control by birds are the Yponomeutidse and the Elachis- 
tidse. One of the former group, the diamond-back moth {PluteUa 
Tnaculipennis) is a cabbage pest, and Mr. J. L. Harris, of Minnesota, 
testifies that this insect was entirely extirpated from his patch by 
blackbirds. In the Elachistida^, a forest pest again, the larch case- 
bearer {Coleophora laricella) has effective enemies among the birds. 
In fact, Mr. A. B. Baird says, of his New Brunswick observations, 
" Birds were among the chief factors in controlling this insect." 
The percentage of larvae about clearings taken by birds was esti- 
mated at 75 per cent and for the area in general 25 per cent.^^ 

HYMENOPTERA (ANTS, BEES, AND WASPS) 

In this order ants attract attention b}' their combined destructive- 
ness and abundance and thus afford opportunity for observations on 
control by birds similar to those here recorded for the other orders. 
Flickers often are observed to suppress small colonies of ants, and 
Mr. J. D. Mitchell and Dr. W. Dwight Pierce have recorded the 
destruction of an entire swarm of agricultural ants in Texas by 
jackdaws.*" Another instance of bird control of Hymenoptera is 

»» Circ. 109, Mont. Agr. Exp. Sta., 1922, p. 12. 

"Bull. 9, Mass. Dept. Asjr., 1921, p. 44. 

3s Tothill, .Tolin D., rroc. Ac.idian Ent. Soc. 8 (1922) 192.1, pp. 174-17G. 

™rrof. Acadian Ent. .Soc. S (1922) 1923. pp. 169-170. 

*" Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash. 14, No. 2, June 1012, p. 72. 



434 ANNUAL BEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

given by Mr. S. T. Kimball, of Ellington, Conn., who states that 
'" The oriole has cleaned my currant bushes of the currant worm *^ 
for the past few years." 

DISCUSSION 

In the foregoing remarks are summarized 109 cases of control 
and 88 of local suppression of insects by birds. Neither of these 
figures is exact on account of the impossibility of reducing to 
numbers such expressions as: "Several times the birds were ob- 
served to clear up " certain infestations, or " many fields were kept 
clean," and the like. However, the exact number of recorded cases 
is a matter of little concern, as it can have no sort of close approach 
to the number that really occur. Consider, for instance, the cases 
of almost complete destruction of termite swarms by English spar- 
rows that tlie writer has personally observed. These were three in 
number, and the locality of one was a telephone pole in an alley 
near the Bureau of Chemistr}'^, of another a court of an apartment 
house on Park Road, where some porch timbers were the breeding 
place of termites, and of the third his own backyard in a suburb, 
where the lowermost riser of a flight of steps was tlie nursery of the 
white ants. Now, these are three widely separated spots in and near 
a city of considerable size; and the writer only by chance happened 
to be at each during the very brief period when it was possible to 
make the observation. In a city the size of AVashington hundreds 
of such incidents must occur every season unobserved ; in a thousand 
cities in the range of white ants, and in rural districts where the 
termites are subject to attack by numerous kinds of birds, there must 
be multiplied hundreds of cases. This, too, for only a single kind 
of insect; multiply again by the vast number of insects birds attack, 
over any one of which they may at times exercise local control, and 
it is evident that the number of cases occurring in the United States 
annually must run into the millions. 

After this statement the reader may think that the author's en- 
thusiasm as an ornithologist has overbalanced his judgment. To 
assure neutrality of opinion, therefore, let us leave the doings and 
sayings of ornithologists in abej'ance and appeal to the entomolo- 
gists again. 

In writing about the migratory locust Dr. C. V. Riley, former 
Chief of the United States Bureau of Entomolog}-^, said : 

While little practically can be done by man to further the multiplication of 
the more minute enemies of the locust, much may be done to protect and to 
promote the multii)lication of the larger animals, especially the birds. These 

" Pteronus rlbesti. 



CONTBOL OP INSECT PESTS McATEE 185 

should be protected by most stringent laws, firmly carried out, restraining 
the wanton destruction too often indulged in by sportsmen and others." 

Dr. A. D. Hopkins, formerly in charge of Forest Insect Investiga- 
tions, United States Bureau of Entomology, wrote in connection 
with his studies of insect enemies of the spruce : 

I would recommend the encouragement and protection of all insectivorous 
birds, since they are undoubtedly of very great service in preserving a balance 
among the contending species of plant and animal life, and at times may 
render most valuable service in reducing the numbers of dangerous insect 
enemies." 

Dr. E. P. Felt, State Entomologist of New York, also dealing with 
forest insects, after noting the complete destruction by English spar- 
rows of a flight of linden-moths, states : 

Insect-feeding birds appear to be the most effective checks upon such out- 
breaks and occurrences such as noted above are additional arguments for the 
better protection of birds, since under present conditions, at least, the cost 
of artificial control in ordinary woodland areas would be prohibitive/'' 

Keferring to the same insect pest Prof. Glenn W. Herrick, of 
Cornell University, remarks that " Undoubtedly one of the most 
efficient and feasible means for the control of this insect in our for- 
ests will be the better protection of our native birds." 

Mr. Arthur Gibson, entomologist of the Dominion of Canada, 
after detailing the usefulness of birds as enemies of the army worm 
concludes : 

The value of protecting our native insectivorous birds will thus readily be 
seen, and farmers, gardeners, etc., should do all they possibly can to protect 
them."' 

After calling attention to the value of birds as enemies of the 
tent caterpillars. Dr. J. M. Swaine, chief of the Division of Forest 
Insects, Canadian Department of Agriculture, puts in italics the 
assertion that " the protection and encouragement of our native 
birds would go far towards reducing the numbers of many injurious 
insects of orchards, shade trees, and forests." " 

Prof. V. H. Lowe, entomologist at the New York State agricul- 
tural experiment station, says: 

Every thoughtful farmer knows that among the most important forces he 
has to contend with, in his efforts to produce abundant crops, are the hordes 
of insects * * *. The birds are among his most useful allies in combating 
these enemies.** 

^ U. S. Dept. Agr. Bull. 25, 1891, p. 34. 

*3 Report on Investigations to Determine the Cause of Unhealthy Conditions of the 
Spruce and Pine from 1880-1893, Bull. 5(5, West Virginia Agr. Exp. Station, April, 1889, 
p. 269. 

"35th Kep. State Ent. N. Y. (1921), June, 1923, pp. 82 and 84. 

<5BulI. 286, Cornell Agr. Exp. Sta., Nov., 1910, p. 63. 

«Bull. 9, Ent. Branch, Can. Dept. Agr., 1915, pp. 16-17. 

*^Ent. Circ. No. 1, Dominion Dept. Agr., 1913, p. 11. 

*8 58th Ann. Kept. N. Y. State Agr. Soc. (1898), 1899, p. 315. 



436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Prof. C. M. Weed, formerly entomologist at both the Ohio and 
New Hampshire agricultural experiment stations, notes that: 

After many years of study * * * of the relations of birds to agri- 
culture, we are convinced that the birds are a most potent factor in making 
crop production possible, that without them we should be overrun with 
pests — vertebrate and invertebrate — to an extent of which we now have no 
conception." 

Dr. Townend Glover, first entomologist of the United States 
Department of Agriculture, in one of his annual reports says: 

In short, it may be plainly stated that without the cooperation of certain 
birds, animals, etc., this country would be overrun with insect pests. ■'^" 

And M. Leopold Trouvelot, distinguished French entomologist, 
whom I have quoted before in connection with bird enemies of the 
American silkworm, concluded from his observations that if the 
birds were killed off all vegetation would be destroyed by insects. 

Thus it will be seen that the enthusiasm of entomologists relative 
to the usefulne.ss of birds has reached the highest possible pitch, in 
some cases agreeing in substance with the celebrated dictum of 
Michelet, the French historian and essayist, that " Birds can live 
without man, but "man can not live without the birds." 

For a more reasoned statement of the utility of birds, let us quote 
Dr. S. A. Forbes, both an entomologist and ornithologist: 

"Against tlie uprising of inordinate numbers of insects, commonlj^ 
harmless but capable of becoming temporarily injurious," says Doctor 
Forbes, " The most valuable and reliable protection is undoubtedly 
afforded by those predacious birds and insects which eat a mixed 
food, so that in the absence or diminution of any one element of 
their food, their own numbers are not seriously affected. Resorting, 
then, to other food supplies, they are found ready, on occasion, for 
immediate and overwhelming attack against any^ threatening foe. 
Especially does the wonderful locomotive power of birds, enabling 
them to escape scarcity in one region which might otherwise deci- 
mate them, by simply passing to another more favorable one, without 
the loss of life, fit them, above all other animals and agencies, to 
arrest disorder at the start — to head off aspiring and destructive 
rebellion before it has had time fairly to make head." °^ 

Hitherto we have considered chiefly the testimony of American 
ob.servers but now let us give attention to Dr. H. ISIaxwcll-Lefroy, 
the late dominion entomologist of India, since his opinion based 
on an extensive study of the food of birds in India, so closely paral- 
lels that of Doctor Forbes just cited. 

"Weed, C. M., nnd Dearborn, N., Birds in Tiioir Relation to Man, lOOS. p. 1. 
"•Rep. Conimr. Apr, 1870 (1871), p. '.»1. 

"On some Interactions of Organisms, Bull. 111. State Laboratory of Natural History, 
Vol. I, No. 3, Nov., ISSO, pp. 11-12. 



CONTROL OF INSECT PESTS McATEE 437 

" One has only to read the lists of the food of beneficial species of 
birds," says Dr. Lefroy, " to get an idea of the immense part they 
play in reducing insect damage. Nearly all insects have special 
enemies such as parasites which attack each individuall}^, but which 
produce alternative abundance and scarcity of each insect; that is, 
with the natural action of the special checks such as parasites, you 
get alternative ' waves ' of insect pest and parasite ; this is where 
the birds' importance is shown ; they are not restricted, they eat 
many kinds of insects and when a pest has for the time got ahead 
and is abundant, the birds are there to feed on it just because it is 
abundant, and because at one time, one is abundant, at another time, 
another is, and the birds eat them all. To put it figuratively they 
cut off the tops of the waves and tend to keep them all at a uniform 
level, none being ever destructively abundant. In my opinion from 
man's point of view this is the special function in nature of birds 
and if the bird population is small, outbreaks of insects are fre- 
quent." *^ 

In other words, entomologists, ornithologists, all of us in fact may 
agree, Avithout exaggerating the services of birds in the least, that we 
may look upon them as an ever-present force which automatically 
tends to check outbreaks, large or small, among the organisms avail- 
able to them as food. It is a force that should be kept at maximum 
efficiency by protective measures and which should be taken into 
consideration and used whenever possible. At the same time we 
must not neglect to credit with their good services, and t.o protect 
and adapt to our ends so far as practicable, other insect- destroying 
vertebrates. Among these certain toads, lizards, shrews, and moles, 
may in their more restricted spheres, at times approach birds in 
individual efficiency, and bats may equal them. Various other 
mammals, reptiles, amphibians, and fishes also have value as insect 
foes which should not be overlooked. Let us prize them all accord- 
ing to their deserts, and utilize their services as best we may. 

^'' In Mason, C. W. The Food of Birds in India. Mem. Dept. Agr. India Ent. Ser. 
Vol. Ill, Jan., 1912, p. 364. 

76041—26 29 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — McAtee 



Plate 2 




Common Skunk Mounted Specimen i. The Most Effective Insect 
Destroyer Among Our Terrestrial Mammals 



Smithsonian Report, 1925.— IVlcAtee 



Plate 3 




I. California Gull. The Gull That Saved the Mormons' Crop 




2. A Flock of California Gulls Following a Harrow 



Smithsonian Report. 1925. — McAtee 



Plate 4 




Meadowlark. a Great Foe of Grasshoppers and Similar Insects. 
Has Controlled an Outbreak of the Coulee Cricket 



Smithsonian Report, 1925.— McAtee 



Plate 5 




RED-EYED VIRIOS. THIS SPECIES HAS DESTROYED FROM 10 TO 90 PER 

Cent of the Broods of Fall Webworms in Nova Scotia in various 
Years 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — McAtee 



Plate 6 




The Crow. A Great Enemy of White Grubs. In Some Places De- 
stroys 90 Per Cent of Those Turned Up by the Plow 



Smithsonian Report, 1925.-McAt99 



Plate 7 




The Flicker. Anteater, 



PAR EXCELLENCE. SOMETIMES EXTIRPATt 



Ant Colonies 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES 



By Austin II. Clark 



CONTENTS 

Pat( 

lUiLtcrflies in general 440 

The lycicnids 440 

The caterpillars of tlie lycsenids 440 

Uutterlly cannibals 441 

Lyca^nid caterpillars and ants 441 

The signal towers of lyc.-enid larvis 442 

The whirling brushes of Curetis caterpillars 442 

Ant resistant lycsenid caterpillars 443 

" Electric " lycjenid caterpillars 443 

Stinging lycainid caterpillars 444 

The discovery of carnivorous butterflies 444 

The Carnivorous butterflies 448 

Carnivorous butterflies feeding on the secretions of other insects 449 

Butterflies with habits suggesting carnivorous propensities 450 

Gcrydus symcthus 450 

Allot inus horsfieldi 451 

Allotinus nivalis 451 

Gerydince, sp. indet 452 

A noucarnivorous butterfly feeding with impunity among ants on coccid secre- 
tions 452 

Qerydus chinensis 453 

Mcgadopalpus xymna 456 

Liphyra brassolis 460 

Buliyhyra mirifica 472 

Aslaur/a vininga 476 

Aslauga lamborni : 476 

Lycwna arion 477 

Lycwna arionides 487 

Lycwna alcon 487 

Spalgis cpius 489 

Spalgis Icmolea 490 

Fcniseca tarquinins 492 

Occurrence and habits 492 

Broods 494 

Oviposition 495 

Eggs 495 

First larval stage 496 

Second larval stage 496 

Third larval stage 497 

Fourth and last larval stage 497 

Rapidity of growth of the caterpillars 499 

Pupal stage 499 

Duration of the pupal stage 501 

Food of the caterpillars 502 

Relationship with ants 503 

Enemies 504 

Associates of the caterpillars 505 

Lachnocnema hibuhts ."lOo 

Triclema lamias 507 

439 



440 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

BUTTERFLIES IN GENERAL 

No equally large group of insects in which the metamorphosis is 
complete show such a general uniformity of habit as do the butter- 
flies. Both sexes of all kinds can fly, though in some the females 
are more sluggish and less proficient on the wing than males; in 
a very few the females arc much more frequently seen flying than 
the males. All are day fliers. Most kinds fly only in bright sunlight, 
from the middle of the morning until mid afternoon, the females 
taking wing in numbers considerably later than the males. A 
number prefer the half light of wooded regions, and a few fly only 
in the early morning and again at dusk. 

Nearly all caterpillars of butterflies are leaf eaters, living on 
dicotyledonous plants, and among these apparently preferring cer- 
tain families. Some, of a special group, and a few others, feed on 
grasses. A very few, of a queer mothlike type, bore into pith and 
roots. 

THE LYC^NIDS 

Only in a single group of butterflies does there occur a wide di- 
versity of habits. This is the group embracing the hairstreaks, blues, 
and coppers called the Lycwnida^. 

The Lycaenidse are far more abundant in the tropics of both 
hemispheres than in the temperate zones, but even in the latter, espe- 
cially in Asia and Europe, they form a large proportion of .the local 
species. 

As stated by Trimen, the numerous species, though of small size, 
are, as a rule, remarkable for brilliancy of coloring and exquisite 
variegation of marking. Richness of hue is, however, usually con- 
fined to the upper surface of the wings, which in the males often pre- 
sents one vivid field of metallic orange-red or glistening blue, while in 
the female it is usually duller, varied with spots, or more suffused 
with grayish or with blackish, and occasionally Avholly broAvn, 
presenting a totally different aspect to that of the male. The under- 
side, on the contrary, differs but very little in the two sexes; it is 
commonly of some soft shade of gray or brownish, marbled or 
streaked with transverse darker or paler lines, or with rows of 
white ringed spots, and is not infrequently ornamented with very 
brilliant metallic dots, usually on the hind wings. Mr. Scudder adds 
that the antennse are almost always ringed with white, aod a con- 
spicuous rim of white scales encircles the eyes. 

THE CATERPILLARS OF THE LYC.^NIDS 

Lyca^nid larvffi are for the most part shaped like wood lice or sow- 
bugs, and in many cases look more like a coccid or some vegetable 
excrescence than like a caterpillar. Their legs often are extremely 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES — CLARK 441 

short, SO that they resemble slugs in their gliding movement. Some 
of them are smooth, many are clothed with a short down, some have 
fascicles of short bristles or regularly disposed tubercles, and a few 
are hairy generally. Several are regularly corrugated dorsally, and 
others prominently humped in one or two places. Some are furnished 
with a hard flattened shield on the dorsal region of the last three 
segments which is used by them to plug up the holes in the fruits on 
the interior of which they live. 

The majority of lycsenid larvae feed on the buds, flowers, and 
young leaves of dicotyledonous plants — trees, bushes, or low-grow- 
ing herbs. A number feed on the seed pods of leguminous plants; 
these have very long necks, so that with their mouths they can 
reach far into the interior of the pods and thus scoop out the con- 
tents with the greater portion of the body remaining outside. The 
caterpillars of three oriental genera feed on the interior of fruits 
of several different kinds. The caterpillars of a special group 
(Lipteninse) live on the bark of trees, sometimes on rocks, feeding 
on the lichens and the algee growing there ; one of this group, how- 
ever, is a grass feeder {Durhania). Lastly the larvse of all the 
species of two groups, so far as known, and a few others feed upon 
other insects. 

BUTTERFLY CANNIBALS 

Although the only truly carnivorous butterflies are found in the 
Lycsenidse, the caterpillars of many other types of butterflies are 
on occasion cannibals. This is particularly true of the vegetarian 
lycsenids. Our common little blue {Cyaniris ladon) for instance, 
and certain of our hairstreaks are notorious in this respect. But 
the common black swallowtail {Papilio polyxenes), the blue swal- 
lowtail (Laertias philenor), the common milkweed butterfly {Anosia 
plexippus), and a few others are known also to be sometimes can- 
nibals. 

When a caterpillar is about to transform into the pupal state it 
becomes quite helpless; after the larval slrin is shed and until the 
new skin of the pupa hardens it is more helpless still. It is at this 
time, just before and just after the transformation to a chrysalis, 
that a larva is most subject to attack by its companions. 

LYC^NID CATERPILLARS AND ANTS 

In many lycsenid larvae there is a transverse oval ojjening on the 
dorsal line of the eleventh segment with lips like a little mouth. 
These lips can, at the will of the larva, be somewhat protruded 
and a drop of sweet liquid expelled. Ants of very many species are 
immensely fond of this sweet liquid, and in return for it act as most 
efficient guardians of the larvae. 



442 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

In India, Mr. de Nic^ille has found as many as four species of 
ants attendinf; one species of larva. Not only do the ants attend the 
larvae from their very first stages until they are fuUj'^ grown, but 
they often cause the larvae to change to pupae within their nests, 
sometimes taking them deep under ground, in this manner protect- 
ing them from the time they emerge from the egg to the hour they 
assume the perfect form and fly away. One ant even goes so far as to 
surround each separate caterpillar and the leaf on which it has been 
feeding with a few sti-ands of its silken web, protecting it jealously 
and attacking most fiercely any living thing intruding upon it. In 
the case of tlie larvae of a Ceylonese species {Aphnwus lohita) 
which frequent the nests of Cremasto garter on Acacia and Gre- 
vUlea trees, on the foliage of which they feed, the caterpillars are 
herded in special shelters built by the ants and are driven out at 
night to feed and brought back home to their shelters in the morn- 
ing. There are many other interesting types of association between 
lycaenid caterpillars and various ants. 

Mr. de Niceville and others have remarked that ant-tended 
lyceenid caterpillars are most easily found by looking for the ants. 
The caterpillars are usually colored like the leaves, buds, flowers, 
or seed pods upon which they feed, and are for other reasons not 
easy to detect; but the restless black, brown, or red ants are very 
conspicuous. 

THE SIGNAL TOWERS OF LYC.l^NID LARA'iE 

On the twelfth segment, the next behind the one bearing the oval 
opening from which the honey is exuded, are two other organs, one 
on either side in the subdorsal region, each- of which looks like a 
stigma, but is a little larger. From each of these the caterpillar can 
extrude at will a membranous cylinder or tall pillar with a crown of 
tentacles about the summit. Mr. W. H. Edwards has suggested 
that these curious organs when extruded serve as signals for the 
ants, inviting them to come and examine the mouthlike opening on 
the eleventh segment. It has been supposed, and with good reason, 
that from these processes an odor is given oif attractive to the ants. 
They are at once withdrawn if an ant approaches, and the ants are 
never allowed to touch them. 

THE WHIRLING BRUSHES OF CURETI8 CATERPILLARS 

In the oriental genus Cu7'etis, which in the larval stage does not 
possess the mouthlike organ on the eleventh segment and is not at- 
tended and protected by the ants, these two organs arc of very great 
size. Each organ consists of a tall "' pillar " from which, when the 
larva is touched or frightened, is instantly protruded a long tentacle 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES — CLARK 443 

furnished at its head Avith a brush of long particolored hairs as long 
as itself. These hairs open out into a rosette, and the tentacle is 
whirled around with immense rapidity, producing a most curious 
effect. 

ANT RESISTANT LYC^NID CATERPILLARS 

The bark-feeding lycaenid caterpillars are without the glands giv- 
ing out a sweet secretion. They are hairy and look more like the 
young of moths than like those of butterflies. They frequent ant- 
infested trees, living in the midst of passing swarms of ants, pro- 
tected by them, but avoided by them, and giving nothing in return 
for their protection. 

"ELECTRIC" LYC^NID CATERPILLARS 

In Nigeria Mr. Charles O. Farquharson found two sorts of lycsenid 
larvae feeding on the flowers of the mistletoe {Loranthns) to be 
" electric." 

He wrote that these larvae are of very characteristic shape, rather 
molluscoid or limacoid than onisciform, though they are smooth 
except at the margin, which is minutely bristly, doubtless to protect 
the feet. The " carapace ", besides, comes right down so that the 
feet are not visible. In section the larvie are more or less triangular. 
The posterior part is bilobed, and in one of the species there are 
little lobes anteriorly. They have tubercles, exserted very rarel}^, 
but if they have a gland it is hard to see. They are not ant-attended. 
They are relatively large, so that it is possible to lift them between 
the finger and thumb toward the anterior end without the skin of 
the fingers coming in contact with the marginal fold. 

In handling one of these Mr. Farquharson was conscious of a 
curious sensation in his finger and thumb, which he found difficult 
of description. As nearly as possible it reminded him a very faint 
electric shock, not accompanied by a prickly sensation, but rather as 
if one were tickled by a tiny bunch of slightly strong bristles. The 
sensation was not that of tickling so much as that of a faint shock 
which was not continuous but rapidly intermittent. 

The skin of the larva is covered with yellow dots, verj^ minutie 
and scarcely visible to the unaided eye, like glandular dots on a leaf. 
Mr. Farquharson says that, so far as he can make out there is nothing 
on the larval epidermis that could scratch the hand. On putting 
the larva down there was no after sensation as there would be after 
stinging. 

According to Mr. Farquharson Tanuetheira tlmon is the species 
with the most markedly " electric " caterpillars, but the larvae of 
Epaniera farquharsonl are slightly " electric " also. 



444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Dr. Harry Eltringham believes that the sensation described by 
Mr. Farquharson as " electric " is due to the capability of produc- 
ing when handled extremely rapid muscular contractions or vibra- 
tions by which the extremely rough cuticle of the caterpillar is made 
to grate upon the skin. He noted a " shivering " at short intervals 
in larvae of Theda pruni which in general appearance are not un- 
like iliese larvae from tlie mistletoe. 

STINGING LYCACNID CATERPILLARS 

Dr. Harry Eltringham found that in the larvae of Teratoneura 
hahelloe there are on segments 5 to 8, inclusive, dorso-laterally 
placed dark patches which consist of masses of urticating spicules, 
a most remarkable feature in a butterfly caterpillar. 

THE DISCOVERY OF CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES 

The first butterfly actually known to be carnivorous was the 
North American Feniseca tarquinius, originally described by Fabri- 
cius in 1793. Mr. John Abbot, an p]nglishman who lived for a 
number of years in Georgia, discovered the larva and pupa of this 
species a few years after it was first described and drew most excel- 
lent figures of them which are now in the British Museum. He said 
that the caterpillar is " covered with a white loose down," which is 
in reality the flocculent secretion of the aphids on which it feeds; 
but he never suspected that the caterpillar of a butterfly could be 
carnivorous. In various notes, published and unpublished, lie gave 
a considerable list of supposed food plants. 

Following Abbot's observations previous to 1800, the next item of 
interest was found by Mr. S. H. Scudder in the notebooks of Dr. 
Asa Fitch after the latter's death. In an entry dated January 7, 
1855, he wrote "I wholly forget the history of these specimens; I 
find the pupa? slightly attached to the sides of a pill box, and the 
butterflies hatched therefrom, and in the same box some beech 
leaves and woolly plant lice {Schizoneura imhricator Fb.). I con- 
jecture the worm from which the pupae came must have been feed- 
ing among these lice, but have no recollection of the fact." The 
butterflies were Feniseca tarquinius, and this was the first suspicion 
of the occurrence of a carnivorous habit in a butterfl3\ 

As related by Mr. Scudder the earliest observation of the direct 
association of the caterpillar of this species with the plant lice was 
made by Misses Soule and Eliot late in July or early in August, 
1880, when summering at Stowe, Vt. They brought into the house 
a branch of alder white with aphids. "It was left in a corner for 
a day or two, and meanwhile small, greenish caterpillars appeared 
about the room, on the walls and bureau. They pupated on the 
walls, the mop board, the pincushion, and tlie sides of the bureau. 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES CLARK 445 

The chiysalids were shaped Hke the ace of clubs." When they 
emerged the butterflies were identified. "The next year we found 
one larva on an aphis-covered alder, but have never seen one since." 

On July 8, 1880, Mr. Th. Pergande found the caterpillars in the 
leaf curls of Pemiyliigus fraxinifolii on ash and found that these died 
without feeding on the leaves that were placed with them. In 1881 
search was again made for the caterpillars on the same tree without 
finding any. 

On August 23, 1882, three caterpillars were found on a twig of 
witch-hazel; they were not feeding when seen, and attempts to feed 
them upon leaves with which they were placed in a jar failed; the 
caterpillars died. 

On October 2, 1882, several caterpillars were noticed with Scfdzo- 
neura tessellata. They were intermixed with the aphids and not 
readily observed, but seemed to hide among the mass of plant lice. 
They were brought home with some of the aphids for experiment; 
and while the caterpillars were actively crawling about for some 
days, they all died without its being noticed that they fed upon the 
aphids. 

On September 18, 1884, again a few caterpillars were found among 
the same Schizoneura. They were placed in a jar with the branch 
containing some of the plant lice. Subsequently they were found 
crawling about, and the aphids had disappeared, some of them hav- 
ing apparently been eaten. This gave rise to a conviction that the 
butterfly larva? fed upon the lice, but they all died without the fact 
being proven. 

On August 8, 1885, the larva? were again found of all sizes among 
Pemphigus imhricator. They were quite active, crawling over the 
plant lice, and stopped as soon as the twig was touched. The egg- 
shells were at the same time observed, and the actual fact of feeding 
on the lice was proved by direct observation. On August 12 several 
had changed to pupse, and by August 20 four adult Feniseca tar- 
quinius had emerged. 

On February 20, 1886, Prof. C. V. Hiley read a paper before the 
Biological Society of Washington on "A carnivorous butterfly larva," 
which was published in Science on April 30, 1886, and again in the 
American Naturalist in June of the same year. In this he men- 
tioned the work of Mr. Pergande and stated that he had obtained 
abundant evidence that the larva? of Feniseca actually feed upon the 
aphids of the beech and alder. He also said that Mr. Otto Lugger 
had frequently observed the larvae around Baltimore among Pein- 
phigiis imbricator on the beech, but never dissociated from the lice, 
and that Judge Lawrence Johnson also found it in connection with 
the same species around Shreveport, La., in the autumn of 1886 and 



446 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN iNSTITXJTION, 1925 

surmised that it might feed upon Pemphigus^ but neither of these 
observers was able to get positive proof of the fact. 

On October 29, 188G, Mr. W. H. Edwards published a detailed 
account of the life history of this species, based mainly upon observa- 
tions by Miss Emily L. Morton, of New Windsor, Orange County, 
N. Y. 

Certain corrections in regard to Mr. Edwards's historical remarks 
and INIr. Pergande's notes were published by Prof, Riley on Decem- 
ber 29, 188G. On this same date Mr. George Haley, of Brownfield, 
Me., published his observations on this butterfly. Pie had noticed 
it alighting on a species of aphid, Schizoneura tesaellata^ found in 
crowds on the bark of alder, and from the position of its abdo- 
men it seemed to be going to lay an egg among the plant lice; but 
seeing him, did not. Afterwards he scraped some of these aphids 
off a twig of alder and found a couple of larvae. These he sent to 
Mr. Edwards, who said they were Fenisecci tarquinius, as he had 
thought. On another occasion he found two full-grown larva? among 
the plant lice, one of Avhich changed to a pupa. On sending the 
caterpillars to Mr. Edwards, Mr. Haley said he thought they fed 
on the plant lice, as there were many dead bodies or skins of the lice 
where he found them. Later he saw in the American Naturalist 
that the larvce probably fed on this species of aphid, and also on 
PeTThfJiigus fimxmifoUi found on the twigs of beech trees. 

Dr. W. J. Holland in April, 1887, having read Mr. Edwards's 
account of the carnivorous habits of Feniseca fnrqiunius, suggested 
that Liphyra hrassolis, an oriental butterfly, was similarlj^ car- 
nivorous. He had received from the Rev. L. C. Biggs a parcel of 
insects collected by Mr. F. J. Durnford in Sungei-Ujong. Mr. 
Biggs in his notes called attention to a particular specimen, saying : 
"' It looks as if it were covered with mildew, which Durnford 
assures me is really fluff detached at the time of its capture.'' 
Among the envelopes containing insects Mr. Holland found several 
with specimens of a large " mealy-bug." The true explanation of 
the "fluli " or mealy deposit upon the abdomen and lower side of 
the wings of the butterfly, which was an example of Liphyra 
hrassoUs, instantly flashed upon his mind. He hastily looked up 
the envelopes containing the scale insects or "mealy-bugs." A 
comparison beneath the microscope of the white particles clinging 
to the abdomen and lodged upon the wings of the Liphyra with 
the mealy covering of the shield-lice preserved in the envelopes 
revealed their identity, and he therefore concluded that the white 
fluff on the butterfly was acquired while ovipositing on scale insects. 

The white " fluff " on the Liphyra was undoubtedly a part of the 
fugitive fluffy covering with which on emergence 1;his butterfly is 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES CLARK 447 

abundantly supplied instead of " mealy -bug " secretion ; but never- 
theless Mr. Holland was correct in his suspicion that Liphyra is 
carnivorous. 

The second butterfly actually known from observation to be car- 
nivorous was the Indian Spalgis epius. >Vriting in 1890, Mr. 
Lionel de Niceville recorded that Mr. E. Ernest Green sent him 
drawings of the larva and pupa of this species from Pundul-oya, 
Ceylon, and said : '• I have several times reared an insect indis- 
tinguishable from S. epius from a carnivorous larva that associates 
with and feeds upon Dactylopius adonidum (the 'mealy-bug' of 
planters)." 

In January, 1892, Dr. W. J. Holland published an extract from 
a letter from the Kev. Dr. A. C. Good dated January 19, 1891, in 
"which the latter noted that he had found the larvai of a butterfly 
which had been described as Spalgis s-signata by Doctor Holland 
in November, 1891 {—S. lemolea H. H. Druce), and that he thought 
the caterpillars must have fed on plant lice. 

In this paper Doctor Holland listed four lycsenids the cater- 
pillars of which are characterized by carnivorous propensities; 
these were : 

Feniseca tarquinius. I Spalgis lemolea. 

Spalgis epius. \ Liphyra hrassolis. 

He said further: "I strongly suspect that the larvte of Lach- 
nociiema and of Euliphyra, mihi, are like the larvae of Spalgis and 
Feniseca in their food habit." 

In September, 1894, Mr. E. H. Aitken published extended notes 
on the young stages of Spalgis epius. 

Mr. F. P. Dodd in 1902 published a detailed account of the devel- 
opment of the remarkable Liphyra hrassolis which lives in the 
nests of tree ants, feeding on their young. 

In 1903 Mr. F. W. Frohawk remarked that from observations 
he had made in the year preceding he felt convinced that some 
connection existed between the larvae of the large blue of England 
{Lycmna avion) and the common yellow ant {Formica -fiava) be- 
cause of the preference shown by the butterfly in selecting for the 
deposition of its eggs thyme plants growing on ant nests. He sus- 
pected that these larva? might feed in their later stages either on 
the larv£e or the pupse of the ants, since after the third molt they 
persistently refuse to remain on the plants and appear to have a 
tendency to hide in the ground. In 1905 Mr. Frohawk, in company 
with Mr. A. L. Rayward, found the pupa of this species, and in the 
following year these two gentlemen dug the full-grown larvaj out 
of ants' nests. 



448 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Mr. John C. W. Kershaw in 1905 described in detail the carnivo- 
rous habits of the caterpilhirs of Gerydus chinensis. 

It is to Mr. AA"". A. Lamborn that we owe the bulk of our infor- 
mation regarding the curious and varied habits of different carnivo- 
rous butterflies. As a result of studies in Southern Nigeria he 
published in 1913 a most remarkable series of detailed and careful 
observations on no less than six different types. For the first time 
he described the larval habits of Euli'phyra niinfica, Aslauga 
vlninga, A. lambornl, Megalopalpus zyiiina^ and Lachnocnenia 
hihulus (of which the first and last had been suspected by Dr. Hol- 
land of being carnivorous), and he added much to the knowledge of 
the early stages of Spalgis lemolea. 

In 1915 Dr. T. A. Chapman made the interesting observation that 
the caterpillars of Lycaena avion when in the last stage feed upon 
the full-grown grubs of ants. In 1918 he published a note showing 
that the larvae of Lyccena alcon in their last stage feed on ant larvae, 
like those of L. anon, but by sucking their blood instead of by devour- 
ing them. 

In an interesting series of observations on the lycsenids of South- 
ern Nigeria published in full in 1921, Mr. Charles O. Farquharson 
added Triclema lamias to the list of species known to have carnivo- 
rous young, and gave further observations on the young of Lach- 
nocnema hihulus. 

THE CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES 

Of the eight subfamilies inchuled in tlie family Lycaenidae two, 
the Gerydinae and Liphyrinae, so far as known, contain only car- 
nivorous species. There are several additional carnivorous forms, 
some of which are peculiar in liaving the caterpillars carnivorous 
only in the last stage, in another subfamily, the Lycteninae. 

The subfamily Gerydinae includes the genera Gerydus, Paragery- 
dus, AUotinus, Megalopalpus, and Logania, of which the young 
are known only in Gerydus and in Megalopalpus; but suspicious 
actions have been observed on the part of the adults of AUotinus 
which resemble similar actions of the adults of the closely related 
Megalopalpus. 

The Gerydinae are distinguished from the other lycaenids most 
conspicuously by their curious legs, which are sometimes very long; 
the tibiae or tarsi are elongated or otherwise peculiar. The included 
species are all dull little butterflies, wholly, mostly, or largely black 
or dark brown above, with markings of bright brown, ochreous, or 
white, rarely violaceous. Tlie males have no secondary sexual char- 
acters and usually do not differ in color from the females. They 
have a strong irregular mothlike flight, dancing about a favored 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES CLARK 449 

locality or flying back and forth along a path, and are very loth 
to leave any particular spot. Some, like Gerydus chinensis, seem 
to become more active toward evening, but others fly only in the 
middle of the day, and only on sunny days. Colonel Bingham writes 
that in India the habits of the members of this subfamily are alike. 
The females, at any rate of Gerydus and Allotirms, which he has 
closely observed in life, flutter about among low bushes and the 
undergrowth at the edges of the forest. The males, on the con- 
trary, sit erect on the upper side of the leaves at the extremity of 
some branch of a tree at no great height above the ground, and from 
these points of vantage make short, sharp, circling flights, returning 
to the same or a neighboring leaf and invariably sitting with their 
heads turned toward the open and not toward the tree. 

The subfamily Liphyrinse includes the genera Lipkyra, EuUphyra, 
and Aslauga, containing the largest and stoutest species of Lycseni- 
dse. As in the Gerydinse the species are largely black or dark brown 
above with brown or white markings, and some, at least, fly toward 
evening. The butterflies of this subfamily seem to be related to 
those of the Curetinse, though the caterpillars of the latter are all 
plant feeders. 

In the very large and heterogeneous subfamily Lycseninse, which 
includes all our blues and coppers, the genera Spalgis^ Feniseca^ 
and LacTinocnsma contain only carnivorous species, while species 
of Lyccena and of Triclema are at first plant feeders, becoming car- 
nivorous in the later stages. 

The butterflies actually known to have carnivorous caterpillars are 
the following: 

Subfamily Gerydinse. ' Subfamily Lycaeninse. 

Gerydus chinensis. Lyccpna avion. 

Megalopalpus zymnu. Lyccena alcon. 

Subfamily Lipbyrinte. ^palgis epius. 

Liphyra brassolis. Spalgis leinolea. 

Euliphyra miriflca. Femseca tarquinius. 

Aslauga vininga. Lachnocnenia hibulus. 

Aslanga lamborni. Triclema lamias. 

CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFI.IES FEEDING ON THE SECRETIONS OF OTHER 

INSECTS 

Mr. W. A. Lamborn found a female Megalopalpus zyrnna on the 
same stem with a membracid {Leptocentrus aUifrons) and four 
attendant ants. The butterfly was probing with its proboscis under 
and around the membracid, and he was quite sure that the proboscis 
occasionally touched the insect's body. 

On another occasion Mr. Lamborn took a male and a female 
which were probing with their tongues under and around a mem- 



450 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

bracid (Anchon relatum) near which were two immature and one 
mature jassid {Nehela ornata)^ which apparently were also probed 
by the butterflies. Two specimens, one a male, the sex of the other 
not given, were obtained which were sucking food from the fore wing 
of one or other of two membracids {Le'ptocenti'us altifrons)^ which 
were on a green stem side by side and were attended by 19 ants. 
Another male was taken sucking food off the fore wings of 3 jassids 
{Nehela ornata) ; 9 ants Avere in attendance. A female was taken 
on a green stem probing with its tongue and evidently sucking up 
food material from 3 jassids {Nehela ornata)^ Avhich were attended 
by 5 ants. A male was captured probing with its proboscis a larva 
of a membracid (probably Gargara variegata^ eaten by its own 
larva) ; 17 ants were in attendance. 

Mr. Lamborn saw a Avorn Megalopalpus feeding on a fresh leafless 
shoot covered with sticl^y secretion Avhich ants also were enjoying. 
On the next day he saw the same individual in the same position, so, 
Avith a view to subsequent identification, he trimmed its right hind 
wing off square Avith a pair of scissors. When released it flew into 
a shrub near by, but on the folloAving morning it had returned and 
Avas again feeding. He saw it again on the tAvig the next day, and 
four days after he first saw it, in the early CA'ening, he took it in 
his fingers and put it in the killing bottle. 

Mr. John C. W. Kershaw found that the female of Gerydus chinen- 
sis in order to oviposit alights in the midst of apliids and ants which 
she thrusts aside Avith a brushing movement of her tail. Both male 
and female are very found of exuding sap, and half a dozen may 
occasionally be seen close together on a leaf or stem thrusting their 
tongues into any interstices left by the aphids. The ants do not 
appear to meddle either with the butterflies or with the eggs. It 
seems in this case most probable that what the butterflies are search- 
ing for is not plant sap but honey drippings from the aphids. Be- 
fore the relationship betAveen the tAvo was known, Mr. Emery Avrote 
that Fcjiiseca tarquinius alights upon the Avoolly plant lice of the 
alder and Avitli the ants enjoys the copious exceedingly sweet liquid 
exuded from their bodies. 

BUTTERFLIES AVITH HABITS SUGGESTING CARNIVOROUS PROPENSITIES 

Gerydus syTnethus. — Mr. Distant wrote that it has been erroneously 
stated that this species inhabits ants' nests, but that no real facts can 
be adduced in support of the assertion. 

Mr. de Niceville suggested it may be that ants cany the full- 
groAvn larvae into their nests to perform their transformations as in 
the case of Tarucus theojihrastus and other species (for instance 
Catochrysops phasiiw, as reported by Mr. Farquharson) ; but that 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES CLARK 451 

the adults inhabit the nests altogether as has been stated is almost 
certainly incorrect. 

It seems a reasonable assumption that, if the caterpillars of this 
species have the habits of the allied G. chinensis^ they may sometimes 
be inadvertently entombed in shelters built by ants about colonies 
of aphids, in which event tlie adults Avould be found therein im- 
prisoned. 

AUotinus ho7'sfleldi. — Lieut. Col. C. T. Bingham in 1907 published 
a communication from Col. H. J. W. Barrow, who wrote: "I don't 
know whether you have observed the habits of a small plain butterfly 
which I caught in Majmiyo. I watched it often in the jungle, some- 
times for an hour at a time. It puzzled me at first to know why 
it took such an immense time to settle. It would keep within 1 
yard of a spot and almost settle, 20 times, perhaps, before it actu- 
ally did. Its legs are immensely long, and I discovered why. It 
settles over a mass of aphides and then tickles them with its pro- 
boscis, just as ants do with their antennae, and seems to feed on their 
exudations * * *. It would settle calmly over largish ants and 
did not mind one or two actually standing up and examining its 
legs to see who was there. The ants did not attack it in any way." 

AUotinus nivalis.— In 1910 Mr. Hamilton H. C. Druce published 
a note communicated by Mr. J. C. Moulton on a lycaenid in attend- 
ance oij an homopteron. 

Mr. Moulton showed Colonel Bingham's figure of AUotinus hors- 
f.eldi attending an aphid to his two Dyak museum collectors, telling 
them to look for an example of this in real life when collecting in 
the jungle. He further explained that the species figured is a com- 
mon one in Sarawak and that there was no reason why they should 
not be able to observe this phenomenon if they waited and watched 
the insect settle. For a month they were unsuccessful, although col- 
lecting four or five daj's a week. At last, on December 31, 1909, one 
of the collectors, Bigi bj^ name, came back triumphant with two 
examples of AUotinus 7iivaUs (a smaller species than A. horsfieldi 
but nearly allied) together with an homopteron. He told Mr. Moul- 
ton that he had found the two butterflies hanging downward from 
the underside of a thin twig of a " kapa " tree about 2 inches apart 
and facing toward each other ; between them were two homopterons, 
and each butterfly was engaged in slowly stroking the homopteron 
nearest it with its tongue. The antenna? were in an upright position 
as shown in Colonel Bingham's illustration. 

Mr. Moulton remarked that in Colonel Bingham's picture the 
aphid is shown as firmly held between the fore legs of the butterfly 
as if the " milking " operation were not particularly voluntary on 
the part of the aphid. But his Dyak was quite positive that the 



452 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

fore legs were not used for this purpose at all in the instance he 
witnessed, and that the homoptcron was quite free. There were 
plenty of ants on the branch, which was some 4 to 5 feet from the 
ground, but they did not seem to disturb the butterflies. 

About January 20, 1910, the same native again brought in this 
species of AUotinus, together with an homopteron, telling Mr. INIoul- 
ton that he had watched them for a long time and that he was con- 
vinced that the lycaenid in no way held the homopteron. On Feb- 
ruary 2, 1910, he brought in another AUotunis (of a species near 
nivalis) which he had found in similar attendance on the same spe- 
cies of homopteron (also brought in). As before, he told him that 
he watched them for some time to see if there was any restraint 
imposed on the homopteron, but he was quite sure that it was free. 

About February 10, 1910, Mr. Moulton's Dyak Kigi brought him 
an example of Allotinus horsfieldi which he had taken in attendance 
on a " heteropterous larva." In the case of this last observation the 
collector reported having noticed large numbers of this insect on the 
tree in company with many ants, which latter appeared to be bother- 
ing the lycsenid, although he stuck to his work in spite of the ants 
until the collector's net removed him. In the previous observations, 
except for the homopterons attended by the butterflies, none or but 
few were seen on the same tree. 

Gerydino^ sp. indet.— In a letter to Prof. E. P. Poulton, Mr. J. C. 
Moulton wrote : 

I watched some few months ago a group of ants, a Lyca^nid belonging to the 
subfamily Gerydinix?, and Homoptera (identified by Distant as the Membracid 
Ebhul vnrius Walker, previously only known from the unique Burmese 
type). The Membracids were quite passive while ants vigorously massaged 
them and imbibed the exuding liquid. The Gerydus rested within a foot of an 
ant slowly stroking an Homopteron with his proboscis and I suppose at the 
same time drawing up liquid. 

According to Professor Poulton the observation was made in the 
neighborhood of Kuching in 1913. 

These observations by Colonel Barrow, the Dyak Rigi. and Mr. 
J. C. Moulton must be considered in connection with Mr. Ivamboi-n's 
notes on Megalopalpus^ the African representative of the oriental 
Allotinus^ and Mr. Kershaw's on Gerydus chinensis. Feniseca tar- 
quinius also seems to be quite immune from attack by ants. 

A NOXCARNIVOROUS BUTl'ERFLY FEEDING WITH IMPUNITY AMONG ANTS 

ON COCCID SECRETIONS 

Mr. Charles O. Farquharson gives an excellent accoimt of a but- 
terfly of the genus Teratoneura feeding on the secretions of ant- 
attended coccids and driving off the ants. 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES CLARK 453 

He noticed the insect alight on a twig. It remained for a few 
seconds and then flew off, circling rapidly round the stump, soon 
to alight again. It lit on a branch with ants and coccids on it, just 
at the tip, the coccids being about an inch from the end. It pro- 
ceeded to walk backwards rather slowly and deliberately, the abdo- 
men inclined upward at a fairly steep angle to the thorax, and the 
wings opening and closing fairly rapidly — though not by any means 
nervously or excitedly — and gently beating the twig. The ants 
retreated backwards, making hardly any resistance at all, though 
some dodged to the under side of the twig and ran forwards. 

The butterfly having gone back about 3 inches, then suddenly 
dropped the abomen so that it rested on the tAvig and ran rapidly 
forward, the tip of the abdomen brushing the twig as it did so. The 
backward maneuver was repeated, this time on the underside of the 
twig, the wings then hanging downAvards, the abdomen flexed as 
before. The butterfly suddenly stopped over the coccids, unrolled 
a very slender proboscis, and proceeded to absorb the secretion so 
very much prized by the ants. 

Occasionally an ant would venture along, but retreated without 
attacking. In a short time the butterfly flew away, circled around 
for a bit, and came back to another twig, where the same perform- 
ance was repeated. 

Professor Poulton remarked that the movements described and the 
position of the abdomen of the butterfly suggest strongly that the 
butterfly produces and fans toward the ants some odor disliked by 
them. 

Gertdus chinensis 

Mr. John C. W. Kershaw has published an interesting account of 
the habits of Gerydus chinensis which he found to be fairly common 
throughout the year in certain localities near Macao and Hong 
Kong. Like Feniseca tarquinius it is local in its occurrence, keeping 
more or less strictly to shady and usually damp places. To a certain 
extent it is crepuscular, though it is also on the wing during the day. 

When ovipositing the female butterfly, after almost interminable 
dancing up and down and wandering hither and thither, finally 
alights, after two or three attempts, in the midst of the aphids and 
ants, which she thrusts aside with a brushing movement of her abdo- 
men, and immediately lays a single q,(i^. She then generally moves 
slightly and remains for some time sucking up the exuding juices of 
the plant. 

The eggs are laid toward evening and until night fairly sets in, 
on stems and leaves of herbs and trees infested with aphids or 
76041—26 30 



454 ANNUAL BEPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Hemipteia. They are laid at intervals all through the year, but 
those mentioned by Mr. Kershaw were taken in July and August. 

The plants the butterflies seem especially to affect are various 
species of bamboo, the lichee {StilUngia sehifera)^ and a species of 
burr marigold {Bidens pilosa), which last is very common in the 
region. 

The aphids swarm so thickly that the plant stem or leaf is invisi- 
ble and, barring heavy rain, they are, as a whole, stationary for days 
together, though slowly changing their position individually and 
going through various transformations, fresh lots continuall}' re- 
placing the old. 

As in the case of Feniseca tarquinius the eggs of the butterfly are 
often hidden under a mass of aphids. 

The egg is circular and flat, pale green in color, ringed circum- 
ferentially, the edges of the rings milled like a coin. It hatches in 
four days, the issuing larva being nearly cylindrical at first, not 
assuming its sluglike shape until a later stage. Its color is light 
yellow with a distinct purplish dorsal line and a few light-colored 
hairs chiefly at the head and tail. The head is dark. Later on the 
caterpillar becomes limaciform or sluglike, yellow or greenish-yel- 
low, and banded longitudinally with purple broAvn. The segments 
are well defined, the first swollen and produced so that the head 
can be withdrawn entirely into it, as it usually is when the larva 
is resting. 

The larva? feed upon the aphids, sometimes pressing them against 
the plant with the head and forelegs, sometimes holding them in 
the fore legs quite away from the plant. A few bites disposes of 
an aphid, and the caterpillar then licks and cleans its legs just as a 
mantis does. Some aphids must have a better flavor than others, as 
the larva} pick and choose, moving their heads up and down over the 
backs of the insects, evidently smelling them. As a rule the 
creatures seem to make little attempt to escape till they are actually 
bitten, when struggling is useless. 

When not engaged in feeding the larvae rest among the aphids or 
crawd leisurely about between or over them, and the aphids do like- 
wise, the larvne being sometimes covered with them. 

When nearly full grown the larvae lose most of their sparse hairs 
and their colors fade, the bands and four blotches on the seventh 
and eighth segments becoming less distinct. 

The larval stage lasts about 15 days, and Mr. Kershaw reckoned 
that, on the average from first to last, the larva3 would eat some 20 
aphids per day. But it would require many larva3 to make much 
impression on the crowds of aphids seen, perhaps a yard of bamboo 
2 or 3 inches in diameter being absolutely covered with them. 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES — CLARK 455 

Mr. Kershaw only found the larvse feeding on two kinds of aphids, 
though he says they doubtless eat other kinds. One was slate- 
colored with a white efflorescence (as is the Schizoneura of the alder, 
the favorite food of F'eniseca tarquinius) , the other greenish with 
four dark-green patches, some of them being fringed with white, 
probably molted skins. 

He was not sure, but had some reason for believing, that the larvae 
tend to resemble in color the aphids upon which they happen to be 
feeding. At first, as the eggs had been laid amongst the green 
aphids, he fed the larvae upon these; but, a typhoon having washed 
away the food supply, he could thereafter find only the slate-colored 
species which, however, the larvae seemed quite as much to enjoy. 
But he noticed soon after that the colors faded, and the purple- 
brown tended to mingle with the yellow. 

Mr. Kershaw says that one of the features of this curious life his- 
tory is the calm way in which the caterpillar moves among the 
aphids and selects its prey, and the indifference with which the lat- 
ter apparently accepts its fate. 

AVlien about to pupate the caterpillars walk about at quite a fair 
rate of speed and, having chosen a spot, spin a few threads a little 
distance from head and tail. Mr. Kershaw's larvae pupated on a 
piece of bark, one putting a band about its middle and pupating 
horizontally, the other pupating vertically and without a band, 
though both had the threads (not attached to the pupa) at head 
and tail. 

The tail of the pupa is cut off squarely, forming a disk, thus 
securing a good hold, probably sufficient without the band around 
the middle. It seems to be affixed with some secretion, not actual 
threads. There is a small process on either side of the third segment 
from the tail. 

The pupal stage lasts about 10 days. As the larval stage lasts 
about 15 days and the eggs require 4 days to hatch the time occu- 
pied in the various transitions from the freshly laid egg to the 
emergence of the butterfly is about 29 days, or about a week longer 
than in the case of Feniseca tarquinius. 

Both larvas and pupae struck Mr. Kershaw as small in compari- 
son with the size of the butterfly. 

Both the males and females of this butterfly, according to Mr. 
Kershaw, are very fond of the exuding juice of the plants upon 
which the larvae live. Half a dozen may occasionally be seen close 
together on a leaf or stem drinking this sap, thrusting their tongues 
into any interstices left by the aphids. 

It seems to me that what the butterflies are drinking is probably 
not the plant juice, but the exudations from the aphids which have 
fallen on the plants. 



456 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Mr. Kershaw noted that the plants upon Avhich this species lays 
its eggs are overrun bj^ a host of ants of two species {P olyrrhachis 
dives and Dolichoderus bituberculatus) , both aphids and ants appar- 
ently feeding on juice exuding from the plants. An}^ vegetation 
subject to these secretions seems to be attractive to them, the ants 
not appearing to use the aphids as ant cows, though of this he was 
not quite certain. 

The ants do not appear to meddle either with the butterflies or with 
their eggs, though ants are A^ery destructive to the eggs of most 
butterflies; nor do they seem to interfere with the caterpillars. 

In contrast to the immunity of this butterfly from the attacks of 
ants, Mr. Kershaw saw two small butterflies of other kinds (a skip- 
per and a species of Neptis) seized by the tongue as they probed a 
flower and dragged off b}' one of the same species of ants among 
which the Gerydus live. 

In 1914 Mr. Edward Step published a full page illustration of 
"A Butterfly Enemy of Green-fly " which was based upon the plate 
and tlie data in Mr. Kershaw's article, though the larvae are shown 
upon bamboo instead of on Bidens pilosa. 

Megalopalpus ztmna 

Mr. W. A. Lamborn Avorked out the life history of this species in 
the Adcinity of Oni Camp, Southern Nigeria. Oni Camp is 70 miles 
east of Lagos, at a low elevation, never more than 50 feet above 
sea level. 

The caterpillars of this butterfly feed not upon aphids, but upon a 
variety of Homoptera belonging to the families Jassidse and Mem- 
bracidse which are invariably attended by ants. 

The mother butterfly, in depositing her egg, which is a very charac- 
teristic one, exercises the same care in insuring an immediate food 
supply for the newly hatched larva as do other butterflies for their 
plant-eating offspring. She places it very commonly in the imme- 
diate neighborhood of an ant shelter containing Homoptera, and 
an eg;g shell is sometimes found attached to a stem actuall}'^ within 
a shelter, having obviously been deposited before the Homoptera 
attracted the attention of ants, and, indeed, probably on the egg 
mass itself before hatching, since the membracid and jassid colo- 
nies seem to remain and feed close to the spot where the parent 
laid her eggs. 

The egg masses of the jassids {Nehela ornata) are attached to 
plants in clusters much like those of the membracids {Leptocentrus 
altifrons) ; that is, in parallel rows often superposed so as to form 
oval masses. The lycpenid larva? do not interfere with these. 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES — CLARK 457 

The eggs of MegaIopal]yus have been found attached to the eg^ mass 
of the Homoptera (the membracid Leptocentrus altifrons) and in 
two cases actually on living and half-grown membracid nymphs. 
Mr. Lamborn found two nymphs in the same colony of the membracid 
Gargara variegata unsheltered by ants each bearing an egg of Me- 
galopalpus^ in one case on the right side of the dorsal surface of the 
abdomen just behind the wing, and in the other on the base of the 
left wing. 

The egg of the Megalopcdpus is very characteristic, being a circu- 
lar disk with a broad flattened white margin and a raised bluish 
semitransparent center. 

The first larva found by Mr. Lamborn, brown in color and studded 
all over with tubercles, was discovered on a young leaf of an urti- 
caceous plant {Musanga smithii). A number of small black ants 
{Pheidole aurimUii r. kasaiensis) were running about over the leaf 
on the under side and margins of which thej^ had built' up shelters 
of waste vegetable matter such as they construct so frequently over 
coccids. On cutting off the leaf with a view to making a closer 
examination, he shook it, with the result that several of the tiny 
insects left the shelters and jumped to a distance in all directions. 
He did not at the time attach any definite significance to the pres- 
ence of these insects ; but the larva would not feed in captivity. 

Two days later he came across another cluster of ant-tended 
jassids of the same species on the stem of a different plant, and 
at rest close to them was a similar larva over which the ants were 
running. He then felt that the association must be more than 
accidental, so he cut the stem through and transferred it to a glass 
tube. Most of the jassids managed to evade capture by jumping 
off, but he secured three which soon gathered together again on the 
stem. By evening the ants were ministering to them with their 
antennie; as he watched, the larva crawled slowly in the direction 
of the insects, stopping frequently and vibrating all three pairs of 
true legs. It stopped when it had nearly reached the jassids, and 
then again moved on with, he believes, only the first pair of legs 
in vibration. It then reached the insects and caused its vibrating 
legs to play on the closed wings of a jassid in such a way as to 
simulate, as he thought, the caresses of ants. Still advancing, it 
gradually raised the fore part of its body so as to overhang the 
insect and, when well above, suddenly dropped and seized its prey 
with all its true legs, immediately biting in behind the head, hold- 
ing the insect pressed down on the stem ; and when it had taken sev- 
eral mouthfuls, it raised the fore part of its body and continued 
feeding, now holding the jassid well away from the stem. The 
victim was by this time incapable of movement, and as the larva 



458 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

had no difficultj^ in retaining it by means of its second and third 
pairs of legs, the first pair was used to take up loose fragments 
and guide them to the mouth. He saw a loose leg thus taken up and 
eaten, and in this way every particle of the unfortunate little " hop- 
per " was secured. 

After the meal the legs of the first pair were drawn one after the 
other between the mandibles and then polished on the outer side 
of the face, after the maimer of a cat. 

He continued to watch the larva closely. It remained without 
movement for about 20 minutes and then approached another jassid. 
This one was evidently not satisfied as to the honest}'^ of its purpose, 
for immediately the larva commenced to tickle it the jassid ran 
away up the stem to a distance of about half an inch. However, 
the larva followed on and overtook it, and in due course it shared 
the fate of its predecessor, the series of actions by the larva being 
precisely the same as described in the former case. 

On the following day he brought in more of the food insects, 
and the larva first found made up for its long fast by catching 9 
out of 11 between 8 a. m. and 3 p. m. 

The procedure was so interesting to him that he actually wit- 
nessed the caressing, capture, and eating of most of these, and he 
has seen it many times since. The caterpillars eat both nymphs 
and imagos of the jassids, but seem to secure more of the former, 
for, though they are able to jump and run with surprising activity, 
quite as fast as an ordinary ant, the imagos sometimes escape bj' 
flying. When imagos are eaten the hard anterior wings are usually 
rejected. 

Mr. Lamborn remarks that in nature the slow-moving lycaenid 
larvae must depend for their very existence on the fact that these 
insects are gregarious and if disturbed frequently reassemble at the 
same spot. 

If the caterpillar is on a broad surface it raises itself anteriorly 
when grasping a victim, but when on a narrow surface it drags 
the insect off its support by simply bending to one side or the other. 

The first two larvae found by Mr. Lamborn were feeding on the 
jassid Nehela ornata^ an active jumping insect which they lull 
to a false sense of security by simulating the attentions of ants. 
The third larva found would not eat the jassid which was eaten by 
the other two. It was found in an ant shelter on Triuinfetta cordi- 
folia which covered a large number of little green hopping crea- 
tures which proved to be immature membracids. Another larva was 
found in a shelter containing membracid larvae {Gargara varie- 
gata) . He saw this larva feeding on a large larva of the membracid 
type, though he did not actually witness the attack. The cater- 
pillar ate the body and then part of the head but was unable to 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES CLARK 459 

finish the meal, for a tiny ant, which had been dragging persist- 
ently at the remaining morsel, managed to get it away. 

When a new shelter containing Pheidole rotundata var. and 
membracid larvae was put into a tube an ant immediately seized the 
Megalopalpus larva ventrally just behind the mandibles. This 
larva was not successfully reared. ^ 

Other caterpillars of the same species were found in other shel- 
ters on Triu7nfetta, and once two were found in a single shelter. 

The larva is dark brown, a tint approximating very closely to 
the color of the debris out of which the ant shelters are constructed. 

The food seems to range within certain limits; but though larvas 
have been found eating both jassids and membracids, a larva accus- 
tomed to take jassids will refuse membracid;!! and vice versa, and 
there is some evidence that a larva which habitually eats one form 
of membracid will refuse a closely allied species. 

One larva found ate a species of membracid closely allied to Gar- 
gara variegata, although it refused that species. Another was 
found to feed upon Leptocentrus altifrons. 

An ant shelter on Triumfetta often contains, in addition to imma- 
ture examples of Gargara, young membracids of several other spe- 
cies, apparently belonging to the genera Anchon and Beninia. 
Imagines of the genera Anchon, Beninia, or Gargara are frequently 
found in the open on a stem close to an ant shelter and tended by 
ants from it. These shelters are constructed by two species of ants. 

Not only does Megalopalpus feed in the larval state on the Homop- 
tera, but the butterfly seems frequently to flourish also at their ex- 
pense, probing them with its proboscis and obtaining food material 
direct from their surface as well as from the plant on which they 
happen to be resting. As this habit is as characteristic of males 
as of females it can not be interpreted as bearing any relation to 
oviposition. 

Mr. Lamborn has not found that the ants derive any benefit from 
the presence of this larva, or that they are of service to it. There 
is, on the contrary, some evidence to show that their attitude toward 
it is distinctly one of hostility, in connection with which it is note- 
worthy that the larva is not of the smooth, soft, onisciform type 
characteristic of the Lycsenidse, but is protected by a hard skin 
studded wdth tubercles which are surmounted by coarse sparse hairs. 

The ants in attendance on the jassids frequently run over these 
caterpillars and stroke them with their antennae, but are not so at- 
tentive as they are to other lycaenid larva\ Mr. Lamborn was under 
the impression that the attitude of the small black house ants to- 
ward this caterpillar was distinctly hostile. Besides the one men- 
tioned above another caterpillar was attacked by house ants, one 
of which fastened on to one of its legs so that it had to be removed. 



460 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Mr. Lamborn several times watched Megalopalpus zymna deposit 
a single egg among ants, which have subsequently investigated it 
with their antenna?, but have not interfered with it. 

LiPHYRA BKASSOLIS 

Mr. F. P. Dodd, of Townsville, Queensland, published in June, 
1902, an interesting account of this remarkable butterfly. 

He had noticed a female on a warm sunny day in July, 1900, de- 
positing eggs upon a tree which was in complete possession of the 
green tree ant {GJcophylla smaragdina). TJpon this tree there were 
several large nests of the ants, and the butterfly would rapidly fly 
over the top of the tree once or twice, then come underneath and 
settle on one of the branches near the trunk. There were four spots 
to which it returned at different times after its flights, and on ex- 
amination he found that there were two or three eggs deposited on 
each. Judging from the number of flights he believed that only 
one egg was laid at each rest. He has since frequently seen the 
eggs on other trees in ones, twos, or more; but deposits of two, in 
several different places, is the number usually to be met with. The 
eggs are placed on the under side of branches, or on the protected 
side of the trunk. 

He took several of the eggs, and in 22 days the larva?, flat oval 
creatures, appeared, but refused to eat, and died. He had taken 
them on the chance of their being leaf eaters, and with the ants 
merely for protection, as he had found is the case with several 
other Australian lycfenids — Arhopalas and HypolycoRna phorhas. 

Some weeks later he pulled the habitations of the ants to pieces, 
but could find no traces of larva; from the ova left untouched and 
was unsuccessful with many other nests examined. 

During the next few months he examined scores of nests in the 
ho23es of finding the caterpillars of this butterfly, but without suc- 
cess. However, he eventually stumbled across a caterpillar when 
searching an ants' nest for other insects. 

This individual was half grown, the size and shape being about 
that of a medium-sized lozenge, with a rim, as in a coin, bordering 
it all around, but raised somewhat along the dorsal surface. The 
color was a very pale yellowish brown with seven dark spots on 
each side near the margin. Across the center of the dorsal surface 
there were three furrows reaching nearly to the sides. These fur- 
rows are constant through all the molts (he notes it must be borne 
in mind that he has not examined larvaj less than about one-third 
grown, those obtained from the eggs having been lost before he had 
noticed them particularly), nor do they disappear even when the 
larval skin becomes the outer pupal shell. The head, legs, and pro- 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES CLARK 461 

legs are in a groove the edges of which close down tightly all 
around ; consequently they are seldom seen, except, of course, during 
progression, when the body is raised a little. 

After this discovery he met with other larvae, generally larger 
and of a darker brown, and finally obtained pupa? and bred out a 
series of the perfect insect. 

Taking several larvae and supplying them with ant grubs, he soon 
had the satisfaction of observing one individual approach a half- 
grown grub, deliberately seize it, and withdraw it from sight; but, 
being impatient, he turned it over soon after, and it slowly released 
its hold of the grub. Unfortunately he failed to observe anything 
of the kind again. 

Finding that the caterpillars did not thrive upon ant larvae alone, 
they were supplied with small nests containing ants and pupae as 
well, but in a week or so they showed signs of sickness. By chang- 
ing the ant nests he kept several other caterpillars for nearly two 
weeks. They also became sickly and had to be returned to nests on 
the trees. However, they deposited frass, showing that they had 
been feeding; this is small for such bulky creatures, is gray or 
grayish white, and is greas}^ looking. So, though he could not posi- 
tively declare that they exist upon the ant larvae, he was quite satis- 
fied himself that they do. 

As five or even six caterpillars may be found in one nest, the 
quantity of food required by such large creatures must be consider- 
able, though they are very slow growing; but the masses of ant 
larvae could be drawn upon without making any great reduction 
in them. 

He mentioned that he had at hand young caterpillars of a moth 
that feeds upon another species of ant living in the ground. When 
given the fresh grubs they soon take a lively interest in them and 
affix themselves thereto, appearing to suck their victims. None of 
the grubs are eaten, but they are considerably smaller and much 
shriveled when finished Avith. The moth is even more greasy than 
the butterfl}'. None of the grubs given to L. hrassolis were eaten, 
but some had the same shriveled appearance as those given to the 
moth larvae. 

When the caterpillars are about to cast their skins thej'^ spin a 
webbed footing nearly their whole length, to which they affix them- 
selves rather firmly ; but in many instances the ants secure them still 
more firmly to their position, the web reaching half waj^ to, or even 
up to the rim. Whether this ant web is added with friendly intent 
or with a view to fastening down a larva to get rid of it if possible 
is a puzzling matter ; but Mr. Dodd has not met with any dead larvae 
so fastened. Pupae are occasionally treated in a similar manner 



462 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

without the escaj^e of the butterflies beini); thereby prevented. The 
larger hirvae require three to four days after taking up their molt- 
ing position to crawl out of their old skins, which become a little 
darker and finally split downwards under the front edge and right 
and left along the rim. The old skin retains its shape above and, 
being relieved of its occupant, regains its former color, so that, 
viewed casually, it is difficult to believe that it is an empty shell, so 
closely does it resemble a real larva. 

In changing to the pupa the larval skin is not cast off, but changes 
its shape and becomes a comparatively strong outer covering. 
The insect shrinks away from this and becomes detached, so that 
it can be shaken like a nut in its shell. The true pupal skin is very 
thin and transparent and, provided, of course, the outer shell is 
opened, the color changes of the chrysalis can be observed plainly. 
After the larva has taken up its position for the transformation 
there is no change for 36 hours or so, the first being a narrowing of 
the thoracic portion with an increased thickness of the same. Upon 
examining the future pupa at this time underneath it will be noticed 
that the shell has closed in on each side enveloping the head and legs 
completely; no closing in upon the prologs occurs. For some hours 
no further alteration takes place; then the remaining portion of the 
creature contracts, accompanied by a considerable rise in the dorsal 
surface, the pupal change, so far as can be ascertained from external 
observation, now being complete. For several days after the shell 
is liable to split at the outside edge or rim if care in handling it is 
not taken, the whole of the top being liable to split and come off like 
a lid, and the chrysalis, being particularly delicate and pulpy, may 
be killed. 

The perfect insect emerges in from 21 to 25 days, and further 
astonishing developments in the life history of this strange insect 
occur. Before bursting the outer shell the butterfly can be heard 
moving within, and shortly a sharp, cracking sound announces that 
the burst has been effected. Then either a portion of the shell, which 
opens in the center in front up to the first furrow, is broken right 
out or it opens sufficiently above after breaking away at the rim to 
admit of the imago's emergence. 

Instead of the weak drooping wings of a butterfly the creature 
that emerges has little short appendages like those of a freshly 
emerged moth, and lying very flat; the front wing is creamy white 
to the extreme tip, and the edge of the hind wing projects from 
under this ever so little. The abdomen looks very large, a thick 
mass of furry looking substance showing on each side of it to the 
tip. On the thorax small tufts of loose, brownish scales may be 
noted which easily roll off. 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES CLARK 463 

It is soon seen that the white appearance of the fore wing is caused 
by a dense covering of fugitive scales ; there is also a small patch oi 
these on either side of the thorax. As the wings slowly lengthen 
the density of the scales lessens sufficiently to admit a view of the 
black and rich yellow coloring undeimeath. 

After the expansion of the wings these white scales fly oif at the 
least breath of air. A stroke or two of the insect's wing detaches 
every one in a cloud; thus it is a difficult matter to kill and set 
specimens and leave a fair proportion of these scales. 

The matter on the abdomen is, of course, also composed of scales. 
They are dark gray, packed very densely, and cover about half 
the ventral surface, reach farther along the sides, but do not reach 
the thorax, none being on the upper surface. These are much more 
adhesive, and must be scraped away as they can not be blown off; 
they come away in masses and fasten lightly to anything they come 
jn contact with; they appear to be held together. Upon examining 
them with a lens exceedingly delicate threads can be discerned dis- 
persed throughout. 

The legs and antennae are also clothed with minute and easily 
detachable white scales. 

The insect requires longer than the largest Australian moths to 
pump its wings to their full length. Mr. Dodd notes that it takes 
from 25 to 30 minutes, and instead of being prepared for flight in 
a little over an hour, like many large moths, is quite helpless for a 
much longer period, and none of Mr. Dodd's examples exhibited 
the least desire to fly in three or even four hours. 

The butterflies are very oily, A thick layer of almost liquid 
grease lines the abdomen, so that in setting them ISIr. Dodd found 
it necessary to resort to stuffing. Unfortunately, this operation 
causes displacement of the extra scales to some extent, especially 
in the males. 

As to the butterfly being crepuscular in its habits, Mr. Dodd 
mentions that he is frequently out in the twilight, but has not met 
with it, though that may be on account of its rarity. However, it 
is decidedly wide awake in the daytime. Mr. Dodd captured several 
which he had disturbed as any ordinary butterfly would be dis- 
turbed. Several times they have flown from near ant nests which 
he was about to examine. One specimen was seen flying across an 
open space in the early afternoon, and had evidently come from a 
fair distance as there were no ant nests in the vicinity. Many years 
ago he caught his first specimen, a female, on a hot summer day at 
about 11 o'clock. It flew rapidly across a scrub and settled on a 
branch under the foliage precisely as the egg-depositing female did 
which he observed in July, 1900. 



464 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Concerning the loose scales on this unique butterfly Mr. Dodd 
says we have no evidence that the larvie are welcome inhabitants of 
the ants' nests. However, it is highly probable that the ants have 
no friendly feeling for the perfect insect, and would most likely 
attack and kill it during its long rest after emergence if it were not 
specially and wonderfully protected. So it will be seen that the 
loose scales act as a perfect protection; for directly the ants en- 
counter these they are in trouble; they fasten on to their feet and 
impede their movements or, if their antenna3 or mandibles come into 
contact with any part of the butterfly the scales adhere thereto, so 
that the ant is soon in a bad way and has quite enough to do in 
attempting to free itself of its encumbrances without taking any 
further interest in the butterfly, from which it retreats as well as 
possible. It is exceedingly ludicrous to observe the ants endeavor- 
ing to free themselves; their legs move awkwardly, and their mandi- 
bles are opened and closed in evident annoyance and perplexity, and 
they are much concerned at the state of their antenna?, for the 
obnoxious scales will not be shaken off. It is amusing to observe 
the dejected change in an ant after its first spar with L. hrassolis^ 
for it is such a pert, pugnacious fellow and perfectly willing to 
tackle anything that moves if in proximity to its pets or nest. 

The small wings of the insect enable it to get through the nest 
entrance. The scales on the forewing are necessary to its safety 
while it is crawling out, for the ants might in some cases evade its 
legs and get onto the thorax. But if the scales there did not van- 
quish them, those on the forewings would. As the butterfly's 
abdomen becomes strong enough it raises the tip to touch the sup- 
port where it is hanging. In that position it is invulnerable; hun- 
dreds of ants could not hurt it. As the forewings lengthen and 
touch there is no further need of the scales thereon. The wind 
doubtless dislodges the majority before the insect flies off, but the 
other scales would not wholly disappear for some time. 

Mr. Dodd placed four larvae on a nest where he knew there were 
none, and afterwards visited it and obtained from it two pupse. 
On another small tree with several ant nests seven larvae were 
placed, and going there some days later he found one chrysalis on 
the outside of a nest, one within, several attenuated larvae wandering 
about the tree — the ants, having become familiar with them, taking 
no notice of them — and a dead larva on the ground. It would ap- 
pear that the entrance to the nests was too small for the larger 
caterpillars to gain admittance. Once he saw a larva on the outside 
of a new nest, and he took a pupa on another. These were in locali- 
ties where he had not interfered with the ants. These instances 
serve to show, according to Mr. Dodd, that the larvae pass from one 
domicile to another, presumably when their food is exhausted in 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES CLARK 465 

one. They are very slow moving, and when they find it necessary 
to change quarters they must wander after sundown, for out of 
over 80 larvae and pupse that passed through Mr, Dodd's hands not 
a single example was parasitized. 

The larvae of L. irassolis are evidently so tough skinned that the 
mandibles of the ants can make little or no impression upon them, 
for in placing specimens upon a nest the inmates rush out at them, 
catch hold of the rim, and appear to be acting most viciously. They 
also endeavor to reach the head or legs, but these are at once pro- 
tected; the creature just lowers its great sides and is secure. After 
examining caterpillars that had been on nests for several days, and 
tugged at and nipped by dozens of ants, not a mark or wound was 
discernible; yet if the slightest cut be made in the rim with a knife 
juices issue as from any ordinary caterpillar with an opening in the 
skin. 

In concluding Mr. Dodd says that it is not all pleasure searching 
for L. hrassoUs, or for other insects, in the habitations of the green 
tree ant. This species is as plucky and determined as the fierce 
and dreaded " bull dog " and '" jumper " ants and comes trouping in 
hundreds from all parts of the tree when a nest is disturbed. Then 
there is the multitude in the nest itself, also those in other nests, for 
often there are many nests in even a small tree. These ants are 
remarkably quick to get upon and spread themselves over an 
intruder. They do not waste their energies in biting one's clothing, 
but directly they reach the flesh they commence operations, and 
one's neck and arms suifer considerably. The bite of the insect is 
trifling, but it discharges a liquid onto the bitten spot which gives a 
sharp pain. 

In approaching closely to an ants' nest, or to a place where they 
are in attendance upon scale insects, aphids, or other forms, they 
show fight unmistakably. While they are prancing and plainly 
showing that they are desirous of a closer acquaintanceship it will 
be noticed that the abdomens are held up and occasionally jerked 
forward. This jerking action means that the insect has brought his 
little " squirt " into play, a jet of decidedly acrid liquid being dis- 
charged therefrom, sent straight over its head, and capable of strik- 
ing an object several inches directly in front before it assumes 
a downward tendency. Having received several of these jets, or 
part of them, in the eyes, on the lips, and often had the liquid in 
cuts and scratches, Mr. Dodd can testify as to its stinging properties. 
When hundreds of ants are sending forth these jets, which can be 
seen against the sun, it behooves one to be careful when in their 
immediate vicinity. 

Mr. Dodd says that, though there are many interesting insects 
in Queensland, this green tree ant with its vast colonies, its curious 



466 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

habit of using its larvae as implements wherewith to spin its nests, 
and its queer and varied acquaintances, is the most remarkable of 
all. 

Commenting on Mr. Dodd's account of the habits of Liphyra 
hra^solis, Mr. E. Ernest Green noted that the fact that the larvae 
are really carnivorous seems to be proved by their having seized and 
attempted to eat some of the ant grubs; but they do not appear to 
have been satisfied with that diet. He therefore asked, is it not 
possible that their proper food may be some coccid inclosed in the 
ants' nests? Mr. Green remarked that in Ceylon the arboreal nests 
of the same ant almost invariably include colonies of Coccidae, 
Aphidce, or Aleurodidse. 

Dr. T. A. Chapman described in detail three larvae of Liphyra 
hrassolis sent to England by Mr. Dodd. Two of these were appar- 
ently full grown, while the other was very much smaller. In these 
two sizes the larvae are so very different that had they come from 
different places and possessed different histories one would never 
suspect that they were at all related. 

The smallest caterpillar was 6 mm. long and 2.3 mm. broad and 
very flat, reminding one very much of the larva of Camponiscus 
luridiventiis (a common alder saw-fly) in its general size and form; 
or, for that matter, of an ordinary LycoR'na larva, if we make it 
first, colorless, then nearly flat instead of raised along the dorsal line, 
and, thirdly, if we somewhat exaggerate the rounded lateral projec- 
tions of the segmental margins. 

The segmental divisions as seen dorsally are 12, of which the 
first and last are terminal. White and soft as this larva looks, the 
margins, nevertheless, have something of the appearance and struc- 
ture of the full-grown larva, having a strong chitinous binding 
divided into small cells. 

The prothorax has a slight angle on either side, allowing the 
front between the two angles to be a transverse straight line. The 
head is beneath this, placed quite centrally, quite free from it, and 
capable of much movement, including probable protrusion in front. 

The last segment visible dorsallj'^ is the ninth abdominal, and 
beneath this is the tenth carrying the anal prolegs. In a ventral 
view of the larva the true segmental divisions are very plain. 

The prothoracic spiracle lies in the fold between the pro- and 
mesothorax, but the abdominal spiracles are each on about the 
middle of its own segment, placed dorsally, about half way from 
the middle line to the margin. Doctor Chapman did not detect 
anywhere any hairs or tubercles. 

The nervous ganglia are very visible as reddish brown masses. 
There is a large one in the prothorax that represents the cephalic 
and oesophageal. The prothoracic proj)er is placed toward the pos- 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES CLARK 467 

terior margin of the segment. There is one each in the mesothorax 
and eight following segments. The last and largest of these, though 
in the sixth abdominal segment, appears to belong to the seventh 
and following segments, which are without ganglia. 

The prolegs are of much interest when compared with those of 
the full-grown larva. They have a rather thick cylindrical base, 
and have the usual form of one row of crotchets, facing inward, 
13 to 17 in number. On the anal claspers these are much smaller 
and few in number (9), and are similarly in one row. The true 
legs are short and thick, and terminate in very curved claws. 

The head is small, about 2.5 mm. in diameter; it has in front (on 
the epicranium, clypeus, and labrum) a number of short stiff hairs, 
the largest about 0.08 mm. in length. None were seen elsewhere. 

The antennae are rather longer than this, but happen to be tele- 
scoped. The second segment is not in evidence. As found the 
antennce are about 0.06 mm. long and 0.04 mm. thick, with a ter- 
minal armament of bristles, amongst which the third segment is 
not clearly discriminated. 

The head itself is rather dark in color from being well chitinized; 
beneath it are three circles, carrying jointed palpus-like appendages 
of which the central one is largest and represents probably the 
labrum, with the other two as labial palpi. The two lateral ones, 
according to Doctor Chapman, are, however, probably the max- 
illary palpi, especially as they appear to have another ill-developed 
process. 

The jaws are long, and cross one another for some distance. Each 
seems to consist of a straight conical process with only one sharp 
terminal point — a simple spike or dagger. 

Doctor Chapman remarked that the large larva is a very differ- 
ent object. Looking down on its back there is to be seen an approxi- 
"mately flat surface, oval in form, rather narrower in front than be- 
hind, with a margin smooth, regular, uniform, and of the same tex- 
ture, etc., all around, with no trace of segmentation. It measured 
23 mm. in length b}'^ 15 mm. in width. When placed on its flat 
dorsal surface it stands up above the flat supporting surface about 
5.0 nun., and shows a level, but not smooth, top, and smooth and 
sloping sides. The amount of slope may be seen by a comparison 
of the top and bottom; the top (the ventral surface of the larva) 
is 18 by 7 mm., as against the 23 by 15 mm. just mentioned. The 
slope is almost nil at the head end, and therefore so much the more 
elsewhere. 

The dorsal surface and the sides are brown, hard, and chitinous. 
The sloping sides show little indication of segmentation, but at the 
margin of the open (and soft) ventral area they present a series 
of dark markings very slightly raised on rounded elevations, but 



468 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

SO shaded as to appear very much so. The small flat ventral area 
of the larva is pale and white, and is the only portion where any 
movement can possibly occur, the rest being a solid chitinous cap. 
Constructed as it is to permit this soft area to be absolutely cov- 
ered and hidden on the surface on which the larva rests, one is sur- 
prised at its widening out above this area, quite regularly until, 
at a sudden sharp margin, the sides meet the flat top. The brown 
marginal marks are apparently two to a segment, certainly so at 
the sides where the}^ are largest, and where a faint depression along 
the sloping sides seems to mark each segmental division. To see 
this, however, requires close examination, and some might say a 
little imagination. 

Turning the larva over again to examine the back more carefully, 
we find the margin very sharp and slightly browner than the terra- 
cotta center. Laterally and posteriorly it is a little hollowed within 
the margin. Across the middle are three very distinct lines, darker 
in color, and with the surface in front decidedly higher than behind. 
They occupy the middle two-thirds of the surface, but do not invade 
the fourths on each side next the margin. In front and behind 
these the indications of the segmental divisions are very obscure. 
A faint indication of a dorsal ridge exists in front of these lines. 
There are also a number of dots that appear to be obsolete hair 
points, arranged in some degree as a transverse line across each seg- 
ment, but with outlines enough to make such a statement a little 
doubtful or even misleading. The two segments marked out by the 
dorsal lines are the fourth and fifth abdominal. 

The character of the sharp margin of the dorsal area needs a 
little more definite description. In the first place the out-sloping 
sides for their top millimeter cease to slope, but become vertical ; 
then inside the sharp border the surface descends again steeply so 
as to form a sharp raised border to the central area. In front 
the inner slope soon bends into the flat dorsal area; behind it does 
so more slowly, resulting in the hollow before noticed. Around 
this portion there is, inside as well as outside the sharp margin, 
a breadth of about 1 mm., differentiated by a slight line from the 
general dorsal surface. 

Seen microscopically, the whole surface consists of very minute 
raised dots, each carrying a fine point; on the marginal flange sur- 
rounding the dorsum these are modified into an arrangement that 
has just the appearance of overlapping fish scales. 

The spiracles are difficult to find ; in fact, Doctor Chapman 
failed to liiid (he thoracic spiracle. The abdominal spiracles are 
precisely where they are in tlie small larva. They are very small, 
and differ little in appearance from the hair-dots noted above. 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES CLARK 469 

They are minute holes with no marginal structure. Some trace 
of the true sj^iracles can be seen at a little depth within them, accom- 
panied by a scalelike outer margin. 

Perhaps the most remarkable thing about this larva is the modi- 
fication which has affected the prolegs. AVhen we examine the soft 
under side of the larva the head, true legs, and prolegs are seen 
very much as in the 3'oung larva. The head, however, is nearly 
white, and so are the true leg^ except for the tarsal tips. 

Beginning at the margin of the dorsal shield one finds that the 
shagreened points of the general surface carry hairs of various 
lengths, some almost evanescent, others nearly 0.25 mm. long. 
These no doubt assist in making the apposition of the larva to its 
resting place more complete. They seem to be true hairs jointed at 
the base, and the points on the dorsum are probably also really hairs 
rather than spicules. 

The shagreened dots are about 0.08 mm. in diameter. As one 
passes inward from the margin the hairs get rather thicker, and 
retain their length of from 0.20 to 0.28 mm., the shagreened bases 
lose all chitinous color, and a short way in there is apparently a 
smooth surface thickly studded with white, short, thick hairs. As 
we approach the prolegs these get shorter and sharper, ttnu fail 
altogether at a line just below the summit of the column at the top 
of which is the retractile portion of the leg. There, just at the mar- 
gin of the summit of the column, is a compact circle of crotchets 
that differ in no very decided manner from those ordinarily found 
on prolegs. Within this circle is a white projecting mass of tissue 
with a ridge along its summit from front to back, with parallel 
striae running down to the margin. The crotchets are hooked out- 
wards, have a short flat base applied to the surface of attachment, 
and, without forming two or three regular rows, are in more than 
one row. The little smooth space outside them gives them room for 
movement without being interfered with by the hairs that clothe 
the rest of this under surface. 

These circles of crotchets, which are to all appearance identical 
with the complete circles found on the prolegs of " micro " larvjB, 
are not the ordinary crotchets at all, but an entirely new structure. 
The true crotchets exist in the young larvae, but in this full-grown 
one are merely represented by the striae on the central fleshy mass 
noticed, which is really the true proleg. The crotchets here existing 
are around the summit of the pillar, at the center of which the true 
proleg is often placed. Doctor Chapman says that its method 
of working must be very similar to that of the " micro " full cir- 
cle, but instead of having a central tendon as they have it has the 

76041—26 31 



470 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 192r) 

whole proleg structure by tlio movement of wliich it must be ex- 
panded and contracted so as to take and relax its hold. 

The true legs are rather small and rather thick, and densely, or 
at least very closely and regularly, clothed with fine white hairs. 
They terminate in a claw, slightly hooked, slender as compared with 
the last joint of the leg, dark in color, making it look very strong 
and sharp, and capable of being flexed so as to fold up on to the 
last (tarsal) joint of the proleg, renjinding one of the tibiae of Neya 
or Mantis. 

The head is nearly colorless, about 1.7 mm. wide. Centrally below 
the mouth and pointing backward is the labium, or part of it, a 
pale conical rather than cylindrical process ending in a short 
chitinous tube (spinneret?). On each side is a long palpus 
(maxillary?) of three joints, the last very small, projecting ven- 
traily and apparentl}'^ with a fleshy process (maxilla?) toward the 
middle line. In front is a tolerably normal labrum, square and 
notched below, with a good many short hairs on its anterior surface. 
The antennie are very long, about 1.1 mm., and regularly clothed 
with fine hairs; Doctor Chapman could not recognize a basal joint, 
if there be one; the next, therefore the first, is very long, 1 mm., 
and also thick, about 0.22 mm. The last joint is a small square piece 
about 0.1 mm. 

The labrum is very fixed in its position and moves little. Doctor 
Chapman says that even if he is deceived in this matter by having 
only stiff preserved specimens to deal with he is certain that it fits 
down very closely and tightly laterally in the maxillary bases, leav- 
ing in front an oval opening between it and the labium within which 
the jaws are visible, with apparently some room for movement in 
the cavity thus formed. 

Each jaw carries three teeth, each a long sharp spine capable of 
piercing, but certainly not of biting. P^ach jaw is probably capable 
of meeting the other, so that the teeth ma}'^ interlock; but in the 
specimens examined one jaw is entirely in front of the other. 

There are six eye spots, five of them in a circle, the other separate. 

The head, which looks sunken into the white fleshy tissue of the 
under side of the larva, is really very moveable and has a definite 
neck ( ? ) , so that the mouth parts, which are at the front of the 
head and point more or less forwards, can be directed directly 
backwards between the true legs, exposing the front or dorsum of 
the head, which is rather longer than broad, nearly colorless, and 
has some hairs and the usual suture marking off the clypeus. 

Doctor Chapman also had a larva of intermediate size which 
differed from the larger one in nothing except, perhaps, that the 
spiracles were more readily seen than in the full grown one. 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES — CLARK 471 

The i^iipa Avhicli lie had was very large, 28 mm. long, 14 mm. 
broad, and 10 mm. deep, while it w^as depressed in front in a wa}^ 
apparently due to pressure. Were the rounded contour of the dor- 
sum and sides continued, its depth would be 12 mm. 

It is tyj)ically Ij^camid in form, being very round at either end, 
broadest at the fourth and fifth abdominal segments, narrower 
thoracically ; the head is beneath; there are no movable segments; 
there are no traces of cremastral hooks, or of any silken girdle; the 
first leg lies equally against head and antennw. The maxillte arc 
well developed. They appear to contain no maxilla (the individual 
being close to emergence), but the labial palpi are very evident be- 
neath them. 

The most characteristic feature of the pupa is a set of flanges or 
raised ribs. If the pupa were divided into a dorsal and ventral 
piece by a section through its widest dimensions, the line of sec- 
tion would mark one of these ribs, which starts around the abdominal 
segments from the anal angle of the wings (end of vein Ic) and 
goes round the end of the pupa, dividing the last segment into two 
portions. This segment is consequently of considerable anteropos- 
terior dimensions, stretching a good way under the pupa, but also 
having a portion, as it were, lifted right out onto the dorsum by 
having to be above the flange. 

The segmental incisions are all raised into double ridges; but 
below the marginal flange above noted, though with no trace of 
anything of the sort above it, each segment has another single 
ridge or flange about one-third of the way in front of each incision. 
The scars of prolegs are well marked by large areas into which these 
ribs do not intrude. 

Doctor Chapman remarks that these flanges are obviously the 
remains of the great marginal border of the caterpillar, and of the 
division beneath it of each segment into two. The marginal ridge 
extends forward through the wings; but the pupal shell is so deli- 
cate that it is difficult to say whether this ridge is in the wing covers 
or an indication of a flange on the segments beneath them showing 
through. 

The spiracles are more obvious than in the larva, and occupy a 
similarly dorsal position. The pupa is very smooth and polished, 
at least thoracically; the abdomen has very numerous, almost micro- 
scopic, hair points. 

Doctor Chapman also had a specimen of the pupa within the 
larval skin, which fully illustrated Mr. Dodd's account of how 
pupation occurs. The larval skin becomes a little altered by the 
dorsum being rather raised and rounded, but substantially it is the 
full grown larva one sees, and this forms a case or cocoon, precisely 



472 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

as happens in the pupation of the Muscida?. The pupa inside lies 
quite free from any attachment to the skin, but the ventral depres- 
sion of the pupa is due to its having to fit on the ventral aspect 
of the larval skin, which is raised centrally by the head, legs, 
prolegs, etc. 

The larval skin dehisces by cracking around the marginal crest 
in front and by a crack across the front of the three ridges — that 
is, between the third and foui-th abdominal segments. The semi- 
circular portion thus marked off again divides longitudinally into 
two portions. In Doctor Chapman's specimen one of these por- 
tions was missing, the other loose. 

Dr. William M. Mann found several of the caterpillars of Li- 
phyra hrassolis at Tulagi, British Solomon Islands, in the leaf and 
silk nests of (Ecophylla sniaragdina var. subnitida. He remarks 
that these larvie much resemble those of Microdon and glide along 
in a similar manner, though very much faster. 

EULIPIIYRA MIRinCA 

All of our knowledge regarding the early stages of this curious 
form we owe to Mr. W. A. Lamborn whose observations were made 
at Oni Camp, 70 miles east of T^agos, Southern Nigeria. 

Mr. Lamborn made a window into a nest of the " tree-driver " 
ant {(EcophyUa smaragdina race longinoda) by snipping out a 
square piece of leaf with a pair of scissors, and on looking in he 
saw a larva which he recognized at once, as it was similar to one 
which he had previoush' seen assailed by these ants, but which had 
successfully protected itself by drawing down its hard carapace- 
like shield in limpet fashion to the supporting surface. He tore 
the nest open and discovered more larvae, and thereupon took ants 
and all home in a tin box. He broke other nests open and found 
larvifi in four more, bringing up the total of larvae secured to 19. 
The larva? were not all of tlie same age in each nest. 

He remarked that the head of this larva is remarkable. When 
the. larva is at rest and usually when it crawls the head is com- 
pletely hidden by a fold of skin which extends all around so as to 
form with the leathery skin of the back and sides a kind of cara- 
pace. The head is sometimes thrust forAvard under the fore margin 
of this fold, and one then sees quite a long neck gradually tapering 
to a point terminated by fine jaws. 

As it crawls the larva frequently swings this proboscis first to 
one side and then to the other as if in search of food. It took ]\Ir. 
Lamborn 48 hours to find out the source of their food supply, for 
they did not touch the leaves, and he did not see them attack ants 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES — CLARK 473 

or ant larvas; neither did they go near the dead insects which the 
ants had stored as food. 

He actually saw one of these larvae thrust its little proboscis into 
the jaws of a large ant and keep it there while the ant made move- 
ments as if feeding it. Sometimes, too, when a large ant was feed- 
ing a smaller one the latter retired in favor of a caterpillar. The 
caterpillars were frequently near with extended proboscis when the 
ants were ministering to their own male and female larvae. 

He noticed that the feeding does not seem to take place very 
often, and presumed that the high nutritive value of the material 
provided makes it unnecessary. 

When the larva feeds the fore part of the body is raised and the 
margins of the lateral folds of cuticle are bent around until they 
meet, thus protecting the soft ventral surface. The head comes out 
at the apex of the cone thus formed. 

The larva3 appear to be extremely slow growing. 

The head and neck of the larvaj appear to be protected against 
attack, but the ants lose no opportunity of seizing other parts. He 
once saw a larva crawling with an ant fastened to one of its clasp- 
ers, the abdomen only of the ant being visible, as the rest of its 
body was under the lateral fold of skin. He also saw a larva which 
protected itself by just settling down closely on the supporting 
surface, and when the ants retired it raised itself a little and 
crawled, but when they reappeared it settled down again. 

Mr. Lamborn notes that observations on these larvse are diffi- 
cult, as interference with their nests causes the ants to remove to 
a new home nearly every time. 

Some half-stupefied larvse were put into an ants' nest. Such as 
happened to fall on their backs were immediately seized by the 
ants. Mr. Lamborn also found that a healthy larva placed on its 
back had difficulty in turning over and is in this position liable to 
attack. In one instance he saw a larva with an ant gripping it by 
the neck on the ventral side. 

Two larva3 of this species each about 20 mm. in length collected 
by Mr. Lamborn were described in detail by Dr. Harry Eltringham. 
He noted that the dorsal and lateral views present an appearance 
recalling that of a mollusk rather than that of a lepidopterous 
larva. The ground color is brownish ochreous, and there are several 
irregular markings of a rich umber brown. The lateral portion of 
the larval skin is extended and modified into a kind of mantle, 
the edge of which touches whatever the larva may be resting on. 
From the edge of the mantle the sides, which present an irregular 
and wavy surface, slope up to the dorsal area, along the whole 
length of which is a deep groove bounded on each side by a hard 



4:74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

chitinous ridge, the latter, except at the extremities, being thrown 
into a series of deep curving folds. This dorsal groove curves down 
to the mantle edge rather abruptly at the hinder end, but more 
gradually at the anterior extremity. Round the edge of the 
mantle there are 24 dark brown spots, many of which are extended 
toward the dorsal region as irregular marks, and between these 
markings there are sometimes smaller spots of the same color. 

On each side there are nine spiracles. The first lies just above the 
second dark spot of the mantle edge, the second is above the fourth 
spot, and the remainder correspond in position to the mantle spots 
beneath them. The third is placed very far up the side, the fourth 
is a little lower, and the remainder are still lower and in a nearly 
straight line. 

The whole structure of the exposed portion of this remarkable 
larva is profoundly modified, presumably as a protection against 
the attacks of the ants by which in life it is surrounded. 

The entire skin is covered with thick chitinous plates, which are 
irregularly radiate and have sloping edges. The projections of these 
plates interlock with the lateral cavities of those adjacent, and the 
appearance luider a high power is not unlike that of a complicated 
armor sheet of cogwheels. Such an arrangement doubtless pro- 
vides a very efficient protective covering with a maximum of flex- 
ibility. The plates vary considerably in size and in the extent to 
which the edges are sloped. 

Microscopic examination shows that the brown markings on the 
larva are caused by the presence of small brush-like chitinous 
tufts, one of which arises from the socket in the center of each chitinous 
plate. In the unpigmented parts of the skin, from which these 
tufts are absent, the plates still have the sockets, so that at one period 
of its evolution the larva probably had the tufts, or at least some 
scale-like grow^th, on every plate. 

Here and there in the armor, especially (probably exclusively) 
on the pigmented areas, there are small round openings, the edges 
of the adjacent chitinous plates being neatly hollowed, so that each 
forms its representative part of the circle. Doctor Eltringliam sug- 
gests that possibly these apertures are the external openings of 
glands, though he had no proof of this. If, as he believes, they 
are confined to the pigmented areas, this would probably account 
for the correlated presence of the brush-like tufts, which may either 
protect the openings, or, as Professor Poulton has suggested, hold 
some attractive secretion prized by the ants. 

The extreme outer edge of the mantle is armed with a regular 
fringe of flat, chitinous projections, their bases furnished with inter- 
locking processes. On the upper side of each projection (lieie is a 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES — CLARK 475 

thin scale, very narrow at its socket, but increasing outwardly to 
about the same width as the projection on which it lies. The pur- 
pose of these scales is not very obvious, but possibly they may have 
a tactile function. Within the peripheral fringe so formed there is 
a row of thick elongated chitinous plates, the edges of which are 
provided with somewhat irregular interlocking processes. Each 
plate has a scale socket, but apparently does not bear either a scale 
or a brush-like tuft. 

The spiracles have three slitlike openings, a long central one, 
with others less than half as long above and below. Doctor Eltring- 
ham says that most, if not all, of these have these openings, although 
it is sometimes difficult to be sure of the presence of all three. 
Protection is afforded by stiff pointed hairs, for the most part curv- 
ing inward toward or over the spiracular orifices. Finally the hard 
chitinous ridges of the dorsal groove are armed with very short 
hooklike spines and there are a few spines or hairs on the under- 
side of the mantle edge so arranged as to preclude entry if the 
mantle were raised at any part. 

On turning the larva over its lepidopterous character becomes 
more evident. The head, three pairs of true legs, and five pairs of 
prolegs can now be seen. The true legs seem to become progres- 
sively slightly larger from in front backwards, while the last pair 
of prolegs are much smaller than the others. The prolegs are of 
what Doctor Chapman has described as the " macro " type, having 
hooks only on the inner margins of the feet. 

The head calls for special remark, owing to its modification in 
adaptation to the habits of the species. It is elongated and some- 
what conical in form, and when withdrawn there is around the base 
a deeply invaginated fold of cuticle. There are six ocelli, four of 
which are anterior and lie in a small semicircle, the remaining two 
being rather more posteriorly placed. The antennae are placed 
laterally just above the labrum; and beneath the latter, and in a 
dorsal view concealed by it, are the mandibles. These have four 
ridgelike teeth. The maxillae have two large lobes each with two 
small points, and in the actual specimen lie close together forming 
what looks like a pointed organ projecting from beneath the labrum, 
when viewed from above. There are large maxillary palpi, and the 
labrum is long and somewhat pointed and has on it a small papilla, 
possibly a tactile organ. There is some evidence of a second and 
smaller papilla. The mouth parts are exceedingly small and diffi- 
cult to make out distinctly. 

The pupa is attached in a peculiar way to a leaf, its suckerlike 
extremity being spread out and apparently cemented down. The 
larval skin is not completely shed, but is split open on the exposure 
of the pupa, afterwards remaining in this expanded condition. 



476 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

In compaiinf^ these larvse with the larvae of Liphyra hrassoUs 
Doctor Eltringham notes that in the latter the cuticle is not pro- 
\'ided with interlocking plates as in Euliphyra 7nirifica^ but is covered 
all over with chitinous tubercles, and at the edges of the mantle is 
provided with numerous short setae. There is no dorsal groove, and 
the cuticle is not thrown into ridges. As Doctor C'hapman has 
stated, the spiracles are minute holes without marginal structure. 
The mouth parts are larger than in Euliphyra. The antennae are 
certainly longer and more conspicuous, and the jaws are more 
adapted for piercing and tearing. The peculiar modification of the 
prolegs is not evident in Eulipliyra. 

ASLAUGA VININGA 

As was discovered by Mr. W. A. Lamborn at Oni Camp, in South- 
ern Nigeria, the larvae of this species are carnivorous, feeding upon 
tiny smooth hemispherical coccids {Pseudococcus longispinus, a com- 
mon and widely distributed pest, and Lecanium punctuliferuni) 
which are attached in colonies to the stems or leaves of different 
plants. On some leaves they occur in great numbers at the base on 
the under side, filling up the depressions between the main ribs and 
clustering also on the stem just below the insertion of the petioles 
{Pseudococcus longispinus) , or on the stems of various plants, 
especially kola {Lecaniuni punctuliferuni var. laTribo)^) . 

The coccids are attended by ants, which cover them with carton- 
like shelters composed largely of finely comminuted vegetable detri- 
tus among which there are fragments of bud scales and numerous 
unicellular epidermal plant haii's. 

AsLAUGA LAMBORNI 

Mr. Lamborn found that the larvte of this species present the same 
general characteristics as those of A. vlninga, being oblong in dorsal 
view with lateral surfaces sloping downwards and outwards. They 
have a hard, tough, toad-colored skin covered with coarse rough 
tubercles evidently protective in function, which is extended down 
as a fold on all sides in carapace fashion so as to protect the softer 
lateral and ventral surfaces. The lower margin of this fold bears a 
fringe of very fine hairs, such as would efficiently prevent small 
insects from crawling underneath. The segmentation characteristic 
of lepido])terous larvae is shown only by the presence of spiracles; 
but rather more than half way to the anal extremity is a deep 
transverse groove, the only region at which, owing to the leathery 
consistence of the cuticle, it is possible for flexion to take place. 
The cuticle is indeed so hard that a larva placed on its back is 
unable to bend itself sufficiently to turn over unaided. Toward the 



CAKNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES — CLARK 477- 

hinder end of the body and just inside the spiracular line are two 
horny rounded eminences, one on each side of the mid-dorsal line. 
From these eminences pointed tubercles are from time to time thrust 
out, but no dorsal gland was detected. The tubercles appear to 
represent those of other Lycsenidse, in which, however, they are more 
externally placed, being just to the outer side of and behind the 
spiracles of the twelfth segment. 

The head is small in proportion to the size of the larva, and there 
is a definite neck of sufficient length to enable the head to be thrust 
forward, or retracted in tortoise-like fashion under the shelter of 
the carapace. The anus is protected in a similar manner. 

The food of the larvae are little beady coccids ( Stlctococcus 
sjostedti) found in considerable numbers immobile and firmly fixed 
to the young shoots of certain plants. These coccids yield a watery 
secretion much in demand by ants; it is not sweet to the taste, but 
has an aromatic flavor rather suggestive of turpentine. 

The coccids are usually surrounded by a multitude of ants. The 
ferocious "tree-drivers" {(Ecophylla) do not eat them, but seem, 
like the other ants, to visit them for some food material. Mr. Lam- 
born noted that the ants not only attended the coccids, but ran all 
over the lycsenid larvae. The ants often roof over a number of the 
coccids with a thin covering composed of particles of bark and 
other vegetable debris so as to form a convex chamber which fits 
down on all sides around the inclosed insects. The chambers are 
about the size and shape of a half hazelnut, and are tenanted by 
ants as well as coccids. 

Mr. Lamborn is disposed to think that in some cases lyca^nids 
find food where these bodies have been, for some stems frequented 
by the butterflies look as if they had borne the coccids. 

The first caterpillar found, brown in color and resting motionless 
on the stem, looked so very like one of the ant-constructed chambers 
that it had a narrow escape from injury, for Mr. Lamborn actually 
attacked it with scissors under a mistaken impression as to what it 
really was, his custom being invariably to explore these chambers. 
Mr. Lamborn records that within a period of 24 hours one larva 
consumed 12 out of 15 coccids at its disposal, and another 16 out of 
28, a few basal portions still remaining attached to the stems sup- 
plied both larvae. He found that the larvae would eat these coccids 
whatever the plant they happened to be attached to. 

Ltc-ena arion 

In a note published in 1899 Mr. A. B. Farn wrote that he had had 
experience with the larvae of Lycama arion for some three years, 
rearing them up to a certain point from the eggs laid by females 



478 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

taken by himself. Although he had failed to get them to pupate, 
he had had the hirvu' nearly, if not quite, full grown. 

The color of the larva? he had was more or less lilac, this color 
becoming more brilliant as the larvaj increased in size until it 
might almost be described as violet. At this period they spun to- 
gether the seed heads of the thyme, but he never succeeded in find- 
ing them alive in the spring following. 

Mr. Farn wrote to Mr, F. W. Frohawk that the eggs laid by the 
females under perfectly natural conditions are laid singly (he 
found only one exception) and are inserted somewhat deeply among 
the clusters of buds of thyme. He could not discover any eggs on 
thyme in full bloom, and remarked it would seem that the buds 
are chosen so that the hatching of the larva) and the opening of 
the buds should be contemporaneous. 

In 1903 Mr. Frohawk wrote that from observations he had made 
the preceding year he felt convinced that some connection existed 
between the larva3 of Lycceiui aHon and the common yellow ant 
{Formica -fiava) by the preference shown by the butterfly in select- 
ing the thyme growing on ant hills for oviposition. 

From July 5 to 17, inclusive, he found L. arioii numerous. Dur- 
ing this period he watched several females laying eggs and on 
the last day saw four females laying their eggs on thyme blossoms 
on the top of an ant nest. 

The thyme grew in patches among the short turf, which was 
composed of the usual small plants which clothe the surface of 
the Cornish downs, and with a few furze bushes dotted about, 
and on the ant hills. But the plants selected were those growing 
in the open and some distance from the furze bushes, and there- 
fore fully exposed to wind and rain. 

Under every patch of thyme visited by the female butterflies 
he found ants' nests. He also saw other females lay eggs on the 
thyme growing on ant hills, and also on the thyme upon the turf 
walls where ants are likewise in abundance. 

On July 29 he found two larvae, which he had raised from eggs 
deposited on potted plants by several captured females, rolling 
about together under the thyme blossom. On close exanunation 
he found that the smaller one had seized the larger with its jaws, 
which were buried in its side, and was apparently sucking it. 
Upon pulling them apart he placed the victim under the micro- 
scope and found a deep hole in its side, with the surrounding 
surface shrunken and liquid exuding from the wound. He re- 
marks that this conclusively proves the cannibalistic habits of 
these larvae, which he had always suspected, as on previous occa- 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES — CLARK 479 

sions large numbers ot" larvae had disappeared in a mysterious 
manner. 

He then placed about 50 larvae on as many sprigs of thyme so 
as to keep them separate and under very close observation. On 
August 11, many of the larvsB having passed their third molt, when 
they cease feeding on thyme, he started to investigate what rela- 
tion there might be between the larvae and ants, thinking that in 
all probability they might feed either on the larvae or pupae of 
the latter. 

He had previously found that after the third iriolt the larvae 
persistently refuse to remain on thyme blossoms, or indeed on any 
other part of the plant, and appear to have a tendency to hide in 
the ground. Although thyme and various other plants were sup- 
plied to them, they refused to feed, so, leaving them with a grow- 
ing plant of thyme and keeping them under conditions as natural 
as possible, trusting they would hibernate in that stage, he left them 
undisturbed ; but subsequently nothing more was seen of them. 

Pie at first selected one of the larvae after the second molt to 
experiment with, as he found that after the third molt they do not 
attack each other. Their cannibalistic habits only exist during the 
first three stages. 

He supplied this larva with an ant's cocoon with one end removed. 
It at once began eating it. He then placed the two objects under 
the low power of the microscope to watch carefully the proceedings, 
which were interesting. He watched it feeding on the jellylike sub- 
stance of the pupa, as well as the cocoon, which it ate in the same 
manner as it would a leaf, by biting the edge. 

So far this seemed satisfactory, as he thought he had found the 
right food for the larvae in their subsequent stages ; but this proved 
not to be the case. 

Having found a dead L. anon larva, he placed it in a box with 
some ants, which immediately seized hold of it, apparently intend- 
ing to kill it. 

He then put a living larva in another box with four ants {Formica 
flaim)^ and expected them to treat it in the same way, but was sur- 
prised to find them act quite the reverse. They all immediately lan 
to it and, waving their antennae over and upon it, at the same time 
closed their jaws, and then apparently smelt and licked it, and 
seemed particularly attracted to the hinder part of its back, about 
the tenth segment. First one and then another of the ants would 
run over the larva, and then stop to lick that part of its back. He 
then noticed that a tiny bead of moisture appeared, and (me of the 
ants touched it with its mouth, which instantly caused the bead to 
disappear. He afterwards placed both hirva and ants under the 



480 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

microscope, which at once revealed the cause of attraction, for 
there on the tenth segment he found a small transversely elongated 
gland on the dorsal surface. 

He then examined with the microscope another larva in the same 
stage while it was feeding, during which operation the gland is 
ke]5t throbbing. So he placed the ants close to it, and soon saw 
them run over it. Directly a foot touched the gland, or the region 
adjacent to the gland, it throbbed more violently and swelled up. 
It then exuded a globule of clear white liquid. At the same instant 
an ant licked up the drop. In a few seconds an ant's foot again 
toi'.ched the gland, and another bead of liquid oozed out, which 
was at once again licked up by an ant. 

An interesting fact was that the larva did not heed the ants run- 
ning over and around it while it kept feeding; but the gland is 
apparently extremely sensitive to the touch of an ant's foot. 

He several times touched the glands of several different larvae 
with the point of a very fine sable-hair brush. This caused the 
larvse at once to wince and to contract; but in no way could he 
induce the exudation of the liquid. But as soon as an ant's foot, or 
the claws of the foot, touched it a bead would appear, to be at 
once imbibed by the ants. 

Although the larva was kept in a box with numerous ants, both 
workers and winged females, together with their pupse, not one 
attempted to bite it; as soon as they touched it they slowly closed 
their jaws and waved their antennoe over and upon it. 

The larvae appeared to be perfectly at home with the ants, neither 
molesting the other. After the third molt Mr. Frohawk was un- 
able to perceive any attempt at cannibalism among the caterpillars, 
although this habit exists in all the earlier stages. 

On July 12, 1905, when in company with Mr. A. L. Rayward, 
Mr. Frohawk discovered a living pupa of Lycmna arion, and near by 
a p'upa case of a freshy emerged female which Mr. Rayward de- 
tected at rest. 

As described by Mr. Frohawk the pupa bears a general resemb- 
lance to the pupa of Lycoena oigon^ except for its much larger size, 
measuring half an inch in length. In dorsal view across the middle 
its greatest width is three- fourteenths of an inch. The head is ob- 
tuse, the base of the wings is slightly angular and swollen, the wing 
is slightly concave, and the abdomen is swollen at the third and 
fourth segments, becoming thence attenuated and rounded pos- 
teriorly. 

In side view the pupa measures three-sixteenths of an inch across 
the middle. The head is rounded, the thorax convex and rising 
into a slight dorsal ridge, the metathorax and first abdominal seg- 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES CLARK 481 

ment sunken, the abdomen swollen in the middle and curving to 
the posterior segments, Avhich are rounded. The anal segment is 
appressed to the ventral surface. The cremastral hooks are absent. 
The wing is ample, swollen, and rounded across the middle; it ex- 
tends to the fifth abdominal segment. 

The entire surface is minutely granulated and covered with very 
fine reticulations of a deep amber color. The spiracles are prom- 
inent and blackish, the surface posteriorly adjoining them beset with 
a number of shining raised beadlike processes, some bearing minute 
amber-colored spines Avhich have the apical half branched Avilh ex- 
tremely small bristles. 

The color when first found was uniformly ochreous, with the eyes 
dark leaden gray. It gradually turned darker on the head, thorax, 
and abdomen. The wings remained ochreous, but showed leaden 
gray hind margins. Then the median wing spots appeared, and 
soon the whole pupa began to deepen more 'uniformly until it as- 
sumed a deep leaden gray all over, and remained unchanged for over 
30 hours. A perfect male emerged at 8.30 a. m. on J'uly 16. 

It was on June 3, 1906, that Mr. Frohawk, in company with Mr. 
A. L. RajMvard, first found the larva of Lyccena arlon in its last 
stage. On arriving at the locality where they had previously 
watched the females laying eggs, they set steadily and systematically 
to v>?ork, closely examining every particle of growth and of the sur- 
face of the ground. This occupied the whole of the first day and 
lialf of the next; the intervening night was spent in making a care- 
ful search by lamp light. 

As this all proved fruitless, they then determined on searching all 
the most likely looking ants' nests. First one, then another was 
carefully dug up and searched without any satisfactory results; but 
knowing that the object of their investigations must be somewhere 
in the immediate vicinity, they continued their task, Avhen at length, 
on shaking part of the crown of a nest over a cloth, a goodly sized 
plump cream-colored grublike larva fell out, which Mr. Frohawk 
instantly identified as a full-grown arion larva. 

In the same small portion of the ant's nest they found three 
more. Of the four, three were of almost similar size, about nine- 
sixteenths of an inch in length, and one was a good deal smaller, 
only three-eighths of an inch long. 

These four larva? were only just beneath the surface among the 
roots of the little plants of grass growing with the thyme. The soil 
surrounding them Avas loose and friable, having been worked up 
by the ants. 

In company with the caterpillars there were ants and their 
larvae and pupse. 



482 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Although Mr. Frohawk had not yet been able to ascertain the 
actual food or manner of feeding, he thought that there could be 
but little doubt that the larvae are tended by the ants {Lasius 
■flavus) in the same way that their own larvae are fed from mouth 
to mouth with the food the ants disgorge. 

In 1915 Dr. T. A. Chairman published further observations on the 
last stage of the larva of this butterfly. He noted that the majority 
of European "blues" hibernate as larvrc in their third stage, having 
in all five stages. Others hibernate as full grown and full fed 
larva?, others as pupa3, and some as eggs. Each of these habits is 
adopted by more than one species. 

Lyccuna arion differs from all of these and agrees with no other 
species in its method of passing the winter. Living on thyme, 
chiefly the floAvers, it reaches the fourth and last stage some time 
in or about August, and then goes into hibernation. When it does 
this it is so small that it is difficult to believe that it does not have 
at least one more molt in the spring, though this is not the case. 
The little caterpillar only one-eighth of an inch long grows to its 
mature dimensions of well over half an inch and correspondingly 
thick without a change of skin. 

On May 14, 1915, on pulling up plants over a nest of Mynnica 
scahHnodis var. sahuleti and disturbing the soil at a point close to 
overhanging heather, etc., a larva of L. anon was found. It seemed 
to be amongst loose earth that the ants had worked over, and if not 
actually in the ants' nest was within less than an inch of ground 
actually occupied by the ants. The larva was found near the sur- 
face, but precisely where in relation to the ants was not ascer- 
tained, the earth being broken up before the larva was seen. But 
it was certainly not in any permanent tunnel or chamber of the 
ants' nest, but more probably amongst the looser surface material 
brought up by the ants and not yet consolidated and amongst which, 
in weakly constructed chambers, the ants disposed of their larvae 
temporarily on fine warm daj^s. 

The length of the larva was 11 mm., and its thickness about 3 mm. 
Its color was a pale earthy flesh color with no trace of green any- 
where, and the impression it gave was that it must be a concealed 
feeder. 

Unfortunately in the rough process necessary in disturbing plants 
and soil the larva suffered an injury, so that the hope of discover- 
ing what it would eat was unavailing. 

There were visible some dark contents of the posterior extremity 
of the alimentar}' canal shining through the ventral surface; else- 
where the larva was too opaque to show whether there was any- 
thing of food material in its interior. The dark mass seen through 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES CLARK 483 

the lower aurface Avas the posterior portion of the gut full of 
a dark material. It measured 3 mm. in length and over 0.5 mm. 
in thickness, and was rather hard and solid. Farther forward in 
the gut there were also portions of contents, rather soft and easily 
pressed flat on a slide. 

The posterior portion of the dark mass was rather shorter and 
more slender than the forward portion. It showed a quantity of 
granular material in layers of darker and lighter appearance. The 
forward portion seemed to consist of a mass of minute hairs of 
fairly uniform size and structure. The less dense material found 
farther forw^ard in the gut showed a number of identical hairs, and 
also some small triangular chitinous bodies very like mandibles of 
some insect. 

On comparison Doctor Chapman found that the hairs in the 
arion caterpillar agreed absolutely with the hairs of the fully grown 
larvae of the ant Myrniica scdhrinodis^ while the chitinous triangles 
agreed exactly with the mandibles of the same larvae. Nothing of a 
vegetable nature was found amongst these contents, and it could not 
be doubted that the caterpillar had eaten many ant larvae, and 
nothing else for a long time. 

Doctor Chapman remarked that it seems highl}?^ probable that the 
caterpillar of Lycama avion in its last stage behaves as do the larvae 
of many bees and wasps, various parasites, and other insects that 
live on material that is practically all digestible and contains very 
little effete matter; that is, it does not, imtil it has completed its 
growth, evacuate any of the contents of the gut, but allows all the 
undigested material and effete matter to accumulate in the rectum 
during the Avhole period of growth, to be ejected when the period for 
pupation approaches. Such a procedure is not known in the case of 
any other butterfly. 

The posterior and therefore earlier portion of the waste matter 
gave no indication of what food it represents, though the later por- 
tion represents many ant larvae all apparently in their last stage. 

Doctor Chapman raises the question whether the first portion 
represents eggs or young larvae of the ants that were more thor- 
oughly digestible and so left no recognizable detritus, or whether the 
earlier diet was a vegetable one. 

At a meeting of the Entomological Society of London, held on 
November 7, 1917, Capt. E. B. Purefoy exhibited a short series of 
LycfEna avion which he had bred from the &gg. After the third 
molt they had been carried into the nests of Mynnica Imvinodis. 

At the same time Mr. Horace Donisthorpe corroborated an ob- 
servation of Doctor Chapman's that the ants, on being disturbed, 
carry off the larvae of lycaenids, beetles, etc., before removing their 
own young. 



484 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

On November 20, 1918, Captain Purefoy exhibited a score of home- 
bred Lyccena ainon, to<:;ether with their pupa cases. He pointed 
out that the fully fed larvte seldom, if ever, attempted to crawl far 
away from the ants in order to pupate. Larvae which he had kept 
both in the nests of Myrmica scahriiiodis and of M. Ucvinodis gen- 
erally fed in chambers deep down in the nest where the small ant 
larvae in their last stage are cared for by the workers. 

When the anon larva was fully fed it generally remained where 
it was among the brood, slowly changing color from a fine ochreous 
hue to a dead gray white. Six or seven days might elapse before 
the larval skin was cast. The ants were running over their guest all 
the time, but never attacked it, even when the fresh pupa Avas at its 
softest. 

The cremastral hooks would finally lose their hold of the silk pad, 
and the pupa would lie at the bottom of the little earth chamber. 

When after 24 days or so the imago emerged it had to find its 
way to the surface through the ant passages. This it never failed 
to do, and the freshly emerged butterfly would be found during 
the early morning drying its wings on the herbage growing on the 
nest. 

The Q^fig of this species, as described by Mr. Frohav/k, is one 
forty-eighth of an inch in breadth and one-eightieth of an inch in 
height. It is of a very flattened globular form, sunken in the center, 
so much so that to the naked eye the operculum appears as a dark 
central spot. The entire surface is finely and beautifully reticulated 
with an irregular net work. The color is pale bluish white. 

Some eggs received by Mr. Frohawk from INIr. A. B. Farn on 
July 9, 1896, hatched on the following dvtj. 

The larva directly after its emergence is exceedingly' small, meas- 
uring only one thirty-second of an inch. It is rather stout in pro- 
portion. The segmental divisions are deeply defined, and with a 
longitudinal dorsal furrow. On the first segment there is a large 
dorsal darkly colored disk, and a smaller one on the anal segment. 
The color of the body is pale ochreous yellow, tinged with greenish. 
On the dorsal surface are longitudinal rows of glassy white ser- 
rated hairs, placed in two pairs on either side of each segment above 
the spiracles. The hairs of the dorsal row all curve backwards. 
The anterior hair on each segment is much the longest, and all have 
pedestal-like bas^^s of an oliA^e color. The hairs of the subdorsal 
pair are both short, the anterior curving forwards, the posterior 
backwards. Below the spiracle, which is black, are three brownish 
serrated hairs placed in a triangle, all of which project laterally 
and have dark bases; the central one is very long. Below these, 
on the first lateral lobe of each segment, is a single simple white 
hair, and two other similar ones are found on the base of each 
clasper. 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES CLARK 485 

The head is of a shining olive black. The wliole surface of the 
body is densely sprinkled with blackish points, giving it a rough 
appearance, and adding to the appearance of the depth of the 
segmental divisions. The legs and claspers are similar in color to 
the body. 

A larva in the second stage measuring one-twelfth of an inch in 
length is thus described by Mr. Frohawk. 

The first and last segments are flattened, projecting, and rounded, 
overlapping the head, which is withdrawn while at rest, and the 
anal claspers. The body is much arched, having a considerably 
elevated medio-dorsal ridge. The sides are flattened and slope to 
a lateral ridge ; the under side is also flattened. 

The ground color is a pearly white, thickly studded with very 
minute blackish points, and scattered over the whole surface are a 
number of bristles, varying in length, all having bulbous dark 
shining brown bases. The longest are situated on the dorsal and lat- 
eral regions. The spiracles are shining dark brown. The segments 
are beautifully marked with purplish pink, forming longitudinal 
stripes, the most conspicuous being the medio-dorsal and lateral 
stripes. The three other stripes, two above and one below the 
spiracles, are made up of oblique markings. The head and prolegs 
are brown, and the claspers whitish. 

Mr. Frohawk noticed that there is a remarkable similarity be- 
tween the buds of thyme and the larvae, both in their coloring and 
in their pubescence, so much so that it requires very close examina- 
tion to discover the little larva?. They generally conceal them- 
selves inside the blossom, making detection all the more difficult, 
but usually a small hole is eaten through the calyx, when the larva 
may sometimes be seen with only the anal segment protruding. 

A larva in the third stage one-eighth of an inch long was similar 
in coloring, pattern, and structure to the one just described, except 
that it was brighter, the hairs a good deal longer, and the head 
shining black. 

This third stage larva molted for the third time on July 26. 
Twenty-four hours after molting it still measured only one-eighth 
of an inch when fully extended. The general coloring was now more 
uniforml}' ochreous pink, and duller. The second and third seg- 
ments were humped. The first segment was sloping to the front, 
sunken in the middle, and rounded, overlapping the head, and bore 
a large black oval patch in the center. The three posterior segments 
were also comj^ressed and sunken. Each segment was humped sub- 
dorsally, forming a deep longitudinal medio-dorsal furroAv. The 
sides were concave, and the lateral ridge projected and overlapped 
for the entire length, hiding from view the legs and clasi^ers. There 

76041—26 32 



486 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN 'NSTITUTION, 1925 

were four lonfritiidinal rows of long curved hairs, one being sub- 
dorsal and one lateral. Each row was composed of a single hair on 
each segment from the fourth to the ninth, inclusive, t)ie subdorsal 
series ending on the last. The first three segments had each a set 
of three subdorsal hairs, those on the first segment curving forward. 
The lateral series were likewise formed of one on each segment, all 
directed laterally and surrounding the extremities of the larva. The 
hairs have the bases of remarkable formation, resembling glass-like 
pedestals Avith fluted sides. Tiie entire upper surface of the bod}^ 
is densely studded with extremely minute p3'riform glassy processes. 
The under surface is just as densely clothed with very short stoutish 
hairs. The liead is ochreous. with dark brown markings in front. 
The prolegs are duskj% and the claspers are unicolor on the under 
surface. 

As described by Mr. Frohawk tlie honey gland of the larva after 
the third molt is of peculiar construction, being formed of flexible 
tissue and surrounded by numerous glassy white pyriform processes 
varying in size, some of which are extremely minute. Those border- 
ing the edges of the gland are furnished with excessively small white 
bristles, each process bearing four or five arranged in the form of a 
fan with diverging points; all are directed toward the central aper- 
ture, the Avhole forming a fringe surrounding the gland, and are 
obvioush^ for the purpose of holding the bead of liquid in place, 
and probably also serA'e as a jDrotection for this apparently sensitive 
organ. 

The fully grown larva is seven-twelfths of an inch in length. The 
third molt is the last, after which every part, as determined from 
a careful microscopical examination of all the structural details by 
Mr. Frohawk, remains absolutely unchanged. This accounts for its 
extremel}^ small head, Avhich is out of all proportion to the size of 
the larva, but Avhich was of proportionate size directly after the 
third molt when the length was only one-eighth of an inch. The 
small black dorsal disk on the first segment now appears as a mere 
black speck. The head is set on a very flexible retractile neck which 
can be readily protruded beyond the first segment when the larva is 
in motion, but when resting the head is completely hidden and with- 
drawn into the ventral surface of the segment. 

In a dorsal view both anterior and posterior segments are rounded, 
the body gradually increasing in width to the tenth segment. The 
segmental divisions are deeply cut, each segment being latei-ally 
convex. 

In a side view the first anterior and the last posterior segments are 
somewhat flattened dorsally and projecting laterally. The second- 
ninth segments are humped dorsally. The medio-dorsal furrow 



CARNIVOEOUS BUTTEEFLIES CLARK 487 

usual in lyca-nid larvae is only indicated on tlie posterior half of each 
segment. The sides are sloping and convoluted to the spiracles. 
The lateral ridge is dilated, swollen, and prominent, but rounded, 
and the ventral surface is full and of a bulbous character. The 
rather small feet arc well pro^•ided with strongly curved hooks. 

All of the other sti'uctural details are as in the larva after the 
third molt; but on examining the fully gi'own specimen Mr. Fro- 
hawk found that all tlic long dorsal hairs had been broken or worn 
off short, leaving only a series of basal stumps. 

The color is a pale creamy ochreous witli a pinkish lilac tinge along 
the lateral ridge and surrounding both the first and last segments. 

When first found the entire skin had a shining distended appear- 
ance as if too tight for its obese proportions. 

Doctor Chapman found that in a nearly full-grown larva the honey 
gland, which is so conspicuous in tlie autumn larva, owing to its com- 
paratively large size, remains of the same size and therefore looks 
extremely small owdng to the expansion of the rest of the larva. He 
is inclined to regard it as still functional, the four circles seen at the 
bottom of the hollow being very distinct. He saj^s that possibly, 
however, these would look just the same if the function were in abey- 
ance, although they are certainly a feature of all functional honey 
glands that he has examined. 

This remarkable caterpiller passes over 10 months of its existence 
in its last stage, succeeding the third molt. 

The full-grown larva described by Mr. Frohawk pupated on the 
surface of the ground fre? of web. At first the pupa is a clear, pale 
apricot yellow, which very gradually deepens to a dark amber color, 
excepting the wings, which remain light ochreous. 

Lyc^na arionides 

Dr. T. A. Chapman remarks that this species which, though dis- 
tinct, is exceedingly close to L. arlon, probably has the same larval 
habits. 

Lycena alcon 

On October 2, 1918, Dr. T. A. Chapman exhibited before the 
Entomological Society of London a bred specimen of Lycana alcon, 
probably the first specimtn that had ever been bred, certainly the 
first from larvse taken in the autumn. 

The larva of this species, which is green, has a well-developed 
hone}^ gland. The eggs are generally laid on the calyx, and many 
flower heads have a large number of eggs on them, probably each 
laid separately. The caterpillars live amicably together, being 
devoid of the fiercely cannibalistic habits characteristic of the larvae 
of L. avion. 



488 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Doctor Chapman noted that the life history is interesting as being 
parallel to, though differing from, that of L. arion. The 3^oimg larva 
feeds in the autumn in the flowers and other portions of Gentiana 
fneumoncbnthe^ and probably of other gentians. So far it is exactly 
parallel in growth to other blues, such as many of the English 
plebeiids that pass the winter in the third instar. When it reaches 
the third instar it leaves the plant, wanders off, and hitherto efforts 
to carry it further have failed. At this point it agrees with L. arion 
in habits, but it is not like L, avion., which is in a remarkably modified 
and concentrated (as regards skin armature) fourth instar, but is 
in quite an ordinary third instar. In its plant life it has differed 
also in that several, often five or six, larvae live amicably together 
in one flower, whereas L. arion is solitary, and if by accident two 
larva} meet, as by a second egg having been laid on the same flower 
head, or especially when incautiously associated in captivity, they are 
inveterate cannibals. 

The remaining history is that both L. arion and L. alcon live in 
the nests of ants — Doctor Chapman kept both species in those of 
Myrniica scahrinodis — and pupate in the nest. The differences are 
that L. arion eats the ant brood, whereas L. alcon certainly sucks 
their juices without eating them; and Doctor Chapman could not 
prove that it ever actually ate them, though he thought it did so 
W'hen past the winter when its food would more often be ant pupa3. 

L. avion is in its fourth instar and is provided with a skin arma- 
ture not unsuitable to it wdien fully grown. L. alcon has only a 
third instar armature, and when full grown might be almost de- 
scribed as without one for, like L. avion., it does not molt after en- 
tering the ants' nest, but attains its full growth still in the third 
instar. The skin is then so attentuated that the fat masses are very 
obvious, and its general aspect is like that of an internal feeder 
rather than that of a butterfly. Doctor Chapman remarks that it is to 
be noted as exceedingly remarkable that a butterfly larva should 
attain its full growth after only two molts. 

M. Oberthiir, who is familiar with localities where L. alcon is 
common, considered it highly probable that it had a life history 
similar to that of L. avion., and with the assistance of Mr. Harold 
Powell, found that ants would carry off the larvae of this butterfly, 
and also that the larvae would lap up the juices of wounded ant 
larvae. He provided Doctor Chapman with the young larvae used 
for observation both in 1916 and in 1917, and his success in rearing 
the insect was, he says, entirely due to M. Oberthiir's initiative. 

Mr. Powell saw the larvae of L. alcon carried off by Tetva/morum 
C(psj)itu7ii and by Tajnnonia evraticuni. Acting on this hint Mr. 
Donisthorpe pro\'ided himself with a nest of Tetramorvm., and now 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES CLARK 489 

has a caterpillar of L. alcon thriving in it. At the same time Mr, 
Chapman had larvae in the nests of Myrmica scabrinodis and M. 
hcevinodis. 

Doctor Chapman observed that when ants were placed in a new 
nest they refused to accept a larva of L. alcon, although they will- 
ingly accepted that of L. arion. 

Spalgis epius 

Mr. Lionel de Niceville in 1890 published a note sent him by Mr. E. 
Ernest Green from Pundul-oya, Ceylon, in which he said : " I have 
several times reared an insect indistinguishable from Spalgis epius 
from a carnivorous larva that associates with and feeds upon Dac- 
tylopius adonidum (the 'mealybug' of planters). My larvce were 
dull olive green above, with numerous minute dark bristles and a 
lateral fringe of brown hairs, beneath pale green, slightly suffused 
with pink on the anterior segments. It partially covers and con- 
ceals itself with the mealy secretions from the Dactylopius. Pupa 
various shades of brown, wing cases pale." Mr. de Niceville added 
that the larva is furnished with long irregular divergent processes, 
as in the larva of Rathinda, but here the tubercles appear to be ar- 
ranged more regularly, while some are much shorter than others. 

Mr. E. H. Aitken in December, 1891, saw a female S. epius flying 
suspiciously about a bush and thought it might be laying its eggs. 
This led him to examine the plant, and almost at once he found an 
unmistakable lycsenid pupa. Then he instituted a regular search, 
but not a larva could he find, nor any trace of one. The leaves of 
the plant were nowhere eaten, and it was too much infested with 
"mealy-bugs" to afford fresh wholesome food to delicate insects. 
He had almost given up the search when he noticed that some of 
the bugs were enormously large. He brushed the white woolly 
secretion off of these, and they were uncommonly like lycsenid 
larvfe. They were of the wood-louse form so common among the 
larvae of that family, of a dark greenish brown color, wuth a few 
hairs scattered over the back and a fringe of bristles running along 
the side and around the front where the second segment conceals 
the head. With this fringe he saw them shovel a quantity of the 
white stuff onto their backs and clothe their nakedness after he had 
denuded them. 

"Watching them with a lens, he saw that they were feeding among 
the " mealy-bugs." They would pass over the larger individuals and 
bury their heads in the downy covering of a little one, and though he 
could not say he actually saw that they devoured it, he was quite 
satisfied that this was what they did. So he secured a number and 



490 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

])iit them in a \)\\\ box ^\ itli a supply oi their prey, and in a few daj^s 
the prey had disap})eared and the larvie had become pupa}. In a 
fortnifrht. exactly twice the time recjuired by the smaller Lyca?nidaj 
generally, five specimens of Spalgis epius emerged. 

Mr. Aitken was very much surj^rised at his discovery, for he did 
not then know that any butterfly larvae were carnivorous, except 
when they indulged in cannibalism and ate each other as Lyctenid^e 
often do. 

When he found his specimens he was traveling in haste through 
a very wild part of the country, so he put the pupaj away without 
examining them. Later he obtained two more. On examining them 
Avith a lens what was his astonishment to find a face totally different 
from that presented by the African species {S. lemolea) but even 
more lifelike and expressive. Ears were wanting, but every other 
feature was there. The abdominal portion of the pupa formed the 
forehead, two gleaming black spots, exactly in the right place, made 
a most malignant pair of eyes, the arched thorax w'as the nose, the 
effect of which was heightened by its being almost black at the 
muzzle, and the head, with its attachment to the thorax, formed the 
chin and lips. 

Mr. Aitken says that no descrij^tion can convey any idea of the 
way in which the contour, features, and expression are worked out, 
and he is afraid that the figure on his plate will be regarded as 
overdone. To this he can only reply that it is underdone. 

In Ce3'lon Mr. E. Ernest Green on more than one occasion found 
the caterpillars of this species inside the nests of a tree ant {Cre- 
mastogaster- dohrni) feeding on the "mealy-bugs" {/^actyJophis^ 
sp.) inclosed therein. 

Spalgis epius is found in Burma and the ]\Iergui Archipelago, 
throughout India, and also in Ceylon. In the Kottawa Forest at 
Galle, Ceylon, it is very common and easy to capture, frequenting 
shady places and high jungle. Elsewhere, while it really can not be 
called rare, it does not seem to be common. 

Besides the following from Africa there arc about half a dozen 
additional species of Spalgis occurring from Hainan southward 
through the Malayan Islands to the Moluccas. Presumably all of 
these are carnivorous in their younger stages. 

Spalots lemolea 

On January 10. 1891, the Rev. A. C. Good wrote to Dr. ^\. J. 
Holland from Kangwe, on the Ogove River, "West Africa: "To-day 
I stumbled upon the queerest object which I think I ever saw. On 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES CLARK 491 

the under side of the leaves of a frangipanni I saw a number of small 
clirysalids which bore a most absurd resemblance to a human face. 
1 found a few of the larvae still unchanged. Their color Avas dark 
brownish. * * * The body was all covered over with a whitish 
substance not a part of the body, and which I took to be the remains 
of plant lice with which the underside of the leaves on which the 
larva; were found abounded. I think that these caterpillars must 
have fed upon these white plant lice, for I could not detect that they 
had eaten the leaves. * * * The chrysalis is attached to the leaf 
bj' the back of the head, and presents to view in a wonderful way 
the face of a man or a chimpanzee. Especially do the eyes and the 
well-marked brows oA'erhanging them present a startling resemblance 
to the human face. The natives notice it, and are surprised at the 
resemblance as much as I am. Here is mimicry, but to what possible 
purpose ? Or has Dame Nature for once laid aside her usually prac- 
tical character and decided to amuse herself ? " 

Mr. W. A. Lamborn, writing at Oni Camp in southern Nigeria, 
said in a note dated September 17, 1911, that he had now found an- 
other kind of lycsenid larva, perhaps Spalgis lemolea, consorting 
with aphids or tiny coccids, on the under side of leaves. He saw 
several of these butterflies near the tree in the clearing, but did not 
make out "" Avhy they come there in the face of a strong breeze which 
is now blowing almost constantly." On October 3 he wrote that all the 
larvae were found among coccids on a shrub in Oni clearing. Each 
larva bore a covering of gray material, which looked to him as if it 
were composed of cast skins of coccids, and he thought that they 
must have eaten these or their products, for they did not eat leaves. 
He was told that the plant on which they were is a species of Croton, 
but he rather doubted it. The larvse were all found on the under 
side of leaves and always among the coccids. 

Mr. Lamborn found the larvae of this species feeding on two 
species of coccids which were determined as Dactylopius virgatus 
var. madagasca7'iensis and D. lo7igispinus. He had repeatedly ex- 
amined the coccids without detecting the larvae, and it was only his 
attempt to find a particulai'ly large coccid for examination that led 
him to turn one over and to discover it to be lepidopterous. 

The larvae of this species did not strike him as being much larger, 
than the coccids on which they feed, for they are rather flattened and 
usually nestle up closely to the masses of coccids under what appears 
to be a common covering of shed cuticles, etc. It is sometimes really 
quite difficult to distinguish them. The coccids are so closely packed 
and so well covered that one can rarely see the form of a single in- 
dividual. It is quite common to see tiny coccids wandering in the 
material on the back of the larvae. 



492 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Feniseca TARQUINIUS 

OcGwrrence and habits. — This curious little butterflj' has a very 
wide range, occurring from Nova Scotia, Quebec, and Ontario south- 
ward to northern Florida and the Gulf coast of Louisiana and west- 
ward to Texas and the Rocky Mountains. Prof. C. V. Riley said 
that it is also found in Asia, but this is an error. 

It is very local and consequently is seldom taken in general collect- 
ing, but once its favorite haunts have been discovered it is easily 
secured in quantity. 

Although collecting butterflies in Newtonville, Mass., and in the 
surrounding region, and about my summer home in Manchester, 
Mass., from 1890 until 1900 I never found it. In 1910, however, I 
caught one in my front yard, the first I ever saw alive. In 1923 I 
made a special search for it and located nine thriving colonies in 
Newton (1), Newton Center (1), Newtonville (4), Auburndale (1), 
and Weston (2). All of these colonies were singularly similar. 
They were all centered on the woolly plant louse of the alder 
{Schizoneura tessellata), and in all cases the alders were growing 
close to running water in small meadows with wooded hills about 
them. 

In 1924 I found a colony in Essex, Mass., on the main road from 
Manchester just beyond the Manchester town line. This was a year 
in which Vanessa cardui was exceedingly abundant, and consequently 
was a poor year for other butterflies. It was exceptionally dry, and 
the aphids did not thrive. The few aphid colonies found in Essex 
and in Manchester did not seem to grow, and except for one were 
quite neglected by the butterflies. Three of the four colonies in 
Newtonville were revisited. Aphids were very few, and there were 
no traces whatever of the butterflies or of their larva?, though in 
the year preceding about 100 examples of all stages had been taken 
from them without apparently at all diminishing their numbers. 

In 1925 the colony in Essex found in 1924 numbered about as 
many caterpillars as in the year preceding, and caterpillars were 
found in other aphid colonies about a mile away which the year be- 
fore had yielded none. Caterpillars were also found near Gravel 
Pond in Manchester. Of the three colonies in Newtonville one was 
without caterpillars or butterflies, two butterflies were seen about 
another, which showed evidences of the ravages of caterpillars 
though none were found, and the third yielded a single caterpillar 
and showed no traces of any others. All three of these localities have 
now succumbed to building operations. 

This shows how uncertain is the occurrence of this insect in any 
one locality. 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES — CLARK 493 

Single butterflies far away from alders were seen in Newtonville, 
in a field and in the front yard of my house ; in Essex in a bog ; and 
in Manchester on the tennis courts of the Essex County Club. 

Mr. S. H. Scudder wrote that this butterfly is found only in the 
neighborhood of water where alder grows, and is most frequently 
seen where roads cross some little alder-lined stream or are carried 
by an embankment over marshy ground fringed with alder bushes. 
It is consequently a very local insect, and apparently rarely wanders 
more than a few rods from its birthplace. 

In the Connecticut Valley it is recorded as being found about 
small running streams and in places protected from the wind, and 
at Norway, Me., as " resting upon the leaves of trees and bushes 
growing along the banks of a river." 

Abbot said that in Georgia it frequents swamps and oak woods, 
and is most frequent in Big Ogechee sAvamp. 

In West Virginia Mr. W. H. "Edwards found the butterfly gener- 
ally up the branches of the creeks in the valleys between lofty and 
abrupt hills flying about the stones in the nearly dry beds. In one 
day, on July 4, 1868, he caught no less than 24, and on this occasion 
the butterflies persisted in visiting a large stone and were so tame 
that he caught most of his specimens in a bottle. He adds that, so 
far as he knows, there were no alders within a mile of the point 
where the butterflies had been abundant. There were plenty of 
beeches, and he remarked that the probability is that any trees or 
shrubs on which there is a good supply of aphids would attract the 
females. 

In my experience this species flies with the greatest activity and 
in the greatest numbers on hot and sunny days. It is most active 
from about 10 o'clock until about 3, when it seems suddenly to dis- 
appear. When at its best among the alders this is not at all an easy 
butterfly to catch. The flight is rapid, nervous, and highly irregu- 
lar, with frequent rests. As it dodges and skips about among the 
alder branches it suggests a small and very active satyrid of the 
Satyrodes canthus type. Its flight about the exterior of the alder 
thickets has been compared to that of Orgyia antigua, and I have 
sometimes confused it with the males of gypsy moths. If badly 
frightened it flies off very rapidly in an irregular spiral, the axis of 
which commonly rises at an angle of about 30°. From this it would 
seem that its general habit is much like that of the species of Gerydus. 
It is very fond of flying up and down paths through alder thickets 
or through the near-by woods. 

On three occasions I have met with this butterfly in open ground a 
very considerable distance from any alders or other source of food. 
The insects were flying slowly in a straight line a foot or so above the 
grass tops and showed no inclination to rest. All three were easily 



494 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

caught. Their flight was wholly different from the norinul flight of 
the species, and indeed from that of any other of our lycienids, but 
suggested that of the species of Spalgis. Two explanations suggest 
themselves : First, that the butterflies had been blown away and lost 
and were trying to discover a food supply; and second, that they 
rejjresented a special variety characterized by this unusual type of 
flight and adapted for disseminating the species. The strong con- 
tinuous flight would seem to negative the flrst alternative. The 
probability is that these individuals were " travelers," corresponding 
to similai" individuals developed in many other species where, how- 
ever, they commonly show departure from the nornuil in color as 
well as in the type of flight. 

i\f r. Scudder quotes Mr. Emery as sa^ang that this butterfly is never 
to be seen about flowers, but may sometimes be seen perclied upon 
the upper surface of a leaf, or, more commonly, upon a branch 
of alder among the woolly plant lice enjoying with the ants the 
honey exuding from their bodies. 

I have noticed that when resting this butterfly seems to prefer to 
sit upon the upper side of horizontal leaves of willows or other trees 
or bushes rather than upon the leaves of alder. When upon the alder 
leaves or stems or upon the aphids it seems to be always nervous and 
alert, ready to fly off at the slightest hint of danger. It always sits 
upon the leaves head outward, with its tail turned toward the inner 
portion of the tree or bush. 

Broods. — Mr. Scudder wrote that the first brood of butterflies of 
the year appears in Xew England about the beginning of the last 
week in May, and continues upon the Aving until after the middle of 
June. The second brood appears early in July and becomes ajbund- 
ant by the middle of the month. Search at Granby, Mass., on July 
28 brought to light onh^ caterpillars in the second stage; a fresh 
specimen and fuU-groAvn larva were taken by liim as far north as 
Sudbury, Ontario, on July 13, showing that cA'en there the second 
brood ap[)ears at this early date. Fresh specimens may be found 
during the Avhole of July, and rubbed ones during August. Mr. 
Fletcher found a much-worn fenuile ovipositing at Ottawa on 
August '2, and they continue upon the wing until the third brood 
appears, about the middle of xVugust, from which time fresh speci- 
mens coutinue to come out until the end of Septcuibei*. 

In the central region of its distribution there are, according to Mr. 
Scuddei', probably four broods. Mr. Edwards recognized three in 
West Virginia, one from Aj)iil 17 to May 5, the second from June 
14 to July 4 (on this latter date he took 24 in 1868 and saw large 
numbers more), and a tliii'd the last of July. Mr. Scudder notes 
that when compared with the history farther north and considering 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES — CLARK 495 

tlie longer season in the south this must indicate a fourth brood not 
observed by Mr. Edwards, Avho mentioned that he had received 
caterpiUars from Washington, T>. C, as late as October 4, Mr, 
Scudder surmised that it is probable that there is an added brood in 
the south, for Abbot records a caterpillar in Georgia as changing to 
a chrysalis on April 14, which indicates a parent on the wing in 
March, at the opening of the spring, and so an entire brood in ad- 
vance of the valleys of West Virginia. 

As remai-ked by Mr. Scudder, the winter is probably passed in the 
chi-ysalis, but it is not impossible, as conjectured by him, that it may 
also winter as a butterfly, for battered specimens have been taken 
on the wing very early in the year before the complete unfolding of 
the leaves. 

Oviposition. — The female butterfly, as observed by Miss Morton, 
flutters about and finally settles on the aphids, carefully selects a 
place in the midst of them, and deposits an egg, always on the under- 
side of the twig, Mr. Fletcher confirmed this observation, and 
noticed that the female runs all over the clusters of aphids with a 
twitching walk something like a wasp. 

While the eggs are usually deposited in the mass of aphids, both 
Miss Morton and Mr. Fletcher noticed that they are sometimes laid 
on tlie bark near the aphids and occasionally on adjacent leaves. 

I have watched two females placing eggs on the bark on the under 
side of the twigs just below the aphid clusters, an inch or so away. 
In these instances the exudation from the aphids was so very copious 
that I imagine the butterfly was deterred from alighting upon them. 
In both cases the females fluttered close to the patches for some 
minutes before suddenly alighting just beneath them. 

Eggs. — The eggs are easily found by brushing off the aphids from 
the branch. There may be a dozen or moi'e in a single colony of 
aphids, but in that event they are probably laid b}^ several females. 
Miss Morton saw two females lay three or four eggs, and from one to 
four caterpillars of the same size is the usual complement for each 
aphid colony on alder. But later in the summer where the butter- 
flies are common there may be a dozen or so caterpillars of all sizes 
from the very smallest to the fully grown in a large cluster. 

As described by Mr. Scudder the eggs, which are much flattened 
and twice as broad as high, are faint green, almost colorless, and 
glistening. During deposition they are covered with a thin 
albuminous deposit Avhicli makes it difficult to get any proper view of 
their texture. Their surface is smooth and glistening, though still 
very faintly punctulate, broken up by very slight, slender, and equal 
I'ounded elevations into polygonal cells the height of which is a little 
greater than the width. They are very different from the usual type 



496 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

of eggs laid by the Lycaenidae, which are covered with an elaborate 
and conspicuous lacework, or are much sculptured. 

The first larval stage. — The eggs hatch in three or four days. The 
young caterpillars in the first stage are very different looking 
creatures from the fully grown. They are of a slightly greenish 
white with the head and legs more brownish, cylindrical, with 
the segments slightly swollen, and the head as broad as the body, 
obovoid, but produced at the mandibles. The hairs, which are as long 
as three segments, are disposed, as remarked by Edwards, very much 
as in some of the nymphalids, say Polygonia or Phyciodes. 

As described by Edwards the young larva pushes its way under the 
large aphids, or in the case of such as are found on the plum and 
willow among them, and immediately begins to spin for itself a 
loose web, not close enough to conceal it from view were the aphids 
away, h\ii sufficient to keep the aphids from walking over the body 
and to protect it when the molt is approaching and the skin is sensi- 
tive. The web seems to be just about the length of the larval hairs 
from the body. The aphids may be seen running over it, and often 
get their legs fast in the meshes and are very apt to be devoured as a 
consequence. 

The second larval stage. — The first stage lasts about two days, when 
the little caterpillar molts. After this first molt the body is not so 
cylindrical, being somewhat flattened on the back and broadest in the 
middle. As described by Scudder the body is pale mouse brown, 
the hairs and papillae black. The hairs are nearly as long as the 
width of the body at the extremities, slightly curved, and tapering 
with extreme regularity to the finest possible point. They are mostly 
arranged in a single somewhat sinuate and not entirely regular 
transverce series a little in front of the middle of each segment. 
Edwards describes the hairs at this stage as numerous, disposed in 
six rows, two subdorsal, one along the middle of each side, and one 
along the base of each side. They stand not in tufts, but in groups 
which spring from low tuberculous swellings. The hairs along the 
lower edge of the sides point downward and fringe the body. 

The length of the caterpillar has increased from 1.6 mm., the 
length on hatching, to 5 mm. It still remains within the loose web 
underneath the aphids, but its presence can now be detected by a 
slight elevation in the otherwise uniform cylinder of aphids about 
the alder stem. 

In the fir.st two stages the cateri)illars eat the aphids from under- 
neath, burying their heads completely in the aphid's body. Tlie long 
hairs on their upper surface entangle the woolly secretions of the 
aphids so that the little caterpillars appear as if covered with flour. 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES — CLARK 497 

Miss Morton said that Avhen these caterpillars molt they come out 
bright and clean, but by the time they crawl their own length they are 
again stuck over with avooI, and this is the case until pupation. 

The third larval stage. — After the second molt, which takes place 
about two days after the first, the body becomes higher and broader 
in the middle, and the hairs become more numerous. The feet and 
legs are not retractile. The head is more covered by the first seg- 
ment than it was before, but it is only slightly covered, and that only 
along the forehead. 

The fourth and last larval stage. — About two days after the second 
molt the third and last molt takes place. The body, as described 
by Scudder, is smol^ pallid above with slender dorsal and latero- 
dorsal smoky brown stripes, the former more or less interrupted, and 
both more or less tinged with olivaceous, especially in front, where 
the thoracic segments are more or less clouded between the stripes 
with olivaceous; more or less marked with pallid or whitish at the 
incisures and the posterior edge of the segments along the stigmatal 
and infrastigmatal lines. The hairs are mingled blackish and pallid, 
giving the whole a fuzzy gray appearance. Along the sides each 
segment has three or four more or less obscured blackish dotlike 
spots, especially an anterior laterostigmatal spot, and the fuscous 
spot in which the minute pallid spiracle is placed. Edwards says 
that the color of the dorsal area is pale gray, the outer edges white, 
and the side is white with a pale brown macular stripe running 
through it, and above this is an oblique brown bar on each segment, 
except at the extremities. In the middle of the back there is a macu- 
lar brown stripe, and on the seventh-eleventh segments four brown 
rounded spots, tAvo in front and two behind. The subdorsal swell- 
ings are red-orange, or Indian red, or pinkish. There is much 
variation in individuals in all the markings, and Mr. Edwards sus- 
pected that the species of aphis fed upon may cause variations, as 
one larva raised by him upon plum aphids was at all stages whiter 
than those on alder, and the darker markings pale. 

These caterpillars are indeed very variable. They are usually 
grayish, somewhat tinged with greenish in front, ranging from very 
light to fairly dark. The reddish markings especially vary from 
deep dull brown to brick red or pink. Sometimes there is no 
broAvnish or reddish color at all, all the markings being gray. Oc- 
casionally the entire caterpillar is of a uniform pale pink. This 
variety is A^ery rare on alder ; but my son, Austin B. J. Clark, found 
five on a patch of woolly aphids {NeoprociphUus attenuatus) on a 
stem of the carrion flower {Smilax herhacea)., all of which were of 
an immaculate pink. The pupse and the adults from these were of 
normal coloration. Frequently on alder the white is more or less 



498 ANNUAL BEPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1025 

tinged with pinkish, and the ^ray markings become more restricted 
and fainter. At this stage the caterpilhir is 11 mm. in length. 

The mandibles of the full}' grown caterpillars are curious in being 
scarcely tapering, and in having the rounded apical margin armed 
with four curving clawlike teeth. 

Miss Morion found the larvie after the second molt crawling 
naked on the limb seeking for fresh supplies of food; she says that 
then they again si)in a web which they leave after the aphids are 
consumed. She l)elieve(l that they do not spin a web after the third 
and last molt; at this stage they go about very quickly. 

Much depends. I believe, upon the size and vigor of the aphid 
colony. While the fully grown caterpillars are often seen resting 
in the aphid colonies with the whole dorsal surface exposed, and 
usually comparatively, sometimes entirely, free from wool so that 
their handsome nuirkings stand out conspicuously, they may be more 
or less embedded in the aphids; and frequently, noticing large 
humps on the surface of the a])hid mass. I have dug out fully grown 
larvae from flimsy tunnels. Mr. Scudder noted also that some which 
he obtained remained in the web until readj^ to change into the 
chrysalis. Except for those just hatched and entering the aphid 
mass I have seen none but almost or quite fully grown caterpillars 
exposed, and I think that normally they do not leave their webs 
until they are ready to pupate. Even though they may not make a 
covered tunnel I believe the large caterpillars normally and usually 
spin a path of silk upon the tAvig as thev plough their way through 
the aphid mass. 

These larger caterpillars are very voracious, and a few of them 
w411 soon clean out all the aphids in an average alder colony. Where 
they are common there are always many characteristic ragged white 
or grayish patches on the twigs composed of the dead remains 
of aphids entangled in sparsely woven silk, with ragged streamers 
of silk and dried aphid bodies depending from it. In one locality 
in Weston, Mass., I observed a number of alder bushes upon which 
all the numerous aphid colonies had been (juitc exterminated by these 
caterpillars. 

Mr. Edwards noticed that whenever one of these caterpillars 
was removed by the forceps a thread held it to the object on which 
it was resting. He shook his largest caterpillar out of the box 
until it let out a thread up to a length of 4 inches. Then he held 
the box to see if the caterpillar would climb the thread, which it 
did, in about 20 minutes. It twisted its body into a spiral and 
whirled about so fast that he could not bring the lens to bear, but 
he could see that the jaws and feet were active. 

I have never seen fully grown caterpillars do this. When dis- 
turbed they curl up and drop directly down. Small or medium 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES — CLARK 499 

{^ized caterpillars, however, drop on a thread, and this is usual 
until they are nearly of full size. 

iVIiss INIorton said that after the third molt the caterpillars go 
about very quickly. They crawl steadily and fairly rapidly when 
removed from the aphids; but in a vigorous aphid colony they 
are extremel}^ sluggish, and I have rarely seen them elsewhere. 

I ha^e never observed anj'^ tendency on the part of Feniseca 
caterpillars to eat each other, even when scores of various sizes were 
confined Avithout food in the same small box. In spite of their 
delicate skin the caterpillars arc well protected by their long 
and partially grouped hairs, especially by those along the lower 
edges of the sides, which bend downward and prevent attacks 
from underneath. 

But while the caterpillars seem to pay no attention to each other, 
my son, Hugh U. Clark, discovered that the smaller caterpillars 
not yet fully fed eagerly devour the freshly formed pupae. These 
they attack from the under side, tearing a large ragged hole in 
them and completely devouring all the soft parts. 

Raplditif of firov'ih of the catevpillars. — Mr. Edwards noted that 
the growth of these caterpillars is remarkable for its rapidity, 
scarcely more than two days between molts, and there are but 
three molts in all. There is no long interval preceding a molt 
when the larva lies helpless, and this is particularly so at the third 
molt when the larva is fully exposed to view. He Avatched several 
most carefully when he anticipated the third molt, but Avas neA'er 
able to see it, or to knoAv precisely when it occurred. He could see 
that a molt must have taken place by the fresh and differently 
colored skin of the body and the enlarged head. 

Miss Morton at first experienced the same difficulty. She AA-rote 
on August 30, 1886 : " Thursday morning the larvae had devoured 
every aphis in the box, and I remembered seeing some red aphids 
on Avild cherry near the house. These I put in until I could go 
to the SAvamp a mile aAvay. When I returned, three hours after, 
three of the fiA^e larvae had molted, after eating nearly the whole 
of the 2 square inches of aphids, though there Avas no appearance 
of a molt Avhen I Avent aAvay." These three pupated Sunday morn- 
ing, three days after the third molt. 

The pupal stage. — About three days after the third molt the 
caterpillars pupate. Just where this takes place in a state of nature 
has not been satisfactorily determined. INIiss Morton never found 
a chrysalis, although she looked for them AAdienever she was in 
the sAvamps. Her captive larvae generall}^ sought a leaf, but she 
thought it probable that the wild ones crawl doAvn the stems and 
pupate among sticks or grass. 



500 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

From the frequent occurrence of bare oval patches in aphid 
colonies inhabited by these caterpillars and the fact that when 
fully grown they curl up and drop at the slightest touch, while if 
aphids are abundant they are never found, in my experience at 
least, except in aphid colonies, I feel sure that the normal habit of 
the caterpillars on reaching full size is to drop to the ground and 
to pupate on any convenient support. 

I have found two pupal skins from which the butterflies had 
emerged. One of these, in Newtonville, was about 4 feet up on 
the main trunk of a large alder which had no aphids on its 
branches; the trunk was about 3 inches in diameter. The head of 
the pupa was directed downward. The other, from Essex very 
near the Manchester line, was on the upper side of an alder leaf 
about a foot from the ground and directly beneath a large colony 
of aphids about 6 feet above it. The leaf was smeared with the 
exudations from the aphids to which cast skins and " wool " ad- 
hered. The pupa was in the inner half of the leaf and was at- 
tached to one of the veins near the midrib; its axis was parallel 
to the vein and its head was directed outward toward the margin 
of the leaf. In both these cases the larvae had evidently dropped 
and thence crawled up to the supports on which they were found. 

My experience with a dozen or so caterpillars that escaped in 
the house was quite similar to that of Misses Soule and Eliot. 
They pupated anywhere, one behind a picture 6 feet from the 
floor; but the favorite place was on the mop board or on chair 
or table legs from 2 to 6 indies from the floor. 

As described by Mr. Scudder the chrysalis is pallid-green be- 
neath, flecked with minute brown dots on the wings, legs, and 
tongue, but not on the antennse, and hardly at all on the abdomen, 
excepting laterally. The head and prothorax are pallid, the former 
flecked with blackish, and the latter with many brownish flecks 
next to the posterior margin. The rest of the thorax is dark 
greenish-brown above, irregularly blotched and flecked with cream- 
yellow, most conspicuously at the summit and down the interior 
base of the wings. The rest of the wings is pallid-green, minutely 
flecked with brown. The abdomen is also dark greenish-brown, 
the first two segments darker than the rest and deepening to black 
laterall}^ next to the wings, the whole irregularly flecked above 
with cream-yellow, giving a minutely mottled appearance, and at 
the sides of the globose portion and on the top of the expanding 
tip predominating; particularly the lower half of the sides of the 
fourth abdominal segment are almost wholly cream-yellow, and 
those of the sixth and seventh heavily blotched with pfceous. There 
is a lateral series of short oblique black bars in the middle of the 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES — CLARK 



501 



second to seventh abdominal segments, and the tubercles and the 
median carina are all tipped with brownish-yellow. The surface 
of the body is rather coarsely and distantly punctate, with scattered, 
pellucid, clubbed hairs arising in large measure from the center of 
tlie pits, and but little longer than their Avidths. The spiracles 
are testaceous. 

Mr. Scudder gives the following measurements : Length, 8.5 mm. ; 
width at the middle of the thorax, 3.65 mm. ; at the widest part 
of the abdomen, 4.75 mm.; of the tip of the abdomen, 2.5 mm.; 
height of the thorax, 3.6 mm.; of the abdomen, 4.2 mm.; length 
of hairs, 0.04 mm. 

As was first noticed by Miss Morton, the chrysalis of this butterfly 
shows a most curious resemblance to a monkey's face (fig. 1). 






Figs. 1-5. — A pupa of the alder butterfly {Feniseea tarquinius) . 
Fig. 1, viewed from above with the head (lower) end slightly 
raised ; Fig. 2, viewed from above when lying flat ; Fig. 3, 
lower surface ; Fig. 4, side view. Fig. 5, The alder butter- 
,» fly, natural size ; the colors are black and bright brownish 
gold. Drawn by the author from a specimen hatched in Wash- 
ington, but raised to the pupa stage in Newtonville, Mass. 

Duration, of the pupal stage. — The butterfly ordinarily emerges 
in from 8 to 11 days after pupation, according to Mr. Scudder. Ed- 
wards reared a caterpillar from the egg to the pupa in 10 days. 
Allowing 3 days for the period between the laying of the egg and 
its hatching, and 8 daj^s from the formation of tlie pupa to the 
emergence of the adult, this would give a total length of develop- 
ment from the egg to the adult butterflj- of 21 days, or 3 weeks, a 
most extraordinarily short period. 

My experience with this butterfl3' has led me to believe that while 
the duration of life from the egg to the pupa is always brief as de- 
scribed, the length of the pupal life is very variable. 

On August 14, 1923, at Newtonville, Mass., about 50 caterpillars 
pupated. On August 22, 12 adults emerged. A day or two after 
the first 50 pupated all of the remainder pupated, about 50 more. 
76041—26 33 



502 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

By the middle of September all but 53 had emerged. These 53 pupse 
were brought to Washington and from them butterflies continued 
to emerge at irregular intervals all through the winter and spring, 
sometimes two or three a day. The last to emerge did so some time 
subsequent to July 7, on which date I left Washington. Thus from 
the same lot of pupce dating from the middle of August, butterflies 
emerged continually up to the end of the first week in the following 
July, for very nearly 11 months, the chrysalids having all been kept 
in the same box in a heated house. Only one chrysalis died, and that 
was less than half the normal size. 

In the summer of 1924 the caterpillars were very scarce. Fifteen 
secured in Essex, Mass., pupated on and about September 1. These 
were brought to AVashington about the middle of the month, and the 
butterflies emerged at irregular intervals from December to April. 
The last failed to spread its wings, the one preceding did not spread 
its wings completely, and one has not as yet (May) appeared. 

All of the butterflies Avhich emerged in Washington differ from 
those caught or raised in Massachusetts in having the black mark- 
ings on the forewings more restricted, presumably through the pupae 
having been kept at a temperature above the normal for them. 

Food of the caterpillars. — The large white woolly aphis of the 
alder {Schizoneura tessellata)^ which forms conspicuous snowy 
colonies, seems to be the chief and favorite food of the caterpillars 
of this little butterfly. But it has several times been found among 
the colonies of another aphis {Peiriphigus ivihricatus) on the beech, 
and in the leaf curls of a related species {P. fraxvnifolii) on the ash. 
My older son found five in a colony of w^oolly aphids {Meopro- 
ciphilus attemiatus) on the carrion flower {Suvilax herhacea) near a 
heavily infested alder thicket. 

The caterpillars and the pupje have been found on various plants, 
such as witch-hazel ; but there is no certain evidence that normally 
they live on these. 

In captivity the caterpillars will eat other kinds of aphids. Miss 
Morton found that they would eat the red aphids on wild cherry. 
Mr. Edwards put some aphids which he found on weeping willow in 
a tube with some j'^oung caterpillars. He watched for some time, 
but there was no haste on the part of the caterpillars. He saw one 
of them go to an aphid, nose at it, push it, and bite at it, lifting it 
partly off the leaf (the aphid being the larger of the two) and shak- 
ing it as a dog would shake a rat. But the victim escaped and re- 
treated to the reverse side of the leaf and the larva rested. Next 
morning not an aphid was to be found. He obtained another small 
supply of willow aphids and presently saw a caterpillar bite one 
near the head and cat into the body so that its own head was buried, 
tho aphid not resisting, not even removing its beak from the leaf. 



CARNIVOEOUS BUTTERFLIES — CLARK 503 

After a monient the caterpillar let go and went its v. ay. Not find- 
ing more aphids on Tsillow, he searched many trees and shrubs in 
vain, but at last he found a young wild-plum somewhat infested 
with them and thereafter had a moderate supply. 

Relationships with ants. — Miss Morton noted that there are four 
species of ants guarding the aphids on the alders, and she found 
fewest caterpillars among those guarded by a large kind with black 
head and abdomen and red thorax which swarms all over them for 
the sake of the exceedingly sweet liquid they exude. The ants do 
not let the caterpillars alone, biting at them furiously whenever 
they see them; but until nearly fully grown the larva) lie concealed 
under the aphids with a web covering them and can not be reached 
without disturbing the aphids. 

One morning she found what she thought was a full-grown larva. 
It was resting in a fork of the bush close to a large colony of the 
aphids; but while she was wondering how she should get it in her 
box the way Avas suddenly made plain by a large ant rushing at it 
and biting it furiously. 

Once she came across a place where the large black and red ants 
were in a state of great excitement, running and biting in every di- 
rection, and had probably just discovered and routed a full-grown 
larva, as a large brown spot with all the aphids cleared off showed 
itself on the limb. I believe that this interpretation is not quite cor- 
rect. It is more likely that the brown spot represented the previous 
location of a fully grown larva which had finished feeding and 
dropped to the ground to pupate, and that tlie ants were annoyed at 
the discovery of the gap in the aphid colony. 

Mr. Scudder stocked with aphids an alder he had planted for the 
purpose in his garden, and on July 31 placed there a caterpillar in 
the second stage. The aphids were all small, and in two large clus- 
ters. The caterpillar moved about over the lower colony for an hour 
or more, apparently looking for a good place to push under it, and 
he observed its contact with the ants on 20 or 30 occasions. They 
tickled it with their antenna) and it remnined at such times abso- 
lutely quiet, generally moving off Avhen they left in the opposite 
direction to that in which it had been touched. They offered it no 
further attack. Having to leave for an hour, he found on his return, 
just at nightfall, that the caterpillar had quitted the lower colony 
for the upper, 6 to 8 inches distant up the stem, and the same process 
Avas repeating with the ants there. Tlie next morning it was found 
dead beside the colony, the outer edge of which it had eaten and 
removed, its body bitten just in front of the middle on each side in 
two or three places. The colony was composed of individuals too 
young to burrow under, and being unable to conceal itself it had 
fallen victim to the ants, then victoriously nursing their colony. 



504 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Mr. Edwards experimented amongst aphids on willow and plum, 
all small and naked species, with three caterpillars in the second, 
third, and fourth stages that he had received from Miss Morton. 
He laid the smallest larva on a willow leaf directly bj^ a small clus- 
ter of aphids at which a few ants were engaged. The caterpillar 
paid no heed to the aphids, but walked past and back and forth and 
was on both sides of the leaf. The ants were somewhat inquisitive, 
but did not trouble the caterpillar, nor were they disturbed by it. 
This went on for about 15 minutes, when he removed the larva. 

He put the next sized larva (second molt) on the same leaves, 
and the ants were agitated and ran about gesticulating, but paid 
more attention to their cows than to the larva. He put this larva 
on a plum leaf by a large colony of aphids at which were a dozen 
black ants. The ants sprang at it, bit at it everywhere, especially 
trying to get a hold under the edge of the body where the surface 
is naked, or at the joints of the segments, or at the second segment 
Avhich, being bent over the head, is more exposed than any other 
segment. One determined fellow seized on the second segment and 
was hardly to be dislodged, was at last by a violent jerking of the 
head, but wounded the larva so that blood flowed. When the attack 
was at the joints the larva squirmed so as to tighten the joints just 
there. These attacks were simultaneous and by at least six ants 
at a time. The larva crawled awa}^, and the assailants mostly 
dropped off. 

He then put the largest larva (third molt) amongst the same 
excited ants, and they attacked it in the same manner, but seemed 
Imable to make an impression on it. The hairs protected the whole 
upper side more sufficiently. The caterpillar crawled up and down 
over the leaf, followed by some of the ants which attempted to seize 
it at every vulnerable part. But no harm was done. He repeated 
the experiment the next day and came to the conclusion that the 
willow ants were mild tempered, and seemed unlikely to hurt a 
larva; but that the black ones were fierce and would attack when- 
ever they saw the enemy. 

He suggested that perhaps the butterfly avoids the fiercer ants 
and the aphids which they guard, and, therefore, is not to be looked 
for on certain plants. 

Though exhibiting great hostility toward the caterpillars the ants 
do not destroy the eggs. The butterflies do not pay any attention 
to the ants, nor do the}'^ disturb them. 

Enemies. — So far as is known this butterfly has no parasites, and 
nothing is known to feed upon it. 

Once with a knife blade I was dislodging a fully grown cater- 
pillar from a mass of aphids when it was struck by a large reduviid 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES CLARK 505 

bug {Arilus crlstatus) which up to that time I had not noticed. It 
dropped at once into my box apparently quite dead. Mr. Oiiarles 
O. Farquharson wrote that in Southern Nigeria he saw one of the 
brown hairy moth-like caterpillars of the lichen-feeding lyca^nid 
Eyitola honoHus attacked and killed by a reduviid bug {SpJiedano- 
lestes, sp.). 

Associates of the caterpillars. — On the alders two others insects 
are commonly found with the larva? feeding on the aphids, and some- 
times a third. Most common is the larva of a lace-winged fly 
{Hormosoma.) sp.), which is about the size of a full-grown aphid. 
This creature has the habit of covering its back with aphid wool 
and skins so that if it remains quiet it is scarcely to be distinguished 
from them. It is, however, rather active, and as the aphids are quite 
inert anything that resembles an aphid running about is to be re- 
garded with suspicion. Examination with a glass will reveal the 
two enormous mandibles characteristic of the lacewing larva. I 
have never seen this insect attack a caterpillar. 

Almost as common as the young lacewings are the grayish headless 
and legless grubs of a syrphid fly {Syrphus, sp.). These lie under 
the aphids, often in a web made by the caterpillars, and are difficult 
to find. According to Miss Morton these grubs stick the wool from 
the aphids on their own backs and are often difficult to detect. When 
fully grown they are frequently naked and are then quite conspic- 
uous. Miss Morton relates that she watched a little caterpillar just 
out of the egg spinning a web close to and almost under a large 
syrphid grub, so she supposes that these grubs do not injure the 
caterpillars. The little caterpillar crawled under the mouth of the 
grub and over its back without the least notice being taken by it. 
Miss Morton noticed that these syrphid grubs devour the aphids far 
faster than do the caterpillars. 

The ants take not the slightest notice of the young lacewings nor 
of the syrphid grubs, even though the latter are much more destruc- 
tive than the caterpillars against which they display so much 
ferocity. 

Lachnocnema bibulus 

The larva of this species is much like that of Megalopalpus. It 
has no glandular apparatus. Mr. Lamborn found that although it is 
protected by coarse hairs the ants certainly treat it with more 
consideration than they show toward Megalopalpus., and in one 
case he gained the impression that they were endeavoring to feed 
it in spite of its habit of preying on their homopteron proteges. 

The food of this species is the jassid Ossana hicolor, in every 
case fomid on similar food plants. 



50 J ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Mr. Laniborn sa^Y the llrst larva he discovered passin<^ its iiioutii 
to arid fro over tiny homopterons larvae as if it might be obtaining 
food, and he frequently saw the ants feed it Avith material o})(ained 
from the insect larvie- An ant and a caterpillar stand in front of 
each other mouth to mouth. Some jerky movements take place, 
the ant stroking the larva with its antennae after the manner of an 
(E cophyUa ant which, having stored itself with water, proceeds to 
dispense it to its fellows. 

After writing these notes he speculated as to whether he might not 
/lave been mistaken in thinking that the ants fed tlie larvte. He 
suggested that perhaps the position is reversed, and it is the larva 
that provides the ants with food, possibly buccal secretion or regurg- 
itated material, since it has no dorsal gland. 

AVhen he first had the larva it did not feed, as far as he could see, 
for 24 hours unless the ants gave it food, but it then ate a number 
of the jassids. 

He suggested that these carni\orous larvae when they find a 
colony of food insects have to make as big a meal as they can so 
as to be prepared against a possible long wait before tiiey find 
others. 

Mr. Charles O. Farquharson found a few larvne of this species, 
with a very large number of membracicls and a much larger num- 
ber of ants, on a small leguminous shrub {Cassia alata) at the 
base of a palm. The larvae, so far as he could see, are without 
honey glands or tubercles. They are rather bristly, with the head 
protected by the usual carapace. The color is a curious blend of the 
membracid color, with additions. In appearance they reminded him 
very much of certain large syrphid larvte which he had seen eating 
aphids, and the latter resembled bird droppings more than any- 
thing else. The young larvae are rather more bristly than the older 
ones, and less pronouncedly onisciform. 

These larvae made no attempt to eat the membracids, and the rela- 
tion between the lycaenid larvae and the membracids was with the 
larval stage of the latter, wdiich he saw as clearly as possible. 

The lycaenid larvae are very sluggish in their movements, and all 
the time he remained hardly moved an, inch. Whenever a membracid 
larva came near it got busy, and so did the ants. They all got busy 
in the same quarter, which was the upturned retrousse end of the 
abdomen from which, at fairly rapid intervals, a short process was 
thrust out on the tip of which a clear droplet was simultaneously 
visible and instantaneously mopped up by the most enterprising of 
the suitors, which was generally the lycamid in virtue of its super- 
ior size. Along with one or two ants it tickled with its anterior true 
legs the business end of the membracid, but by lolling in a gross and 



CARNIVOROUS BUTTERFLIES — CLARK 507 

unmannerly Avay right over the orifice it hardly gave the ants a 
chance. When an ant did get there first it generally shared by re- 
gurgitation the good thing with a fellow, and he was inclined to 
think on one or two occasions with the less gracious lycainid. But 
they showed no ill feeling if the latter got there first. 

Later he saw another larva feeding on the droplet, but not on the 
membracids. But in an examination of the frass of others he found 
undoubted insect remains. 

He noted that there is a suggestion of a monkey face in the pupa 
of this butterlly, but he thinks that, at a little distance off, the effect 
is much more of the bird-dropping order, in a different way from 
that of the larva, for the colors are those of brown paper and putty 
nicely blended. 

Triclema lamias 

At Moor Plantation, about 4 miles west of Ibadan, Southern 
Nigeria, Mr. Charles O. Farquharson came upon two lycsenid larvae 
which were slowly devouring a happy family of coccids {Lecanium 
\Sasseta\ farquharsoni) on a plant of liiibncaria iiiaxwia. They 
were dull green, onisciform, with just a hint of a white line along the 
edge of the mantle and a slightly lighter mid-dorsal line. There was 
a gland, but Mr. Farquharson could not see any sign of tubercles. 

Mr. Lamborn had previously found that the larvae of the allied 
T. lucret'dis are associated with coccid-tending ants, but did not 
think that they were carnivorous; he saw the larvaj eating the dark 
green cortex of a soft plant, but at some later stage they may, as 
suggested by Professor Poulton, have attacked the ant-tended coccids 
he found in tunnels in the same stems. 

SUMMARY 

The food habits of all the butterflies with carnivorous caterpillars 
represent merely an extension of the intimate association with ants 
which is eminently characteristic of the family to which they belong, 
for they all feed either upon the young of ants, upon material 
regurgitated by ants, or upon ant-tended insects. 

In the Lycaeninae the great majority of the species are vegeta- 
rians, but with marked carnivorous leanings as evidenced by the 
common display of cannibalism. In the genus Lyccena^ L. arion in 
the last larval stage turns upon the ants which up to that time have 
protected it in return for the honey it supplied them, and devours 
their young. The larva3 of L. alcon in the last stage similarly live 
on the juices of ant grubs. The ant-eating habit characteristic of the 
last stages of the caterpillars of Lycce-na arion and L. alcon passes 
into the ant-eating habit of Liphyra, which gives no honey in return. 



508 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

The larvae of Triclema seem to be at first vegetarian, later feeding 
on ant-tended coccids. From this it is but a step to the habits of 
/Spalgis, Fe7iiseca, Gen/dus, and Aslauga^ the caterpillars of which 
feed all their lives on ant-tended aphids or coccids, and to those of 
Lachnocnema and MegalopaJpus, which feed all their lives on ant- 
tended jassids and membracids. 

Besides the natural transition of lycienids into carnivores feed- 
ing on ants and on ant-tended insects, there is the equally natural 
transition, seen in Euliphyra., into a form Avhich induces ants to 
feed it. 

There is no doubt that when the life liistories of our western and 
southwestern and especially our tropical lycsenids have been worked 
out other examples of carnivorous forms will come to light. 



THE POTATO OF ROMANCE AND OF EEALITY 



By William E. SjVJFord 



[With 12 plates] 



The early history of Solanum tuberosum is obscured by conflicting 
stories, many of which must be relegated to the sphere of romance. 
In the United States, this plant is commonly called the " Irish po- 
tato " ; but it is only a potato by analogy and Irish by adoption. 
The true or original potato is the lyomoea batatas (pi. 2), which we 
now call "sweet potato," a plant belonging to the Convolvulus or 
morning-glory family ; the " Irish potato " belongs to the Solanum 
or nightshade family, of evil repute, many of whose members have 
poisonous or narcotic properties. The name potato is scarcely more 
applicable to it than " pig " to guinea pig or " dog " to prairie dog, 
3^et this is the only name by which it is laiown to English-speaking 
people. The French call it " pomme de terre," or earth apple ; the 
Spanish " papas," its original name ; the Germans " Erdapfel," 
" Erdbirne," " Grundbirne," or " Kartoffel," the last word a modifi- 
cation of " Tartuffel " or truffle. 

THE POTATO OF ROMANCE 

For the application of the name potato to Solanum tuberosum^ as 
well as for the erroneous statements regarding its origin, the respon- 
sibility must be charged to John Gerard, who in 1597 figured and 
described it under the title of " Potatoes of Virginia — Battata Vir- 
ginians sive Virginianorum <& Paffus?'' His illustrations (fig. 1) 
and description show that his plant was, indeed, Solanum tuberosum^ 
but he follows his description with the statement that "it groweth 
naturally in America, where it was discovered, as reporteth C. Clu- 
sius; since which time I have received roots thereof from Virginia, 
otherwise called Norembega, which growe and prosper in 1113^ gar- 
den, as in their own native countrie." - To this he adds " the In- 

* Reprinted by permission, slightly abridged, from The Journal of Heredity, Vol. XVI, 
No. 4, April, 1925. 

= The Herball or General Ilistorie of Plantos, gathered by John Gerarde of London, 
Master of Chirurgerie. p. 781. 1507. 

509 



510 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



dians call it 'Pappus,' " an assertion which would load one to believe 
that it was thus called by the Indians of Virginia. In reality the 
name "papas" w'as its vernacular name not in Vir<^inia, but in 




Fi(3. 1. — Tli(! fir.st publishod illtistral imi nt' Sutniiuin iiihnosnm. 'J'liis app.^arcd 
In Gerard's Herbal in 151)7 unUur the misleading name liatala viroiniana. 
Nine years earlier, Clusius, to whom Gerard rel'ers, liad received a drawing 
of this species from Philip de Sivry under the name Papas peruanum 

Peru, which, as we shall see later, was its origintxl habitat. As a 
matter of fact, the potato did not reach Virj^inia for more than 
120 years after the publication of Gerard's Herbal. It must have 
been Gerard's statement which led Thomas Jefferson to declare 



THE POTATO— SAFFOED 511 

that "round potatoes" {Solanum tuberosum) were found in Vir- 
ginia when first visited by the English.^ 

It is surprising that Jefferson should have made this mistake; 
for he may be called Virginia's historian, and he was especially in- 
terested in all things pertaining to food plants and their culture. 
Still more surprising is the mistake of Schoolcraft, one of our most 
reliable authorities on the history and customs of the American 
Indians. In an oflicial report published by the State of New York 
in 1846 he makes the following statement : " The potato was cer- 
tainly indigenous [to America]. Sir Walter Raleigh in his efforts 
at colonization had it brought from Virgina under the original 
name of ' Openawg,' But none of the North American tribes are 
known to have cultivated it. They dig it up like other indigenous 
edible roots from the forest, but it has long been introduced into 
their villages and spread over the northern latitudes, far beyond 
Ihe present limit of Zea maize." "* 

The persistence of erroneous stories regarding the potato is shown 
in the following quotation from a recent standard work of refer- 
ence, under the heading potato, " commonly known as the ' Irish, 
white, or round ' potato." " It seems to have been introduced into 
Europe as early as 1505. Sir Walter Raleigh in 1585 is said to 
have brought back the potato from a new country. Recent investi- 
gations, however, seem to give the credit of introducing the potato 
into England to Sir Francis Drake in 1586. As Batatas Virginiana 
it was figured and described by Gerard in 1597. It is probable 
that these circumstances led erroneously to giving the credit of 
introducing the potato to Raleigh instead of to Sir John Hawkins." 
And farther on in the same work, where it is assumed that the po- 
tato is really identical with the openawk of Virginia, appears tlie 
following : " The tubers of the wild S. tuherosum were small and 
attracted little attention. Heriot, in his Report on Virginia, de- 
scribes one plant ' with roots as large as a walnut and others much 
larger. They grow in damp soil, many hanging together, as if 
tied on ropes.' The modern potato has been bred so that the hills 
contain four to six tubers of uniform size, weighing perhaps 2 
pounds." ^ 

In a publication of more recent date appears the following : " In 
1565, Hawkins found potatoes at Santa Fe de Bogota and carried 
some thence. * * * It is quite possible that Hawkins carried 
the potato to North America in 1505, when he relieved the famine 
among the French on the banks of the River May, now St. John's, 



a Jefferson's Notes on Virginia, in Writings of Thomas Jefferson, 8 : 225. 1SS4. 
* Schoolcraft, II. U. Census of the Iroquois. New York State Documents, No. 2-i. 
p. 12. 1846. 

^ Bailey's Standard Cyclopedia of Horticulture, 5 :27G7, 2708. 1910. 



512 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Florida, and sailed northward towards Vir^^inia, w^here, in 1584, 
Heriot describes under the name Openawk what is supposed to be 
the potato." '^ 

Now, it is quite certain that Sir John Hawkins never visited 
Santa Fe de Bogota. Had he done so he might indeed have en- 
countered Solarium tuberosum.. On referring to his original narra- 
tive I find that in 1505, on his first voyage, his ship, the Jesus of 
Luheck, went for water and provisions to a port called Santa Fe 
on the coast of what is now Venezuela. There he received from 
Carib Indians — naked savages who slept in cotton hammocks and 
were armed with poisoned arrows — '' hennes, potatoes and pines." 
The " hennes " were an indigenous pheasant-like bird commonly 
called " curassow," which the Indians of that region still domesti- 
cate. The " pines " were pineapples " of the bignes of two fistes," 
the inside of which " eateth like an apple, but is more delicious 
than any sweete apple sugared." The " potatoes " were wdiat we 
now call sweet potatoes, " the most delicate roots that may be eaten." 
These were, after manioc (the roots from which tapioca is derived), 
the most important food staple of the Indians inhabiting the islands 
and shores of the Caribbean Sea, a region where Solanwm tubero- 
suvi was quite unknown at the time of Hawkins' visit. Sweet pota- 
toes were encountered by Columbus and his companions imme- 
diately after their arrival in the New World and were highly 
esteemed, not only for their delicious taste but for the ease with 
wdiich they could be propagated and their immunity from the hurri- 
canes which so frequently destroyed the plantations of upright 
manioc. Columbus never saw a tuber of Solanum tuherosum, nor 
was this plant encountered by Cortez in Mexico. 

The identity of Sir John Hawd^ins' potatoes was recognized by 
Sir Joseph Banks, who called attention to the fact that the sweet 
potato was introduced at a very early date into the Canarj^ Islands 
and Spain, whence it was imported in considerable quantities into 
EnMand long before the introduction of Solanum tuberosum.'' 

The openawk of Virginia, with which the potato was also con- 
fused, was described in 1588 by Thomas Heriot, the historian of 
Sir Walter Raleigh's second ill-fated colony on Roanoke Island, 
who published the first accurate account in English of North 
American Indians and their food-plants. It is quite certain that 
he never carried a tuber of Solanum tuberosuin from Virginia to 

* Sturtevaiit's Edible Plants. Edited by U. P. Iledrick, in Report of the New York 
Experiment Station, New York State Department of Agriculture, 27th Annual Report. 
Vol. 2, part 2, p. 546. 1919. 

''Banks, Sir Joseph. "An attempt to ascertain the time when the potato {Solanum 
tuberosum) was first introduced into the United Kingdom." Transactions Horticultural 
Society of London, 1 : 8-11. 1805. 



THE POTATO — S AFFORD 513 

England. His oponawk was not a Solanum, but Glycine apios, a 
tuber-bearing legiuninoiis plant not even remotely related to tlie 
Solanaceae. 

The tubers of Glycine apios were an important food staple of all 
the Indian tribes of eastern North America from the Gulf of 
Mexico to the St. Lawrence River. By the English colonies they 
were called Indian potatoes, bog potatoes, or ground nuts. By the 
settlers of New France the}'^ were called "chapelcts," or rosary 
roots, from their bead-like arrangements on strings. The various 
tribes of Indians had each its vernacular name for them. " Open- 
awk," "openaug," "penag," or "penac," were their Algonquin 
names. 

This name has come down to us in a variety of forms, according 
to the orthography of carl}^ writers. Strachey, in his account of 
the Jamestown Indians, called it " ouhpunnank " ; according to 
Zeisberger, its Delaware name was "hobbenac"; Peter Kalm gives 
its diminutive form " hopnis " (hope7iis), which may be trans- 
lated " those small roots." At the time of his visit the Swedish 
colonists still called it by its Indian name. In his description of 
the plant he says: "The roots resemble potatoes and were boiled 
by the Indians, who eat them instead of bread. Some of the 
Swedes at that time likewise ate this root for want of bread. 
Some of the English still eat them instead of potatoes. Mr. Bar- 
tram told me that the Indians, who live farther in the country, not 
only eat these roots, Avhich are equal in goodness to potatoes, but 
likewise gather the peas which lie in the pods of the plant and 
prepare them like common peas." ^ 

In early accounts of the settlement of New England these pota- 
toes, called ground nuts, were the chief reliance of the colonists in 
times of scarcity. In the personal narrative of Mrs. Mary Eow- 
landson, the wife of a clergyman, taken captive by the Indians 
during King Philip's War, she refers frequently to ground nuts, 
which she characterizes as the principal wild food staple of the 
Indians.® They were eaten either boiled, roasted, made into cakes, 
or added to broth of meal made of the bark of a tree.^° 

The Abbe Provancher ^^ gives the Quebec name of the ground nut 
as penac, without the prefix. The early missionaries of New France, 

8 Kalm, Peter. Travels in North America. London. 1772. See Pinkerton'.s Voyages, 
13:533. 1812. 

9 " Tbeir chief and commone.st food was ground nuts ; they eat also nuts and acorns, 
artichokes, lily roots, ground beans [Fulcdn comosa, now usually called hog peanuts], 
and several other weeds and roots that I know not." — Narrative of the captivity of Mrs. 
Mary Rowlandson, wife of the Rev. Joseph Rowlandson, who was taken prisoner when 
Lancaster (Mass.) was destroyed in the year 1676; written by herself. In Indian 
Captivities, by Samuel G. Drake, p. 54. 1851. 

'"Op. cit., p. 38. 

" Frovanchcr, Al>b(5 L. Floro Canadionne, lo-l. 1862. 



514 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

like the settlers of New Enuland, were obliged to resort to the roots 
when provisions were scarce. It is related that in the Avinter of 1613 
Pere Biarcl, with two companions, went in search of them in the 
Avoods near Port Royal. In the narrative it is stated that the roots 
were quite abundant in some localities, yet scarcely a patch could be 
found where the savages had not already been digging them, so that 
most of those they got were small, " and it was necessary to work 
pretty hard to gather enough for a day's living," ^^ 

Glycine apios of Linnaeus, or Apios tuherosa^ as it was called by 
Moench, is a twining, beanlike plant with alternate pinnately com- 
pound leaves composed of five to seven leaflets and dense racemes of 
small purplish brown papilionaceous floAvers having a broad reflexed 
standard and an incurved keel. The pod is a linear, slightly curved, 
many-seeded legume. The tubers, aptly described by Heriot in 1588, 
" are a kind of roots of round forme, some of the bignes of Avalnuts, 
some far greater, Avhich are found in moist and marish grounds grow- 
ing many together one hy another in ropes, or as thogh they were 
fastened with a string. Being boiled or sodden they are very good 
meate." ^^ 

In the accompanying illustrations, Plate 3 is the photograph of 
two flowering branches twining about a grapevine (natural size). 
It was collected in a '* marish " thicket in Virginia, July 31, 1923, by 
Mr. O. M. Freeman, of the Bureau of Plant Industry. Plate 4 is 
a clump of rootstocks from a single plant, Avith the tuberous swell- 
ings " groAving one by another in ropes, or as though they were fas- 
tened together Avith a string." It Avas collected in Takoma Park, 
near Washington, D. C, November 13, 1915, by Mr. J. B. Norton. 

The confusion between the openauk of Virginia and the papas, or 
Solanum tuho^osiwi of Peru can be traced to Clusius, Avho did not 
suggest that they Avere identical, but, in a description of the potato, 
published in his History of Rare Plants, after calling attention to 
the tubers called " papas," observed by Pedro de Cieza de Leon at 
Quito, he adds that those roots Avhich the Virginians called " Open- 
auk" were apparently not very unlike them.^* 

Clusius was referred to by Gerard as though he Avcrc responsible 
for identifying the Peruvian papas with the Virginian openaAvk. So 

i^Biard, Rev. Pierre. Relation de la Nouvelle France, p. 213. 1016. 

"See "A briofe and true report of the new found land of Virginia; of the commodities 
there found and to be raysod, as well merchantable, as others for victuall, building and 
other necessarie uses for those that arc and shall be planters there ; and of the nature 
and manners of the naturall inhabitants. Discovered by the English Colony there seated 
by Sir Richard Grenville Knight in the year ir>S5 .... at the special cliarge and 
direction of the Honorable Sir Walter Raleigh Knight, etc. . . . Directed to the 
Adventurers, Favourers, and Wohvillers of the action, for the inhabiting and planting 
there. By Thomas Heriot, servant of the above-named Sir Walter, a member of the 
Colony, and there employed in discovering. Imprinted in London, 1588." 

" " Quibus non valde absimlles videntur oae radices, quas A'irginienses Oponawk noml- 
nant." Oaroli Clusii, Plantarum Ilistorla liber quartus, p. LXXX. 1601. 



THE rOTATO — SAFFORD 515 

])roud was Gerard of possessin^^ this plant that he caused a portrait 
of himself to be engraA^ed with a flowering branch of it in his hand. 
This portrait (pi. 1), bearing the date of 1.598, was inserted at the 
end of the preface to his celebrated work. 

Gerard's misleading statement regarding the source of his potatoes 
has been discussed by several writers interested in the origin of cul- 
tivated plants. It has been suggested that his illustration of Sola- 
nuni tuberosum may have been prepared on the Continent, like many 
of the other engravings in the Herbal,^'' and it has even been inti- 
mated that he concealed the real origin of his tubers in order to 
" mystify the readers of his Herbal." ^^ Whatever maj'^ have been 
his motive, the effect of his account of Solanum tuberosum^ described 
and figured under the name "Battata virginiana," or Virginia pota- 
toes, was to fasten upon a Peruvian plant an English name already 
belonging to a very distinct species and to mislead posterity into the 
belief that S. tuberosum had been brought to England from Vir- 
ginia. The persistence of this error has already been noted. One 
of the writers above referred to, assuming Heriot's openawk to be 
the potato, quotes his statement that its tubers were found in " moist 
and marish grounds," notwithstanding the fact that S. tuberosum, 
will not grow in moist situations, nor do its tubers resemble those of 
Glycine apios, which " grow side by side, like beads on a string." 
Indeed there is no species of tuber-bearing Solanum indigenous to 
eastern North America; yet the woods are still full of Heriot's 
openawk. 

Among the earliest legends relating to the potato is that recorded 
in the minutes of the Royal Society of December 13, 1693, in which 
it is set down that Sir Robert Southwell, the president of the society, 
claimed that potatoes were brought into Ireland by his grandfather, 
who first had them from Sir Walter Raleigh. " This evidence," 
says Sir Joseph Banks, who seems to have accepted the statement 
as true, "proves not unsatisfactorily that the potato was first bro'ught 
to England either in the year 1586 or very soon after, and sent from 
thence to Ireland without delay by Sir Robert Southwell's ancestor, 
Avhere it w^as cherished and cultivated for food before the good 
people of England kncAv its value; for Gerard, who had planted it 
in his garden in 1597, recommends the roots to be eaten as a delicate 
dish, not as a common food;" and to this Sir Joseph adds " the name 
of the root in South America is papas and in Virginia it was called 
openawk." 

The Raleigh legend can be traced to Doctor AVright of Edinburgh ; 
it belongs in the same category with the story of George Washing- 

« See W. S. Mitchell, in the Gardeners' Chronicle, N. S., 25 : 533, May 1, 1886. 

" See B, D, .Jackspn, in the G.Trdeners' CTironitle, ThirU Series, 27 : 101, Mar. 10, 1900. 



516 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

ton and (he cherr}- tree. In the appendix to the report of the com- 
mittee of the board of a<iriculture concerning the culture and use 
of potatoes is the following communication dated March 14, 1795 : 
" In 1584 Sir Walter Raleigh, so celebrated for his worth, his valor, 
and his misfortunes, discovered that part of America called Norem- 
bega and by him named Virginia. Whether the admiral was ac- 
quainted with the potato on his first voyage or whether it was sent to 
him by Sir Thomas Grenville or Mv. Lane, the first governor of Vir- 
ginia, is uncertain. It is probable that he was possessed of the root 
about the year 1586. He is said to have given it to his gardener, in 
Ireland, as a fine fruit from America, and which he desired him to 
plant in his kitchen garden in the spring." Then follows an alleged 
conversation between Sir Walter and his gardener, Mdiich w^as later 
attributed to Sir Francis Drake and his gardener, to be quoted 
below. 

This transfer of the honor of introducing the potato from Raleigh 
to Drake was the result of investigators, who found that Sir Walter 
had not discovered Norembega, had never indeed been in Virginia, 
and that his unfortunate colony on Roanoke Island had been brought 
home by Sir Francis Drake. They did not, however, establish the 
fact that Sir Francis ever had a garden in Ireland or a gardener 
in any countrj^ There is not a particle of evidence that Sir Walter 
ever saw a potato in America, and the only opportunity which Sir 
Francis Drake had to see one was in November, 1578, when after 
passing through the Straits of Magellan he turned northward and 
received some potatoes from the natives of Mocha, an island in 
38° 30' south latitude on the coast of Chile. From this place he 
continued northward, looting the coast towns of Chile and Peru, 
and then " sailing along the backside of America to 43° of northerly 
latitude," after wdiich he returned to England across the Pacific and 
Indian Oceans, rounding the Cape of Good Hope, " the fairest cape 
we saw in the whole circumference of the earth." 

Completing his " renowned voyage, the second circumnavigation 
of the earth," in November, 1580, he was honored by a visit from his 
sovereign. Queen Elizabeth, who dined with him on board his ship, 
the Pelican, but there is no record that potatoes appeared on the bill 
of fare. Indeed, it was not until eight years afterwards that he is 
alleged to have introduced the potato. 

Following are the two legends, the second of which I have trans- 
lated from the work of a German clergyman. Rev. Dr. Carl Wil- 
helm Ernst Putsche, published in 1819 : 

THE RALEIGH LEGEND 

Solunuvi tuhcrosuin, the common potato oU our fields and gardens, was first 
introduced by Sir Walter Raleigli, wlio brought the roots from Quito and 
caused them to be planted in his own garden in Youghal, in Ireland. On the 



THE POTATO — SAFFORD 517 

plqnts arriving at maturity Sir Walter's old jiarilener, availiiiic himself of the 
privileges of his situation, gathered some of the fruit, or " potato apples," as 
they are now called, and tasted them. Those of our readers who have eaten 
of this particularly unpalatable and unwholesome production will feel no 
wonder that the ire of the old man should have been raised. Breaking in 
unceremoniously on his master's studies he exclaimed : " If this is your fine 
foreign fruit, I would not give it garden room, not I." " Well," said Sir 
Walter," " if it is as bad as you say, dig it up at once ; but if you find any 
roots worth looking at bring them to me." It is, perhaps, needless to say that 
the roots proved very well woi'th examining. 

THE DRAKE LEGEND 

The famous English admiral, Francis Drake, deserves the credit for the 
introduction of the potato into Europe. On his return from Virginia in 1580 
he brought thence the potato with him. * * * Wishing to domesticate it 
in England, he not only gave some of the tubers to John Gerard but also 
handed a part of them to his own gardener, telling him to plant the precious 
fruit in his garden. * * * When the seed apples ripened the gardener tasted 
tlicm and threw them away in disgust. Bringing a few of these apples to the 
admiral, he asked sarcastically, "Is this, then, the famous fruit from Amer- 
ica? " The admiral rei>lied with feigned gravity, " Very well, if you believe the 
plant to be worthless pull it up, roots and all, before it spoils the garden." 
The gardener did as he was bid ; but to his surprise luider each plant he 
found a considerable number of tubers of the same form as those he had 
laid in the earth the previous spring. 

That the Raleigh legend was generally accepted as true is sliown 
by Rev. Francis Mahoney in his celebrated Reliques of Father 
Prout, the frontispiece of which represents the first planting of the 
potato in Ireland with Sir Walter, pipe in month, as the central 
figure. Under the heading of " Father Front's Carousal," the 
attention of Sir Walter Scott, who is represented as a guest, is called 
to the potato. In handing it to him Knapp, the mayor of Cork, 
makes the following speech : 

Sir Walter, as it has been my distinguished lot — a circumstance that con- 
fers everlasting glory on my mayoralty — to have had the honor of presenting 
you yesterday with the freedom of the coi-poration of Cork, allow me to pre- 
sent you with our next best thing, a potato. 

Sir Walter Scott : 

I have received with pride the municipal franchise and I now accept with 
equal gratitude the more substantial gift handed me in this capital esculent 
of your happy country. 

Father Prout : 

Our round towers. Sir W^alter, come from the east, as wiU one day be 
proved ; but our potatoes come from the west ; Persia sent us one, and Virginia 
the other. We are a glorious people. Two hemisplu-res minister to our his- 
toric recollections; and if we look back on our annals, we get drunk with 
glory. * * * 

TC.OJl— 26 34 



518 ANNUAL. REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Sir Walter Scott : 

I Intend writing a somewhat in whit-h Sir "Walter Raleigh shall be a dis- 
tinguished and prominent character; and I promise you the potato shall not 
be forgotten. The discovery of that root is alone sufficient to immortalize the 
hero who lost his head so unjustly on Tower Hill. 

Father Proiit may be excused from accepting this legend as gos- 
pel ; for he was essentially a man of letters ; but we find it to have 
been accepted also by a professional horticulturist in a monograph 
on the potato, a copy of which was kindly sent me by the distin- 
guished authority on potato diseases, Dr. Otto Appel, Direldor der 
Biologischen Reichsanstalt f iir I^and und Forst-Wirthschaft at Ber- 
lin-Dahlem. " Most assuredly," says the author, " do I think that 
the descendants of Raleigh might be proud of a sprig of potato foli- 
age on their coat armor, as those of Appel de Kapoesang are of its 
tubers, with which the Austrian heralds have charged their 
shields." ^' 

Sir Walter's fame has never been perpetuated in the maimer sug- 
gested above. Worse than this, the credit for its introduction was 
transferred to Sir. Francis Drake and a monument to him was 
actually erected and still stands in the city of OfTenburg, Baden, a 
photograph of vvhich, received through the kindness of Doctor 
Appel, is herewith reproduced (pi. 5). 

The persistence of potato legends among literary people of ro- 
mantic temperament is not surprising. They would naturally resent 
the iconoclastic destruction of a good story ; but it is remarkable that 
in very recent works dealing Avith agricultural history these tales 
should be taken seriously. I have already referred to the account 
of the potato published in a modern cyclopedia of Horticulture. 
Following is a quotation from a more recent work on the historj'^ 
of American agriculture under the heading " How potatoes were 
brought to England : " 

Sir Francis Drake in 1.5S4-S6 conducted a piratical expedition to the AVest 
Indies. He captured several towns and cities and held each until its release 
was purchased by the inhabitants and aUso seized and plundered several 
Spanish ships. For some reason, eirher fearing capture by the Spaniards, 
if he returned to Europe by the usual route, or because of sickness among 
his men as think some authorities, he cruised up the Atlantic coast to return 
by a more northern route. He found the second Ilaleigh colony on Roanoke 
Island in a destitute condition and took the survivors back to England with 
him. Drake and Raleigh were old friends. Raleigh was interested in agri- 
culture and had then recently acquired a largo estate near Cork, in Ireland. 
It is a natural supposition that Drake had obtained the potatoes from the 

"A footnote in this little volume calls attention to the fact that Appel do Kapoesang 
was the first successful cultivator of the potato In Austria. See Johnson, George W., 
The potato : Its culture, uses, and history, p. 3. London, 1S47. 



THE POTATO S AFFORD 519 

Spaniards in tlie West Indies, wliere they grow fairly well in the mountainous 
sections " and gave them to Ralei.i,ii and that Raleigh gave them a trial on his 
Ireland farms as has been so conmionly stated. 

Notwithstanding the author's theory that Dralce liad obtained 
Irish potatoes from tlie West Indies, he once more confuses them 
with the Virginian openawk, inchided b}^ Heriot in his list of foods 
of Roanoke Island, declaring that if any man is to be given credit 
for the introduction of Irish potatoes into European agriculture, 
the honor should go to Heriot rather than to Drake or Raleigh.^" 

THE rOTATO OF REAIJTY 

Writers on the origin of cultivated plants Avho for their informa- 
tion depend upon the accounts of early travelers, missionaries, and 
colonists are apt to be mistaken in their identification of species. 
Many of these accounts, written by persons ignorant of botanical 
relationships or the essential features by which genera and species 
may be distinguished, give little indication of the true nature of the 
plants they describe. Thus, as I have already shown, Heriot's ac- 
count of the openauk, of which he described only the tubers and the 
habitat, caused it to be confused for more than three centuries with 
the potato. From the account of the botanist Kalm, who speaks of 
its bean-like pods, we know at once that the plant belongs to the 
Leguminosse. Even botanists have disputed for years the origin of 
several well-known plants, including beans, peanuts, and squashes, 
owing to the resemblance of certain species of the Old World to those 
of America. 

TESTIMONY FROM PREinSTORIC T0:MBS 

Fortunately, for a knowledge of the economic plants of western 
South America we do not have to turn to literature. Along the 
arid desert which forms the Pacific coast of Peru end northern 
Chile there is a succession of cemeteries in which mummies are 
found accompanied not only by desiccated plants and plant prod- 
ucts, but also, in many cases, by funeral vases of terra cotta, some 
of which represent food staples and fruits of the ancient inhabi- 
tants. Owing to the absence of rain in this region the soil remains 
impregnated with sodium nitrate which has acted as a preservative 
of organic material, so that even in ancient refuse heaps on the 
surface as well as in the tombs, both vegetable and animal sub- 
stances have been preserved in a remarkably perfect condition. 

'* It has been established without any doubt that Solanum. tuberosum did not grow in 
the West Indies until the early part of the eighteenth century, wlicn it was cultivated 
in the mountains of .lamaica from tubers imported from Ireland and I-anca«liire under 
the name of Irish potatoes. 

'"Carrier, li.vman. The Beginnings of Agriculture in America, pp. SI and 84. 102-';. 



520 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Among the plant products and representations of fruits and vege- 
tables dug uj) by the author in Peru, the most common were maize 
and maize gods, beans {Phaseolus vulgaris) both round and kidney- 
shaped, lima beans {Phaseolus lunatus) shaped somewhat like the 
Old World broad bean or faba, peanuts {Amchis hypogcBa)^ several 
varieties of squashes {Cucurhita pepo)^ round and crook-necked, 
smooth and warty, hard-shelled gourds {Cucui-hita lagenaria) used 
as containers, and — most interesting of all — So/an u?/i fuherosiwi, the 
papas of the Quichuas, either dried or represented in terra cotta, 
sometimes as facsimiles of the original tubers, but more often conven- 
tionalized in black or red pottery.-*' Dried potatoes were found by 
the author in graves at Arica on the coast of northern Chile in 1887, 
together with arrow points and llama-drivers' slings from the elevated 
plateau about Lake Titicaca. Terra cotta huacas, or funeral vases, 
representing potatoes were most abundant in graves near Chimbote 
and Chepen, northern Peru. In the accompanying illustrations, Plate 
G, Figure 2 shows a collection of food products from pre-Columbian 
graves in the New York Museum of Natural History ; Plate 7, Fig- 
ure 1 is a funeral vase from Chimbote representing two potatoes 
in natural colors; and Plate 7, Figures 2 and 3, show vases of 
black ware from the same locality in the form of conventionalized 
potatoes. Solanum tuberosum can not be cultivated successfully 
at low elevations in the tropics, so that the potatoes, which were 
evidently an important food staple of the early inhabitants of the 
Chimbote region, must have been brought down from the nearby 
mountains. These dried potatoes and representations of potatoes 
were certainly interred with the dead in pre-Columbian times. 
They are the most ancient illustrations of potato culture in exist- 
ence. 

TRUE HISTORY OF THE POTATO . 

The first published account of Solanurn tuherosmn is that of 
Pedro de Cieza de Leon, who, in 1538, encountered it in the upper 
Cauca valley between Popayan and Pasto, in what is now Colombia, 
and afterward at Quito, now the capital city of Ecuador. At that 
time he passed through villages so high above sea level that maize 
would not grow in their vicinity, where the principal food crops 
mentioned by him were papas and quinoa (the minute seeds of 
C heno,podiuni quinoa)^ both of which are still the most important 
foods of the mountains and elevated plateau of western South 
America. 

In his Chronica del Peru, a journal Avritten from night to night 
while his comrades were sleeping, Cieza de Leon describes the papas 

™ See Safford, W. B. Food plants and textiles of anciont America, in Troceedings of 
Uie 19th International Congress of Americanists, pp. 12-30, 1917. 



THE POTATO SAFFORD 521 

as " a kind of ground nut, which when boiled becomes as soft as a 
cooked chestnut, but which has no thicker skin than a truffle." After- 
wards, in writing of the elevated Collao region, he speaks of it in 
greater detail. The inhabitants of that part of the world live in 
villages surrounded by cultivated fields: "Their principal sustenance 
is papas, which, as I have already stated in this history, are like 
turmas de tierra. These they dry in the sun and keep from one 
harvest to the other. And they call this papa, after it is dried, 
' chufio,' and among them it is esteemed and held precious ; for they 
have no ditches like many others in this kingdom to irrigate their 
fields, and if there is a dearth of natural water to make their crops 
grow they suffer from lack of food and work unless they are pro- 
vided with this sustenance of dried papas. And many Spaniards 
have become rich and returned to Spain prosperous only from 
carrying chuiio to sell to the mines of Potosi." -^ 

Cieza also describes the great sandy desert along the Pacific coast 
traversed at intervals by ribbons of verdure, where streams from 
the Andes make their way seaward, not alwa3'^s, however, reaching 
their destination. In this region he was much impressed by the 
numerous cemeteries to which I have already referred, and by the 
vestiges of cultivated fields which, even at that early time, had long 
been abandoned, and whose ancient tillers were sleeping in the 
adjacent tombs. 

Cieza's Chronica, first published in folio at Seville in 1553, was 
followed the next year by a small size edition printed at Antwerp by 
the famous publisher Jan Steeltz and by a third, in Italian, printed 
at Rome in 1555. It was eagerly read as the first authentic account 
of South America. 

Padre Jose de Acosta, a Jesuit missionary, who was in South 
America from 1571-1576, was the next author to treat of the Peru- 
vian papas which he observed in their original habitat. After writ- 
ing of yuca or manioc in his account of the edible roots of the 
New World, he says : " In the elevated region of the Sierra of Peru 
and the provinces which they call the Collao, composing the greater 
part of that kingdom, where the climate is so cold and dry that it 
will not permit the cultivation of wheat or maize, the Indians use 
another kind of roots which they call ' pappas,' a kind of turmas 
de tierra that send up scant foliage (echan arriba una poquilla hoja). 
These pappas they collect and leave in the sun to dry well, and 
breaking them they make what they call ' chunyo ' Avhich will keep 
for food in that form many days and serves them for bread; and 
of this chunyo there is great commerce in that kingdom Avitli the 

^ Parte primera de La Chronica del Peru — Hecha par Pedro de Cieza de Leon, Ant- 
werp edition, p. 243. 1554. 



522 ANNUAL KEPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

mines of Potosi. Pappas are also eaten fresh either boiled or 
roasted; and from one of the mildest varieties which also grows in 
warm situations they make a certain ragout or cazuela which they 
call ' locro.' Indeed, these roots are the only wealth of that land, 
and when the season is favorable for the crop they (the Indians) 
are glad; for many years the roots are spoiled and frozen in the 
ground, so great is the cold and bad climate of that region." 

In preparing chuho, potatoes were subjected to freezing as well 
as drying. The process is described in detail by Padre Bernabe 
Cobo, who writes as follows: "The tubers are. gathered at the begin- 
ning of the cold season, in May or June, spread out on the ground, 
and exposed for a period of 12 or 15 days to the sun during the day 
and the frost at night. At the end of this time they are somewhat 
shriveled, but still watery. In order to get rid of the water, they 
are then trampled upon and then left for 15 or 20 days longer to the 
action of the sun and frost, at length becoming as dry and light as 
a cork, very dense and hard, and so reduced in bulk that from four 
or five fanegas of fresh tubers there results only one fanega of 
chunyo." Cobo adds that chunyo thus prepared will remain unspoiled 
for many years and that the Indians of the Collao provinces eat no 
other kind of bread. "A choicer and more highly prized quality is 
j^repared by soaking the tubers in water for about two months 
after their preliminary drying. They are then taken out and dried 
in the sun once more. This quality of chunyo, which is chalky white 
within, is called ' moray.' From it a kind of flour, finer than wheat 
flour, is prepared by the Spanish women, who use it for starch, 
biscuit, and sweetmeats of all kinds, like those confections usually 
made with sugar and almonds." -- 

In the economic herbarium of the United States Department of 
Agriculture are specimens of chuno from ancient coast graves, and 
in various museums of ethnology in America and the Old World 
there are huacas, or funeral vases, representing tubers of Solarium 
tuherosum similar to those I have already described. The accom- 
panying illustration, Plate G, Figure 1, for which I am indebted 
to the Hon. Hiram Brigham, shov/s the elevated Peruvian Collao 
with piles of potatoes and Quichua Indians preparing chuiio exactly 
as they did at the time of the visits of Cieza de Leon, Acosta, and 
Padre Cobo. Plate 8 is an original photograph of moray, or white 
chuno, in the United States National Museum, collected by Mr. O. F. 
Cook, of the Bureau of Plant Industry, between Sicuani and Santa 
Rosa, on the road from Cusco to Lake Titicaca. 



"Cobo, Beinabe, Histoiia del Nuevo Mundo (1653) 1:361. 1890. 



THE POTATO SAFFOKD 523 

POTATOES CULTIVATED BY THE INDIANS OF SOUTHEKN CHILE 

In November, 1578, Sir Francis Drake encountered tubers of 
Solanuni tuberosum in use as a food staple by the Indians of 
southern Chile, where they are still extensively cultivated. Their 
occurrence at sea level in this part of South America is not sin<^ular, 
for, as all students of plant distribution well know, many species 
characteristic of the Andean vegetation thrive at altitudes lower and 
lower as they extend southward, reaching sea level in the region of 
the Chonos Archipelago and the Straits of Magellan. Within less 
than a decade after Drake's visit, these tubers had become a regular 
food on Spanish ships. On March 16, 1587, Thomas Cavendish, 
stopping at St. Mary Island, near Concepcion, southern Chile, found 
" Cades of strawe filled with potato rootes, which were very good to 
eat, ready made up in the storehouses for the Spaniards, against 
they should come for their tribute." At this very early date, less than 
a century after the discovery of America, Cavendish found wheat 
and barley in cultivation in southern Chile, and "Hogges and 
Hermes " had also been introduced. " The Indians of this Island," 
said Master Francis Pretty, who wrote the narrative of the voyage, 
•'are held in such slavery by them (the Spaniards) th. "^ they dare 
not eate a Henne or an Hogge themselves. But the Spania. ;ls have 
made them all in that Hand Christians. Thus wee fitted ourselves 
here with corn as much as wee would have and as many Hogges as 
wee had salt to powder them withal, and great store of Hennes, with 
a number of Bagges of Potato rootes, and about 500 dried Dogge- 
fishes, and Guinie Wheat which is called maiz (by the Spaniards)." 

Sailing northward, looting the coast towns as he went, Cavendish 
captured the Santa Anna, the Spanish " admirall," or flagship, off 
the coast of Mexico, taking from her three young Filipinos, " borne 
in the Isles of Manilla " ; also a Spaniard, whom he caused to be 
hung, after having been piloted by him from the Mexican coast to 
Guam and the Philippines. The " potato rootes " he encountered in 
the latter islands were not Solanum tuberosum, but sweet potatoes, 
Ipomoea batatas, easily recognizable by their Aztec name, " Camote," 
which had accompanied them from Mexico, and which they still 
bear in those islands.^^ 

Cavendish, like Drake, returned to England around the Cape of 
Good Hope. Whether he brought back potatoes with him is not 
known, but it is quite certain that it was not he who introduced them 

23 Camotes, or sweet potatoes, are the principal food crop of the hill-tribes of northern 
Luzon, where they are extensively cultivated on terraced hillsides. It is declared by the 
natives that their fathers always possessed thcin. 



524 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

into Europe, for lie arrived at Plymouth the 9th of September, 
1588, and more than eij^ht months before this, on January 26, 1588, 
Charles de L'Ecluse, or Carolus Clusius, at that time in charge of 
the botanical gardens of Rudolph II, at Vienna, received from 
Philippe de Sivry, Prefect of Mons in the Belgian province of Hai- 
nault, two potato tubers which he planted in his garden. These had 
been sent to de Sivry by an attache of the papal legation, who had 
them from Italy, where they had been in cultivation since about 
1585. The j^ear following de Sivry sent to Clusius an excellent col- 
ored drawing, now in the Plantin-lSIoretus Museum at Antwerp, 
which bears the following inscription in the handwritmg of Clusius : 

Taratoufli a Philippo de Sivry acceptum Viciinao 2fi jannurii 158S. — Papas 
Peruanum Petri Ciecae. 

This drawing is reproduced in the accompanying illustration (pi. 
9). Its accuracy is shown by comparing it with plate 10, an original 
photograph of a specimen in the economic herbarium of the United 
States Department of Agriculture, propagated from a tuber collected 
at Oruro, Bolivia, by Mr. W. F. Wight (No. 415). 

At the time the drawing was made an interest in the ])otato had 
been awakened by the appearance of Acosta's account of the New 
World, published first at Salamanca in Latin in 1588-89, and the 
following year at Seville in Spanish, under the title Historia Natural 
y Moral de las Indias. Acosta dedicated his work to " La Serenis- 
sima Infanta, Doiia Isabel Clara Eugenia de Austria." 

It seems strange that a nourishing and easily cultivated food 
staple like the potato, to whose excellence both Cieza and Acosta had 
called attention, shoidd have to wait so long for recognition. Other 
cultivated plants of the New World, like maize, beans, and tobacco, 
became Avidely spread in a remarkably short time after the discovery 
of America. 

The exact date of its introduction into Europe is not known. It 
was, however, undoubtedly carried thither from Peru as a curious 
food of the New World, possibly by the same Spaniards who, accord- 
ing to Cieza, returned to Spain after having grown rich by carrying 
chuiio to the mines of Potosi. 

Owing to Clusius' delay in publishing his data, he was anticipated 
by Gerard, who was indebted to him for information regarding the 
potato, as he himself states in his Herbal. It was not Gerard who 
gave to the potato its accepted botanical name, but Kaspar Bauhin, 
who, in 1596, described it accurately under the very appropriate 
name, Solanum tuherosuni, which Linnaeus adopted.-^ 

Like Clusius, Bauhin identified it with the papas of Spanish 
America. His illustration was made from a specimen grown in the 

" See Kaspar Bauliin, Pbytopinax, seu enuuuralio plantaium. 302. Basil. 1596. 



THE POTATO SAFFORD 525 

garden of Doctor Scholtz at Breslau, in Silesia, to which I shall 
refer later. Clusiiis' description, although antedating the publica- 
tions of Gerard and Bauhin, did not appear until 1600.^^ 

INTRODUCTION OF THE POTATO INTO CULTURE 

For more than a century SoJanum tuberosum continued to be 
grown as a curious exotic plant in gardens both in England and 
on the Continent before it began to attain a reputation as a food 
staple. Its value was first recognized in Ireland, where conditions 
of soil and climate were peculiarly favorable for its propagation. 
An illustration after a painting by Francis Walker of two young 
women digging potatoes in County Donegal was published in Frank 
Matthews's Ireland (edition of 1912), The surrounding landscape 
in this lovely picture (pi. 11) suggests the coast islands of southern 
Chile where both Drake and Cavendish found the potato extensively 
cultivated in the sixteenth century, as related in the first part of this 
paper. Not only do the Irish and Chilean habitats resemble each 
other but the climates of the two regions are also similar; that of 
southern Chile, influenced by the Humboldt Current which sweeps 
northward along the coast, and that of Ireland by the beneficent 
Gulf Stream, which tempers the climate of the islands and shores 
of the western coast. 

It was the Irish peasants who first took up the cultivation of the 
potato, and it soon became their only food crop, serving for break- 
fast, dinner, and supper. Their affection for it is shown by many 
pet epithets, including the " flowery potato," and the " laughing 
potato." The simplest form in which it was eaten by them was 
baked or boiled and dipped in a saucer of salted' milk. Between 
meals the children were allowed to roast potatoes on their own ac- 
count in the turf or wood ashes. It was a common sight in passing 
a cottage to see a group of little ones run to the door, each with a 
roasted potato in his hand. While they lasted there was no dearth 
of wholesome food. When the supply was exhausted it was neces- 
sary to buy oatmeal, which was made into a sort of pudding or thick 
porridge called " stir about." Potatoes served as food also for the 
family pig, the dog, and a few fowds. The poor had little else ex- 
cept perhaps buttermilk at breakfast and supper. If the family 
possessed a cow, there was also butter, which was used for frying 
delicious potato cakes. It was not long before the Irish learned to 
use potatoes as a source of whislty, in the preparation of which they 
reduced the potatoes to a paste or pulp, added yeast and, after it 
had undergone a process of fermentation, distilled it into a clear 



^5 Clusius, Rariorum plantarum historia, lib. 4, p. 78, 1601. 



526 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

alcoholic liquor which was called " poteen " from the small pots 
used in the process. 

From its skin they prepared a soup, and they used the ^Yate^ in 
which potatoes are boiled as a curative wash for sprains and broken 
limbs. Perhaps the most delicious potato preparation of all was 
that called " pardy " or " cal-carron," made from new potatoes. 
For the Irish the potato acquired an almost sacred significance, as 
the daily bread which they received in answer to their prayers. 
In certain localities it was customary at the time of planting for 
the parish priest to march solemnly to the field and bless it, pray- 
ing for a bountiful harvest. The potato, however, was not an 
unmixed blessing to Ireland. Though it yielded an abundant re- 
turn for little labor, yet the occasional failure of the crop caused 
unspeakable misery to the people, for in their economy it had taken 
the place of oatmeal and all other foods.-*^ 

Bj?^ whom and when the potato was introduced into Ireland is 
not definitely known, but we know that it was cultivated there as a 
field crop before 1G63, a year of dearth in Great Britain and Ireland. 
In March of that year the attention of the Royal Society was 
called to it as a crop of national importance by Mr. Buckland, a 
Somersetshire gentlenuxn, and such members of the society as had 
lands adapted to its culture were entreated to plant the new vegetable. 
The recommendation was reported favorably by a committee to 
whom it was referred, and Mr. Evelyn, the celebrated -practical 
gardener of that period, was requested to enforce the society's 
opinion in the Sylva, at that time published under the society's 
auspices. It is evident that it found no favor with him, for in 
1G64, in his Kalendarium Hortensi, the first gardener's calendar 
published in Britain, he gives tlie following advice : " Plant 
potatoes in February in your worst ground." In 1G64, before the 
Sylva appeared, there was published the first pamphlet advocating 
the cultivation of the potato in England. It bears the follow- 
ing prolix title: "England's happiness increased, or a sure and 
easy remedy against all succeeding dear years by a plantation of 
the roots called potatoes, whereof (with the addition of wheat 
flour) excellent, good, and wholesome bread nujy be made every 
year, eight or nine months together, for half the charges as formerly. 
Also, by the planting of these roots 10,000 men in England and 
Wales who know not how to live or what to do to get a maintenance 
for their families, may, ofi' 1 acre of ground, make £30 jjer annum. 
Invented and published for the good of the poorer sorts by John 
Forster, Gent., of Harslop, in Buckinghamshire." The author identi- 

-" Kor most of tliis iiiforination I am indcl)tod to Rev., John J. Qucally, icctor of the 
Church, of the Trausflfeoiration, Washington, D. C. 



THE POTATO — S AFFORD 527 

fies the potatoes refoimnen(l(Ml as Irish potatoes, dechirin/:!^ that 
•" these roots, although they came at first from the Indies, yet 
prosper well in Ireland, where there are whole fields of them, from 
whence they have been brouo-ht into Wales and the north parts of 
England, where they likewise prosper and increase exceedingly." 

After recommending methods for their cultivation, Forster gives 
directions for making jjotato bread, potato biscuits, potato pudding, 
potato custards, and potato cheese cakes. He declares that in good 
ground there will be a yield of 3 or 4 heaped bushels per rod, for 
which no one will grudge a shilling per bushel. Treating the 
propagation of potatoes as a political measure, he earnestly recom- 
mends the King, Charles II, to order potatoes to be imported from 
Ireland; that exevy man in every parish shall grow an acre or two; 
and suggests that out of every £30 worth grown in a parish, £5 
shall be paid as tribute to the King. 

Notwithstanding the publication of this earnest appeal and its 
indorsement by the Royal Society, the introduction of the jjotato 
as a field crop was extremely slow. Before 1699 potatoes had been 
introduced into Lancashire, where they became very common. It 
was from Lancashire and Ireland that they were carried to the 
British West Indies in the early part of the eighteenth century 
and were propagated in the mountains of Jamaica under the name 
Irish potatoes, and from Lancashire also they began to spread over 
England. They were mentioned slightingly in publications early in 
the eighteenth century. Loudon and Wise, in the seventh edition 
of their " Compleat Gardener " published in 1719 did not even 
mention the potato, and as late as 1770 it was not known generally 
in the southwestern counties. 

In Scotland potatoes were first cultivated as a field crop in 1739, 
but were not known in the Highlands until 1743. Although their 
culture by the cottagers was successful they did not meet with favor 
among the higher classes, while zealous Presbyterians looked at 
them askance, declaring that potatoes are not mentioned in the Bible. 
It was not until they were urged by hunger that the Scotch 
seriously took up the cultivation of the potato and became convinced 
of its excellent qualities.^^ 

THE POTATO IN J^RUSSIA AND FKANCE 

Everyone knows the story of the introduction of potato culture 
into Prussia, which Frederick the Great and his eccentric father 
were so active in accomplishing. It has recently been told anew in 
a paper read before the second Potato Congress held at Breslau in 

^ For much of the foregoing iufonuutioii relating to the iutroduction of the potato 
into Irelaud and Great Britain I am. indebted to a monograph entitled " The Potato : Its 
Culture, Uses, and History," by George W. Johnson. London, 1847. 



528 ANNUAL. REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

October, 1923, by E. Duczek.-^ The important part vvliich the 
potato has assumed in the economy of the German people is indi* 
catcd in this article by the preliminary prayer : " Unser taeglich 
Brot, gib uns Heute!" — and the reverence felt for the beneficent 
autocrat is expressed at the end in a beautiful tribute to "• Fridericus 
Immortalis," In preparing his paper, Duczek had access to docu- 
ments in the archives at Breslau, many of them faded and yellow 
with age, in which potatoes figure under the names " Kartoffeln," 
" Tartofi'eln," and the quaint hybrid combination " Erdtoffeln." 
Like all of his predecessors in potato literature, he begins Avith the 
Drake, Hawkins and Heriot myths and the story of the disgruntled 
gardener — Avhether Raleigh's or Drake's, he does not specify. 

He then goes on to tell the story of the introduction of the potato 
into his native province, pointing out that it was first cultivated at 
Breslau in the garden of Dr. Laurentius Scholtz. This celebrated 
garden, already referred to as the source of the potatoes used by 
Bauhin for his illustrations, was reproduced as f aithfull}^ as f)ossible 
in honor of the Potato Culture Exj)osition of 1913 at Breslau. The 
first active measures taken for the introduction of the potato into 
Prussia were those of the great Elector, Frederick William, who in 
1G51 caused potatoes to be planted in the Berlin Lustgarten. On 
Plate 12 the Grosser Kurf uerst is shown with his consort inspecting 
the potatoes planted by his orders. His grandson. King Frederick 
William I, in his effort to foster potato culture, resorted to drastic 
steps, threatening to cut off the noses and ears of all who refused 
to plant them. He also decreed that they should be fed to the poor 
inmates of the Berlin Charitee and presented to the hospital a piece 
of land to be used solely for their cultivation: but the real credit for 
promoting potato culture in Prussia, especially in Silesia and Pom- 
erania, must be awarded to his illustrious son, Frederick the Great. 
In the year 1744, Frederick II caused seed potatoes to be gratui- 
tously distributed and compelled the peasants to cultivate them. Not 
only were edicts and ordinances issued, but the local authorities Avere 
warned that their duties did not cease with the promulgation of the 
decrees. They were held responsible for their practical enforce- 
ment through the aid of the land dragoons, and were expected to 
make official reports from time to time setting fortli the condition 
of potato plantations in their districts and the zeal shown by the 
peasants in cultivation of the crop. 

In the Breslau archives Herr Duczek found two original royal 
circulars, the first dated March 24, 1756, the second April 5, 1757, 
both of them showing remarkable familiarity on the part of Fred- 

=* See Zeilsclirift (lor Laiulwirthschaftskanimor Sehlesien. Kartoffclmiinmcr. 27 
Jalii-gang, p. 1152. Oct. 27, 192.'?. For this publication I am indebted to Dr. Otto 
Appol, Direlitor dcr Biologi.schen Reiclisanstalt fiir Land u. Forst-Wirtliscbaft, Berlin- 
Dahlem ; also for the number of Mar. 15, 28 Jahrgang, 1924. 



THE POTATO — SAFFOED 529 

erick the Great with the best methods of potato culture. In the 
second circular, which was published in full in the later number of 
the Breslau Zeitschrift, the King advises that potatoes be planted 
in the dark of the moon. He also indicates the proper time of plow- 
ing, manuring, and planting the fields, cautioning the farmers that 
if they plant small potatoes they will raise small potatoes, while 
the best results will follow from the selection of large tubers, which 
should be so cut as to leave an eye in each piece. He also instructs 
them how to keep potatoes in straw-lined pits through the winter, 
and that although potato patches do not need the same protection 
from cattle and sheep as grain fields, yet care should be taken not 
to herd swine in their neighborhood. After digging them, at Mi- 
chaelmas, the hogs need no longer be kept away, but maj'^ be allowed 
to rush in and eat their fill of the tubers left in the ground. The 
circular ends with various recipes for the preparation of potatoes 
as food for both man and beast. 

These circulars, enforced by local officials, had their effect, but 
it was famine, caused by the Silesian wars, especially the Seven 
Years War, which established potato culture in Prussia on a firm 
basis. 

The introduction of potatoes into France was largely due to the 
celebrated Antoine Auguste Parmentier, who, while a prisoner in 
Germany, during the Seven Years War, was fed upon potatoes and 
learned to like them. He was then serving as pharmacist in the 
Hanover army, and during his hours of captivity he conceived the 
idea of introducing potato culture on a grand scale into his own 
country. Potatoes had hitherto been in bad repute in France, owing 
to the attacks made upon them by physicians, who declared that they 
were poisonous and were the cause of many maladies. A set of 
colored woodcuts published in a series of educational pictures, called 
the Serie Encyclopedique " Gluq, des Le^'ons des Choses Illustrees,-" 
tells the story of Parmentier's success. After his return to France, 
while serving as pharmacist at the Invalides, he entertained Ben- 
jamin Franklin, Lavoisier, and other distinguished guests with a 
great dinner at which the bill of fare consisted entirely of potatoes 
served in various ways. Yet there were still learned agronomists 
who declared that although the potato might be a good A^egetable it 
would be dangerous to introduce it, for it would ruin the soil wher- 
ever it was planted. Then Parmentier, to prove the falsity of these 
assertions, obtained from Louis XVI permission to plant potatoes 
in a piece of land called "Les Sablons," notorious for its sterility. 
When in a short time the potatoes sprouted and this field, which 
hitherto had been Imown only as a sandy waste, assumed the appear- 
ance of a blooming garden, people began to believe that Parmentier 



=» 8ce Journ. Heredity, 16 : 222. 1025. 



530 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

was rigrlit. Til order to forward his ends, lie caused his potato planta- 
tion to be <^uarded bj' soldiers in full uniform throughout the day, 
under the pretext of . preventing depredations ; but at night the 
guard Avas Avithdrawn, Avhereupon a number of people, allured by the 
attraction of forbidden fruit, came secretly to steal potatoes, to 
plant them in their OAA'n gardens or to eat them. This was the very 
object which the good Parmentier had in view. When the planta- 
tion at Les Sablons Avas in full bloom Parmentier made a great 
bouquet of potato blossoms which he carried to Versailles and pre- 
sented to Louis XVI. The King placed one of the flowers in his 
buttonhole, and in the evening Marie Antoinette appeared with a 
cluster in her hair. This Avas sufficient. All the court followed the 
example of their sovereigns. In graciously accepting Parmentier's 
offering, the King said : " France Avill thank you some day fof hav- 
ing found bread for the poor." 

No statue has been erected in Parmentier's honor, but on his graA^e 
ill the cemetery of Pere Lachaise potatoes bloom each A'ear, showing 
that he has not been forgotten by the j^eople of France. 

THE POTATO IN NORTH AMERICA 

Instead of having been taken from North America to Great 
Britain and Ireland, as set forth in the myths regarding the "Vir- 
ginia potato," Solamnn tiiberosuiii Avas first brought from Ireland to 
North America, Avhere it is knoAvn as the " Irish potato." This hap- 
pened in 1719, when a colony of Scotch-Irish immigrants established 
a settlement at Londonderry, Rockingham County, N. H., bringing 
Avith them potatoes and flax. Hazlett, in his history of Rockingham 
County, gives the following account of this settlement : 

The first crops raised by the emigrants were potatoes and flax. Thoy had 
brought their seed and sitinning wheels from Ireland and were the first to 
cultivate the potato and manufacture linen In New England. They appear 
to ha\'e cultivated land in common the summer after their arrival, as there is 
a tract known by the name of the "Common Field," containing about 2% 
acres and situated a few miles west of the dwelling house of Mr. Jonathan 
Gate, in Derry. It was undoubtedly a clearing, and may have been an 
abandoned planting ground of the Indians, who were gradually retiring to 
deeper shades of the wilderness in the wilds of Canada.'" 

A more detailed description, with perhaps a flavor of romance, is 
given by Parker in his " History of Londonderry." Describing the 
arrival of the settlers of this toAvn, he says : 

They introduced the culture of the iiotato, whi(;li tlicy brought wUli thorn 
from Ireland. Until their arrival, this valuable Aegetable, now regarded as 
one of the necessities of life, if not Avholly unknown, was not cultivated in 
New England. To them belongs the credit of its introduction to general use. 
Although highly prized by this company of settlers, it was for a long time but 

"o Hazlett, Charles A. History of Rockingham County, N. II. Pago 506. 1915. 



THE POTATO SAFFORD 531 

little regarded by their P^nglish neighbors, a barrel or two being considerpd a 
supply for a family. But its value as food for man and for ]>east became 
at length more generally known, and who can now estimate the full advantage 
of its cultivation to this country? The folhtwing well-authenticated fact will 
show how little known to the community at large the potato must have been. 
A few of the settlors had passed the winter previous to their establishment 
here in Andover, INIass. On taking their departure from one of the families, 
with whom they had resided, they left a few potatoes for seed. The potatoes 
were accordingly planted, came up and flourished well; blossomed and produced 
balls, which the family supposed were the fruit to be eaten. They cooked the 
balls in various ways, but could not make them palatable, and ]ironounced 
them unlit for food. The next spring, while ploughing their garden, the 
plough passed through whore the potatoes had grown, and turned out some of 
great size, by which means they discovered their mistake. 

It is not the province of this paper to follow the development of 
potato culture in the United States. For this the reader is referred 
to the admirable monograph on the potato by William Stuart, of the 
United States Department of Agriculture, who treats of its culture, 
uses, histor}^, and classification. 

SEARCH rOlt' THE WILD ANCESTOR 

Has the potato ever been found growing wild ? Several explorers 
have encountered what was believed to be the wild form. Charles 
Darwin, in January, 1835, found wild potatoes growing in the 
Chonos Archipelago, southern Chile, not far from Avhere cultivated 
potatoes were procured b}' Sir Francis Drake and Thomas Caven- 
dish. These, however, as well as tuber-bearing Solanums collected 
in Peru, JNIexico, and the southwestern United States have proved to 
be quite distinct from Solanum tuherosum. Specialists who have 
devoted themselves to the study of tuber-bearing Solanums unite in 
their declaration that the true Solanum tuheroHum has never been 
found growing wild. Dr. George Bitter, of Bremen, emphasizes 
the fact that the problem of the origin of our cultivated potato is still 
unsolved and that we know nothing of its original form before it 
was cultivated by the Arauco Indians of Chile and the Incas of Peru. 
Both he and Rydberg show" that the so-called Solanuui tuberosum 
horedle of our Southwest is not a variety of the true potato ; and Mr. 
W. F. Wight, after a long journe}" of exploration in South America 
and careful research among specimens in herbariums of Europe and 
America declares that "every reported occurrence of wild So7a7}uin 
tuherosum that I have been able to trace to a specimen, either living 
or preserved in the herbarium, has proved to be a different species. 
In fact, so far as the herbarium material is concerned, I have not 
found in any of the principal European collections a single specimen 
of Solanum tuberosum collected in an undoubtedly wild state. After 
a century and a half of intermittent collecting, there is no botanical 
evidence that the species is now growing in its original indigenous 



532 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

condition anywhere. * * * So far as the number and rehition- 
ship of the species referred to the scetion Tuberarium are concerned, 
the evidence is favorable to the central Andean region.^^ 

SUMMARY 

From the evidence presented in this paper the following sum- 
mary may be made : 

I. The statement that the potato was found growing in North 
America by the English colonists and carried thence to England, 
for which Gerard is responsible, is not true; the openawk of the 
Algonquin Indians with wdiich it was confused by early writers is 
a tuber-bearing climber of the bean family, the Glycine apios of 
Linnteus. 

II. The story of its introduction into Ireland by Sir Walter 
Raleigh is a myth invented in 1693, more than a hundred years 
after the return of his ill-fated colon}' from Roanoke Island. The 
Drake myth which was substituted for it is equally without 
foundation. 

III. The cultivation of Solanum tuberosum in pre-Columbian 
times extended from southern Chile along the Andes and the high- 
lands of Peru and Bolivia to the mountains of Ecuador and Co- 
lombia, but did not reach the sliorc of the Caribbean Sea. The 
" potatoes " encountered on the shore and islands of that sea by 
early navigators were sweet potatoes. 

IV. It was carried to Europe from South America by the 
Spaniards soon after 1580, thence to Ital}', and in 1588 reached 
Charles I'Ecluse, keeper of the botanical garden at Vienna. It was 
cultivated as a field crop in Ireland before 1663. It did not reach 
the United States until 1719, when it was brought from Ireland 
by immigrants who settled at Londonderry, N. H. The Irish 
potato reached the West Indies after 1700, and was first propagated 
from seed brought from the British Isles. 

V. Dried specimens and representations of potatoes in terra 
cotta found in prehistoric tombs show that excellent varieties had 
been developed before the discovery of America. 

VI. Numerous species of tuber-bearing Solanums have been col- 
lected in various parts of America both north and south of the 
equator, but Solanum tuberosum itself has never been found in its 
Avild state. Evidence as to the place of its origin points to the 
central Andean region where conditions of soil and climate are 
such that a number of plants of other families have developed 
tubers of a similar nature. 

s' Wight, W. F. Origin, introduction, and primitive culture of the potato, in Proceed- 
ings of the Tliird Annual Meeting of the Potato A.ssociation of America, p. 37. 1916. 



Smithsonian Report. 1925. - Saftord 



Plate I 




John Gerard 

He is holding in his hand a flowciini; l)ianih of Solinuim liibrrosii in, which he caUi'd liattnia 
sire Virgininnorum it Pappiit;. inx'ti'ndinfi to ha\r recoived from \'irgiiiia the tuber from 
which it was i)rnpagati'd. He must be held tcsponsible for the transfer of the name Potato 
from Jpomoea batatas to Solanuni tuberosum and for the confusion of the latter with the 
Openauk of Virginia. Portrait reproduced from his Herbal. 1597 



Smithsonian Report. 1925. — Safford 



Plate 2 




The Original Potato. Now Called Sweet Potato 

Opomoea batatax. Confusod by oarly writers with Solnnum tubfrn.tiim. Ohsorvpci first by 
Columbus, Xovpinber 4, 1492, and describi'd in his journal as "Niamrs (yams) resembling 
carrots, with a savor of chestnuts." Identified by I,as Casas, his contemporary, iis "Ajes" 
or "Batatas." Collected at Santa Fc, on the north coast of South America, in 1.565 by 
Sir John Hawkins, who described it as "the most delicate roots that may be eaten." Photo- 
graph of specimen growing in the garden of Harry A. Allard, Bureau of Plant Industry 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Safford 



Plate 3 




The Virginia Potato or Openauk 

Glycine apios, the Openauk or Penak of the Algonquin Indians. A plant of the Bean family, 
with edible tubers and pealike seeds, endemic in esistern North America from Florida to 
the St. Lawrence River. Encountered by Sir Walter Raleigh's second colony on Roanoke 
Island in 158G. Photographed from a specimen collected by O. M. Freeman in marshy 
thicket in Virginia, across the Potomac River from Washington 



Smithsonian Report, 1926. — Safford 



Plate 4 




Openauk Roots or Indian Potatoes 

Tubers called Opcnauk liytlic \irt;iiiia AljjoiKiuin^ ami I'ciiak by those of Canada. " .\. kind 
of rootes of round form, some of the bignes of walnuts, firowinp many together one by 
another, orasthogh f;xstened with a string."— Thomas lb riot. 1588. Photographed from 
a specimen collected by J. B. Norton, near Washington, I). C. 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Safford 



Plate 5 




A German Monument to Drake 

Sir Francis Drake holding a potato plant with its tubers attached. This monument stands 
in Oflenburg, Baden, in commemoration of his alleged introduction of the Potato into 
Europe. The inscription on the statue reads: "Sir Francis Drake, introducer of the Potato 
into Europe, in the year of our Lord 1580." Note the potato plant in Drake's hand and the 
decorative frieze of potatoes aroimd the base of the statue. From a photograph received 
through the kindness of Dr. Otto Appel of BeHin-Dahlem 



Smithsonian Report. 1925. -Safford 



Plate 6 




1. Drying Potatoes for Chuno 

View of the elevated Peruvian Collao, showing Quichua Indians preparing Chuno. Photo- 
graph received from the Hon. Hiram Bingham. See National Geographic Magazine, April, 
1913, page 568 




2. Ancient Foods Found with Peruvian Mummies 

Food staples found in Pre-Columbian graves of the coast of Peru, including several varieties 
of beans {Phaxeolus vulgaris), lima beans (Phaseolus lunaius), manioc (Jatropha manihot), 
maize (Zea mays), peanuts ( Arachis hypogaea) , sweet potatoes (Ipomoea batatas), and chunyos, 
or dried potatoes. The latter in the central foreground. Original photograph of specimens 
in the American Museum of Natural Historv, New York 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Safford 



Plate 7 




- f, I 



"^^tttimmSk^**""*'/'!!^ 




Potato Vases 



. A funeral vase in the form of two pota- 
toes in natural colors from a grave at 
Chimbote, on the coast of Peru, col- 
lected by W. E. Safford, 1892. Field 
Museum, Chicago, No. 1188 



. Black ware vase from a Chimbote grave, 
in the form of a conventionalized potato. 
Collection of Spencer F. Baird, U. S. Na- 
tional Museum. Original photograph 




Conventionalized Potatoes 

A whistling Iniaca of black ware, in the form of conventionalized potatoes, from a Chimbote 
grave. Collection of Spencer F. Baird in the U. S. National Museum. Original photograph 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Safford 



Plate 8 




Moray or White Chuno 

Potatoes frozen, dried, trampled, soaked in water, and dried again. Specimens in U. S. National 
Museum collected by Mr. O. F. Cook, U. S. Department of Agriculture. Original photograph 



Smithsonian Report, 1925.^Safford 



Plate 9 




Oldest Drawing of the Potato 



Smithsonian Report. 1925. — Safford 



Plate 10 




A Modern Potato 

Herbarium spccimeii of Snianinn tiibcrosin/t ami tut)cr from whitli il was grown. Coiloctt'ii t)y 
Mr. W. F. Wiplit at Oiuro, IJoiivia. Original ()lu)tograph 



Smith?onian Report. 1925. — Safford 



Plate I I 




Potatoes a Necessity 

Mother aud daughter digging potatoes on the coast of Ireland. From a painting by Francis 
Walker published in Frank Matthew's Ireland (edition of 1912) 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Safford 



Plate 12 




Potatoes a Curiosity 

The Great Elector, Frederick William, with his consort, inspecting the potatoes planted by his 
order in the Berlin Lustgarten. Not until the reign of his great-grandson, Frederick the Great, 
did the potato become a popular food staple in Prussia. Photograph of etching by Ebner, 
received through the courtesy of Doctor Appel 



THE RELATION OF GEOGRAPHY TO TIMBER SUPPLY 



By W. B. Greelky 
Chief, United States Forest Service 



[With 3 plates] 

Even since Hiram, King of Tyre, shipped rafts of fir and cedar 
down the Mediterranean coast to trade with the Jews of Solomon's 
day, timber has been an important factor in the commerce of the 
nations. Among the first exports from the American colonies to 
the mother country were clapboards split from the oak of Virginia, 
ship masts cut from the pine forests of New England, and pitch 
extracted from the piney woods of the South Atlantic. The prog- 
ress of civilization has been called a struggle between human wants 
and natural resources. And no part of this age-long contest has 
been more clear cut than the effort of mankind to supply its need 
for wood. 

Most of the industrially aggressive nations have lived in forested 
regions, and most of them have been liberal users of timber. The 
course of these nations in satisfying their requirements for forest- 
grown materials has usually run through three different stages. At 
first they have cut freely from their own virgin forests as long as 
the supply lasted. Then they have cast about for what they might 
barter from their neighbors. And finally they have settled down to 
the systematic growing of wood on all the land that could be spared 
for the purpose, still finding it necessary or convenient in many 
cases to import a substantial part of their national requirements 
from other countries whose virgin forests have not yet become 
depleted or whose timber culture produces an exportable surplus. 

Man-grown timber, however, is costly, while timber stored up in 
nature's undrained warehouses is cheap. The source of supply is 
thus largely governed by the cost of growing timber at home as com- 
pared with the cost of hauling it from the nearest virgin forests still 
available for exploitation. In the long run, forestry is pitted 
against transportation. 

^ Reprinted by permission from Economic Geograpliy, vol. 1, No. 1, March, 1925. 
76041—26 35 533 



534 ANNUAL REPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 1925 

The United States is still in the first of those throe stages. By far 
the greater part of the "wood we use is still obtained from our o^Yn vir- 
gin forests. But the end of this supply is jjlainly in sight. The neces- 
sity is at hand of finding a new source of wood, cither in timber 
culture on our own soil or in the forests of other countries. The 
consum])tion of timber in this country is so enormous that the prob- 
lem assumes staggering proportions. We use annually about 12,- 
000,000,000 cubic feet of saw-log timber, or nearly half of the -quan- 
tity consumed in the entire world. Our use of all forest products, 
including pulpwood, railroad tics, mine timbers, and fuel wood, ag- 
gregates 22,500,000,000 cubic feet, or about two-fifths of the j^early 
consumption in the entire world. 

Other countries Avhich have likewise exhausted their virgin forests 
have found new sources of wood either in the practice of forestry or 
through imports from their neighbors, or by combining both of these 
methods, without sudden industrial upheavals or serious timber 
famines. Their consumption of forest products lias been relatively 
small ; the change was gradual and usually involved no great difficulty. 
The enormous use of wood in the United States, however, and its inti- 
mate relation to national living standards, manufactures, and basic in- 
dustries like agriculture, mining, and transportation, make our prob- 
lem far more serious. We must find, almost overnight, a fresh source 
of raw material sufficient to supply sixty or seventy million tons of 
forest products annualh^ Instead of a gradual industrial evolution, 
the change is coming with the suddenness of an economic crisis. 

The forest history of the United States herself strikingly illus- 
trates the relation of geography to timber supply. To the colonists 
and explorers of the seventeenth centur}'-, America appeared a vast, 
unbroken forest. Even after geographers had mapped the full 
extent of the prairies and western deserts thev found that nearly 
half of her total land area, or more than 820,000,000 acres, was origi- 
nally in forest. Although the export of timber products began in 
the earl}' days of the Atlantic Colonies, for several generations the 
forest rejiresented a barrier to settlement and migration rather than 
an economic resource. Nothing could have appeared more remote 
than a shortage of timber. About 200,000,000 acres of our original 
forest area has been cleared for cultivation and settlement, and the 
stumpage removed from three-fourths of it was destroyed for lack 
of a marlvct. 

When the manuracture of lumber at little sawmills, run by v.ater 
power, became a fairly establislied industr}^, there was no lack of the 
finest raw material at their very doors. Lumber was moved but very 
short distances and its cost was exceedingly low. In 173G pine lum- 
ber prices in New England were commonl}- around $5 per thousand 



TIMBER SUPPLY — GREELEY 535 

board feet. Between 1T99 and 1834 pine lumber cut on the Kennebec 
River in Maine was sold on the Boston market for from $10 to $14 
per thousand board feet. Slowly, very slowly, the frontier of virgin 
forest began to move back from tlie centers of population, and, as the 
sawmill followed its retreat, the element of transportation entered 
into the cost of forest products. 

Up to the time of the Civil War, short and cheap lumber hauls, 
almost wholly by water, characterized our timber traffic. Lumber 
or logs moved down the Atlantic coast from Maine to Boston, about 
225 miles, from the upper Hudson to New York, not over 200 miles, 
and from the shores of the Great Lakes into Buffalo and Chicago. 
The rafting of the Pennsylvania rivers rarely covered more than 
400 miles; and the bulk of the products of " Penn's AVoods" moved 
much shorter distances, as from Williamsport to Philadelphia. 
One or two or three dollars at the most paid the freight bill on a 
thousand feet, and the consumer's price was correspondingly low. 
Even up to 1902 the short local shipments from the Lake region 
held cargo prices on white pine boards at Chicago down to $16 
per thousand feet or less. 

The change came with the railroad building and industrial ex- 
pansion that followed the Civil War. Lumber manufacture ceased 
to be a village industry. It caught the spirit of "big business" and 
rapidly forged into the lead with large organizations, tremendous 
capitalization, and the efficient tools of quantity production. It 
reached out with vmequaled driving power in manufacture and 
merchandising. It taught the American people to use wood in 
prodigious and unheard-of quantities. In 1840 the per capita 
consumption of lumber probably did not exceed 100 board feet. 
By 1906 it had become 516 board feet. Behind the sawmills came 
the paper mills, using more and more wood until it noAV forms 90 
per cent of their raw material. Through their energetic attack upon 
the forests another great national appetite for v.'ood has been created. 
The per capita consumption of paper has increased five fold since 
1840. Then came the A'cneer plants, the distillation plants, the 
vehicle and agricultural -implement factories, the makers of rail- 
road ties and telegraph poles, and a hundred industrial develop- 
ments with their greater or lesser demands for timber. The ex- 
ploitation of virgin forests has been a foremost contributor to the 
economic gi'owth of the United States during the last 70 years. 

It was inevitable that our timber resources should shrink rapidly 
before this terrific onslaught. The story is told in the maps show- 
ing the approximate extent of the virgin forests in 1620, 1850, and 
1920. The first 230 years of settlement and industrial expansion 
made relatively slight inroads. In the last 70 years the depletion 



500 



ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



of our timber supply has gone on apace. And as the virgin forests 
disappeared, the relation of geography to timber supply has become 
more and more pronounced. It is summed up in the cost of trans- 




portation from the standing tree to the user of its products. From 
the economic viewpoint our forest history is a record of widening 
gaps between the consumer of lumber or paper and the source of 
his supply. 





tS^P 


AREA 


OF 


ViRGiN FOREST 
1850 


4 




lifc^^^^rv 




— wk ^tWwh. F^^^'ltfTO 




bl_ 


~^k 




^it^iSJS^ 1 JSt^^^K^ 


^^ 


I, * 


fs 


EJ-^ 




-^^Bm 


w 




^r 




■^^ 


'JBB^j 


L 


\ 


i^v 


^ 


S 


. 1 2J.OCO acj-n^ 


•% 



As long as Maine, New York, and Pennsylvania were the fore- 
most lumber-producing States, lumber was cheap in the great mar- 
kets of the country, primarily because the hauls were short and 



TIMBER SUPPLY GREELEY 



537 



largely by water. When the center of liimLer manufacture moved 
to the Lake States in the eighties and nineties the era of the box 
car as a lumber carrier began. Freight rates were long tempered 
by water transportation on the Lakes, through the Erie Canal, and 
down the Mississippi ; but at that it cost $6 or $7 per thousand feet 
to ship lumber a thousand miles from Saginaw to New York by 
water, or treble the old rate on Hudson River pine. As steadily as 
the more accessible virgin forests went through the hopper, the 
railroads gained ascendency in lumber traffic, the hauls lengthened, 
and the average retail prices rose from one level to another. 

During and following the nineties the pineries of the Lake States 
rapidly approached exhaustion and the center of the national sup- 
ply of softwood lumber shifted to the South. Eail shipments in 



AREA OF VIRGIN FOREST 




excess of 750 miles and freight bills of $8 or $10 or more per thou- 
sand board feet became common. As southern pine gradually se- 
cured control of the Chicago market, lumber prices advanced to 75 
or 100 per cent beyond the old rates fixed by water transportation 
from Michigan or Wisconsin mills. Southern lumber moved 1,100 
miles to Pittsburgh and 1,500 miles to Boston, at freight rates 
which, since the World War, have ranged from $12.50 to $15 per 
thousand feet. Retail prices necessarily climbed to a higher level, 
but only as a stepping stone to what has followed as the last chap- 
ter in the exploitation of our virgin forests is being written. 

The virgin pineries of the South covered 130,000,000 acres and 
contained probably 650,000,000,000 feet of saw timber. They formed 
one of the richest reservoirs of softwoods on the earth's surface, and 



538 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITflSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



for the past 30 years they have been the mainstay of the eastern and 
central himber markets of the United States. But the process of 
timber depiction is running its course in the South as it has pre- 
viously been run in the Lake States and the Alleghenies, The pro- 
duction of southern ])ine Inmber passed its peak in 191(3, and the 
last great migration of American sawmills is under way — across the 
Great Plains to the virgin forests of the Pacific coast. In 1920 over 
000,000,000 board feet of w^estern lumber was shipped to New Eng- 
land and over 1,200,000,000 feet was marketed in Illinois, Michigan, 
Wisconsin, and Minnesota. In 1922, 33i^ per cent of our entire 
lumber cut was manufactured on the Pacific coast as compared Avith 
40 per cent in the Southern States. Western lumber is now moving 
in a steadily increasing volume 2,000 or 2,300 miles by rail to the 




Middle West at a freight cost of $17 or $18 per thousand board feet, 
and 7,000 miles by sea and the Panama Canal to northern Atlantic 
ports at a charter rate of $16 or $17 per thousand feet. Lumber 
manufactured on Puget Sound is now, indeed, moved by steamer 
to Chesapeake Ba}' and reshipped inland, past the old sawmill towns 
of the Alleghenies, as far as Pittsburgh and Cincinnati. 

Every year the cost of transportation enters more largely into the 
lumber bills paid by the American home builder or the American 
factory. Two-thirds of the lumber which we use is consum.ed in tlie 
Central and Eastern States. The lumber traffic in 1920 exceeded 
1,660,000 carloads and cost, in freight and cliarters, over $250,000,000. 
The average carload was hauled 485 miles. Between 1014 and 1920 
the average rail haul on lumber was lengthened by more than 30 per 
cent, and the total j'carly freight paid on lumber shii)ments ad- 
vanced $100,000,000. 



TIMBER SUPPLY — GREELEY 



539 



These mounting costs for transportation underlie the rise in lum- 
ber prices. Costs and profits in retail distribution tend to pyramid 
upon every increase in freight. And as the sawmills become more 
largely concentrated in distant and restricted regions, the competi- 
tive movement of lumber into consuming markets" is curtailed. 
Retail prices seldom fail to advance in response to such opportuni- 
ties. The story of lumber prices in a group of Minnesota towns is 
illuminating. In 1905, 91 per cent of their supply came from the 
Lake States. The average freight cost was $3.25 per thousand feet 
and the average selling price was $26. In 1921 over 92 per cent of 
the lumber handled in these towns came from the Pacific coast. The 
average freight bill was $18.12 per thousand feet and the average 
selling price $53.58. Transportation cost had increased from 121/2 




per cent to 34 per cent of the retail price, but the actual cost to the 
consumer, it will be noted, had more than doubled. 

In fact, the prices paid by the average user of every-day con- 
struction lumber the country over have more than doubled within 
the last 12 years. The very freight paid on lumber is now often 
more than its delivered price 30 years ago. Hence it is not difficult 
to understand why lumber prices have advanced during the last 80 
years three and a half times as rapidly as the index price based 
upon all staple commodities. It took $510 in 1921 to buy as much 
lumber — and poorer lumber at that — as $100 bought in 1840. 

The story of the American paper industry is somewhat different 
but reflects no less clearly the extent to which our virgin forests 
have been depleted. Paper manufacture requires exceptionally heavy 
plant investments. Hence it has not followed the retreating frontier 
of virgin forests to nearly the same extent as have tlie sawmills, but 



540 



ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



has remained largely concentrated in the northeastern States. As a 
consequence the raw material available on American soil has been 
wholly imable to sustain our increasing consumption oi' paper. Of 
the 8,000,000 tons used in the United States in 1922, 53 per cent came 
from foreign countries in the form of pulpwood, manufactured pulp, 
or finished paper. Thirty-seven per cent was imported from Canada 
alone, including over 1,000,000 cords of raw pulp wood. The cost 
of the pulp wood delivered at American plants, much of which is 
now hauled excessive distances, has probably increased even more 
rapidly than the price of lumber. In satisfying its needs for this im- 
portant forest product, therefore, the United States has already out- 
stripped the resources of her own virgin forests. Slie has been driven 
to the paper and pulp-wood markets of the world. 



PAPER AND PULP MILLS OF THE UNITED STATES. I 




PAPER MILLS 

WOOOPULP AND PAPE.R MILLS 

FiBtR PULP ANO PAPCR MILLS 



The stern facts of geography have largely controlled these past 
developments in our forest industries and in the cost of their wares 
to the American consumer. The true measure of timber supply is 
not quantity but availability. Sixty per cent of all the wood that 
is left in the United States and 75 per cent of its virgin timber lie 
west of the Great Plains, whereas two-thirds of the population and 
an even larger proportion of our agriculture and manufactures are 
east of the Great Plains. The forests bordering the Pacific coast 
contain over a trillion feet of virgin stumpage. At the most, they 
w^ill not supply our present consumption very long, but already the 
unbalanced geographical distribution of this resource is creating 
well-nigh famine prices in the parts of the United States where 
forest products are used in the largest quantities. Dependence upon 



TIMBER SUPPLY GREELEY 541 

the softwood forests of Siberia as the principal source of supply 
would differ from our present situation only in degree. 

And as geography controls the cost of the products of virgin 
forests when they reach the ultimate consumer in Massachusetts, 
Illinois, or Florida, so will geography control the substitution of 
other sources of timber supply. Most of the other countries have 
progressed from one stage to another in their source of wood more 
or less as single geographical units. In the United States the dis- 
tances are so great and the local conditions so diverse that this 
transition is bound, for some time to come, to be regional rather 
than national. We have already seen that, owing to the concentra- 
tion of the paper industry in the northeastern States, more than 
half of our consumption of wood fiber products is now drawn from 
foreign sources. And by the same token the exigencies of the por- 
tions of the countr}!' farthest removed from the dwindling frontier 
of virgin forests are driving them to a new source of wood — namely, 
the timber crop. 

Forestry is the economic competitor of transportation. As long 
as cheap virgin stumpage available at no great distance dominated 
our lumber and paper markets there was no place in the economic 
scheme of things for systematic timber growing. But once the cost 
of transporting forest products from the nearest virgin sources 
exceeds the cost of growing them at home, timber culture not only 
becomes economically feasible but sooner or later is impelled by 
purely commercial forces. This is just what is taking place to-day, 
to a limited degree, in New England, New York, Pennsylvania, and 
New Jersey; and, to a still more limited degree, in the South. 
Second-growth white pine in New England, 30 or 40 years old, is 
worth from $15 to $20 per thousand board feet standing in the 
woods. Second-growth southern pine of the same age brings from 
$8 to $12 on the stump. With such returns before them and with 
timber values constantly moving upward, hard-headed business men 
realize that forestry pays. One might almost plat the process by a 
series of geographical zones, and show that when the freight rate 
into any consuming region from the nearest large supply of virgin 
timber passes the $10 or $12 mark, an economic basis for timber 
cropping is afforded and forestry slowly finds a place in the use of 
land. 

Forest conservation in the United States hitherto has been largely 
a matter of public ownership of timberland and public policies 
based not upon costs and profits but upon foresight of coming na- 
tional necessities. To-day it is percolating down into the counting- 
house and the directors' board room. The illusion of inexhaustible 
virgin forests has spent itself. Wood-using industries recognize the 
alternatives which they face — producing their future raw material 



542 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



or passing' out of existence. A committee of pulp and paper manu- 
facturers is stuclyin<^ ways and means of perpetuating their industry 
on American soil. A committee of turpentine and rosin producers 
is going to France to leai'n tlie naval stores forestry of the Landes 
and how it may be applied to our southern pineries. These are 
signs of the times. 

The shortage of available virgin timber is growing more and 
more critical every year. It can not be emphasized too strongly 
that the seriousness of this |)roblem is in proportion to our enor- 
mous use of wood, to our unparalleled economic and social de- 
pendence upon forests. To solve this problem with even meager 
success, every resource of American ingenuity and foresight must be 
employed. 




Like the other nations in similar plight, we nuist barter for all 
the timber we can secure from our neighbors. The prospects in 
this direction, however, are not encouraging. Our present exports 
and imports of lumber and other forest products nearly balence. 
The imports can undoubtedly be increased somewhat, particularly 
of paper from Canada and of lumber in limited quantities from 
certain Canadian provinces and from Mexico. The hardwood 
forests of South America and the softwood forests of Siberia hold 
out possible sources of relief. But a number of other industrially 
aggressive nations are in the same situation as the United States. 
A recent survey- of the principal forest resources and wood-using 
countries of the world shows that the markets of the whole earth 
are short of raw materials for paper and construction lumber, and 
that the accessible supply of timber, particularly of coniferous 



Zoii nml Sparhiiwk, Forest Resources of the WuiUl, 1923. 



TIMBER SUPPLY GREELEY 



543 



timber, is not adequate to meet the requirements of modern civiliza- 
tion. The cost of transporting Asiatic or South American lumber 
to the United States, added to prices at the source fixed by keen 
international competition, would be well-nigh prohibitive for ordi- 
nary construction or industrial purposes. 

Nevertheless, we must get all the foreign v.ood that we can to 
tide over the lean years, and we must go after it intelligently and 
systematically. For one thing, a thorough study should be made 
of the resources available in the hardwood forests of Central and 
South America and their utility for the replacement of our rapidly 
waning supply of native hardwoods. For another thing, it should 
be our policy in foreign trade and tariff making to encourage im- 
ports of timber and timber products. The United States can ill 



DOLLARS 

PER 1000 

BD. FT. 



60 
50 



40 
30 
20 





























































/ 


^ 


'\ 








Lumber' Production of^fhe U'Tfed S/sfss^ 


r 






f 






















^ 


/ 










1 














^■^ 


^ 




«^ 










A- 


^ 


1 




<=.*^ 


-i'**^ 


».*" 


^ 


■*^ 




A// Softy^ood^ 
Line yar-c/s. M/nr 


,, 


1 


,^ 


' 




lesota i 


/I u 


^ 










/ 


-N 


\ 


■,.f^ 


....-^ 


w^. 


J 


/ 


'\ 






1 




Wh 


feP 


'«1 
ine 


Com 


mo/ 


1 - 
7 Boards 


Chicsgt 


? 




Souf/iern teZ/ow Pine 
No B Common Boards 



BILLIONS 
BD. FT. 



45 



30 



15 



OlOOiOOiOOiOOtOOLOOlOOLOOLO 
s;tM-iOu')tO«Dr^KoOcOCDCnOO — — CU<VI 

cooocoQOcooooooooooococorocno^cncDa) 



afford to place barriers around its depleted forests and hungry 
lumber markets. 

Undoubtedly we must and will learn to use less wood. The high 
cost of lumber has already decreased its per capita consumption in 
the United States about 40 per cent below the peak of 1906. Steel, 
cement, and clay products ha\e been substituted for much of the 
construction lumber formerly used; and coal, oil, and electricity 
have taken the place of much fuel wood. These substitutions are 
increasing, as wood becomes more dear; and it is well that they 
should. On the other hand, the use of wood is constantly widening 
as the chemist and engineer discover new metliods of converting 
or fashioning it for modern requirements. "Wood is now manufac- 
tured into grain alcohol and artificial silk, even into baking powder 
and electrical conduits. The field for wood-fiber products is con- 
stantly enlarging. Notwithstanding the substitution of other ma- 



544 ANNUAL, EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

terials and the curtailed use of wood for many of its old functions, 
the total drain upon our forests thus far has not materially les- 
sened. The danger lies not in reducing the use of wood where 
satisfactory substitution is possible, but in the arrowing shortage 
for many essential needs for which there are no substitutes. In 
most of the industrial countries of Europe the per capita consump- 
tion of wood is not diminishing but increasing; and the United 
States can not expect ^^ernumently to follow a dilTerent course if it 
is to hold its living standards and retain its industrial leadership. 

One of the most essential constructive remedies is to reduce the 
drain upon our forests by reducing the waste in the manufacture 
and use of their products. The very abundance and cheapness of 
virgin timber in the United States has bred wasteful methods of 
logging, manufacture, and refabrication which are yielding but 
slowly to the pressure of scant supply and high costs. The general* 
application of even our present knowledge of waste elimination in 
logging, milling, and refabricating lumber, in timber preservation, 
in the conversion of wood into fiber products and the like, would 
reduce the current drain upon our forests by 20 or 25 per cent. 
And we still have much to learn before all the possibilities of econ- 
omy in the use of our forests are fathomed. The elimination of 
preventable losses from forest fires and from destructive insects and 
tree diseases would save an enormous total of useful timber. A 
cord of wood saved is equal to a cord of wood grown. And one 
of the most obvious things that should be done with all possible 
dispatch is to conserve our existing timber supply to the last foot 
by research in the conversion and use of forest products on an ade- 
quate scale, accompanied by wide dissemination of its results 
through the forest industries and forest consumers. 

After everything else has been said, no solution of our forest prob- 
lem is possible without the generous growing of trees. AVe must 
come, in the last analysis, as every other country treading the same 
path has come, to forestry as the necessary and economic employ- 
ment of much of our land. This solution is as complete as it is 
inevitable. Intensive timber culture on the 470,000,000 acres of 
forest land in the United States, timber culture on a par Avith that 
of Germany, France, and Scandinavia, can produce a yearly crop 
equivalent to more than all the wood which the United States now 
consumes. There will be a margin of 20 per cent or more to take 
care of the greater requirements of the future. The onl}^ question 
is how quickly can this be brought to pass and how much national 
suffering must be endured before a perpetual supply of timber is 
assured on our own soil. National habits in the use of land and 
its resources change slowly; and at best we must travel a slow and 
painful road before the goal is reached. 



TIMBER SUPPLY GREELEY 545 

Underlying this whole question is one of the outstanding facts 
of the economic geography of the United States — namely, that one- 
fourth of her soil remains to-day, after three centuries of settle- 
ment and expanding agriculture, forest land. There is small pros- 
pect that the area available for growing trees will be reduced ma- 
terially, if at all, for many years to come. While the inroads of the 
farm are continuing here and there, the great tide of forest clear- 
ing for cultivation seems largely to have spent itself. For many 
years indeed, the abandonment of farm land in forest-growing 
regions of the older States has practically offset new clearing on the 
agricultural frontier. Farm economists prophesy that still larger 
acreages will be available for timber culture in the future than at 
present. 

Wholly aside from the need for timber, the problem of keeping 
one-fourth of the soil of the United States productively employed 
is one of no small urgency in the national economy. The idleness 
of cut-over land, following the migration of the sawmills, has 
alreadj'^ been a widespread cause of depopulation, decline in taxable 
values, and general rural bankruptcy. In the busiest timber manu- 
facturing regions of a few decades ago, there remains to-day over 
80,000,000 acres of unproductive and unused land. No country can 
afford such wastage. 

Forestry not only is the only way to reestablish an adequate source 
of timber in the United States. It is the only way to utilize a large 
part of her land, to maintain a vigorous rural population with in- 
dustries, communities, and good roads. On both counts, forestry 
should become part and parcel of our program of land use. 




D r- 
O X 



O 



> z 



o -^ 





^1-7 




Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Greeley 



Plate 3 




I. Young Stand of Slash Pine, Slidell, Louisiana 

Photograph by W. R. Mattoon. Touitesy l". S. Forost f^ervice 




2. Lumber vessels, Port Blakely, Washington 

Photograph by GitTord Pinchot. Courtesy I'. S. Forest Servicv 



THE HISTORICAL GEOGRAPHY OF EARLY JAPAN ' 



By Carl. Whiting Bishop 
Smitlisonian Iiistiiutiur„ 



[With 9 plates] 

It is matter for congratulation, in view of the steadily growing 
interest in the question, that the accumulation of evidence from 
various sources begins at length to throw some definite light on the 
origin of the Japanese people. Much confusion has existed on this 
subject hitherto, owing mainly to tlie fact that the work of investi- 
gators along different lines had been insufficiently collated and cor- 
related, while at the same time the methods of interpretation were 
not altogether free from fault. A solution of the j^roblem is not 
to be attained by a study of conditions and events in the Japanese 
islands alone. The same causes which have brouglit about the 
various contacts, friendly or hostile, between Japan on the one 
hand and eastern Siberia, Korea, Shantung, and the southeastern 
Chinese littoral on the other, during the past three decades, have 
been at Avork without intermission ever since the first settlement of 
man in this portion of the globe. The developments, political, so- 
cial, economic, whose course we have followed with such close atten- 
tion during the past fcAV years are but the latest phase of a process 
whose beginnings are lost in the darkness of prehistoric time. It is 
thither that Ave must trace them if we Avould arrive at anything like 
a right comprehension of the foundation upon which rests the na- 
tional life of Japan. 

FIRST CONTEMPORARY ACCOUNTS OF THE JAPANESE PEOPLE 

Derived Avithout exception fronl Chinese sources- are our first 
contemporary accounts of the Jai)anese people, 2,000 years ago. 
The region at that time occupied by their various tribes embraced 
not Avhat Ave think of as the Japanese islands, but only their Avestern- 
most portions, together apparently Avith the southern end of the 



1 Rf-ad at the joint meeting of the Association of American Geographers and the 
American Geographical Society, April, 1922. Reprinted by permission from the Geo- 
graphical Review, vol. XIII, no. 1, January,, 1023. 

= See for an account of these, James Murdoch : A History of Japan, Yokohama, 1010, 
vol. 1, pp. .'}! ct scf]. For accounts of wliat tlio ("jiinese writers have to siiy regarding 
Ihe ea;ly Japanese, see E. H. Parker: Ma.Twan-Lin's Account of Japan up to A. D. 1200^ 
Trans.. Asiatic Soc. of Japan, vol. 22, 1894, pp. 35-68; also, Albert Tschepe : Japans 
Beziehungen zu China scit den iiltesten Zeiten bis zum Jahrc 1600, Yenchow-fu, 1907. 

547 



548 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Korean peninsula and the large island known to us as Qiielpart, 
lying out in the Yellow Sea. As will be seen, it was not until the sev- 
enth century of our era that the Japanese became in reality wholly 
an island people. Hence insularity was far from being the geo- 
graphical factor of most weight in their early development. Of 
vastly greater significance was the fact that during their formative 
period they were in such close touch with the various civilized com- 
munities of the continent. 

PEOPLING OF THE JAPANESE ISLANDS 

The effect of winds and currents was also much slighter than is 
often claimed. The sail Avas still quite unknown in Far Eastern 
waters in those prehistoric ages when the peopling of the Japanese 
islands was going on. so that there was no way in which the monsoons 
could exert any particular influence upon the course of migration.' 
And the southern element, so clearly apparent in both the people 
and their culture, came not from those equatorial regions whence 
flows the Japan current but from a direction at right angles to it, 
the seaboard of China, in days before Chinese civilization had yet 
reached the coast. Those who speak of a Polynesian or a Malayan 
strain in the Japanese ignore entirely the historical aspect of the 
problem; the great Polynesian diffusion did not take place until 
long after the emergence of the Japanese people, while the Malays 
do not appear on the scene until later still. The real effect of the 
southwest monsoon and the warm tropical current has been a climatic 
one. To them it has been due that the type of culture developed 
during prehistoric times in the southeastern coast lands of the con- 
tinent could find in the southern and western portions of the Japanese 
Archipelago those conditions of warmth and humidit}^ requisite to its 
survival and further development. 

Of Paleolithic man in Japan there has so far appeared absolutely 
no trace, and it is altogether likely that the islands, together with 
the east of Asia generally, remained unpeopled until geologically 
very recent times. 

The earliest inhabitants of Japan of whom we have any knowledge 
were the ancestors of the existing Ainu of Yezo (Hokkaido), who 
at one time occupied the entire archipelago, remaining in undisturbed 
possession during a period which may well have extended over 
several thousand vears. 



' On the late Introduction of the sail in Japanese waters, see B. IT. Chamberlain 
(transl.) : Ko-ji-ki, or Records of Ancient Matters, Trans, Asiatic Soc. of .lapan, vol. 10, 
1882, Supplement ; reference in introduction, p. xxv ; II. A. C. Bonar : On Maritime Enter- 
prise in .Japan, ibid., vol. 15, 1887, pp. 103-12-.5 ; reference on pp. 107 and 111; \V. G. 
Aston: An Ancient .lapanese Classic (The Tosa Nikki, or Tosa Diary), ibid., vol. 3, part 
JI, .Tanuary-Juue, 1875, pp. 121-3 30 ; reference on p. 124. 



EAELY JAPAN BISHOP 



549 




Fig. 1. — Map to illustrate geographical relations in early Japanese history. Numbers 
indicate the main cultural foci: 1, northern Korea (the kingdom of Chao-hsien is 
here shown in its later stages, earlier it extended across the Yalu basin) ; 2, 
southern Korea ; 3, Kyushu ; 4, Izumo ; 5, Yamato. Letters have reference to 
successive Ainu frontiers. The conquest and absorption of the Ainu had pushed 
the Yamato frontier as far eastward as the Lake Biwa region (A) before the close 
of the prehistoric period. The line B-B represents the next great advance, just 
at the dawn of the historical period, and C-C the frontier as it existed about the 
time of the loss of the continental possessions of the Yamato. The line D-O 
was reached by the Japanese about the beginning of the eighth century, and the 
occupation of the main island may be regarded as completed. In its broad out- 
lines, by the close of the tenth century. Scale of map approximately 1 : 22,500,000 

76041—26 36 



550 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

At length, probably far back in the first millennium before Christ, 
if not indeed earlier still, there began a fresh inAasion of the 
Japanese islands, this time b}^ peoples belonging to various branches 
of the great Mongoloid stock, from eastern Siberia to the south 
Chinese littoral, with probably in the latter case a slight Negrito 
admixture. The result of the minglings in varying proportions be- 
tAveen these newcomers and their predecessors forms to this day 
the great bulk of the Japanese population.* 

Finally, commencing not long before our era and recurring at 
intervals for several centuries, there was a series of immigrations of 
iiorthern Mongoloids — Chinese and Koreans in the historical sense — 
whose influence, physical but more particularly cultural, has been 
largely confined to the upper strata of Japanese society. 

THE ANCESTRAL AINU 

The first of these races, that of the ancestral Ainu, seems to have 
reached the Japanese islands in at least three successive waves, per- 
haps separated by long intervals of time.^ Recent studies have shown 
that it was divided into several subtypes, at least two of Avhich appear 
to survive in the existing Ainu. That the language of this ancient 
race Avas essentially that still spoken by its surviving representatiA-es 
in the island of Yezo is indicated by the fact that place names occur 
all oA^er the Japanese islands, from end to end, and possibly eA^en in 
the Loochoo group, Avhich can only be explained in terms of Ainu 
speech.*' 

Regarding the origin of this primitive people we are still wholly 
in the dark. Some have seen in them a kinship to the prehistoric 
European race knoAvn as that of Furfooz-Grenelle. Language tells 

* Regardinpr this question of the composition of the Japanese people, see the following: 
K. Hasebe : Study upon the Human Bones found at Ko in the Second Excavation, Rept. 
upon Arehaeol. Research in the Dept. of Literature, Kyoto Imperial University, vol. 4, 
191 9-20; idem.. The Excavation of the Shell Mound at Tsukumo', a Neolitiic Ceme- 
tery in the Province of Ditchil, ibid., vol. 5, 3 919-20; H. Matsumoto : Notes on the 
Stone Age People of Japan, Amer. Anthroiwlogist, vol. 23 (N. S.), 1921, pp. 50-76; 
Katsuro Hara : An Introduction to the History of Japan, New York, 1920, pp. 48 et soq. ; 
n. ten Kate : Notes d(5tach6e.s sur les Japonais, Pull, et MCmoires Soc. d'Anthropol. de 
Paris, ser. 5, vol. 9, 1908, pp. 178-195; E. Baclz : Prehistoric Japan, Ann. Rcpt. Smitli- 
sonian Inst, for 1907, 52.3-547; Frank Brinkloy : Primeval Japanese, ibid.. 1903, ))p. 
793-804. 

^ See regarding these ancestral Ainu, in addition to the papers by Hasebe and Mat- 
sumoto, already cited, N. G. Muuro: Prehistoric Japan. Yokohama, 1911, pp. 37-292 
and passim ; also Hara, op. cit., pp. 31 et seq. 

* Regarding Ainu place names in Japan, see B. H. Chamberlain : The Language, 
Mythology, and Geographical Nomenclature of Japan Viewed in the Light of Ainu Studies, 
Tokyo, 1887; also, Romyn Hitchcock: The Ainos of Yezo, Japan, Rept. U. S. Nat. 
>ruseum for the year ending June 30, 1890, pp. 429-502 ; reference on p. 434. 



EARLY JAPAN BISHOP 551 

US nothing; for, aside from loan words from neighboring tongnes, 
the Ainu speech stands entirely isolated.'^ Phj^sically there is no 
evidence of connection with the Mongoloid family, save for such inter- 
minglings as have taken place in relatively recent times. Many 
investigators have regarded the Amur region of Siberia as that from 
which this ancient race entered Japan. The fact should not be over- 
looked, however, that individuals of Ainu type are by no means un- 
known in Korea, while a possible relationship has also been suggested 
between the Ainu and the pre-Dravidian tribes of India, or even with 
the natives of Australia. 

Perhaps we may say, in the light of all the available evidence, that 
the feAv thousand Ainu still remaining, as well as the related stocks 
inhabiting Japan in days prior to the advent of Mongoloid man, 
represent an extremely ancient generalized human type from which 
more than one of the wavy haired and heavily bearded races of 
Europe and southern Asia have been specialized.^ 

Of the culture of the ancestral Ainu, thanks to the somewhat ex- 
tensive excavations of the past few j^ears, we know considerably more 
than we do of their origin. They were already in the Neolithic 
stage as far back as they have been traced. They manufactured 
polished stone implements and a highly interesting and very ornate 
type of pottery, made, of course, without the aid of the potter's 
wheel. They seem to have derived part of their subsistence from the 
cultivation of millet, although doubtless dependent mainly upon 
hunting, fishing, and various wild vegetable products. Of domestic 
animals, with the exception of the dog, they Avere entirely ignorant. 
In summer they lived in rough huts and in winter in earth-covered 
lodges constructed either partly or wholly underground. Dwelling 
mainly on the coast and knowing how to make large dugout canoes, 
they were fearless seafarers, hunting the whale as well as smaller 
marine animals and, in later times, meeting the fleets of war boats 
of the invading Japanese in fiercely contested naval combats from 
which the newcomers by no means always emerged victorious. 

Of their social, political, and military organization we can infer 
but little. It se?ms clear, however, that in these respects they were 
scarcely if at all behind the earlier comers of Mongolian extraction 
who settled among them ; for they were able to keep the latter pretty 

'' Berthold Laufer : The Vigesimal and Decimal Systems in the Ainu Numerals : With 
Some Remarks on Ainu Phonology, Journ. Amcr. Oi-iental Soc, vol. 37, 1917, pp. 192- 
208 ; reference on p. 205. 

* On the classification of the Ainu, see George Montandon : Notice prglimmaire sur les 
ATnou, Archives Suisses d'Anthropologie G<5nerale, vol. 4, No. .3, 1921, pp. 233-246 ; refer- 
ence on p. 242 ; also, A. F. Chamberlain : The Japanese Race, Journ. of Race Devel., vol. 
3, 1912-13, pp. 176-187 ; reference on p. 182. 



552 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

cloeely confined to the extreme western portions of the Japanese 
Archipelago for many centuries. It was simply and solely the 
stubborn geographical fact that the Mongoloids always had free 
access to the civilizing influences emanating from the continent, while 
the Ainu had not, that inevitably swayed the balance in favor of the 
former, and in the long run sealed the fate of the aborigines as a 
distinct ethnic entity. 

EARLY MONGOLOID INVASIONS 

We know from various sources that southeastern Asia prior to 
the rise of the Chinese civilization was occupied by a race of Mon- 
goloid stock, akin to the existing peoples of Indo- China and In- 
donesia, whose original culture, of a generalized Neolithic type, 
had taken on a distinctly southern and maritime aspect. That it 
was in contact, however, with more northern regions is shown by 
the occurrence both in Shangtung and in Japan of the grooved 
stone ax, a type of implement found likewise in the North Pacific 
area.^ The discovery again both in China and in Japan of the 
peculiarly shaped objects known in the latter country as seki-ho, or 
" stone clubs," also indicates a former widespread community of 
culture, extending in this instance even to the Aiini. 

Sociall}'', this southeastern Asiatic culture seems to have been 
characterized by descent in the female line, by seasonal mating fes- 
tivals, and, at least in the ruling families, by brother-and-sister 
marriage.^" The economic life, based primarily upon fishing, with 
doubtless some hunting, had been enriched before the close of the 
Neolithic period by the acquisition of various food plants, culti- 
vated with the aid of the hoe alone. Among methods of bodily 
ornamentation were blackening of the teeth and tattooing. But 
little clothing was worn, save in cold weather; and the habit of 
promiscuous bathing, with a total indifference to bodily exposure, 
was general. No domestic animals other than the dog and the fowl 
appear to have been known. In the absence of metals, great use 
was made of bamboo, although stone and bone were also utilized 
in various waj's. There is some reason to believe that the spear 
rather than the bow was the weapon most commonh^ in use. As 
befitted a culture essentially amphibious in type, large canoes were 
made, each usually ornamented at the bow with the carved head 

* Ou this question of tlie grooved ax, see Bcrthold Laufer : Jade : A Study in Chinese 
Ai-chaoology and Religion, Field Museum of Nat. Hist. Publ. 154 (Anthropol. Ser., vol, 
10), Chicago, 1912, pp. 50 ct seq. 

" For its former existence among the Japanese, see B. H. Chamberlain : Ko-Ji-ki, Intro., 
pp. x.xxyiii and slv ; W. G. Aston: Shinto (The Way of the Gods), London, 1905, p. 91. 



EARLY JAPAN BISHOP 553 

of a crocodile or an alligator." The religion was one of nature 
worship, with a strongly anthropomorphic trend and a highly in- 
teresting body of folklore. Possibly as a result of the matrilineal 
organization of society, the principle of reproduction and growth 
received special veneration, and goddesses were particularly in evi- 
dence. Ancestor worship, where found at all in this area, appears 
onlj'^ late and then as a consequence of the introduction, among the 
higher classes, of a patriarchal type of family in imitation of the 
Chinese. Practically all these culture elements are traceable in 
Japan, some of them surviving to this day, while others have dis- 
appeared only in comparatively recent times. 

From the end of the promontory of Shangtung to the correspond- 
ing projection on the opposite coast of Korea it is only a trifle over 
a hundred miles — a stretch of sea easily negotiable by such in- 
veterate sea rovers as were the Neolithic coast peoples of eastern 
and southeastern Asia. The strait between Korea and Japan is al- 
most exactly the same distance across; and here there are islands 
where early voyagers could conveniently break their journey. It 
seems likely for a number of reasons that the colonization of Japan 
by the Mongoloid peoples of the neighboring continent took place 
largely by way of Korea. Probably, however, even within the 
Neolithic period a good deal of migration went on also directly 
across the Yellow Sea. The distance here is something under 500 
miles, with the lofty island peak of Quelpart, already mentioned, 
forming a natural stepping-stone. 

This migration of peoples into Japan, to be properly understood, 
must be viewed as a phase of that great ethnic movement which 
brought about the colonization by the so-called yellow-brown races 
of so much of the enormous area extending from Japan on the 
east to Madagascar on the west. When this process began, we are 
as yet unable to say; but it seems not unlikely that one of the con- 
tributing factors was the pressure generated by the slow expansion 
coastward of the Chinese in the second and first milleniums before 
Christ. The disturbances set up, for example, by the Chou conquest 
of the Yellow River Basin, about the eleventh century before our 
era, were felt far and wide and must have led to much shifting of 

^'A crocodile {Crocodilus porosiis, or " Estuarine crocodile") seems to liave been 
found anciently all along the southeastern Chinese coast at least as far north as the 
Yangtze delta, although now practically exterminated ; cf. Arthur Stanley : The Collec- 
tion of Chinese Reptiles in the Shanghai Museum, Journ. North-China Branch of the 
Royal Asiatic Soc, vol. 45, 1914, pp. 21-31, reference on p. 23. 

A true alligator (Alligator s-ineiisis) , smaller than the American forms and rarely 
exceeding G or 7 feet in length, still occurs in the Yangtze, although it is hy no means 
common; cf. A. A. Fauvel : Alligators in China, ibid., vol. 13 (N. S.), 187S, pp. 1-36 f. 



554 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

peoi^les both by land and by sea.^- Again, when the "barbarian" 
kingdom of Yiieh, corresiDonding roughly to the modern Chinese 
province of Chekiang, overthrew the rival state of Wu, in the Yang- 
tze embouchure region, in 473 B. C, the ruling class of the latter are 
said to have made their escape to certain islands to the eastward, 
which can hardly have been other than the Avestern portion of the 
Japanese groups.^^ 

The earliest distinct reference to Japan in the Chinese writings, 
however, is one in the work Imown as the Shan Hai Ching, to the 
effect that the northern and southern Wo are tributary to Yen, a 
Chinese feudal kingdom at the head of the Gulf of Chihli.^* Inas- 
much as Yen ceased to exist as an independent state in the year 226 
B. C, this notice carries us back at least as far as the middle of the 
third century before our era, and possibly even farther still, since 
we know that Yen had been sending out exploring expeditions by 
sea as early as the reign of King Wei (378-343 B. C.).^^ We need 
not infer, however, that an actual conquest by Yen of any part of 
the Japanese islands ever took place. As is well known, it was long 
an official convention in China that all outsiders resorting to her for 
purposes of trade came to her as "tribute bearers." It may there- 
fore be fairly concluded from the passage in the Shan Hai Ching 
that the two Wo peoples were in the habit of sending trading parties 
to Yen which had the cognizance of its government in days when 
foreign commerce was kept as far as possible a close state monopoly. 

Precisely where the two Wo are to be sought, it is impossible to 
say. Perhaps the northern branch inhabited the lower extremity 
of the Korean peninsula;" or, on the other hand, they may both 
have dwelt in western Japan. That the southern, or " Great," Wo 
were located in Kyushu seems quite clear. For another name ap- 
plied to their country by Chinese writers is that of Ye-ma-t'ai. 

" Compare C. W. Bishop : The Geographical Factor in the Development of Chinese 
Civilization, Geogr. Rev., vol. 12, 1922, pp. 19-41. 

"Albert Tschepe : Histoire du loyaume de Ou (1122-473 av. J.-C), Vari^tes Sinologi- 
ques, No. 10, Shanghai, 189G, p. 15G, quoting from the T"ung-chien K'ang-mu. Eiirly 
Chino.se writers describe an enchanted isle in the Eastern Sea where the customs are 
like those of the people of Wu ; see E. II. Parker : Early .Japanese History, The China 
Review, vol. 18, 1889-1890, pp. 212-248 ; reference on p. 214. 

'* W. G. Aston: Early Japanese History, Trans. Asiatic Soc. of Japan, vol. 16, 1888- 
89, pp. 39-75 ; reference on p. 40 and in note 5. While the date of composition of the 
Shan Ilai Ching has not yet been settled beyond dispute, the weight of evidence iK)ints 
toward the third or second century ln^fore Chri.st, althou.;,'h it undoubtedly contains much 
earlier elements. 

'S For the maritime explorations of Yen, see lOdouard Chavaniies, Memoires Ilistoriques 
de Se-ma Ts'ien (5 vol.s., Paris, 189r)-190r)), vol. 3, pp. 43G et seq. ; on the conquest of 
Yen by Ch'in Shih Ilwang-ti in B. C. 220, ibid., vol. 4. p. l.'iO. Inasmuch as the state 
archives of Yen, like tho.se of practically all the rest of the ancient Chinese feudal states, 
have been lost, we know nothing regarding the details of her maritime explorations. 

"• Cf . E. II. Parker: China: Her History, Diplomacy, and Commerce, from the Earliest 
Times to the Present Day, 2d ed., London, 1917, p. 21. 



EARLY JAPAN BISHOP 555 

This region, we are told, lay to the south of Korea — somewhere, that 
is to say, in the island of Kyushu — and contained a hundred petty 
kingdoms, all subject to the Ta Wo Wang, or great king of the Wo. 
It is further described as a maritime region with a late Stone Age 
culture, lying nearly due east of what is now the Chinese province 
of Chekiang and enjoying so mild a climate that vegetables were 
grown both winter and summer.^^ 

Now the winters of the Japanese Pacific seaboard are mild, it is 
true, thanks to the Japan Current. But nowhere are they mild 
enough to admit of the winter ripening of crops, save in certain 
favored localities of Shikoku and Kyushu; and of Sliikoku in this 
connection there is no question. Yet several modern writers, in- 
fluenced by the similarity in sound, have insisted upon identifying 
Ye-ma-t'ai with the Japanese Province of Yamato, far away to the 
eastward, in the heart of the mountainous peninsula forming the 
boundary of the Inland Sea in that direction. It is hard to believe, 
however, that when the careful and evidently well-informed Cliinese 
historians s]3eak of a maritime region with an extremely mild winter 
climate, lying far to the south, they really mean an inland Province 
with a decidedly cold winter, situated in the distant east. 

Nevertheless there may exist a connection between Ye-ma-t'ai and 
Yamato after all. Both the Chinese historians and their own legends 
represent the primitive Japanese as located first of all in Kyushu, 
where in fact the word " Yamato " does actually occur, as a place 
name in both Higo and Chikugo Provinces.^^ We know further 
that this name has been applied by the Japanese people to them- 
selves in a very definite Avay ; Yamato damashii, for example, means 
the si^irit of the Japanese people, not that of the Province of Ya- 
mato. Hence, it seems possible at least that " Yamato " was the name 
applied to themselves, while still in Kyushu, by the people whom the 
Chinese usually referred to as the Wo and that when, as we shall 
see, they transferred their seat of government to central Japan they 
carried their name with them. 

CULTURE AREAS IN THE KOREAN PENINSULA 

The Korean peninsula during these times, just prior to and about 
the beginning of the Christian era, was divided into two quite dis- 

" H. Maspero : Bull. Ecole Prar.gaise d'Eitreme Orient, vol. 9, 1909, pp. 593 ct seq. ; 
N. Peri, ibid., vol. 10, 1910, p. 715, note 1 ; C. E. Maitro : La litt(5rature tiistorique du 
Japon 6es origines aux Asliikaga, ibid., vol. 10, 1910, pp. 504-596 ; reference on p. 
580, note 1. 

18 Prank Brinkley and Baron Kikuchi : A History of the .Japanese People from the 
Earliest Times to the End of the Meiji Era, New York and London, 1912, p. 84 ; W. G. 
Aston (transl.) : Nihongi, Chronicles of Japan from the Earliest Times to A. D. G97, 
Trans, and Proc. of the Japan Soc, Supplement 1, 2 vols., London, 1896, reference in vol. 
1, p. 226 and note 8. 



556 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

tinct culture areas. In the north and extending over into what is 
now southern Manchuria were various tribes wath cultures basically- 
akin to those of eastern Siberia generally, though beginning to be 
modified b}'^ influences both from the neighboring Chinese states and 
from Central Asia.^^ Farther to the south the peninsula was the 
home of the peoples called by the early Chinese writers the " Three 
Han." While the precise boundaries of these are unknown, gen- 
erally speaking the Ma-IIan occupied the west and southwest of the 
peninsula, with the Shen-Han to the east of them, on the Sea of 
Japan, and the Pien-Han in the extreme south. These three Han 
peoples were clearly recognized by their Chinese contemporaries 
as quite distinct from their northern neighbors, while on the other 
hand there evidently existed between them and the primitive Jap- 
anese an extremely close kinship if not indeed an actual identity. 
The same was also true, apparently, of the people of Quelpart Is- 
land, where traces of southern contacts are unmistakable to this 
da3^-° This entire region, in fact, formed in prehistoric times a dis- 
tinct culture area whose closest connections are to be sought in the 
Chinese coast lands as they were before they came under the in- 
fluence of Chinese civilization. It was only shortly before the be- 
ginning of the Christian era that bands of refugees, fleeing from the 
wars then devastating China, founded various states in southern 
Korea in which they introduced that Late Bronze Age culture which 
then characterized their own country. Shen-Han — later the kingdom 
of Hsin-lo, or Silla — in spite of its comparative isolation with re- 
gard to China, maintained especially close relations with that coun- 
try, and the consequent superiority in culture which it enjoyed as 
compared with its immediate neighbors is evident throughout its 
history. 

INTRODUCTION OF BRONZE AND IRON INTO JAPAN 

There can be little doubt that it w^as from these newly founded 
states of southern Korea that metal was first introduced into Japan. 
The history of bronze in that country is peculiar. It can not, in 

»■ On the old Neolithic culture of eastern Asia, see R. and K. Torii : fitudes arch<5ologi- 
ques et ethnologiques : Popiilations primitives de la Mongolia Oricntale, Joiirn. College of 
Sci., Tokyo Imp. Univ., vol. 3fi, 1913-1915. art. 4 ; also review of same by II. Masp^ro 
in Bull, ficole Frangaise d'Extrfime Oiient, vol. 14, 1914, pp. 79-80. 

«> H. B. Hulbert : The Island of Quelpart, Bull. Amer. Googr. Soc, vol. 37, 1905, pp. 
396-408, passim. 

For the probable Japanese affinities of the people of Quelpart, cf. E. H. Parker in 
Chinese Recorder and Missionary Journ., 1885, p. 303 ; also W. G. Aston, Nihongi, vol. 2, 
p. 323, note 5. 

A seventh-century king of T'am-na, as the Island was then called, bore a name, Yuri- 
toro, which has a decidedly Japanese sound. 



EAELY JAPAN BISHOP 557 

fact, be said that a true Bronze Age ever existed there at all.^^ The 
records of the Later Han dynasty describe the people of Wo, early in 
the Christian era, as still in the Neolithic stage of culture. This 
statement regarding their ignorance of metal at that time is strik- 
ingly confirmed by the discovery in various parts of western Japan, 
in association with stone implements, of Chinese coins of the first 
century of our era.-'- The histories of the Wei and Chin dynasties, 
on the other hand, referring to the third and fourth centuries, men- 
tion iron as known to the Wo. It would appear, therefore, that the 
very brief and wholly exotic bronze culture which archeological 
research has disclosed to us in Japan must have fallen somewhere 
about the second century or so of our era. 

Bronze remains in Japan are few and far betweeen, and such as 
there are occur only in the western portion of the country. They are 
quite unknown anywhere to the east of the Lake Biwa area, that 
isthmian region of central Japan where the Ainu held back their 
Mongoloid foes through so many centuries. Aside from ceremonial 
objects, the known remains consist mainly of swords, daggers, and 
arrowheads — all closely resembling well-known Chinese Bronze Age 
types. The discovery of molds indicates that some casting was done 
in Japan ; but the raw material and a great proportion of the finished 
articles seem to have been imported, either from Korea or even direct 
from China, as is also suggested by the name, Karakane^ which may 
mean either Korean or Chinese metal. Introduced only after its 
use in China had alread}^ been largely superseded by that of iron, 
it was but a short time before bronze was overtaken and displaced 
by the later metal in Japan also. And so effectively was it eclipsed, 
save of course for ornamental and ritual objects, that neither the 
Kojiki nor the Nihongi,^^ the two earliest Japanese historical works 
that have come down to us, betray the slightest recollection of a 
former Bronze Age; the use of copper arrowheads upon one occa- 
sion being mentioned solely as something unusual. 

But, if the influence of bronze upon the cultural development of 
Japan was thus slight, with iron the case was far otherwise. His- 
torical notices are wanting; but good grounds exist for thinking 
that iron reached Japan merely as one element of an entirely dif- 

21 The British Museum's " Guide to the Antiquities of the Bronze Age," 1904, is hardly 
exact in stating that the Japanese were already in the Late Bronze Age when they entered 
the islands ; they had long been in Japan when the knowledge of bronze was brought to 
them. It was a case of a cultural, not a racial, migration. 

— Dr. K. Hamada, of the Kyoto Imperial University, in personal letters of July 10, 
1917, and Dee. 20, 1920. 

2* The Kojiki dates from 712 A. D., the Nihongi from 720. Chamberlain's translation 
of the former and that of the latter by Aston have already been cited. There is also 
another of the later work, by Dr. Karl Florenz : Nihongi, " Zeitalter der Gotter," 
Tokyo, 1901. 



558 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

ferent material culture complex, partly Chinese and partl}^ Central 
Asiatic in origin,-* which had taken form somewhere in Korea and 
which was far higher than anything that the Japanese islands had 
yet known. That this cultural invasion was the result of actual 
conquest of any part of the country in a military sense can not be 
categorically stated; but the presumption seems on the whole in 
favor of something of the kind. 

OTHER EVIDENCES OP INVASION FROM KOREA 

The evidence of language, for one thing, appears to point in this 
direction. Japanese belongs to an independent family, whose only 
other members are Korean and Loochooan, and such indications 
as there are point to central rather than to southern Asia as the 
region of its origin.^® The most plausible conjecture — in the pres- 
ent state of our knowledge it can be nothing more — would seem 
to be that it reached Japan as the tongue of a relatively highly 
civilized body of invaders, not necessarily large, penetrating south- 
ward from the Korean peninsula and imposing their authority and 
their language upon the less civilized tribes, presumably of mixed 
Ainu and southern Mongoloid origin, whom they found in posses- 
sion of the western portion of the islands. That such movements 
were constantly recurring within Korea itself, we know from the 
Chinese records. About 200 B. C, for example, when refugees 
from China conquered the state of Chao-hsien, in southern Man- 
churia, the king of the latter country escaped southward by sea 
with several thousand of his followers and secured a footing for a 
season in ]\Ia-Han in the southwest of the peninsula, only eventually 
to be beaten out again.-*^ That a similar raid, or series of raids, 
during the latter half of the second century of our era or there- 
abouts, should have been the means of introducing an Early Iron 
Age culture among the Wo, seems both possible and plausible. 

The most conspicuous feature of this period in Japan, next to 
the use of iron itself, was the practice of dolmen burial. A careful 



^ Among tbe traces of central Asiatic influence upon the Early Iron Ajie civilization of 
Japan are the reliance upon horse archers as the principal flgting arm ; the use of the 
nari-kabura or " sounding arrow " ; the sacredness attached to certain horses, usually 
piebald or albino ; sword worship ; divination by moans of a deer's shoulder blade ; and 
the custom of burying living retainers about the tumuli of kings and nobles. 

Bashford Dean, in his " Catalogue of the Loan Collection of Japanese Armor," Metro 
politan Museum of Art, New York, Handbook No. 14, 1903, p. 2S, points out that the 
earliest metal armor of Japan, about 800 A. D., shows a relation.ship in many ways to 
that of central and eastern Russia. 

"Legge ("Chinese Classics," vol. 5, p. 74) makes the interesting suggestion that a 
polysyllabic language may have been spoken among the pre-Chinese natives of Shantung. 
As is well known, Chinese is monosyllabic and tonal. 

""E. II. I'arker : On Race Struggles in Corea, Trans. Asiatic Soc. of Japan, vol. 18. 
1890, pp. 157-228 ; reference on pp. 210 et seq. 



EA.KLY JAPAN BISHOP 559 

study of the available data, both historical and archeological, points 
to Korea again, and probably to the northern rather than the south- 
ern portion of the peninsula, as the source whence was introduced 
into Japan this custom of burying the illustrious dead in mega- 
lithic chambers covered by vast mounds of earth. Dolmens, in 
general somewhat smaller and simpler in type than those of Japan, 
occur in Korea in large numbers, particularly in the north. Far- 
ther down in the peninsula their place tends to be taken by still 
simpler stone cists; but these contain horse trappings, stone models 
of metal swords and arrowpoints, and wheel-made pottery, all 
closely resembling and in most cases absolutely identical with corre- 
sj)onding remains in dolmen interments in Japan. 

It is a matter of historical record, reinforced by archeological 
evidence, that this type of burial came to an end in Japan about 
the seventh or eighth century. Regarding the date of its beginning, 
however, opinions have been widely at variance, although generally 
speaking it has been placed far too early. 

While it is true that bronze and even stone objects have been 
found in connection with Japanese dolmen interments, that these 
are mere funerary survivals is shown by the fact that the vast 
majority of implements are of iron from first to last. The occur- 
rence of horse trappings in these interments is of great significance. 
The Chinese records are most explicit to the effect that the people 
of Japan and of southern Korea at the beginning of the Christian 
era and for at least a century or two after had neither horses nor 
cattle. Hence, inasmuch as stirrups, bits, and other objects of iron 
are recorded as occurring throughout the Dolmen Period, it follows 
that the latter itself can only date back to the epoch of the intro- 
duction of iron and the horse, somewhere apparently about the end 
of the second century. 

THE INTRODUCTION OF AGRICULTURE PROPER 

To what extent the primitive Japanese in days prior to the advent 
of metal depended upon planting for their subsistence we do not 
know; but the Chinese accounts afford evidence of what is other- 
wise intrinsically probable, that they possessed a hoe culture, carried 
on in all likelihood largely if not exclusively by the womenfolk. 
Under such a system, for several reasons, no very great growth of 
population could ever take place. It was only the introduction of 
true agriculture, which in southeastern Asia means the growing 
of irrigated rice, that made jDOssible the vast increase in numbers 
and consequent economic and military strength essential to the 
development of a powerful national entity. This great advance 
in civilization was another element of that distinctive culture com- 



560 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

plex characterising the Japanese Early Iron Age. That it, too, was 
derived from Korea is indicated, among other signs, by the entire 
absence in Japan of the water buifalo, the plow animal par excellence 
in the irrigated rice culture of China, and the use in its stead of a 
bullock of identical breed with that of the neighboring peninsula. 

Such a revolution in the economic life of a people as that 
implied by a change fi-om a hoe to a plow culture has naturally its 
social aspects also. In hoe culture it is almost invariably the 
women who do the planting, while the men fish and hunt. No one 
exchanges the excitement and activity incident to the career of a 
hunter or a deep-sea fisherman for the monotonous drudgery that 
falls to the plowman's lot save under strong compulsion of some 
sort. In other words, the bringing about of such a change almost 
necessarily implies the relationship of master and serf. That such 
a system obtained in the Japan of the Early Iron Age, we have 
abundant evidence.^^ This fact affords additional presumption of 
conquest of some sort, whether from without or from within. 

HISTORICAL EVIDENCE FROM CHINESE RECORDS 

For such historical evidence as exists regarding this phase of 
Japan's cultural development we are still forced to rely almost 
wholly on the Chinese records. Writing seems to have been applied 
in Korea to the keeping of annals only toward the close of the 
fourth century of our era, and in Japan somewhat later still, so that 
what is told regarding earlier periods must rest solely upon oral 
tradition and legend.^® 

The histories of the Later Han and the Wei dynasties of China 
inform us that for a period of TO or 80 years, ending about 
the close of the second century, the people of western Japan — from 
what cause, is not stated — were in great turmoil, the disturbances 
ending only with the rise of a powerful queen (almost certainly the 
"empress" Jingo Kogo of Japanese legend) who by her command 
of magic extended her authority far and wide over the various tribes 
of the Wo.-° She had, the accounts go on to sa}^, no husband, but 
was assisted in governing by her brother — apparently an only partly 

^ On this see, e. g., Hara, op. cit., pp. 80 et scq. 

"^ Maurice Couraiit, Stfele cbinoise du royaumo de Ko Kou Rye, Journ. Asiatiquo, Ser. 
9, vol. 11, 1808. pp. 210-2.38, states (pp. 223 ct seq.)'tlKit writing became habitually used 
in western Korea in the last quarter of the fourth cc^utury. W. G. Aston, Trans. Asiatic 
Soc. of Japan, vol. IG, 1888, p. 46, thinks Chinese writing (there is of course no ques- 
tion of any other) was diffused in the various Korean kingdoms in the last half of the 
same century. C. E. Maitre, op. cit., p. 584, says writing was definitely introduced into 
Japan from Korea at the beginning of the fifth century. 

'"See Murdoch, op. cit., vol. 1, pp. 36 et seq. 



EARLY JAPAN BISHOP 561 

understood instance of royal brother-and-sister marriage, a custom 
which Ave know formerly existed in Korea also.^° 

That a marked change of some kind, whether as the result of 
actual invasion or not, really did take place at this time is further 
shown by the fact that the Chinese records of the period sometimes 
refer to " Great Wo " by the alternative name of " the Queen 
Country," although declaring specifically that in earlier times it 
had been ruled over by kings. It seems to have been the case, that 
these female rulers of the Wo derived their powers from a belief 
that they in some special sense — most likely through actual physical 
descent — represented the Sun Goddess, whose oracles and priestesses 
they were. 

It was about this same period, apparently, that there arose on the 
main island, in what was later the province of Izumo, an independ- 
ent kingdom which had especially close relations with the country of 
Hsin-lo, or Silla, facing it across the Sea of Japan.^^ It is perhaps 
in this Izumo region that is to be sought the land of Ko-nu, mentioned 
by contemporary Chinese writers as situated across the sea from Ye- 
ma-t'ai (in Kyushu, as we have seen), and more to the eastward. 
The people of Ko-nu, we are further told, although of the same race 
as the Wo, were generally on terms of hostility with the latter, and 
unlike them were ruled over hj a king, who was in diplomatic cor- 
respondence with the Chinese representatives in Korea. 

Thus it seems clear that beginning about the latter half of the 
second century western Japan was invaded from Korea by a de- 
cidedly high culture characterized by the use of iron, the manu- 
facture of wheel-made pottery, the possession of domestic animals, 
the custom of fighting on horseback, the practice of true agriculture, 
and the burial of the illustrious dead in dolmens covered by huge 
mounds of earth. It is possible that the bow played a part in the 
extension of this culture, for the original Mongoloid settlers of 
western Japan, like their kinsmen of the Chinese littoral and so 
many of the modern peoples of Indo-China and Indonesia, appear 
to have been spearmen rather than archers. 

Of the substitution of male rule for female rule among the Wo 
there is no historical record. But that it took place not long after 
the time of the great queen just mentioned and that it was due to 
the growing influence of Chinese ideas may be held as certain. The 
former divine queens seem to have survived merely as chief 
priestesses of the Sun cult, while the actual power was henceforth 
vested in the male heads of the ruling clan, the historical mikados, 

»»Hulbert, op. cit., p. 81. 

^ On the contact between ITsin-Io and the Izumo region of Japan, sec Aston, Nihongi, 
vol. 1, p. 166 and note; W. E. Griffls : Corea, the Hermit Nation, New Yorlc, 1882; refer- 
ence in I'reface, p. v ; Baelz, op. cit., p. 52.5. 



562 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

also, of course, descendants of the Sun Goddess and therefore god- 
kings in their own persons. 

It was during this same period of her Early Iron Age that Japan 
received, through Korea but eventually from China, two fresh cul- 
tural acquisitions, whose importance it would be difficult to exag- 
gerate. These were the Buddhist faith and the art of writing. The 
story of the way in which these additional factors in the national 
life came to be introduced can not be gone into here. But it will 
readily be seen how very great must have been their influence as imi- 
fying and civilizing agents among a congeries of tribes d^velling 
upon a relatively Ioav culture plane and ruled over by a turbulent, 
disunited, and illiterate aristocracy which had as yet learned to pay 
but small respect to the authority of the central government. 

EXTENSION OF JAPANESE OCCUPATION OF THE MAIN ISLAND 

The fact that bronze implements have been found only to the west- 
ward of the Lake Biwa region would suggest that the Mongoloid 
advance at the expense of the Ainu got no farther than that point 
until after the introduction of iron. It is possible, however, that even 
during the Xeolithic period independent bands of the invaders may 
have cruised in canoes farther eastward, planting settlements along 
the coast but leaving the central mountain ranges in the hands of 
the aboriginal population. "We know that it was by this method of 
coastwise advance in large fleets of war boats that the Japanese 
effected the conquest of much of the northern part of the main island 
in the full light of the historical period, during the seventh and 
eighth centuries, and it must have been by a similar process that they 
acquired a lodgment in the islands in the first place.^^ At all events, 
there is some evidence, slight though it be and mainly of a legendary 
character, that the coastal plains as far east as Tokyo Bay were 
already occupied by settlements of peoples akin to but independent 
of the Yamato when the latter established their supremacy there. 
The Yamato-dake storj'^, for example, pure myth though it be in the 
main,^^ suggests this ; for in it that hero appears as warring against 
peoples kindred to his own until he passes the mouth of ToItn'o Bay 
(traveling by sea, be it noted) ; it is only bej'ond tliat point that he is 
represented as coming in contact with the Ainu. 

It seems certain, at any rate, that the efforts of the Yamato to 
extend their authority over eastern Japan began very soon after their 
occupation of the Lake Biwa region. For the Japanese annals, just 
now beginning to have some slight historical value, mention a defeat 

=^ Regarding these boat c.xpetlitioiis, see Aston, Nihongi, vol. 2, pp. 252 and 2G3 ; also, 
Ilara, op. c-it., p. 110. 

''For the Yamato-dakf myth see .\ston, Niliongi, vol. 1, pp. 200 ct seq., 1?. II. Cham- 
berlain, Ko-jikl, pp. 201 and 205 et seq. 



EAELY JAPAN BISHOP 563 

inflicted at tlie end of tlie fourth century upon one of their war parties 
oy the Ainu of the rugged peninsuLar region between Tokyo Bay 
and the Pacific Ocean. And 80 years or so later — in the year 478 
A. D., to be exact — the Chinese records inform us that the emperor 
then reigning, Shun Ti, of the Early Sung Dynasty, received a 
letter ==* from the ruler of the Yamato, stating that his father had 
conquered toward the east 55 states of the Maojen, or "hairy men" 
(the Ainu, of course), and on the west G5 states of the I-jen, or 
"barbarians." Who these latter were is uncertain, but they were 
perhaps most likely fragments of the pre- Yamato population of 
western Japan, of mixed Ainu and Mongoloid descent, which, dwell- 
ing in mountainous areas or outlying islands, had managed hitherto 
to escape conquest by the Yamato. Southern Kyushu in particular 
we know long remained independent and hostile. The almost entire 
absence of dolmens here indicates the slight control exercised by the 
Yamato over this region during their Early Iron Age, and this in- 
ference is most abundantly confirmed by their own records. 

LOSS OF CONTINENTAL TF^RRITORY 

But, though the influence of the mikados was being strengthened 
during this period in Japan proper, as much can not be said with re- 
gard to their relations with the continent. During much of the 
Early Iron Age western Japan and particularly northern Kyushu 
seem to have been far less closely allied in feeling to the Yamato 
region than they were to southern Korea. At times this conscious- 
ness of kinship actually took the form of alliances between the 
peoples on the two sides of the Strait of Tsushima for waging war — 
" rebellion " in the official Japanese phraseology — against the divine 
Yamato rulers of central Japan. It was only by great efforts that 
the latter were able to maintain even the loosest control over their 
kinsfolk of the lower end of the peninsula.^^ Geography, in the 
shape of the hundred miles of sea between Japan and Korea, was 
working as inexorably against them as did the English Channel 
against the retention of Normandy b}^ the English kings — in many 
ways a closely parallel case. 

Finally, in the latter half of the seventh century the age-long 
friendship between the kingdom of Hsin-lo, the ancient Shen-Han, 
and China, then under the sway of the powerful T'ang Dynasty, 

" Thus showinjr that the .Tapanose were now boginning to conduct their diplomatic 
correspondence in writing, if indeed they had not already been doing so for a century 
or two ; but the art remained for long a secret confined to certain hereditary guilds of 
Chinese or Korean extraction, whose members thus acquired vast influence with the rulers 
and great nobles of the Yamato whom they ser^-ed as scribes. 

^ On the dominance of Japan in Korea during the early centuries of the Christian era, 
see Kauichi Asakawa : The Early Institutional Life of Japan. Tokyo, 1903, pp. 80 et seq. 



564 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

culminated in a joint attack upon the Yamato by sea and land, 
which resulted in their total expulsion from the peninsula. The 
people of Quelpart, of Japanese or closely kindred stock, kept up 
for several centuries a quasi-independent existence as the kingdom 
of T'am-na but eventually gravitated toward Korea, geograpliical 
propinquity proving stronger than the ties of race and culture. 

At the time, no doubt, this loss of the continental portion of their 
territory must have seemed a catastrophe of the direst sort. In the 
long run, however, it proved of incalculable benefit.^" For while 
receiving just as formerly the culture stimuli emanating from the 
continent, the Yamato no longer had to dissipate their energies m 
efforts to retain hold of regions on the mainland which were stead- 
ily growing farther apart from them in feeling and culture. Thus, 
able to give their undivided attention to their home problems, they 
set to work in earnest to obliterate the last remaining frontiers 
within the Japanese islands themselves. 

FURTHER CONSOLIDATION OF THE INSULAR DOMAIN 

The independent communities still surviving in the west, of which 
those mentioned as existing in southern Kyushu were the chief, were 
absorbed in short order. The last rising of the old independent 
stock of southern Kyushu took place at the end of the seventh cen- 
tury, barely a generation after the expulsion of the Yamato from 
their last foothold on the continent. But the separatist tendencies 
of the region, fostered bj^ its geographical configuration, have been 
manifest throughout its history, the last instance being that of the 
famous " Satsnma rebellion " of 1877. 

The subjugation of the still unconquered Ainu of the north and 
east presented a far more serious task. The mass of the people of 
western Japan, hardly touched by the new cultural influences from 
the continent, save in so far as these facilitated their exploitation by 
their rulers, had long since sunk to the status of abject predial 
serfdom and had lost such military virtues as they may once have 
possessed. The aristocracy, we know, were splendid warriors, 
gorgeousl}^ equipped and accustomed to fighting on horseback with 
longbow and sword. When called out en masse they no doubt 
proved a most effective if somewhat undisciplined militia. But aside 
from the personal guards of the rulers and great nobles, recruited 
largely from the Ainu and the pre- Yamato populations of southern 
Kyushu, there was no standing army and consequently no force 
ready at all times to take the field on short notice against the 
sudden incursions of the unconquered aborigines. These fierce 

«" llara, op. cit., pp. 122 ct seq. 



EARLY JAPAN BISHOP 565 

fighters were by no means content merely to act on the defensive. 
Throughout their history as an independent people they evinced an 
entire willingness to meet their enemies quite halfway. Their usual 
method of waging war was to strike the settlements of the foe im- 
awares and then be off again Avith their booty and captives, leaving 
behind them a trail marked in blood and fire, before troops could be 
brought up against them. The attitude of the bulk of the Japanese 
peasantry toward these savage raiders is vividl}' reflected in a 
very ancient song, attributed lo the mythical hero Jimmu, which 
says that one Emishi (i. e., Ainu) is a match for a hundred men. 

THE AINU FRONTIER 

It was clearly for strategic reasons that the Yamato had moved 
their seat of government in the first place from Kyushu to the fron- 
tier region about Lake Biwa. For it w\is there that Ainu incursions 
were most to be dreaded and there, too, that they could be most easily 
repelled before the}^ had penetrated far into the country. That such 
a radical change of base should have been made, in spite of the very 
great importance which we loiow the Yamato rulers attached to the 
maintenance of their hold on southern Korea, gives us a measure of 
the anxiety with which they regarded the "Ainu question." Only a 
motive of the utmost cogency could have induced them to remove 
so far from the position close to the Strait of Tsushima which they 
had hitherto occupied. 

The settlement of the Ainu problem was at length effected; but it 
was only by dint of the hardest fighting, protracted through cen- 
turies. The possession of iron weapons and of a force of mounted 
archers accustomed to maneuver at a gallop over rough ground 
must have given the Yamato a great advantage over the Ainu in the 
open field. But as the latter were slowly pushed back northeastward 
they absorbed more and more of the civilization of their enemies 
with a consequent increase in their own powers of resistance, while 
the Yamato armies, on the other hand, advancing both by land and 
by sea, met with ever greater difficulty in getting up their supplies 
from the cultivated districts far in their rear. Moreover, it was 
not enough merely to occupy the lowlands near the coast with 
blockhouses and military colonies. The central mountain ranges 
had also to be invaded and their inhabitants dispossessed or sub- 
dued, if there was to be any security for the always lengthening 
lines of communication. In view of the overwhelming difficulties 
attending the task, it is no wonder that it was so long of accomplish- 
ment; while the dogged stubbornness Avith which the centuries-long 
76041—26 37 



566 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

battle was Ava^jed on both sides says a vast deal for the fighting quali- 
ties of Ainu and Yamato alike. 

For some reason progress was much more rapid on the west than 
on the east coast, so that about the close of the seventh century the 
Yamato had after a fashion occupied the territory along the Sea of 
Japan nearly up to the thirty -ninth parallel. On the Pacific side the 
Ainu were then holding out along a line roughly corresponding to 
latitude 37° N. The next few campaigns pushed the frontier back, 
on the west, as far as a spot a trifle south of latitude 40° N., where 
the Akita fort Avas built. From this point the boundary extended in 
a general southeasterly direction across the central mountain ranges 
to the Pacific, reaching the coast about in latitude 38° 40' N., some 
50 miles or so north of the Taga fort, whose overgrown earthworks 
still stand, not far from the present city of Sendai.^^ 

At this point, in the latter half of the eighth century, the still 
unconquered Ainu made a desperate effort to regain their lost ground. 
They took the Taga fort, massacred its commander and garrison, and 
pushed far down the eastern coastal plain toward that Tokyo Bay 
region from which their ancestors had been driven something like 
300 years before. 

But the Yamato government, albeit with difficulty, kept large 
forces in the field 3^ear after year, while the aborigines, barbarians 
as they were, aided in their own subjugation by indulging in suicidal 
wars among themselves. It was fortunate for them that the Yamato, 
before the loss of their continental possessions left them free to at- 
tend to their internal problems, had adopted the peaceful and humane 
creed of Buddhism with its aversion to bloodshed. For, in obedi- 
ence to the behests of their faith, they carried on no mere war of 
extermination but made a genuine effort to civilize and assimilate the 
conquered natives and to place them on the same footing with the 
other subjects of the Mikado. At first prisoners of war were dis- 
tributed in the western part of the islands in small bodies and were 
given rations until they should learn to become self-supporting; while 
later on the policy was adopted of organizing them into villages on 
the same basis as the rural population elsewhere. Thousands of them, 
first-class fighting men as they were, accepted enrollment in the 
Japanese armies for service against their still unsubdued kinsmen. 
Offices and gifts were bestowed on surrendered chieftains, while 
missionaries, in some cases themselves converted Ainu who had taken 
holy orders, made every effort to win the aborigines to the Buddhist 
faith. 

"On the successive old Yamato-Ainu frontiers, soe ITara, op. cit., pp. 67 et seq., 86 
ct set).. 104, 119, 147 ct seq.: N. (S. Munro, rriraitive Culture in Japan, Trans. Asiatic 
Soc. of Japan, vol. 34, Part II, 1906, pp. 1-198 ; rc<forcncc on p. 106 ; idem, Prehistoric 
Japan, p. .■)97. 



EAELY JAPAN — BISHOP 567 

FINAL CONQUEST OF THE AINU 

Finally by the close of the tenth century the subjugation of the 
Ainu of the main island could be regarded as accomplished. But it 
was long before they were completely assimilated. They rose again 
and again, even as late as 1332, while a few villages of them were still 
to be found about the shores of Aomori Bay so recently as the eigh- 
teenth century. 

That portion of the race living in Yezo, Sakhalin, and the Kuriles 
retained its independence for some time longer. The last serious 
effort of the Yezo Ainu to expel the Japanese occurred in the latter 
part of the seventeenth centurj^, when with their primitive weapons 
they made a brave but hopeless fight against their foes clad in iron 
armor and equipped with matchlock guns and keen steel swords. 

As a distinct people the Ainu have almost wholl}^ disappeared, with 
the exception of the few thousands still living in the island of Yezo. 
Nevertheless they form a very large element in the racial composi- 
tion of the Japanese nation to this day.''® 

As usual in cases where crossing has occurred between Mongoloid 
and other races, the external physical characteristics of the former 
have tended to be dominant, although apparently the same does not 
hold to quite the same extent regarding skeletal traits. Traces of 
Ainu mixture are visible throughout the country, from the Loochoos 
and Satsimia in the far south to Yezo on the north, while in isolated 
regions like the mountain fastnesses of Kozuke, Shinano, and 
Echigo Provinces in the center of the main island, there still occur 
surprising numbers of pure Ainu types. Particularly strong was 
this strain among the former Samurai, or knightly class, in large 
part descended from the Ainu incorporated in the Japanese armies 
of the eighth and ninth centuries.^^ To this inheritance it was that 
the haughty two-sworded man of later times owed his less Mongo- 
loid features, ruddier complexion, and heavier beard, to say nothing 
of his splendid fighting qualities. 

It would be difficult to exaggerate the influence which the Ainu 
have exerted over the historical development of the Japanese Em- 
pire. For to the long centuries of warfare which their subjugation 
entailed were due the rise of that hereditary warrior class and that 
system of military government, without which Japan would almost 

»s On the large Ainu part in the modern Japanese racial complex, see KanichI Asakawa : 
The Origin of the Feudal Land Tenure in Japan, Amer. Hist. Rev., vol. 20, 1914-15, pp. 
1-23; reference on p. 17; Matsumoto, op. cit., pp. 73, 75 et seq. ; David MacRitchie : The 
Ainos, Internationales Archiv fiir Ethnographie, vol. 4, Supplement, 1892, passim ; 
Romyn Hitchcock, op. cit., p. 450. 

N. G. Munro (Prehistoric Japan, p. 634) says the religion of the Yamato was much 
more deeply influenced by the Ainu than is generally supposed. 

^Asakawa, Origin of Feudal Land Tenure, p. 17; Matsumoto, op. cit., pp. 75 et seq. 



568 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

certainly have vegetated into a second Korea — in other words, a 
feeble imitation of China, without either the wnll or the force to 
think and act for herself. It is pleasant to be able to state, from 
personal observation, that the Japanese authorities are doin<j^ all 
that they can to elevate and educate the remnant of the Ainu, and 
assist them to a point where they can take their proper plac« as 
civilized men and women in the Avorld of the twentieth century. 

CONCLUSION 

The physical and cultural traits which we regard as peculiarly 
Japanese may, then, be traced to three separate and distinct geo- 
graphical areas.*" Basically, both in race and in the fundamentals 
of their culture, the Japanese are most closely akin to the ancient 
inhabitants of the Asiatic coast lands during the Neolithic period. 
Superimposed upon this foundation and affecting mainly the ruling 
classes, was that higher type of civilization which began to reach 
Japan about the beginning of our era, and which was accompanied 
by a certain infusion of fresh blood, largely from Korea but also 
to a not inconsiderable extent direct from China. Finally, to the 
long contact with the ancient aborigines were due the addition of 
a most valuable clement in the racial complex and the acquisition 
of that fighting spirit, with its traditions of unflinching loyalty' 
and self-sacrifice, that has been so largely responsible for the rise 
^f Japan as a modern power. 

*• H. J. Fleure (Geographical Factors, Helps for Students Serip«, No. 44, London, 
1021) makes the interesting suggostion that it may be the inipcrfrct accord of widely 
separated inheritances in tlie sarae individual that has given the .Tapanese the sensitive- 
ness to climatic differences which has hitherto stood in the way of their succeeding as 
colonists in Formosa or Salilialin. 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Bishop 



Plate I 




Ainu Man and Women at Piratori, Island of Yezo: the Man Has 
Ceremonial Headdress and Mustache Lifter. The Designs on 
THE Clothing Are Distinctive of This Race 



Smithsonian Report, 192S. — Bishop 



Plate 2 




I. Old Ainu Man Operating Canoe Ferry in Interior of Island of Yezo. 
The Ainu, in Common with Other North Pacific Peoples Both of Asia 
and of America, Were Expert Canoemen 




2. Korean Bullfight. These Fights, Originally of Ritual Significance, 
Seem to Have Formed an Element of the Irrigated Rice Culture 
Complex, in Association with Which They Are Found from Japan to 
Madagascar 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Bishop 



Plate 4 




I. Ainu Village. Note Piles of Firewood Provided 
Against the Bitterly Cold Winter. The Ainu 
Formerly Used Earth-Covered Dugouts as Cold- 
Weather Residences, While Their Storehouses 
Elevated on Piles Point to Contact with South- 
ern Insular Peoples 




2. Type of Primitive Japanese Hut Surviving among 
Modern Peasantry. Photograph by Courtesy of 
the Freer Gallery of Art 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Bishop 



Plate 5 




'fiiggmgnmi§l^w 



PPL*^' 



I 

I. Famous Shrine of the Sun Goddess at Ise, in Which 
Is Preserved the Primitive Japanese Type of Hut, 
Allied to Southern Insular Forms, Very Distinct 
FROM THE Chinese Style of Architecture Imported 
IN Historic Times. Photograph by Courtesy of the 
Freer Gallery of Art 




2. View of Nara. One of the Capitals of Japan in the 
Eighth Century, Showing Architecture of Chinese 
Buddhist Origin 




Q < 



Q. I UJ :S 
< H S a 

"3 — C 



cc . -, 


LL 


h 


^_ 


H < Z 

z z 
— — z 


o 

1- 


LU 

> 


a. 


- I 111 


rr 


1- 


* 


RAL C 
WOM 


< 

Q. 

UJ 


tr 
CL 




CE CU 

Cent 

REA. 


a: 
< 

-I 


z 

< 


"5 


^1° 


< 

a: 
o 


1- 

w 

D 
-3 

Y 


1 


< t; > 


tr 


tr 


— 


0. 2 < 


o 


^ 


< o > 

-5 C/5 > 


Q. 


^ 


~ 




Q. _ 



CO ^ I 



- < 

Q O 
Ljj o 



nd O D 



> 9 



< < ^ 

. o o 

ii^ < t 

o cr t 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Bishop 



Plate 7 





' -."^-~V -^'-•I.M. ' ^ iff- 





I. Typical Japanese Torrent Bed in Winter. Owing to the Almost 
Total Lack of Navigable Rivers, the Original Japanese Conquest 
Was Largely Confined at First to Seaboard Plains Accessible to 
Their Fleets of War Boats 




2. Lake Hakone, in Central Japan, Where the Original Ainu Long 
Held Back the Japanese Invaders Until Outflanked by Sea, as 
Happened Again and Again, Until the Process of Conquest Had 
Been Completed 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Bishop 



Plate 8 




I. Winter Scene in the Nikko Range, Part of the Central Backbone of 
Japan, in Whose Fastnesses Ainu Types Still Sometimes Occur in 
Great Purity 




2. Looking North from the Scarp of the Ancient Japanese Hill Fort 
OF Taga toward the Hills Still Held by the Aboriginal Ainu in 
THE Eighth Century 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Bishop 



Plate 9 




Inscribed Stone of the Eighth Century at the Taga Fort, near the 
Ancient Ainu-Japanese Frontier, a Few Miles North of the Modern 
City of Sendai 



THE EXCAVATIONS OF THE SANCTUARY OF TANIT 

AT CARTHAGE 1 



By Byron Khun de Tkouok 
Codirector of the Carthaginian cxcavatiuns. 



[With 4 plates] 



The Sanctuary or Temple of Tanit is the first Punic ruin to be 
found " in situ " in Carthage. Father Delattre has uncovered many 
Punic tombs at Carthage, but the richly crowded area "of the 
Temple of Tanit," now being exhumed, is the first trace of Car- 
thaginian remains of the Phoenician period in the original position. 
The discovery was made by two amateur archeologists of Tunis, 
Mr. Icard and Mr. Geilly, and the discovery was at once communi- 
cated to the Academic des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres by J. B. 
Chabot, membre de I.Tnstitut, and expert in the Phoenician Lan- 
guages. 

Tlie ruin Avas found in one of the most common ways in oriental 
countries — that is, by tracing the selling of antiquities by the local 
Arabs. A beautiful Punic inscription was being sold when Mr. 
Geilly asked whence it came. He was told by the Arab that he 
had found it in the mountains above Carthage, and for two weeks 
a search was made in the indicated place. These indications were 
a ruse so that the Arab could go on peacefully digging up the 
antiquities in secret and selling them at once to tourists and col- 
lectors. One night the Arab was followed and was seen by the 
light of the moon to be digging on his hands and knees in a hole. 
He was caught red-handed, with 10 Aotive inscription stones near 
by, and the famous Sanctuary of Tanit was at last located. From 
the historian Polybius we laiow that the Temple of Tanit and of 
Baal Hammon stood in the vicinity of the ancient forum not far 
distant from the ancient ports. The site of this recent discovery 
corresponds with the ancient historian's position of the temple, and 
strangely enough this discovery is situated on the spot called " Sa- 
lammbo," about 100 yards from where the ancient ports are sup- 
posed to have stood. Gustave Flaubert, who wrote the greatest 
historical novel ever produced in France, would have been pleased 
if he had lived to know that the temple he had so vividly described 

• Reprinted by permission from Art aiul Archeology, Vol. XIX, No. 1, January, 1925. 

569 



570 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

was bein<2: l)rou<rht back to the civilized world. Tn di<r^ing up this 
temple this winter, we had constantly in our minds the vivid descrip- 
tion of the temple that makes one of the most wonderful episodes of 
Flaubert's " Salammbo." 

The excavation was started by the " Services dcs Antiquites," and 
this year we were able to procure the site after many months of 
deliberation and difficulties on the part of the owners of the coveted 
piece of land. 

The sanctuary is remarkable in being composed of four distinct 
levels, floors of votive altars, inscriptions, and vases of many new 
forms. 

Each level corresponds with a different period of Carthaginian 
history. The sanctuary dates from the foundation of Carthage, 
which is lost in the night of time, but it is only in the termination 
of the present excavations that perhaps some clue to the real date of 
the foundation of Carthage may be found. Most historians place 
the legendary foundation of Carthage by Dido at about 850 B. C. 
With the termination of the present excavation we hope not only 
to solve the mystery of ancient Carthage, but also to solve the prob- 
lems of the great Egyptian influence we have found there, of the 
practice of human sacrifice, and many other historic questions. 
The sanctuary existed until the destruction of Carthage by Scipio 
146 years B. C. From it we are learning new indications of the re- 
ligions and customs of a lost empire. The site of the city of Hanni- 
bal and Hamilcar has long been a m3'stery, but the tombs discovered 
by Father Delattre have shed certain light on the great people who 
once challenged Rome for the mastery of the ancient world. But 
nearly everything is yet to be achieved in Carthage, as regards the 
scientific exploration of the vast antique metropolis of Africa, that 
once had a population of a million inhabitants and whose area is 
said to have been 24 square miles. 

The Temple of Tanit is our first clue to the Phoenician city that 
disappeared from the face of the earth during the dreadful con- 
flagration when the city burned for IT days and the smouldering 
ruins were plowed through by the revengeful Romans. The ex- 
cavation is producing thousands of beautifully painted urns, con- 
taining rare and j^recious amulets and other treasures, and elegantly 
sculptured inscriptions of the days of Hannibal, and hundreds of 
strange votive altars unlmown as yet to archeology. Each time 
that this great cemetery was filled with offerings it was covered 
over with a layer of protecting clay and refilled. 

HUMAN SACRIFICES AT CARTHAGE 

It is hoped that the completion of the excavation of the "area" 
of I he Temple of Tanit may lead to the discovery this coming season 



SANCTUARY OF TANIT PEOEOK 571 

of the plan of the temple itself. One of the greatest problems of 
this discovery is the solving of the historic question of the human 
sacrifices of the Carthaginians. The excavation has already yielded 
thousands of urns filled with the ashes and bones of newly born 
children and small animals. It is thought that the animal bones 
were those of aninuils substituted secretly by parents for their chil- 
dren. The relics have been examined by the Pasteur Institute and 
found to be largely those of infants. 

In six weeks we dug out hundreds of vases, sometimes averaging 
50 a day. Nearly all the vases contained ashes of children and we 
are driven to the conclusion that on this site there were very dreadful 
holocausts in antiquity. 

Diodorus Siculus mentions that in the year 311 B. C. as many as 
300 people were sacrificed during one ceremony. The Carthaginians 
were abhorred by the ancients because of this terrible custom of 
" passing their people through fire " as in biblical days. One of the 
most remarkable conditions of a peace treaty ever recorded was that 
made by Gelon of Syracuse on behalf of the Greeks. After defeat- 
ing 300,000 Carthaginians at the great battle of Himera, they de- 
manded one single condition, and that was the abolition of the sacri- 
fice of children at Carthage. Darius, King of the Persians, sent an 
ambassador all the way to Carthage demanding the abolition of 
human sacrifices and also the eating of little dogs, a great Phoenician 
delicac}' which was considered an abomination in those days. 

The awful cult of Moloch continued in the reign of Tiberius, 
according to the great apologist Tertullian. This Emperor had the 
priests who performed these " abominations of the Sidonians " cruci- 
fied in the Temple Gardens where they had performed these ritual 
sacrifices. 

Saint Augustine also spoke of these cruelties, which he said con- 
tinued even in his day, the sacrifices being made then to Saturn 
instead of to Baal Amnion. This is a dreadful period of human 
degeneracj" that we are now unearthing in the famous Temple of 
Tanit, but such is archeology ! In one spot we may be uncovering 
works of priceless art and traces of the advancement of civilization, 
and in another spot the contrasting decadence shown in the revela- 
tion of such a cult as found at Aphrodisium and at Carthage in 
Africa. 

THE URNS DISCOVERED IN THIS YEARS CAMPAIGN 

(The excavations of floor A) 

The first ruin to be located in the excavation was what seemed to 
be the Roman Temple of Saturn built above the Punic ruin below. 
We give it this name from a votive inscription found among the 



572 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

debris of ruined walls. 'J'his inscription bore the name of Baal 
Saturn. Beneath those walls was found the lirst layer of Punic ob- 
jects. The Roman conquerors had built ri^ht onto the field of votive 
offerings and other archcolo<rical treasures, but had disturbed as 
little as possible the reliirious •■' area." It must be remembered that 
Home rebuilt Carthage about 100 years after its destruction and it 
became in a short time the second city of the Roman Empre. 

Floor A is at a depth of about 51/, to G meters. The excavation 
is extremely difficult at the greatest depth because of the continuous 
infiltration of sea water. This floor contains vases of very deli- 
cate workmanship of graceful tulip form. Therein were con- 
tained finely worked amulets of the Egyptian deities mingled with 
the bones and ashes of children from new-born infants to the age 
of 12 years. 

Below this floor we discovered a very important silex of the Neo- 
lithic age, a significant find, proving that prehistoric man had also 
made the peninsular of Carthage his abode. This adds a new field 
of research in the already well-stocked one of Carthaginian arche- 
ology. 

Floor A contains many rough stones placed in the form of small 
megalithic menhirs, and one w^onders if a link with the mystery 
of the dolmens may also be solved by this excavation. North 
Africa is a rich field of megalithic remains, certainly one of the 
richest known, for in the plateau region of the Tell in. Central 
Tunisia, I have visited 40 megalithic sites. At Roknia there are 
1,400 dolmens to be seen on one site alone. Our new museum at 
Carthage was fortunate in procuring this year a complete collection 
of objects from the Dolmens of Dougga, affording splendid docu- 
mentation on this engrossing subject. 

The vases found in floor A contained veritable treasures of 
jewelry, gold leaves, ivory uuisks, gold oinaments, necklaces and 
bracelets, objects of rare and varied forms, amulets, with the head 
of jackals, the " Eye of Osiris," the Egyptian god Bes, and the ter- 
lible sinister god of the Carthaginians, Moloch. 

Floors B and C show also monuments of great Egyptian influ- 
ence. The altars are obelisk in form and the urns again show amu- 
lets composed of the Egyptian Pantheon. However, floor B is 
not so rich in variety as floors A and C but an extensive study is 
needed here in cataloging the variety of monuments and the transi- 
tion of style. 

The next floor (C) is as important as the deepest strata, for we 
meet for the first time the beautiful Punic inscriptions and several 
scores of now varieties of sculptured votive altars and a wide range 
of Phoenician j)ottery. 



SANCTUARY OF TANIT PROROK 573 

THE INSCRIPTIONS 

The excavation of this floor is perhaps one of the most important 
of North African archeological researches, for these inscriptions 
are clues to the epigraphy of a lost empire, to new artistic designs, 
to new religious customs, and to the new names of Carthaginians 
of Hannibal and Hanno's days. 

We dug up several beautiful stelae in a very fine grain of stone 
and the designs were of great variety and workmanship. Temple 
columns, the tree of life, lotus flowers, Carthaginian priests, the 
sacred plates, uplifted palms, dolphins, and other mystic symbols, 
have rewarded the excavators' eft'orts. One of the most interesting 
discoveries was made at the base of a great wall. While supervis- 
ing the digging from floor C, one of the students of the British 
school at Rome, who collaborated with us in this work, came run- 
ning from that section of the excavations selected for his minute 
supervision, to report the finding of a beautifully sculptured stele. 
In a few moments willing hands had dug away the soil and reached 
an entirely new type of Punic stele showing a priest with uplifted 
hands finel}'^ sculptured at its face. The Abbe Chabot at once 
took a squeeze, an important action that is taken the moment a 
new inscription is located. (The archeologists and students were 
all sujjplied with squeezers to be able to take an impression at a 
moment's notice.) The Abbe Chabot at once announced a new 
form of Punic epigraphy. It was a maledictory curse of Baal 
Ammon — " Whoever overthrows this stone shall be shattered by 
Baal " * * * it commenced. 

A few minutes later another inscription appeared with a maledic- 
tion of Tanit '" at the violators of the sacred silence of the area of 
the Temple of Tanit." A fine Punic inscription placed in the new 
museum for safety's sake, bears a genealogy of 15 generations, or 
approximately r»00 years of a Carthaginian family whose origin goes 
back to the Phoenician founding of this Tyrian colony. This field 
of stehe has only been "tapped," and it is impossible to calculate 
the amount of information we may derive from this excavation in 
regard to the history of Carthage. 

The inscriptions of Carthage differ slightly from those of ancient 
Phoenicia and they are important additions to the epigraphy which 
forms the first known alphabet of man. There is certainly a great 
field of scientific knowledge to be published for the benefit of the 
history of the ancient metropolis of North Africa, and from this 
ancient sanctuary, near which laps the sea of the ancients, some of 
the mystery that still surrounds the site of Carthage may in the near 
future be penetrated. 



574 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

VOTIVE ALTARS 

The votive altars need especial and separate study of their own. 
The forms and designs are so numerous that nearly every day we 
find new specimens of Punic design and unlmown examples. It 
would make an interesting study to compare the different specimens 
of these great altars with those of other antique lands to see if any 
likeness can be detected. 

The altars stand in the temple area in very close formation, under 
wdiich we found the sacred urns. They were actually covered with 
painted stucco, and we have found several absolutely intact with the 
colors still showing after nearly 27 centuries. They range from 1 
to 5 feet in height and are compcssed of a sand stone found at Cape 
Bon. Many are in the form of the '" betel " stone. This is the most 
common form found. And then comes in greatest number the figure 
of a mummy standing between columns; then the triangle of Tanit, 
the lozenge, the disk, the crescent, and replicas of temples, with 
steps, are also quite common. Near these altars hundreds of Punic 
lamps were found showing that many of the ceremonies nnist have 
been performed at night. Babies' milk bottles, Punic coins, quanti- 
ties of grim ashes, and pottery of great variety are found around 
the altars, as well as strange symbols of little-known gods. 

The excavation of this historic spot this year was under the direc- 
tion of Abbe Chabot, membre de LTnstitut, and the greatest living 
expert on the Punic inscriptions, and de Prorok, who purchased 
the site with a donation given by Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas Brady, of 
New York. Maj. F. Shorey, of McGill University, Mr. A. Duff, of 
Oxford University, and Mr. D. Harden, of the University of Cam- 
bridge, Rey de Vilette, of the Ecole des Sciences Politiques, Paris, 
and Horton O'Neill, of St. Louis, Mo., who took the photographs 
illustrating this article, made up the composition of the staff. M. 
Poinssot, the learned director of the Service des Antiquites also 
supervised the work periodically. All these factors insured the 
careful and proper scientific excavation and documentation of this, 
the most important ruin discovered in North Africa in recent years. 
It has turned out to be a veritable treasure mine of antiquity, and a 
wonderful trace of the empire that once nearly conquered the an- 
cient world. 



Smithsonian Report, 1925.— De Prorok 



Plate 1 




General View of the Excavation of the Temple of Tanit 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — De Prorok 



Plate 2 




Left to Right: Madame Renault, Pere Challes, Mr. Icard Disco- 
verer OF Tanit ', Mr. Sanvagen, Mayor of Carthage, Pere Delattre. 
Correspondent de l'Institut, Abbe Chabot, Membre de l'Institut, 
Mr. Groselle, Director of the New Museum, Pere Hugenot, Pre- 
historic Curator, Countess de Prorok, Mr. Cookingham, U. S. Con- 
sul, Tunis, Mr. Poinssot, Director Services des Antiquities, Baron 
d'Erlanger, and Count de Prorok 









I 






.<.t r 




'^^^^^. S^^. 



2. Beautiful and Unique Votive Altars Recovered from the Sanctu- 
ary. Several Were Still Covered with the Ancient Stucco and 
Still Preserve Vivid Colorings. Five Urns Were Found under 
Each Altar 



Smithsonian Report. 1925. — De Prorol< 



Plate 3 




I. Examples of vases Found in the Temple of Tanit. Many of Them 
Are Beautifully Painted 




2. The Home of the Expedition, Palais Hamilcon at Sidi-Bou-Soud 




>- ? H 




Smithsonian Report. 1925. — Smithsonian Institution 



Plate I 




James Smithson 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUION 



[With 21 plates] 



"The advancement of the highest interests of national science 
and learning and the custody of objects of art and of the valuable 
results of scientific expeditions conducted by the United States have 
been committed to the Smithsonian Institution. In furtherance of 
its declared purpose — for the 'increase and diffusion of knowledge 
among men ' — the Congress has from time to time given it other 
important functions. Such trusts have been executed by the insti- 
tution with notable fidelity. There should be no halt in the work 
of the Institution, in accordance with the plans which its Secretary 
has presented, for the preservation of the vanishing races of great 
North American animals in the National Zoological Park. The ur- 
gent needs of the National Museum are recommended to the favorable 
consideration of the Congress." (President lioosevelt's first mes- 
sage to Congress.) 

In the popular mind, the Smithsonian Institution is a picturesque 
castellated building of brown stone, containing birds and shell.- and 
beasts and many other things, situated in a beautiful park at Wash- 
ington, with another large adjacent building, often called "the 
Smithsonian National Museum." The Institution is likewise sup- 
posed to have a large corps of learned men, all of whom are called 
"professors" (which they are not), whose time is spent in writing 
books and making experiments and answering all kinds of questions 
concerning the things in the heavens above, the earth beneath, and 
the waters under the earth. 

Contrast this popular notion with the facts. The Smithsonian 
Institution is an "Establishment," created by an act of Congress, 
which owes its origin to the bequest of James Smithson, an English- 
man, a scientific man, and at one time a vice president of the Royal 
Society, who died in Genoa in 1829, leaving his entire estate to the 
United States of America "to found at Washington, under the name 
of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase 
and diffusion of Imowledge among men." 

After 10 years of debate in Congress, turning partly on the ques- 
tion whether the Government ought to accept such a bequest at all 
and put itself in the unprecedented position of the guardian of a 

575 



576 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

ward, Congress accepted the trust and created by enactment an 
" Establishment " called by the name of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, consisting of the President of the United States, the Vice 
President, the Chief Justice of the United States, and the members 
of the President's Cabinet. It has also a secretary, the executive 
officer of the Institution, who is also the keeper of the National 
Museum. 

Smithson's money, which amounted to over half a million dollars, 
and later to three-quarters of a million, a great fortune in that day 
of small things, was lent to the United States Treasury, the Govern- 
ment agreeing to pay perpetually C per cent interest upon it. 

In the fundamental act creating the Institution, Congress, as 
above stated, i)rovided that the President and the members of the 
Cabinet should be members of the Institution — that is, should be 
the Institution itself — but that nevertheless it should be governed 
by a Board of liegents, composed of the Vice President and Chief 
Justice of the United States, three Regents to be appointed by the 
President of the Senate (ordinarily the Vice President), three by 
the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and six to be selected 
by Congress; two of whom should be residents of the District of 
Columbia, and the other four from different States, no two being 
from the same State. The fundamental act further provides that 
the secretary of the Institution already deiined shall also be the 
secretary of the Board of Regents. The Museum is primarily to 
contain objects of art and of foreign and curious research; next, 
objects of natural history, plants, and geological and mineralogical 
specimens belonging to the United States. Provisiori is also made 
for a library, and the functions of tlie Regents and of the secretary 
are deiined. 

The preamble of this l)ill states that Congress has received the 
property of Smitlison and provided " for the faithful execution of 
said trust agreeable to the will of the liberal and enliglitened donor." 
It will thus be seen that the relations of the General Government 
to the Smithsonian Institution are most extraordinary, one may even 
say unique, since the United States solemnly bound itself to the 
administration of a trust. Probably never before has any ward 
found so powerful a guardian. The Smithsonian is neither en- 
dowed nor maintained by (xovernment appropriation, though the 
Government entrusts the administration of several of the publicly 
supported bureaus to its care. 

Very eminent men have served upon the Board of Regents, both 
as members of the Government and from civil life. Among them 
may be found Louis Agassiz, Alexandei- Dallas Bache, George Ban- 
croft, Rufus Choate, James Dwight Dana, Asa Gray, Gen. Mont- 




.-•'ttiA, if 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Smithsonian Institution 



Plate 5 




Joseph Henry 

Secretary of Sniitlisonian Institution, 1846-1878 



Smithsonian Report, 1925.— Smitlisonian Institution 



Plate 6 




Spencer Fullerton Baird 

Secretary of Smithsonian Institutinii, 1S7S-1887 



Soiithsonian Report, 1925. — Smithsonian Institution 



Plate 7 




George Browne Goode 

Assistant Secretary of Smithsonian Institution, 1887-1896 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Smithsonian Institution 



Plate 8 




Samuel Pierpont Langley 

Secretary of Smithsonian Institution, 18S7-]9f6 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Smithsonian Institution 



Plate 9 




Charles Doolittle Walcott 

Present Secretary of Smithsonian Institution 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 577 

gomery C. Meigs, President Noah Porter, Gen. William Teciimseh 
Sherman, Alexander Graham Bell, the eminent Chief Justices of 
the United States, and Presidents Fillmore, Johnson, Arthur, 
Roosevelt, and Coolidge, as well as the President of the Confederacy, 
Jefferson Davis. 

SECRETARY JOSEPH HENRY, 1846-1878 

The first meeting of the Regents occurred on September 7, 1846, 
and in the autumn of the same year they elected as secretary Joseph 
Henry, then a professor at Princeton, known for his extraordinary 
experiments on the electromagnet and other subjects relating to 
electricity. His name is perpetuated in the term " henry," the unit 
of electrical self-inductance. Under his guidance the Institution 
took shape. Of another great man of science, the biographer would 
enumerate his classical publications and epoch-making experiments. 
Of Henry's life and work from 1846 till his death in 1878, the great 
experiment was the Smithsonian Institution, and his memoirs its 
publications. Yet he was also in the forefront of science in 
America, and an honored president of the National Academy of 
Sciences. 

The work of the Smithsonian at first consisted, in the main, of 
the publication of original memoirs, containing actual contributions 
to knowledge, and their free distribution to important libraries 
throughout the world; of giving popular lectures in Washington, 
publishing them, and distributing them to libraries and individuals; 
stimulating scientific work by providing apparatus and by making 
grants of money to worthy investigators; and cooperating with 
Government departments in the advancement of work useful to the 
General Government. These were the principal methods employed 
by Henry to carry out the purposes of Smithson, for the increase 
and diffusion of knowledge. At the Smithsonian, too, were initiated 
certain studies which afterwards became most fruitful and have re- 
sulted in important Government work, most of the present scientific 
activities of the Government having grown out of these investiga- 
tions or been stimulated by them, such as, for instance, the present 
Weathei- Bureau. Tlie beginning of cooperation in library work was 
at the Institution. Experiments in fog signaling, in the acoustics 
and ventilation of public buildings, and in numerous other subjects 
were inaugurated. In fact, in these earlier days, with one or two 
exceptions, the Smithsonian was the sole representative of active 
scientific work directly or indirectly connected with the United 
States Government. Its influence upon the character of private 
scientific work, too, was very great, since half a century or more ago 
the avenues for publishing were few, and the funds for the purpose 
slender. 



578 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INS'nTUTlON, 1925 

SECRETARY SPENCER FULLERTON BAIRD, 1878-1887 

In 1850, Spencer Fnllerton Baird, a distinguished naturalist, was 
elected assistant secretary of the Institution. After Henrj^'s death, 
in 1878, he succeeded him as secretary, and continued in that office 
until his own death in 1887. 

Secretary Baird was for 37 years continually in the scientific 
service of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government. He 
developed the National Museum. An opportunity never to come 
again was presented by the many great expeditions sent by the 
Government into virgin fields about this time. Railroads were being 
built, territories surveyed, arctic and antarctic explorations were 
being made. The Army had numerous outposts in the then w^estern 
wilderness. Baird seized the opportunity and made the most of it. 
He was himself an indefatigable student of the collections, but even 
more, he trained a school of young men almost as enthusiastic as 
himself, to whom, after him, is owing the great success of the 
museum. He was especially instrumental in organizing the system of 
international exchange of publications which remained under his 
direct charge until his death. He was the moving spirit in the 
establishment and organization of the United States Fish Commis- 
sion, and its commissioner from its foundation until his death. 
Methods which he invented for fish culture, and the studies of the 
natural history of our waters inaugurated by him, were epoch mak- 
ing. The marine biological station at Woods Hole, Mass., originated 
with him. 

From 1875 Doctor Baird Avas greatly aided by a young and enthusi- 
astic naturalist, George Brown Goode, who was appointed assistant 
secretary in 1887. Doctor Goode's untimely death in 1896 was a 
heavy blow to the whole Institution and especially to the National 
Museum. 

SECRETARY SAMUEL PIERPONT LANGLEY, 1887-1906 

Doctor Langley was the pioneer of the new astronomy. His won- 
derful vision and powers of delineation had made his early eye 
observations of the sun's surface notable, but the chief contribution 
which he made to astrophysics was the invention of the bolometer, 
an extraordinarily sensitive electrical thermometer, and the applica- 
tion of it to the study of the energy of the sun, the distribution of its 
radiation in the spectrum, and the similar investigation of the radia- 
tion of the moon. He established the Astrophysical Observatory at 
the Smithsonian Institution to carry on this type of investigations. 
He is best known to the public for his studies on aviation. Rescuing 
from ridicule this later highly important subject, he made careful 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 579 

investigations of the physics of mechanical flight, and as early as 
1896 built large successful flight models with which he conducted 
flights of nearly a mile. His later-constructed, man-carrying ma- 
chine unfortunately failed of a successful launching, but the device 
was undoubtedly capable of flight, as was demonstrated in 1914, 
when it was flown by Curtiss at Hammondsport. Doctor Langley's 
interest in the preservation of rapidly disappearing forms of the 
larger animals of the United States led to the establishment during 
his administration of the National Zoological Park. 

SECRETARY CHARLES DOOLITTLE WALCOTT. ELECTED 1907 

The fourth secretary, Dr. Charles Doolittle Walcott, elected in 
1907, had been in the service of the Geological Survey for over a 
quarter of a century, and from 1891 its director. His researches had 
covered many lines but had been preeminent in Cambrian paleontol- 
ogy. Our knowledge of the earliest fossil forms of life is indelibly 
associated with the name of Walcott. Always forward looking, he 
had exercised a highly salutary and important influence on the 
developments of forestry and reclamation, and had been the trusted 
adviser of presidents and legislators. He was also the moving spirit 
in the establishment of the Carnegie Institution, and has continued 
for many years highly influential on its board of trustees. During 
the World War, his services on numerous committees and in coordi- 
nation of scientific activities were eminent. From 1917 to 1923, he 
was president of the National Academy of Sciences, and in 1923 
was president of the American Association for the Advancement of 
Science. During Secretary Walcott's administration the National 
Gallery of Art and the Freer Gallery were added as branches of the 
Smithsonian Institution. 

THE NATIONAL MUSEUM 

Gradually, out of the collections which had been kept in the 
Patent Office, the private collections of Smithson, and of appro- 
priations of his money made by the Regents, and largely also 
through the results of the great exploring expedition of Captain 
Wilkes, there grew up a Smithsonian museum, one which was ex- 
clusively cared for from the Smithson fund. Partly through the 
greater activity of the Government surveys, partly through the 
gifts of private individuals, and also through the valuable objects 
presented to the United States Government by foreign nations at the 
close of the Centennial at Philadelphia in 1876, there was brought 
about the establishment of what is now known as the United States 
National Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, which is under 



580 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

control of the Regents of the Institution. Great buildings have been 
provided by the Government for the Museum, and it now receives 
direct support from Congress. This Museum has now the material 
belonging to the original Institution collected by the Smithsonian's 
own observers, together Avith much more secured through the Gen- 
eral Government, making in all almost 10,000,000 specimens. These 
constitute the foremost collection in the world in eveiything that 
relates to the natural history, ethnology, geology, and paleontology 
of the United States, besides containing many valuable series in 
all these sciences from other countries. The collections have been 
visited by over 20,000,000 persons and the Institution has carried 
selections of its specimens to every large exhibition held in the 
United States, and distributed over 1,000,000 specimens to colleges 
and academies, thus powerfully stimulating the growth of museums 
large and small in every section of the country. 

THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

In the year 1846, in the act of organization of the Smithsonian 
Institution, the Congress of the United States directed the formation 
of a gallery of art for the Nation. Even at a somewhat earlier date 
it gave encouragement to such a project by granting an act of in- 
corporation to a private society, whose collections were eventually to 
be ceded to the United States. The assembling of art objects under 
the chartered association began in 1840, and under the specific pro- 
vision for a gallery in 1849. The two collections were united in 1862, 
since whicli time the subject of art as a museum feature under the 
Government has continued in charge of the Smithsonian Institution, 
in accordance with the terms of its establishment in 1846. 

Mrs. Harriet Lane Johnston, niece of President Buchanan, and 
mistress of the White House during his term of office, assembled at 
her home in Washington a small collection mainly of paintings, in- 
cluding exam])les of the work of several distinguished masters, 
which, upon her decease in 1903, it was found had been bequeathed 
to the National Gallery of Art when one should be established by 
the GoA^ernment. In ignorance of the fact that the necessary means 
for carrying out her wishes weie already in existence, Mrs. Johnston 
named a temporary custodian, but under conditions that were not 
acceptable. In a friendly suit which followed to settle some doubt- 
ful clauses in the testament, it was decreed by the Supreme Court of 
the District of Columbia that the collection of art contemplated in 
the act of establishment of the Smithsonian Institution was, within 
the meaning and intent of the law, the National Gallery of Art. 
The collection of Harriet Lane Johnston was accordingly awarded 
to the Institution, and was received at the beginning of August, 1906. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 581 

To say that this acquisition raised the department of art to a stand- 
ard, if not to a size, appropriate to a National Gallery would be but 
a feeble expression of its import, or of that of the court's decision. 
The generous act of Mrs. Johnston and the court's ruling met with 
spontaneous and gratifying approbation in all parts of the country, 
and the gifts which it has led to up to the present time have ex- 
ceeded the most extravagent expectations. 

The national collections have increased rapidly, chiefly through 
gifts and bequests of art works by patriotic citizens. Until the 
beginning of the year 1920-21, no appropriation had been made for 
the gallery or for the purchase of art works, and no provision for 
the employment of a salaried curator or other employees of the 
galler}'^, all works of art being associated with the department of 
anthropology of the National Museum. 

Fortunately a liberal private fund became available in 1919 for 
the increase of the collections. The will of the late Henry Ward 
Ranger provided the sum of $200,000, the interest of which is to be 
devoted to the purchase of works of art for the National Gallery, 
the carrying out of the bequest being intrusted to the National 
Academy of Design. The provision is as follows : 

All pictures so purchased are to be given by the council to art institutions 
in America, or to any library or other institutions in America maintaining 
a gallery open to the public, all such gifts to be upon the express condition 
that the National Gallery at Washington, administered by the Smithsonian 
Institute, shall have the option and right, without cost, to take, reclaim, and 
own any picture for their collection, provided they exercise such option and 
right at any time during the five-year period beginning 10 years after the 
artist's death and ending 15 years after his death ; and, if such option and 
right is not exercised during such period, the picture shall remain and be the 
property of the institution to which it was first given. 

By the action of the Sixty-sixth Congress in providing " for the 
administration of the National Gallery of Art by the Smithsonian 
Institution, including compensation of necessary employees and 
necessary incidental expenses," its connection with the Museum was 
severed and it became the seventh Government bureau under the 
administration of the Institution on July 1, 1920. 

On May 27. 1921, the Board of Kegents of the Institution, having 
the future of the gallery in mind, took the initial steps in the estab- 
lishment of the National Gallery of Art Commission, formulating a 
plan of organization and naming a committee of eminent men in- 
terested in the fine arts to perfect the organization. 

The value of the National Gallery collections already in hand is 
estimated at several million dollars, their acquirement being due to 
the generous attitude of American citizens toward the National 
Gallery of Art. It can hardly be doubted that when a building is 

76041—26 38 



582 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

provided in which contributions can be cared for adequately, and 
exhibited to the public in the manner they deserve, many collectors 
seeking a permanent home for their treasures will welcome the op- 
portunity of placing them in the custody of a national institution. 
The providing of a suitable building for the gallery is all that is 
necessary to make Washington in the years to come an art center 
fully worthy of the Nation. 

THE FREER GALLERY OF ART 

The collections installed in the Freer Gallery of Art were brought 
together by Charles Lang Freer, of Detroit, Mich. They represent 
the results of JSIr. Freer's personal studj^ and acquisition over a 
period of about 35 years, the earliest of his purchases incorporated 
in the collections dating from the later eighties. 

During the administration of President Roosevelt, these collections 
were presented by Mr. Freer to the Nation, with the understanding 
that they should be placed under the direction of the Smithsonian 
Institution, and on May 5, 1906, the formal deed of gift to the 
Smithsonian was executed. 

The building in which the collections are now installed was given 
also by Mr. Freer, who requested that it be used exclusively for his 
collections. In accepting this gift, the Government agreed to care 
for and maintain the building and collections at the public expense, 
although in addition to these provisions, Mr. Freer created an en- 
dowment, the income from which was to be used for certain specified 
activities and developments which he wished to have carried on 
after his death independently, if need be, of congressional appro- 
priations. It was, furthermore, his expressed desire that his gift 
should become a unit of the National Gallery of Art which he hoped 
would be erected in Washington in the near future, and to which he 
felt confident additional units would be given by other collectors 
who might think, as he did, that such a foundation at Washington, 
under the control and direction of the Government, would mean the 
development of an important center for cultural research in both 
art and science. 

Mr. Freer was convinced that the more nearly a cultural object 
of any civilization expresses the underlying principles of artistic 
production in soundness of thought and workmanship, the more 
nearly it takes its place witli other objects of equally high quality 
produced by any other civilization; and with that in view, he was 
intent upon bringing together such expressions of western and east- 
ern cultures as seemed to him to embody at their best those char- 
acteristics which he believed to be inherent in all works of art. 

From the West, he acquired principally American paintings by 
men, inheritors of European traditions, in whose work he found 



HHHH^H^^^I^^BBBH 


^//tjf^ 


^Igi^ > T^^flH 


mr 




Mi 


' '^j^^^BHv'B^^^B '^r ^^1 


1 


V4 '-^M^BT -'^^hLi''. . ^^^^^^1 


I 




4^. 




^^^I^m 


V^P^'fl 


rl^lH^ 




fllH^^ 


^^^ ^^T ' *^r^ "kt^^K r^^^^^^^^^^K 




^^^^^^^V 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Smithsonian Institution 



Plate 15 




Jacquart Machines U. S. National Museum 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Smithsonian Institution 



Plate 17 




Major John Wesley Powell 

Director, Bureau of American Ethnology, 1879-1902 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 583 

qualities and tendencies sympathetic with those of earlier painters 
in China and Japan, 

From the East, he gathered paintings, potteries, sculptures in 
stone, in Avood and in lacquer, bronzes, jades, and objects of various 
other materials. The Chinese field is represented by the largest 
number of objects covering the longest period of time, but Japan, 
Korea, Persia and the Near East are represented liberally. 

The Freer Gallery Building, the Freer art collections, and the en- 
dowment which Mr. Freer provided, represent many millions 
of dollars, so that this is not only the largest benefaction ever en- 
trusted to the Smithsonian Institution, but the most generous gift 
ever made to art. 

THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

The Bureau of American Ethnology was organized in 1879 
and placed by Congress under the supervision of the Smithsonian 
Institution. It was directed that all the archives, records, and mate- 
rials relating to the Indian tribes collected by the Survey of the 
Rocky Mountain Region under the auspices of the Interior Depart- 
ment should be transferred to the Institution for use by the bureau. 
Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of the Institution, recognizing the 
great value of Maj. J. W. Powell's services in initiating researches 
among the western tribes, selected him as the person best qualified 
to organize and conduct the work. 

The National Government had already recognized the importance 
of researches among the tribes. President Jefferson, who planned 
the Lewis and Clark expedition of 1804-1806, " for the purpose of 
extending the internal commerce of the United States," especially 
stipulated, in his instructions to LeAvis, the observations on the 
native tribes that should be made by the expedition for the use 
of the Government. The Government also aided the publication of 
Schoolcraft's voluminous work on the Indians. The various War 
Department expeditions and surveys had reported on the tribes and 
monuments encountered in the West; the Hayden Survey of the 
Territories had examined and described many of the cliff dwellings 
and pueblos, and had published papers on the tribes of the Missis- 
sippi Valley; and Major Powell, as chief of the Survey of the Rocky 
Mountain Region, had accomplished important work among the 
tribes of the Rio Colorado drainage in connection with his geological 
and geographical researches, and had commenced a series of publica- 
tions known as Contributions to North American Ethnology. The 
Smithsonian Institution had also taken an active f»art in the publi- 
cation of the results of researches undertaken by private students. 
The first volume of its Contributions to Knowledge is The Ancient 



584 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 11)25 

Monuments of the Mississippi Valley, by Squier and Davis, and up 
to the founding of the Bureau of Ethnology the Institution had 
issued upward of 600 papers on ethnology and archeology. 

The work of the bureau has embraced a wide range. It was found 
that within the area with which the nation has to deal there are 
spoken some 500 Indian languages, as distinct from one another as 
French is from English, and that these languages are grouped in 
more than 50 linguistic families. 

Some of the more directly practical results accomplished may be 
briefly mentioned: (1) A study of the relations, location, and 
numbers of the tribes, and their classification into groups or families, 
based on affinity in language — a necessary basis for dealing Avith the 
tribes practically or scientifically; (2) a study of the numerous 
sociologic, religious, and industrial problems involved, an acquaint- 
ance with Avhich is essential to the intelligent management of the 
tribes in adjusting them to the requirements of civilization; (;]) a 
history of the relations of the Indian and whit« races embodied in a 
volume on land cessions; (4) investigations into the physiology, 
medical practices, and sanitation of a people who suffer keenly from 
imperfect adaptation to the new^ conditions imposed on them; (5) 
the preparation of bibliographies embodying all works relating to 
the tribes; (6) a study of their industrial and economic resources; 
(7) a study of the antiquities of the country with a view to their 
record and preservation; and (8) a handbook of the -tribes, em- 
bodying, in condensed form, the accumulated information of many 
years. So valuable has this handbook proved, not only to the student 
of ethnology but to the general public, that three editions have been 
published in the United States, and the Canadian Government has 
also reprinted a part of the worlc. 

The more strictly scientific results relate to every department of 
anthropologic research — phj^sical, psychological, linguistic, socio- 
logic, religious, technic, and esthetic — and are embodied in numerous 
papers published in the reports, contributions, and bulletins ; and the 
general results in each of tliese departments have been compiled 
and collated by the highest available authorities. 

THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 

This world is habitable because its temperature lies between 
freezing and boiling. What keeps it so ? The rays of the sun warm 
it, the rays of the earth cool it. The atmosphere, with its water 
vapor, its clouds and dust, obstructs the passage of both the sun rays 
and the earth rays. The Astrophysical Observatory is the only 
institution in the world that is making a general study of these 
fundamental things. It has devised and constructed several types 
of apparatus for these measurements which have become the stand- 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 585 

ards of the world. The ancients, the Babylonians, the Greeks, and 
others made no measurements of the quantity of heat received from 
the sun. We can not tell accurately from any recorded observa- 
tions prior to the year 11)00 what was then the intensity of the sun's 
heat output. Since 1902 the Astroph3'sical Observatory has made 
every year many exact measurements, so that our successors will be 
able to compare their observations, even centuries hence, with those 
which we are now making. 

Early in this series of observations it appeared that the sun's heat 
is not constant but variable. In other words, the sun is a variable 
star. This discovery, which was made about the year 1903, has been 
confirmed by expeditions to California, Africa, South America, and 
elsewhere, including measurements made at the summit of Momit 
Whitney, the highest mountain in the United States. Since 1918 
the Institution has maintained two stations — one in the United 
States, one in Chile — cooperating to observe the sun's variation. The 
results are being used in several countries for weather forecasting. 

The original establishment of the Astrophysical Observatory was 
made with funds from private sources. Small Government appro- 
priations for it have been available since 1891. A part of the income 
derived from funds given to the Smithsonian by the late Mr. Thomas 
G. Hodgkins for atmospheric investigations has been devoted to its 
work since 1917. Mr. John A. Roebling contributed largely to its 
support from 1920. 

THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

Secretary Langley, though an astronomer and a i^hysicist, had 
been very strongly impressed by the fact that all of our largest and 
most interesting wild animals were rapidly approaching extinction. 
He conceived the idea of securing a tract of country, as primitive as 
possible, that might be made a lasting refuge for these vanishing 
races. He urged this project upon the attention of Congress, and 
after three years of effort, in which he was supported by men of 
science and educators as well as by lovers of animals, an initial 
appropriation of $200,000 was made for the purpose in the year 1890. 

This sum was expended for the purchase of 1G7 acres of land, 
beautifully diversified with woods and streams, in the suburbs of 
Washington. A collection of about 2,000 living animals is now 
the feature of the Zoological Park. There are numerous paddocks 
and ranges for buffalo, deer, and other large mammals; lakes and 
pools for waterfowl, seals, beaver, and other aquatic species; out- 
door cages, some of large size, for hardy birds and mammals; and 
houses and shelters for species requiring special care or heated 
quarters during the winter months. The yearljj^ public attendance 
exceeds 2,000,000 persons. 



586 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC UTEliATURB 

The Regents of the Smithsonian Institution authorized Secretary 
Henry to suggest, at the Glasgow meeting of the British Association 
for the Advancement of Science in 1855, the formation of a catalogue 
of scientific memoirs. The Royal Society of Great Britian approved 
the suggestion and secured a grant from the British Government, 
under which many volumes of such a catalogue appeared. In the 
first volume we read : " The present undertaking may be said to 
have originated in a communication from Dr. Joseph Henry, Secre- 
tary of the Smithsonian Institution." 

In March, 1894, the Royal Society issued a circular to learned 
institutions throughout the world proposing a great international 
scientific subject catalogue. At the invitation of the British Govern- 
ment the United States was represented, through the Smithsonian 
Institution, in 1895, in a conference on this matter. The project 
finally took shape in 1900 as the International Catalogue of Scientific 
Literature, and b}^ the assistance of the Smithsonian Institution, 
suificient private subscriptions were secured in the United States, 
in addition to those received from other countries, to warrant the 
publication of the work in England. 

Until 1906 the cards representing publications of the United States 
were prepared by the Smithsonian Institution at the cost of its 
private funds. Since 1906, the Regional Bureau for the United 
States has been maintained at the Smithsonian Institution under 
Government appropriations. 

PUBLICATIONS 

" The diffusion of knowledge " is accomplished by the Smith- 
sonian Institution by generous correspondence, in which it annually 
answers thousands of inquirers, and through its various series of 
publications, which have been voluminous during 80 years. There 
being no restriction in scope, every branch of science has been dealt 
with, including anthropology, ethnology and archeolog}?^, botany, 
zoology, mechanics and aeronautics, physics, chemistry, geology, 
astronomy and astrophysics, meteorology, physiology, and many 
other subjects. In all, over 5,300,000 copies and parts have been 
distributed to institutions and private individuals, these works form- 
ing in themselves a scientific library in all branches. Its publica- 
tions are probably the most widely known phase of the Institution's 
activity, and it is certain that a great impetus has been given to 
scientific progress in this country through their use by scientists, 
research workers, teachers, students, and all others engaged in the 
increase and promotion of knowledge. 

The Smithsonian series of tables — Physical Tables, Meteorological 
Tables, Geographical Tables, and Mathematical Tables — have long 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Smithsonian Institution 



Plate 19 




I. Flight Cage , National Zoological Park 




2. Swan in National Zoological Park 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Smithsonian Institution 



Plate 20 




Ford in National ^ioological Park 




2. Polar Bear Cage, National Zoological Park 















\K ' \ 





THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 587 

been standard works of reference, and the continued demand for 
them has necessitated several editions of each. " Smithsonian Mathe- 
matical Formulae and Tables of Elliptic Functions " has recently 
been added to this series. 

The Smithsonian publications, together counting a total of well 
over 250,000 printed pages since 1846, are as follows: (1) Annual 
Reports of the Board of Regents to Congress, containing every year 
a general appendix composed of popular articles illustrating recent 
progress in every branch of science and research; (2) Smithsonian 
Contributions to Knowledge, extended memoirs in quarto form em- 
bodying the results of important original research; (3) Smithsonian 
Miscellaneous Collections, containing scientific papers on the most 
diversified subjects, some of which have considerable popular in- 
terest; (4) Annual Reports of the National Museum; (5) Bulletins 
of the National Museum (including Contributions from the National 
Herbarium), which contain accounts of original research by the staff 
of the Museum or on the Museum collections; (6) Proceedings of 
the National Museum, technical papers on the collections, and routine 
scientific work of the Museum; (8) Annual Reports of the Bureau 
of American Ethnology, which are enriched by accompanying papers 
on ethnological and archeological subjects; (9) Bulletins of the 
Bureau of American Ethnology, containing accounts of research by 
members of the staff of the bureau on the customs, languages, and 
archeology of the American Indians; (10) Annals of the Astro- 
physical Observatory, which are extended accounts of the results 
obtained from the original investigations of the Observatory; and 
(II) Catalogues of Collections of the National Gallery of Art. 
These various publications may be seen on the shelves of every im- 
portant library in the world. 

LIBRARY 

Partly by purchase, but in the main by exchange for these pub- 
lications, the Institution has assembled a library of over 900,000 
volumes, principally of serial publications and the transactions of 
learned societies, which is one of the notable collections of the world. 
The major portion of it, now over 800,000 volumes, has been since 
1866 deposited in the Library of Congress, with which establishment 
the most cordial and mutually helpful relations exist. The re- 
mainder, about 100,000 volumes, is kept at the Smithsonian and its 
branches for easy reference. 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES 

As another means of diffusing knowledge there was early estab- 
lished the Bureau of International Exchanges, originally intended 
simply for the proper distribution of the Smithsonian's publications, 
but which gradually assumed very wide proportions, becoming no 



588 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

less than an arrangement vvitli learned societies tlirotigliout the world 
to recii)rocally can y liee the publications of learned societies, or of 
individual scientific men, intended for gratuitous distribution. 
This system was afterwards taken up by various governments which, 
through treaties, bound themselves to exchange their own publica- 
tions in the same way. Since the inauguration of this service, over 
16,000,000 pounds of books and pamphlets have been carried to every 
part of America and to all other countries of the world. The Institu- 
tion, existing not only for America, in which it has over 20,000 
correspondents, but for the world, has throughout Europe, Asia, 
Africa, and the islands of the sea, over 40,000 correspondents — more 
outside the United States than within — justifying the words " Per 
Orbem " as the device on the Smithsonian seal. For many years 
carried on solely at the expense of the Smithsonian private funds, 
a small yearly grant from the Government for the exchanges was 
begun in 1881. Since the year 1886 the cost of the exchanges has 
been mainly borne by congressional appropriations. 

EXPEDITIONS, EXPLORATIONS, AND EXHIBITIONS 

In all its history the Smithsonian Institution has been promi- 
nently connected with the exploration of little-known districts of 
the earth, and the collection of specimens and scientific data from 
them. In many of the Government surveys the Institution has 
cooperated. The great National Herbarium, which for a long time 
has been housed by the Smithsonian Institution, has been enriched 
by its expeditions. The famous Roosevelt African Expedition, 
which brought back a rich collection of African fauna, was carried 
out under Smithsonian auspices. Extensive collections representing 
the East and West Indies, Australia, and Southeast Asia have been 
made for the Smithsonian Institution for many years by the gen- 
erosity of Dr. William L. Abbott. Archeology, astronomy, botany, 
ethnology, geology, paleontology, zoology, and other sciences have 
all benefited by the journeys of members of the Institution's staff 
to distant lands. Notable among such expeditions are the solar eclipse 
expeditions, the solar radiation expeditions. Doctor Fewkes's explora- 
tions of prehistoric American ruins in the southwest, and Doctor 
Walcott's studies of Cambrian fossils in the Canadian northwest. 

The Smithsonian Institution has participated prominently in 
almost all of the large expositions held in the last 50 years in 
America and Europe. Yery numerous diplomas and medals attest 
the appreciation which its exhibits evoked. 

For the promotion of education large numbers of specimens have 
been distributed to schools and colleges throughout our country. 
These specimens are fully labeled and described in a way to assist 
in the instruction of pupils. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 589 

THE IIODGKINS AND LANGLEY MEDALS 

The Hodgkins gold medal was established by the Smithsonian 
Institution to be awarded for important contributions to the knowl- 
edge of the nature and properties of atmospheric air, or for prac- 
tical applications of existing knowledge to tlie welfare of mankind. 
It was tirst bestowed, April 3, 1899, on Sir James Dewar, F. R. S., 
and second, October 28, 1902, on Prof. J. J. Thomson, F. 11. S. 

The Langley medal was established in memory of the late Secre- 
tary Samuel Pierpont Langley and his contributions to the science 
of aerodromics, " to be awarded for specially meritorious investiga- 
tions in connection with the science of aerodromics and its appli- 
cation to aviation." This medal was presented in 1910 to the broth- 
ers Wilbur and Orville Wright, and in 1913, to Mr. Glenn H. 
Curtiss and M. Gustave Eiffel. 

THE NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AERONAUTICS 

In the year 1915, the Government established the National Ad- 
visory Committee for Aeronautics, in which representatives of the 
Army and the Navy, the Weather Bureau, the National Bureau of 
Standards, and others were drawn together for the promotion of 
the national defence. Secretary Walcott, of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, acted as a member and chairman from its organization, and 
the meetings were often held at the rooms of the Institution. 

CONCLUSION 

As we thus briefly survey the history of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, its past achievements, and its present development, we can not 
fail to be tremendously impressed by the fruitfulness of Smithson's 
bequest. An investment in science is as sure as a United States 
bond. All history, and especially the history of our own time, 
proves it. If investigation had always been limited to subjects 
promising to have utility, we should still be in the dark ages. The 
enlightenment of the human mind brought about by the study of 
astronom}'^, for instance, has a value not to be measured by doUars 
and cents, but by the safety of life and property from religious per- 
secution and by the advance from superstition and ignorant fear of 
nature. On the other hand, it would be easy to cite many investiga- 
tions of apparently merely curious and trivial phenomena which 
later on came to have commercial utility. One will suffice. As late 
as 1890 no " practical man " would have dreamed of investigating 
the conduction of electricity through rarefied gases. Rontgen's dis- 
covery of X rays in 1895 was not in the least influenced by utility, 
but came out of pure research work in that field. Think of X-ray 
hospital work nowadays! Moreover, every department store car- 



590 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

lies radio outfits, with their thermionic amplifiers, which also are the 
children of that same line of pure research. 

Hertzian waves have become radio; Pasteur's bacilli have led up 
to the Mayo brothers' surgery and the abolishment of yellow fever; 
Faraday's and Henry's electromagnets have become dynamos and 
telegraphs, and the whole world is revolutionized in a century by 
the discoverers who worked not for utilities but for knowledge. 
Yet it is a mean, stunted mind that sees only things like autos and 
electric lights as the foremost rewards and justification of science. 
What the sculpture of Phidias, the painting of Raphael, the music 
of Beethoven, the language of the Bible, are to the finer departments 
of the mind, such also, and quite as wholesome in their influence on 
private life and public conduct, are those studies of the atoms, the 
universe, and the march of life, which form science. 

If any of our research institutions deserves public benefactions, 
most of all it is the national Smithsonian Institution. Founded by 
an Englishman, James Smithson, " for the increase and diffusion of 
ImoAvledge among men," it has been the parent of the Weather 
Bureau, the Fish Commission, the National Museum, the Bureau of 
American Ethnology, the Geological Survey, the National Zoological 
Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the Bureau of International 
Exchanges (of scientific intelligence), and the National Gallery of 
Art; it has contributed largely to the Library of Congress and has 
had a part in many other valuable enterprises. In its reports and 
technical papers the inquirer may find in accurate form, sometimes 
popularly, sometimes technically expressed, the whole progress of 
human knowledge. Not only that, but in a dailj^ correspondence 
which taxes its small force of experts and clerks, it has answered 
hundreds of thousands of inquiries for useful or tecJinical informa- 
tion. Though some of the bureaus just named have split away from 
the parent organization, the institution is still charged by Congress 
with the care of eight of them. These administrative duties employ 
much time of the staff and in some measure prevent the promotion 
of projects for the advancement of science. 

Liberally endowed at the beginning, the resources of the Smith- 
sonian Institution have not kept pace Avith the growth of our country. 
Other research institutions have far outstripped this ward of the 
whole Nation in their means for carrying on the investigation of 
nature. Local pride seems to have outrun national pride in the 
promotion of great scientific endowments. Thus it remains that in 
the year 1925 the yearly income of the Smithsonian endowment still 
is less than $70,000, and totally inadequate to the opportunities which 
the institution's prestige and eminent connections are continually 
presenting for maintaining its beneficent service to humanity. 



Smithsonian Report. 1925. — Strahan 



Plate I 




Sir Archibald Geikie 



SIR ARCHIBALD GEIKIE 



By Sir Aubrey Strahan 



[With 1 plate] 



By the death of Sir Archibald Geikie on November 10, 1924, 
British geology has lost its leader, and the Geological Society its 
most eminent Fellow. From an early age to the end of his long life 
he made the interests of the society one of his first cares. Elected 
a Fellow in 1859, he served on the council in 1883 and for many sub- 
sequent years. He was a vice president in 1886-1888 and president 
in 1890-1892. On the occasion of the centenary of the society in 
1907, he acceded to a generally expressed desire that he should pre- 
side for a second term (1906-1908), and on relinquishing the chair 
was elected foreign secretary. For many years he liad been constant 
in his attendance at the meetings, and when advancing years ren- 
dered this impossible, he tendered his resignation; but, at the unani- 
mous request of the council, he continued to perform the duties of 
the post to the end of his life. 

He was born in Edinburgh on December 28, 1835. For the details 
of his early life we are indebted to his autobiography, "A Long Life's 
Work." This volume, which was published only a few months be- 
fore his death, shows no signs of waning powers or of failing 
memory. In it he describes the innumerable functions in which he 
took a leading part, the appointments which he held, his travels, and 
some of the many honors that he received. He dwells, too, on the 
friends whom he made and on the encouragement which he received 
from them as a young man and in after-life; but more especially 
interesting to us is the revelation of the inner thoughts of a boy who, 
in obedience to a natural bent and rather to the alarm of his father, 
made geology the occupation of his life, and eventually attained the 
highest posts open to a man of science in this country. 

A dormant love of geology was roused accidentally soon after he 
left school. The finding of a fossil plant in a block of limestone in 
Burdiehouse Quarry set his active mind speculating on the relics of 

' Reprinted by permission from The Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, Vol. 
LXXXI. No. 322. July 4, 1925. 

591 



592 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

past ages that were entombed in the crust of the earth, and from 
that moment tlie rocks and their fossils became increasingly the 
subject of his thoughts. He made the acquaintance of Robert Cham- 
bers, afterwards known to be the author of the "Vestiges of Crea- 
tion," and of other geologists, and read every book on geology that 
he could lay hands on, deriving, however, a greater stimulus from 
the enthusiasm and literary charm of Hugh Miller's " Old Red Sand- 
stone" than from some more informing works. But, more than by 
any book, he was inspired by his own study of the rocks near Edin- 
burgh, with their abundance of fossils and of evidence of ancient 
volcanic outbursts. 

Though the boy's bent was clearly indicated, his father found 
it difficult to believe that a study of geology could provide a 
livelihood. He arranged, therefore, that young Geikie should 
become a banker, after a preliminary training for two years in a 
lawyer's office. The interruption was brief, for the boy's heart 
was among the liiMs of Midlothian and far from the office. He 
was out in the field again long before the two years had elapsed. 
Determined, however, to pursue literary studies in addition to 
science, he matriculated at Edinburgh University in 1854 as a 
student of Humanity (that is, Latin), and although domestic cir- 
cumstances prevented him from completing the course, he gained 
the reputation of being one of the best classical scholars of his 
year and the best writer of English prose among his class fellows. 
The literary ability thus shown proved to be one of the principal 
factors in his success in after life. 

In the meantime Geikie had been prosecuting geological work 
in Skye with such success that he impressed the geologists of the 
day as a young man of unusual promise. When, therefore, recruits 
were inquired for by Sir Roderick Murchison, then Director General 
of the Geological Survey, he was warmly recommended by Hugh 
Miller. A walk over Arthur's Seat with Ramsay, at that time Local 
Director, took the place of the examination of later days, and the 
appointment was made in 1855. After a year's training in the 
field with Ramsay, the young geologist was regarded as competent, 
and was set to work in the surroundings of Edinburgh. He found 
time, nevertheless, to complete his work in Skye, and to write an 
account of it, which was communicated to this society in 1857. 

This period he found to be the most studious of his life; but, how- 
ever great might be the calls upon his endurance, he never failed to 
make time for companionship with the classical authors and with 
the best English writers from Chaucer to pur own day. The spirit 
with which he was imbued in his field work is host expressed in 
his own words: ''The work on which 1 was now engaged, and to 



SIR ARCHIBALD GEIKIE STRAHAN 593 

which I had dedicated my life, was not merely an industrial employ- 
ment; the means of getting a livelihood; a pleasant occupation for 
mind and body. . It often wore to me an aspect infinitely higher and 
nobler. It was in reality a methodical study of the works of the 
Creator of the universe, a deciphering of His legibly Avritten record 
of some of the stages through which this part of our planet passed 
in His hands before it was shaped into its present form" (A Long 
Life's Work, pp. 55, 56). The deep joy that he felt in the study 
of nature had to be shared with others, and in 1858 he i)roduced 
a little book, "The Story of a Boulder," the first of a long series 
by which he carried his message to all parts of the civilized world. 

In 1860 it fell to Geikie to complete the Life of Edward Forbes, 
winch had been left unfinished through the death of Prof. George 
Wilson. Some of Forbes's relations hesitated before intrusting the 
task to so young a man, but the book, when published in 1861, showed 
that the confidence felt in him had not been misplaced. This was 
the first of several biographies in which Geikie, with many a kindly 
touch, recorded the personalities and achievements of friends who 
had gone before him. It was followed in 1809 by the life of James 
David Forbes, in 1875 by that of Murchison, and in 1895 by that of 
Ramsay. In all of them his close touch with current geological 
research and his sound judgment enabled him to present a true 
estimate of the progress in science due to each of these distin- 
guished men. 

In 1871 the natural history professorship at Edinburgh University 
was divided into two, and geology with mineralogy became the 
subjects of a new professorship. Murchison offered to endow the 
new chair, on the understanding that he should nominate the first 
professor. He put forward Geikie's name, but the power to nomi- 
nate was objected to by the Home Office as an infringement of the 
prerogative of the Crown, and the Science and Art Department 
considered it inadvisable that the posts of director of the geological 
survey of Scotland and the professorship should be held by the 
same man. The appointment was made nevertheless, mainly through 
the exertions of Lyon Play fair, at that time member for the univer- 
sity. During his tenure of this post, Avhich lasted till he was 
appointed director general of the survey in 1882, Geikie did much 
to revive the renown of the old Scottish geological school. He had 
at first no lecture room to himself and no diagrams or specimens, 
but made use of the exceptional advantages offered by the neighbor- 
hood of Edinburgh to conduct geological excursions, which are still 
gratefully remembered by his old students. 

In 1860 Murchison invited Geikie to accompany him to the High- 
lands, with the object of following up the conclusions to be drawn 



594 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

from Charles Peach's discover}'' of Cambrian fossils in northwestern 
Sutherland. AVritin^^ in 1924, Geikie admits that this expedition 
" was a premature attempt * * * the true structure of the High- 
lands was far too complicated to he unraveled by desultory and 
hasty traverses." Neither he nor Murchison had been able to doubt 
the evidence of their eyes that in one section after another crystal- 
line schists overlay fossiliferous Cambrian strata with what ap- 
versy which has been laid to rest for many years, and it will suffice 
to say that the apparent normal superposition with its far-reaching 
consequences found no acceptance with Nicol, Heddle, Callaway, 
Bonney, and others. Geikie, partly perhaps through loyalty to his 
chief, for long refused to give way, and it was not till Lapworth 
had made his exhaustive examination of the whole Durness-Erribol 
region that he admitted his error. Once convinced, he hastened to 
correct it. He intrusted the surveying of the region to B. N. Peach 
and J. Home, who with their colleagues produced what was prob- 
ably the most detailed and masterly study of overthrusting on a 
great scale that had ever been made. 

The succession of strata in the Moffat and Girvan districts was 
determined in somewhat similar stages. There also it had been 
masked by earth movements. Faults and excessive plication had 
repeated the same beds over and over again, and it was only by 
detailed surveying and intensive study of the fossils that Lapworth 
unraveled the tangle. His predecessors had been content to leave 
as one group a series of strata varying extraordinarily in thickness 
and petrological character, and containing an admixture of fossils 
that were elsewhere characteristic of distinct formations. He re- 
duced this enigmatical " group " to an orderly sequence, each mem- 
ber of which was distinct in character and fossils, and established 
correlation with other parts of the kingdom. It is interesting to 
see how closely these Highland controversies were paralleled in the 
United States. There the succession of the same rocks was in 
question, the same difficulties in determining it were encountered, 
and the same mistakes were made. The " Taconic System," founded 
in 1842, formed the subject of controversy for upwards of 60 years, 
until it was finally proved to consist of Cambrian and Silurian 
strata folded and faulted together in no sort of chronological 
order. That the first geologists to encounter problems so calculated 
to deceive should have failed to master them need cause no surprise. 
Rather should our sympathies be extended to pioneers who were 
faced with the impossible task of interpreting dislocations, the 
existence of which could be ascertained only by prolonged and 
detailed mapping. But we may admit that our sympathy might 



SIR ARCHIBALD GEIKIE STRAHAN 595 

have been warmer had Geikie, true lover of nature as he was, shown 
more cordiality in welcoming the elucidation of the truth. 

There remains, however, to his credit a great record of original 
unchallenged work. He made a particular study of the composi- 
tion and direction of transport of the Bowlder clay, and noted the 
occurrence in it of stratified beds which he attributed to temporary 
amelioration of climate. Originally an advocate of the iceberg 
theory, he abandoned it in favor of Agassiz's views on ice sheets, 
convinced by the work of his colleagues in Scotland and by what 
he saw in northern Norwa3^ He recognized also among the Scot- 
tish mountains the existence of moraines and glacierborne blocks 
and the sites of glacial lakes as evidences of local glaciation during 
the last phase of the Glacial Period. 

His great paper on the Old Red Sandstone of Western Europe, 
as a piece of masterly description, takes high rank in geological 
literature. His classification has in the main stood the test of time; 
but, with characteristic reluctance to change a view to which he 
had once committed himself, he persistently declined to remove the 
Caithness Flagstones from the Lower Old Red Sandstone, though 
they differed from that subdivision (as known in the Grampians) 
both in their fishes and in their plants. The flagstones appear in 
Geikie's map of Scotland as Lower Old Red, but on the geological 
survey maps as Middle Old Red Sandstone. 

Volcanic episodes in the history of the earth had engaged Geikie's 
attention from the first, and in 1860 he presented to the Royal 
Society of Edinburgh a paper on " The Chronology of the Trap 
Rocks of Scotland," in which for the first time an attempt was 
made to arrange the volcanic periods evidenced in that country in 
geological sequence. In dealing with this subject he was not satis- 
fied till he had acquired the necessary experience by visiting the 
volcanic regions of Auvergne, the Eifel, and Italy, and exploring 
the great lava fields of western America. In Auvergne, especially, 
the comparatively recent features displayed by volcanic energy 
enabled him to picture the aspect of the ancient vents and lava flows 
of the Firth of Forth. In the United States he found reason to 
adopt Richthofen's view that the flat beds of basalt were due to 
fissure eruptions, and applied this interpretation to the Tertiary 
volcanic plateaus of the West Highlands. He summed up his ob- 
servations and conclusions in his standard work on the Ancient 
Volcanoes of Great Britain. 

Unlike Lyell, Geikie gained most of his experience by his own 
observations in the field. In addition to the work done in his 
leisure time, he was for some years a member of the field staff of 
the geological survey, and after he had attained higher posts, 



596 ANNUAL EEPOET SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1025 

charfred mainly with administrative duties, he was constant in in- 
spection. On these occasions his quick «!;rasp and wide experience 
enabled him to give much help to his colleagues, but at the same 
(ime he made full use of the opportunities for adding to his own 
knowledge. Scenery from (he point of view of its origin and geo- 
logical significance made a strong appeal to his poetic instincts. 
Born, bred, and trained in Scotland, he had gazed upon many a 
noble landscape, and had pondered over the vast effects of denuda- 
tion and the characters imposed upon the features of the country 
by the passage of ice sheets. His views are embodied in "The 
Scenery of Scotland,"" jMiblished in 1865, a book as interesting to 
the nongeological reader as to the expert. All his lighter books, in- 
deed, such as Geological Sketches at Home and Abroad and Scot- 
tish jReminiscences, were written in a style to appeal to a large 
circle of readers. 

Late in life he interested himself in the early history of geology. 
The Founders of Geology, first published in 1897, could only 
have been written by one who had a Avide acquaintance with ancient 
and modern literature. When called upon to deliver a presidential 
address to the Classical Association, he chose for his subject the evi- 
dence from Latin literature of the appreciation of nature by the 
Romans. Later on he further developed the theme, and visited 
Italy in order that he might himself study the landscapes on which 
the eyes of the Roman poets had dwelt. 

Of all the calls made upon Geikie's untiring industry none was 
more severe than the production of his educational works. The 
''Advanced Textbook" is a storehouse of information and a nionu- 
meiit to the sagacity with which he handled an enormous literature. 
Stupendous as was the labor involved, he found the preparation of 
the two little primers on geology and physical geography still more 
exacting — the phrasing was made the subject of many experiments on 
students before he could satisfy himself that he had secured the 
lucidity that was essential. The two small-scale geological maps of 
Scotland and England, respectively, prepared by him during his 
term of office on the Geological Survey, are admirable examples of 
the pains that he took to secure clearness and what he considered to 
be correct versions. 

As a lecturer he had many experiences, both at home and abroad, 
before audiences of the most varied character, including the inmates 
of a deaf and dumb institution and the patients of the Morningside 
i^unatic Asylum. He was also one of that little band of distinguished 
men who lectured to working men in the theater of the Jermyn 
"Street Museum. His wide reading enabled him to choose subjects 
to suit his hearers, and more than once he enlarged later in book 



SIR ARCHIBALD GEIKIE STRAHAN 597 

form Oil some research that he had taken up for the purposes of an 
address. Masterly and elegantly phrased as his lectures were, they 
never failed to interest ; but in delivering them he was not the equal 
of many a far less able man in rousing enthusiasm in his audience. 

His retirement from the Geological Survey in 1901 enabled him to 
increase his other activities. He had been elected to the Koyal 
Society in 1865, had served twice on the council, and had held the 
posts of vice president in 1885-1887, and of foreign secretary in 
1889-1893. After his retirement he served as secretary in 1903-1908 
and was president in 1908-1912. In 1912 the society celebrated its 
two hundred and fiftieth anniversay, and it fell to Geikie to receive 
an unexampled gathering of distinguished men of science from all 
parts of the world, and to preside at the various functions. During 
this period of his life he wrote six or more books, besides bringing 
out new editions of his Advanced Textbook and several others. He 
had served on several departmental committees and on Royal Com- 
missions; at the age of 85 he was appointed chairman of the Royal 
Commission on Trinity College, Dublin. 

The eminence attained by Geikie in science and letters was ac- 
Imowledged by the bestowal of honors from all parts of the world. 
Space will admit of the mention of those only that he most valued. 
By our own society he Avas awarded the Murchison and WoUaston 
medals, by the Royal Society a Royal medal, and from the Royal 
Society of Edinburgh he twice received the Macdougal- Brisbane 
medal. He was also the Hayden gold medallist of the Philadelphia 
Academy of Natural Sciences, the Livingstone gold medallist of the 
Royal Scottish Geographical Society, and the gold medallist of the 
Institution of Mining and Metallurgy. Honorary degrees were con- 
ferred on him by the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, Dublin, 
Glasgow, St. Andrews, Aberdeen, Liverpool, Birmingham, Leipzig, 
Upsala, and Prague. He was an officer of the Legion of Honour and 
honorary member of a great number of the leading scientific societies 
at home and abroad. He was three times president of Section C of 
the British Association, and w^as president of the association in 1892. 
In 1910 his distinction in the world of letters was acknowledged by 
an invitation to take the presidential chair of the Classical Associa- 
tion. He was a trustee of the British Museum and a governor of 
Harrow School. In 1891 he was knighted, and in 1907 created a 
K. C. B, In 1913 he received the crowning honor of his life, the 
Order of Merit. 

This crowded life closed peacefully on November 10, 1924. To- 
ward the end gradually failing strength prohibited him from leaving 
the home that he had made at Halsemere, but his mind remained 

76041—26 39 



598 ANNUAL, REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

active to the last, and it was not until a few months before his death 
that the busy pen was allowed to rest. From early youth until old 
age could no longer be denied his career had been one of uninter- 
rupted progress. When fresh from school he attracted the attention 
of the most eminent geologists of the time; in the profession which 
lie chose and in the societies which he joined he rose to the highest 
posts; in every country he visited he won the respect of its most 
eminent scientific men; every function that he attended gained in 
significance and dignity by his presence. 

The keynote of his success was industry directed by sagacity. An 
innate love of writing and a remarkably retentive memory kept his 
pen always busy. The most arduous day's Avork in the field or the 
office put no check upon his reading and writing, and both were of 
the best, for he loved a good author and had himself cultivated the 
power of narrating the marvels Avhich he had wrested from nature 
in language worthy of the theme. A clear if somewhat cold judg- 
ment controlled his actions, but in his biographical work the coldness 
was masked b}^ a studied kindliness of expression. Though he made 
many friends at home and abroad, his sympathies with his fellow 
men were somewhat overshadowed by his love of nature and passion 
for work. He did not seek collaboration, but preferred to work 
single handed, nor could he brook criticism. 

Archibald Geikie now takes his place in history as one who has 
enriched the world by his labors and his writings, and as one of 
those outstanding leaders who has raised the science of geology to a 
higher plane than that on which he found it. 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. 


—Osgood 


Plate I 


^^^^^^^RST> ^^^^K 


^1 H^ 


1 


^H. 


A 

■.m^: 


i 




^^^^^'* ^^ ^^V^ ^^^^I^^^^^^H 










^^^^^^^^^^^Bss". ' 




1 



Ned Hollister 



NED HOLLISTEK (1876-1924) ^ 



By WiLFBED H. Osgood, 
Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago 



[With 2 plates] 



Although Ned Hollister's death occurred before his years had 
reached the half century mark, the consciousness that he is gone 
brings pangs similar to those evoked by the passing of older natural- 
ists belonging to another generation. He was one of those heart-and- 
soul, born lovers of animals, who carry not only an affectionate sym- 
pathy for living things but also a passion for orderly knowledge of 
them — one of those whose career began in boyhood with the forma- 
tion of a collection of his own and led on, without benefit of school 
or college, to mastery of difficult technical subjects as naturally and 
easily as if he had been ordained for it. 

He was born November 26, 1876, in Delavan, Wis., the youngest 
of a family, including also two brothers, Warren D. and Kenneth, 
and a sister Margaret. His forbears were of English blood, one of 
the better known of them being Lieut. John HoUister, who came to 
America in 1642 and was later prominent in the colonial affairs of 
Connecticut. His grandfather was a native of New York State and 
thence, in 1839, migrated to southern Wisconsin, where he settled in 
Rock Prairie, Walworth County. His father, Kinner Newcomb 
Hollister, was born near Delavan on a farm which he continued to 
own after moving into town and opening a store. He sold this 
business to enter the Civil War, where he was commissioned captain, 
and after the war returned to Delavan to continue in a general mer- 
chandise business until his death in 1911. Ned's mother, Frances 
Margaret (Tilden) Hollister, is still living in Delavan. They be- 
longed to that class of well-informed, prosperous, and independent 
people which makes nations great, engaged mainly in farming or 
local business connected with farming. Their home was one in which 
nothing essential was lacking, and while the great outdoors was al- 
ways at hand, it was supplemented by the social and educational ad- 
vantages of the village and by proximity to the two large cities — 
Chicago and Milwaukee. 

1 Reprinted by permission from Journal of Mammalogy, vol. 6, No. 1, February, 1925. 

599 



600 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Ned's formal education was confined to the public schools of Dela- 
van, where he liad the usual hio;h-school training but failed actuallj' 
to graduate, a collecting trip having conflicted with the last few 
days of the school year. Although he did not go to college, early 
associations were made by which his natural tendencies received all 
that was necessary to give him an understanding of scientific method 
and an appreciation of absolute accuracy exceeding that of many 
college-trained men. One of the first of these profitable contacts 
was with Prof. Ludwig Kumlien, of Milton College, in the small 
town of Milton, Wis., not far from Delavan. 

It is not uncommon for naturalists to show their inclinations early 
in life and they often make leal contributions to knowledge while 
still in their teens, but few, if any, have begun earlier than Ned 
Hollister. In his joint work with L. Kumlien on The Birds of 
Wisconsin, published in 1903, it is stated that conclusions were based 
on 35 years' field work by the senior author and 15 by the junior. 
This implies that Hollister regarded his field work as beginning 
when he was 12 years old. If he says so, we may be quite sure it 
did, not theoretically but actually, and the statement in The Birds 
of Wisconsin undoubtedly means that at least some of the matter 
published in the book was founded by definite observations or notes 
made by the boy of 12. Further evidence is shown by the fact that 
he began publishing in his sixteenth year, in 1892, when three papers 
appeared under his name, one in The Oologist and two in a leaflet 
called The Taxidermist. 

Early bird's-nesting and taxidermic efforts were made in the com- 
pany of his brother Warren, and the collection of birds, eggs, and 
latterly of mammals which was brought together was a joint affair, 
Warren only relinquishing his interest after he had left home and 
entered an active life of business. Young Ned and his brother evi- 
dently were favorites among a coterie of sportsmen citizens of De- 
lavan who took them on their semiannual shooting parties to the 
near-by lakes and prairies where ducks, snipes, and other game birds 
abounded. His father encouraged him, and an uncle, Mr. F. E. Bur- 
rows, often accompanied him to photograph birds' nests. On his 
father's farm near Delavan were several duck "holes" which fur- 
nished him a private preserve, and on family farms in Minnesota 
and Florida, he had welcome headquarters for hunting and collect- 
ing. These early hunting associations Avere very dear to Hollister 
and in later years, long after he had become immersed in scientific 
study and executive work in Washington, he returned to Delavan 
practically every season to shoot over the old ground and visit with 
what he affectionately and truly termed "the old crowd," for most 
of them Avere much older than he. 



NED ITOLLISTER OSGOOD 601 

The life in Delavan, the early collecting, and the hunting parties 
with older men formed an important part of Hollister's background. 
Good sportsmanship, manliness, loyalty, camaraderie, judgment, and 
fun-loving humor were qualities which he possessed by nature, but 
doubtless their development was assisted by these associations. There 
was another and more intense side to him, however, and this also had 
a favorable environment. He was the heir, so to speak, of a line of 
pioneer naturalists in southern Wisconsin which included Lapham, 
Hoy, Thure Kumlien, and Ludwig Kumlien. The last was the one to 
form the connection and he exerted an important influence upon Hoi- 
lister when he was at the critical age of 19. 

Kumlien was then teaching in Milton College and, although Hol- 
lister was not a student of the college, he '' walked with " Kumlien to 
better purpose than many of those who were. Shortly after this, 
Hartley Jackson, now a well-known mammalogist but then a boy of 
16 and four years younger than Ned, came to Milton College as a 
student and the two were brought together by Kumlien. After Kum- 
lien's early death, Hollister became a mentor for Jackson as Kumlien 
had been for him, and later was instrumental in bringing Jackson to 
his present position with the Biological Survey. Probably through 
Kumlien, he became acquainted with others, including members of 
the Wisconsin Natural History Society, among v/hom were Dr. H. V. 
Ogden, Dr. Ernst Copeland, and Dr. G. W. Peckham, of Milwaukee. 
As early as 1892 he was in touch with the United States Department 
of Agriculture and began collecting birds' stomachs to assist the 
Government work in economic ornithology. It was in this year, also, 
that he began earnestly to collect birds' skins as well as eggs and was 
soon exchanging and corresponding with many prominent ornitholo- 
gists. One of them was William Brewster, whose well-known 
warmth toward younger men soon caused Hollister to send him vari- 
ous specimens for determination and to ask his advice on matters 
concerning them. Just how Hollister would have developed without 
these favorable influences is uncertain, but one can not avoid wonder- 
ing what would be the fate of a boy like him in present times when, 
with rare exceptions, there are no Kumliens in our small colleges and 
no Brewsters forming private collections. Even as it was, he did not 
find himself immediately, and for several years after reaching his 
majority he remained in Delavan assisting in the general store kept 
by his father. Meanwhile, all spare time was devoted to his collec- 
tions and short trips were made at all opportunities. In 1890 and 
1897 he had outings in Minnesota near the town of Kinbrae, and for 
three succeeding winters a few weeks Avere spent in Arkansas in 
Lonoke, Arkansas, and Prairie Counties. At this period his interest 
in mammals had been awakened and he made his first mammal skins 



602 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

for permanent preservation in 1896. At the same time, he began com- 
piling a list of the species of Walworth County, Wis. 

In March, 1901, Ned made an eastern trip to visit the Smithsonian 
Institution and National Museum, places which had been enshrined 
in his boyhood fancies. He was always very modest and doubtless 
made no advances to any of the men he met in Washington, but the 
following summer he was invited to join a Biological Survey party in 
Texas as assistant to Vernon Bailey. The appointment was for tem- 
porary services only, and he gladly accepted for a period of four 
months, June to September, inclusive. In later years, he often re- 
lated with much good humor the trepidation with which he w^ent to 
meet the famous naturalist, whose name he had seen so frequently in 
print and whose prowess as a traveler and discoverer of new mam- 
mals had seemed to portend a man of extraordinary physique and 
commanding, perhaps domineering, character. Ned w^as by no means 
provincial, but in such reminiscences always represented himself to 
be; and it was this that gave point to his amusing description of his 
surprise when he found Mr. Bailey to be a man no larger than him- 
self, quick, wiry, and active, unassuming and sympathetic. Ned's 
keen sense of humor was also titillated on this occasion by the fact 
that Bailey suggested that they have a conference in a quiet place 
and for this purpose chose the cemetery in the little village of Jef- 
ferson, Tex. He worked with Bailey for a time and came to have 
great admiration for him. Soon proving competent for independent 
assignments he made important collections of mammals and birds at 
Joaquin, Sour Lake, Comstock, Fort Stockton, and Davis Mountains, 
Tex., as well as at Weed, Cloudcroft, Ruidoso, Roswell, and Fort 
Sumner, N. Mex. 

In the fall of 1902, he returned to Delavan, went for a deer hunt in 
Vilas County, Wis., and then, evidently intending to continue as a 
private collector, he bought the Kumlien collection of about 1,500 
specimens and added it to his own in February, 1903. Kumlien's 
death in December, 1902, after a long illness, was a sad blow, and the 
Birds of Wisconsin, on which the two had been working for years, 
was left to be completed by Hollistor. The winter of 1902-3, there- 
fore, was spent largely on this work and the book appeared in July, 
1903, a model of care and accuracy. Although a dozen or more notes 
and short articles had appeared previously, this was his first lengthy 
publication. 

In the spring of 1903, the question of temporary field assistants 
again arose in the office of the Biological Survey, this time in connec- 
tion with an Alaskan trip to which I had been assigned. After a 
word with Mr. Bailey, I quickly decided that Ned Hollister was the 
man I wanted and at once made a proposal to him which he accepted. 



NED HOLLISTER — OSGOOD 603 

We met one evening about the first of May in a railroad station in 
Chicago where we immediately took train for the West. I can never 
forget that first evening during which we became acquainted and 
talked over plans for the summer. Although I had then been some 
five or six years on the regular staff of the Biological Survey, and 
although he half-jokingly and self-deprecatingly referred to me as 
a " professional," we were about of an age, and the rate at which we 
found common ground on all sorts of subjects has scarcely ever been 
equaled in my experience. Evidently he did not find me larger nor 
more muscular than anticipated and I particularly remember the 
droll but emphatic way in which he expressed himself as I led the 
way from the dining car to the comfortable smoking coach. " You're 
the first Biological Survey man I've seen," he said, " who didn't act 
as if he thought I was a criminal every time I lit a cigar," 

The Alaskan trip lasted five months, joint work being done mainly 
in mountains near Eagle and along the Yukon River from Eagle to 
Circle. Hollister also did independent work on the coast at Mitkof 
Island and Kupreanof Island, Alaska, and at Steilacoom and San 
Juan Island, Wash, One of the mammals obtained at the last lo- 
cality was named for him, Peromyscus maniculatus holllsteii. 
Throughout the trip, he impressed me more for all-around balanced 
qualities than for outstanding ones. The broad fact about him was 
the all-embracing character of his love of animals and nature. Down 
to the meanest detail of work, there was nothing connected with the 
observation and study of animals, alive or dead, which did not par- 
take of this love. Each phase of the subject was to him only part 
of one whole, none of which was to be slighted. The excitement of 
the chase and the exultation of capture or discovery held great 
charms for him, but the laborious paring of hides and other sup- 
posed drudgery seemed to give him no less pleasure. He did such 
things not only with good cheer but wuth an obvious enjo3anent that 
was related not to the work itself but to its object. The finished 
specimen was to him something to be treated almost as if sacred. I 
have never known a man who, without being meticulous, took such 
pride in the quality of his specimens and such care of them subse- 
quent to preparation. He evinced the same joy and maintained sim- 
ilar high standards in method and practice in making field notes, in 
keeping catalogues or records, and in publishing results. 

To his qualities as a collector and observer was added a charmirwi 
disposition in which modesty, simplicity, loyalty, and good humor 
were the leading features. An amusing incident never escaped him 
nor ever left his memory, so no one was long in his company without 
being entertained by a dry comment or a humorous anecdote. As a 
field companion, he was delightful and his equal will very rarely be 
found. He loved human beings, as such, regardless of appearances 



604 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

or station, and in traveling made friends among all classes with an 
unerring instinct for those with sound fundamental virtues. He 
was passionately fond of dogs and the only regret he ever expressed 
in connection with long field tri])s was that he could not take his 
dog. His favorite dog was a pedigreed English setter, " Chick 
Stanton," which he had raised from a pup and trained for hunting 
and field trials. During the long field season when I was intimately 
associated with him, nothing impressed me more than his love for 
this dog. When other subjects failed, he was always ready to talk 
about dogs, and, at times, it seemed as if he loved " Chick Stanton " 
more than mother, brother, or any human being. That he had a 
sterner side, strong convictions on many subjects, and great determi- 
nation, however, was evidenced in many Avays. As a good instance, 
a misfortune which befell him when he first began collecting mam- 
mals in Delevan may be cited. While he was slcinning a slightly de- 
composed skunk, one of his fingers became infected and a bad case of 
blood poisoning set in. The whole arm was soon affected, discolored, 
and menacing in appearance to such an extent as to have caused panic 
in a man not endowed with nerve and determination. The local doc- 
tors, fearing the possible loss of his life, decided that amputation of 
the arm at the shoulder was the only safe course. When this infor- 
mation was given to the patient, he told them that his ambition to be 
a one-armed man was absolutely nil and that rather than permit 
them to operate he would take the small chance of life which they 
offered as the alternative. 

On returning from Alaska in October, 1903, he again went to 
Delavan and again worked with his father in the store, but a few 
months later accepted another special detail from February 7 to 
April 10, 1904, as the representative of the Biological Survey on a 
hunting trip to Louisiana in company with Mr. W. E. Forbes, of 
Boston, and the well-known guide, B. V. Lilly. In June of the same 
year he was appointed to the field staff of the Biological Survey 
and, with the exception of a short furlough in the spring of 1906, 
was continuously employed in the field or in Washington until 1910. 
During this period he made two long field trips. The first began in 
Promontory, Utah, June 5, 1904, and ended at Magdalena, N. Mex., 
October 25, 1905. It covered some 40 localities in the States of 
California, Oregon, Nevada, Arizona, and Utah. The second lasted 
from May 6 to November 2, 1909, and was entirely in California. 
His collections for the Biological Survey reached a total of 3,625 
mammals and 1,509 birds. 

It was not until mid year in 1906, after his long trip in the West 
and his subsequent furlough, that he found himself in Washington, 
authorized to do something for the Biological Survey other than 



NED HOLTJSTEPt — OSGOOD 605 

field work. His genius in the museum was immediately recognized 
and he was placed in charge of the care and arrangement of the huge 
mammal collection brought together by the Survey. To this task 
he brought all the enthusiasm and devotion he had given to his own 
collection in Delavan. Results were soon apparent, and there was 
no doubt among older heads that in Ned Hollister the Biological 
Survey had a "find." At the age of 30, largely self-taught, and 
having an experience mainly of field work, he began to delve into 
the literature of mammalogy and to show a capacity for straight 
thinking on matters relating to classification and nomenclature that 
was surprising. It was simply a part of his great love for the 
entire subject and, like the rest of it, he did it thoroughly and well. 

On April 15, 1908, he was married to Miss Mabel Pfrimmei-, of 
Kentland, Ind. A house was bought in Washington and books and 
other personal property were moved from Delavan. After a long 
series of temporary appointments and furloughs, he was settled with 
definite prospects of being able to pursue the study of the subjects 
upon which his heart was set. His wife biought a fine sympathy 
for his Avork and, especially by an extensive knowledge of modern 
languages, was able to be of material assistance to him. 

Late in 1909, Hollister accepted an offer of the position of assist- 
ant curator of mammals in the United States National Museum and 
took up his duties there January 3, 1910. Outwardly and aside from 
the slight increase in salary, the change may have appeared to some 
as mainly one of title, for at first it merely meant moving into a 
new ofRce and working on another collection housed in the same 
building. But the difference was a very great one to him, for if 
ever there was a man who belonged in a museum and nowhere else 
it was Ned Hollister. From the days when the '' Hollister Brothers' 
Museum " grew from a single cowbird's egg to the full occupancy 
of two rooms in the Delavan home, nothing was more evident than 
his passion for all phases of museum work. His first task in the 
National Museum was a staggering one, but he went to it single 
handed as blithesomely as a school boy sent to meet his father at 
the circus. The new building had just been completed and the mam- 
mal collection was moved to it in April, 1910. Mr. Miller, curator 
of the division of mammals, was absent in Europe and, therefore, 
Hollister found himself with the entire responsibility for moving, 
installing, and rearranging the great reference collection. His own 
report of the first stages of the work, submitted to the head curator 
of biology July 1, and published in the Museum's annual report, 
is as follows : 

After the study skins were moved to the new building, late in April, work 
was at once begun on a thorough and careful systematic arrangement of the 
entire collection, so badly needed for many years. The Primates, Carnivora, 



606 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

Ungulata, Edentata, Marsupialia and Monotremata are now entirely arranged 
in the new cases in perfect systematic order, so tliat any particular specimen, 
or all of the specimens of a given group, can be found at a moment's notice. 
It is now possible to ascertain, in a short time, just what specimens the 
museum possesses in any genus of these groups, and what material would be 
desirable to build up and fill out the collection at its weak points. 

How much this means can only be appreciated by those familiar 
with the conditions under which the collection had been kept for 
years in the old National Museum building where some 70,000 speci- 
mens had been crowded into space scarcely sufficient for one- fourth 
that number. The work so well begun was continued until all groups 
were covered and for the first time in the memory of anyone now 
living the mammal collection of the National Museum was or- 
ganized and sj^stematized as a mammal collection should be. The 
great series of skeletons and the very numerous skulls of large size 
unaccompanied by skins also were overhauled as well as the bulky 
and very valuable cetacean material so well represented in the col- 
lection. Nothing was slighted, but even Hollister could not stay on 
such a task continuously, for there w^as so much of interest to be 
done in other ways. So, with Mr. Miller's encouragement, he seized 
all opportunities to enter into the study of exotic mammals, a sub- 
ject which was new and very attractive to him. In this way, in a few 
years, he familiarized himself, so far as they were represented in the 
Museum, with the mammal faunas of tropical America, the Philip- 
pine Islands, Celebes, China, Siberia, and eastern Africa. He pub- 
lished numerous papers covering a wide range of subjects and soon 
became recognized as one from whom sound, carefully considered 
contributions were to be expected. 

He continued in this way for nearly seven years, only interrupted 
by two important field trips in 1911 and 1912. The first of these was 
to Jasper Park and the Mount Robson region of the Canadian 
Rockies, where he was in charge of the Museum party including 
J. H. Riley, C. D. Walcott, jr., and H. H. Blagdon, acting in co- 
operation with the Alpine Club of Canada which afterwards pub- 
lished his detailed report. The second trip also was cooperative, 
being made in conjunction with Dr. Theodore Lyman, of Boston, 
and the Museum of Comparative Zoology. The objective was the 
Altai Mountains of Siberia, entailing a journey to St. Petersburg 
and thence across Russia and Siberia. Although the entire trip 
lasted only four months and bad weather conditions were en- 
countered, an important collection of mammals was made, includ- 
ing 13 new species and subspecies as well as man}'^ others theretofore 
unrepresented in any American museum. 

Hollister's life, while directly connected with the National Mu- 
seum, was one that appeared to satisfy him completely. So fasci- 



NED HOLLISTER — OSGOOD 607 

nated was he with the nature of his work and so engrossed in each 
problem encountered that he was accused of neglecting his friends 
and failing to enjoy the social advantages with which Washington 
abounded. Therefore, in November, 1916, when he was invited to 
become superintendent of the National Zoological Park, which, like 
the National Museum, is a subsidiary of the Smithsonian Institution, 
he perhaps accepted with some misgivings. Although by his trans- 
fer the Zoo gained a very competent officer, the Museum lost one 
of the most gifted and devoted curators who ever sat in one of its 
offices. 

As superintendent of the National Zoological Park from Novem- 
ber, 1916, until the date of his death, he led a somewhat different life, 
still in Washington, still with many of the same personal associates, 
and still in touch with the National Museum, but with many ex- 
ecutive and administrative responsibilities which deprived him of 
coveted time for study and research. His broad knowledge of 
animals and his genius for order and system were brought to bear on 
the problems of the Zoological Park with signal success. During 
his administration, the collection of living animals became larger 
and more varied than at any previous time. The attendance in- 
creased until it reached a total of 2,400,000 visitors in 1923. The 
grounds and animal quarters were improved in many ways. The 
deer and other ruminants were given increased space, and their 
yards, formerly much scattered, were brought together systematical- 
ly to form an orderly and instructive series. One project in which 
he took much personal pleasure was the forming of a special collec- 
tion of American waterfowl. A small pond, previously used for mis- 
cellaneous birds, was surrounded by enlarged space and made es- 
pecially suitable for this purpose. The collection grew to contain 
some 40 or 50 species and the conditions were so arranged that 
nearly one-fourth of them laid their eggs and hatched young an- 
nually. In presenting the needs of the park to Congress, Hollister 
was also successful in years when appropriations for such purposes 
were very difficult to obtain. Largely through his efforts, a valu- 
able frontage on an important street was purchased and added to 
the park area, thus insuring a highly desirable approach which 
doubtless will be greatly appreciated in future years. In his rela- 
tions with the numerous employees of the park, from gardeners, 
gatekeepers, and policemen to office associates, he was exceptionally 
sympathetic and universally popular. Besides his annual report, 
which was prepared and published each year, he produced a popular 
illustrated guide to the animals in the park which had a large sale, 
probably exceeding 30,000 copies. 

Despite the distractions of his responsible position, Hollister still 
found time for research, probably in many cases by burning the mid- 



608 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

night oil. His output of shorter papers continued at a somewhat 
reduced rate, but was still varied in character. During his last years 
he was occupied chiefly with a large work involving much biblio- 
graphic search and much handling of material. This was his East 
A.frican Mammals in the United States National Museum, which 
appeared in three volumes in 1918, 1919, and 1923, respectively. It 
was his most important contribution to mammalogy. Ostensibly a 
report on the East African collections made by Theodore Roosevelt, 
Paul Rainey, and others, it was in reality a full resume of the his- 
tory, nomenclature, and relationships of one of the largest (prob- 
ably the very largest) mammal faunas now existing. With the 
possible exception of his good Avife, no one knows the amount of 
fidelity and care he devoted to this nor under what difficulties it 
was done. 

His full bibliography appears at the end of this article. It 
may be said here only that it comprises well OA'er 150 titles, im- 
portant among which ai'e: The Birds of Wisconsin (1903), A 
Systematic Synopsis of the Muskrats (1911), Mammals of the 
Philippine Islands (1911), Mammals of the Alpine Club Expedi- 
tion to Mount Robson (1913), Mammals Collected by the Smith- 
sonian-Harvard Expedition to the Altai Mountains (1913), A Sys- 
tematic Account of the Grasshopper Mice (1914), and East African 
IMammals in the United States National Museum (1918-1919- 
1923). In the course of his field work, he collected the type speci- 
mens of 20 mammals, and the new mammals named by him total 1G2. 

Mr. Hollister was a member of various scientific societies, many of 
which saw fit to honor him with office as well as to avail themselves of 
his most capable services. He was for a time an associate editor of 
the Journal of the Washington Academ}^ of Sciences, having served 
his apprenticeship on the publication committee of the Biological 
Society of Washington. In 1921 the Biological Society elected him 
its president, and his name was thus added to a roster of presidents 
including most of the leading zoologists and botanists who have 
lived in Washington during the past half century. He was a cor- 
responding member of the Zoological Society of London. He was 
one of the signers of the original call for the organization of the 
American Society of Mammalogists, and one of the principal par- 
ticipants in its actual launching. At the first meeting in April, 
1919, discussion quicklj'^ focussed on whether or not Hollister would 
or could find the time to serve gratuitousl}^ as editor of the Journal. 
He would, and he could, and he did with such results as all of us 
have seen, in the faultlessly neat, accurate, and scholarly journal 
Avhich he has produced for us for the critical period of the first 
five 5'ears of the society's existence. That it was no small burden to 



Smithsonian Report, 1925. — Osgood 



Plate 2 




Ned Hollister 



JN'ED JlOLLJSTEPi OSGOOD 609 

him there can be no doubt. At a special meetinji; of the directors of 
the society held November 20, 1924, a brief memorial resolution was 
adopted, and it may be ventured that no board of directors ever 
passed a similar resolution in which the literal sentiments expressed 
were more keenly felt by every member. It is us follows : 

In the death of Ned Hollister, charter member and editor of our Jouraal 
since its establishment, the American Society of Mammalogists has sustained 
an irreparable loss. But most of all each of us mourns the departure of a warm 
personal friend. We shall Ions miss him for his congenial companionship, his 
ready helpfulness, his unvarying patience, his keen intellect, his scientific skill, 
his sterling worth. Therefore we, representatives of the society, hereby record 
our deep grief in the loss of our friend and coworker, and our keen appreciation 
of his rare qualities as a scientist and as a man ; and we extend to his bereaved 
widow, his mother, his brothers and sister, our heartfelt sympathy in the greater 
sorrow which is theirs. 

No further summary of his character and achievements seems nec- 
essary. A man loved, respected, and honored has gone from a small 
compan3^ It is, indeed, a very small company, for if we take stock 
of ourselves, w^e can not but realize how few are the real students of 
mammals. The type represented by Ned Hollister is one which, 
under present economic and social conditions in this country, seems 
threatened Avith extinction while yet the need for it continues to be 
very great. Therefore, his passing before his time is the more to 
be regretted. We mourn a genial friend beloved for his attractive 
human qualities, and we deplore the absence of a colleague of trained 
ability; but, when we look for his like among the coming generation, 
we are brought to the distressing realization that this is not all, for 
no one stands ready to fill the gap in the ranks. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF NED HOLLISTER, 1892-1925 2 

Hollister's first paper, The House Sparrow in America, was pub- 
lished in 1892, his last, A Modern Menagerie: More about the Na- 
tional Zoological Park, appeared in 1925, nearly a year after his 
death. The total number of titles that I have been able to find is 
165. Preparing this list has been made easy by the systematic and 
careful manner in which all of the articles up to the end of 1922 had 
been catalogued and bound by their author. These bound volumes, 
through Mrs. Hollister's kindness, are now at my disposal. Without 
them it would have been nearly impossible to find many of the 
earlier printed notes so important to an understanding of the writer's 
later development. In these short articles written by the boy of 16 
to 20 years we already see that combination of enthusiasm and clear 
judgment which afterward became the main characteristic of the 
trained zoologist. " Floridan Races," printed in The Oologist of 

= Prepared by Gerrit S. Miller, jr. 



610 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

June 1893, before its author was 17 years old, is a good example. 
The later papers are noteworthy for clearness and convenience of 
arrangement, for the soundness of the views which they contain, 
and for the breadth of the field which they cover. 

Up to and including the year 1908 HoUister's publications relate 
exclusively to birds. From 1909 onward they are chiefly devoted 
to mammals, with occasional returns to the field of ornithology and 
a single excursion into herpetology (February 17, 1913; No. 58). In 
the lists which follow I have first enumerated the titles chronologi- 
cally, and have then arranged the 167 new names — generic, sub- 
generic, specific, and subspecific — alphabetically, placing after each 
the serial number of the article in which it was printed and the page 
on which it first occurs. 

1892 

1. The House Sparrow in America. Taxidermist, vol. 1, pp. 121-122. April, 

1892. 

2. Notes from Southern Wisconsin. Oologist, vol. 9, pp. 147-148. May, 1892. 

3. Wisconsin Swallows. Taxidermist, vol. 1, pp. 150-152. .Tune, 1892. 

1893 

4. Floridan Races. Oologist, vol. 10, pp. 176-178. June, 1893. 

5. Ducks in Southern Wisconsin. Ornithologist and Oologist, vol. 18, pp. 

128-129. September, 1893. 

1894 

6. Some Winter Bird Life. Oologist, vol. 11, pp. 207-209. June, 1894. 

1896 

7. Notes from Southern Wisconsin. Wilson Bulletin, No. 8, pp. 2-3. May 30, 

1896. 

8. Evening Grosbeak in Southern Wisconsin. Atik, vol. 13, pp. 259-260. July, 

1896. 

9. Recent Record of the Passenger Pigeon in Southern Wisconsin. Auk, vol. 

13, p. 341, October, 1896. 

1897 

10. Young of the Killdeer (Aegialitis vocifera). Wilson Bulletin, No. 12, p. 4. 

January 30, 1897. 

11. Southern Wisconsin Notes. Wilson Bulletin, No. 12, pp. 4-5. January 30, 

1897. 

1899 

12. Passenger Pigeon Note. Recreation, vol. 11, p. 134. August, 1899. 

1901 

13. Helminthophila pinus in Wisconsin. Wilson Bulletin, No. 35. pp. 30-32. 

May 30, 1901. 

14. Capture of Sabines Gull in Wisconsin. Atik, vol. 18, p. 392. October, 1901. 



NED HOLLISTER — OSGOOD 611 

1902 

15. Notes on the Winter Birds of Arkansas. Wilson Bulletin, No. 38, pp. 10-15. 

March, 1902. 

16. The Yellow Rail (Porzana noveboracensis) in Wisconsin, Auk, vol. 19, 

p. 197. April, 1902. 

1903 

17. The Birds of Wisconsin. Bull. Wisconsin Nat. Hist. Sac, vol. 3, pp. 1-143. 

January. April, and July, 1903. 

1908 

18. As to Spring Shooting. Recreation, vol. 27, p. 80. February, 1908. 

19. Breeding of the Acadian Owl in Newton County, Indiana. Auk, vol. 25, 

p. 221. April, 1908. 

20. Birds of the Region about Needles, California. Auk, vol. 25, pp. 455-^62. 

October, 1908. 

1909 

21. Two New Bats from the Southwestern United States. Proc. Biol. Soc. 

Washington, vol. 22, pp. 43-44. March 10, 1909. 

22. Notes on Wisconsin Hammals. Bull. Wisconsi^i Nat. Hist. Soc, vol. 6, pp. 

137-142. (October, 1908), April, 1909. 

23. The Last Records of Deer in Walworth County, Wisconsin. Bull. Wisconsin 

Nat. Hist. Sac, vol. 6, pp. 143-144. (October, 1908.) April, 1909. 

1910 

24. Descriptions of Two New Muskrats. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 

23, pp. 1-2. February 2, 1910. 

25. Mammals Collected by John Jay White in British East Africa. Smithsonian 

Misc. Coll., vol. 56, No. 2, pp. 1-12, pis. 1-2. March 31, 1910. 

26. A Check-list of Wisconsin Mammals. BiM. Wisconsin Nat. Hist. Soc, vol. 

8, pp. 21-31. (January, 1910), May 7, 1910. 

27. Notes on Some Names of Lions. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 23, 

p. 123. September 2, 1910. 

28. A New Muskrat from the Great Plains. Proc. Biol. Soc Washington, vol. 

23, pp. 125-126. September 2, 1910. 

29. Two New African Ratels. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 56, No. 13, pp. 1-3. 

October 10, 1910. 

1911 

30. A New Musk- Deer from Korea. Proc Biol. Soc Washington, vol. 24, pp. 

1-2. January 28, 1911. 

31. The Generic Name of the Muskrat. Proc. Biol. Soc Washington, vol. 

24, pp. 13-14. January 28, 1911. 

82. The Type Locality of Mellivora abyssinica. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, 
vol. 24, p. 37. February 24, 1911. 

33. New Bird Records for Delavan, Wisconsin. Bull. Wisconsin Nat. Hist. Soc, 

vol. 8, pp. 187-188. (October, 1910), March 20, 1911. 

34. Remarks on the Long-tailed Shrews of the Eastern United States, with 

Description of a New Species. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 40, pp. 377-381. 
AprU 17, 1911. 

35. A Systematic Synopsis of the Muskrats. North Anier. Fauna, No. 32, pp. 

1-47, pis. 1-6. April 29, 1911. 



612 ANNUAL EEPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

30. Two New Species of Epimys from Luzon. Pror. Jiiol. Soc. Washington, vol. 

24, pp. 89-90. May 15, 1911. 
;57. The Louisiana Puma. Proc. Biol. ^oc. Washington, vol. 24, pp. 175-178. 

Jiino 10, 1911. 

38. Description of a New Philippine Flying-Squirrel. Prov. Biol. Soc. Wash- 

ington, vol. 24, pp. 185-186. June 23, 1911. 

39. The Generic Name of the African Buffalo. Proc. Biol. *s'oc. ^yn■'ihillgton, vol. 

24, pp. 191-194. June 23, 1911. 

40. The Nomenclature of the Cheetahs. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 

24, pp. 225-220. October 31, 1911. 

41. Four New Mammals from the Canadian Rockies. Smithsonian -l^/sc. Coll., 

vol. r>0. No. 20, pp. 1—4. December 5, 1911. 

1912 

42. Tescription of a new Water Mungoose from East Africa. Proc. Biol. Soc. 

Wa.shington, vol. 2',, pp. 1-2. January 23, 1912. 

43. New Mammals from Canada. Alaska, and Kamchatka. SniUlisouian ifisc. 

Coll., vol. 50, No. 35, pp. 1-8, pis. 1-3. February 7, 1912. 

44. Description of a new subspecies of Monkey from British East Africa. 

Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 59, No. 3, pp. 1-2. March 2, 1912. 

45. Two new American Pikas. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 25, pp. 57-58. 

April 13, 1912. 

46. The Trinidad Opossum on Martinique. Proc. Biol. Soc. WasJnngton, vol. 

25, p. 93. May 4. 1912. 

47. The Mona Monkey on the Island of St. Kitts. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, 

vol. 2.1, p. 93. May 4, 1912. 

48. The Earliest name for the Cape Ratel. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 

25, p. 90. May 4. 1012. 

49. A list of the Mammals of the Philippine Islands, exclusive of the Cetacea. 

The Philippine Journ. Sci.. vol. 7, pp. 1-04. February, 1912. 

50. Some Erroneous Wisconsin Bird Records. Atik, vol. 29, pp. 397-399. July 

0, 1912. 

51. New Mammals from the Highlands of Siberia. Smithsonian 21isc. Coll., vol. 

00, No. 14, pp. 1-0. November 29, 1912. 

52. Five New Mammals from Asia. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 25, pp. 

181-184. December 24, 1912. 

53. The Names of the Rocky Mountain Goats. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, 

vol. 25, pp. 185-180. December 24, 1912. 

54. On a specimen of Ovis californiana Douglas in the National Museum. Proc. 

Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 25, p. 187. December 24, 1912. 

1913 

55. Two new Polecats related to Mu stela larvata. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, 

vol. 26, pp. 1-3. January 18, 1913. 

56. Description of a new Gazelle from Northwestern Mongolia. Smithsonian 

Misc. Coll., vol. 00, No. 19, pp. 1-2. February 8, 1913. 

57. Mammals of the Alpine Club Expedition to the Mount Robson Region. 

The Canadian Alpine Journal, Special No., pp. 1-44, pis. 1-13 (1912). 
February 17, 1913. 

58. List of Reptiles and Batrachians of the Alpine Club Expedition to the 

Mount Robson Region. The Canadian Alpine Journal, Si>ecial No., pp. 
45-46. (1912) February 17, 1913. 



NED HOLLISTER — OSGOOD 613 

59. Two new Mammals from the Siberian Altai. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 

60, No. 24, pp. 1-3. March 13, 1913. 

60. The Type Species of Cunicalus Brisson. Pj-oc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 

26, p. 79. March 22, 1913. 

61. A Synopsis of the American Minks. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 44, pp. 

471-480. April IS, 1913. 

62. Two New Philippine Pruit Bats. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 26, pp. 

111-112. May 3, 1913. 

63. Mammals Collected by the Smithsonian-Harvard Expedition to the Altai 

Mountains, 1912. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 45, pp. 507-532, pis. 37-42. 
June 21, 1913. 

64. Two New Bats of the Genus Taphozous. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 

26, pp. 157-158. June 30, 1913. 

65. The Zoological Expedition of Dr. Theodore Lyman to the Altai Mountains, 

Siberia, and Mongolia. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 60, No. 30, pp. 7-9, 
figs. 7-10. July 3, 1913. 

66. Three New Subspecies of Grasshopper Mice. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, 

vol. 26, pp. 215-216. Decemher 20, 1913. 

67. A Review of the Philippine Land Mammals in the United States National 

Museum. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 46, pp. 299-341, pis. 27-29. Decem- 
ber 31, 1913. 

68. A New Name for the Marmot of the Canadian Rockies, Science, n. s., vol. 

39, p. 251. November 5, 1913. 

1914 

69. Four New Neotropical Rodents. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 27, pp. 

57-59. March 20, 1914. 

70. Camps in the Altai. Canadian Alpine Journal, vol. 5, pp. 73-81. (1913) 

May, 1914. 

71. Four New Mammals from Tropical America. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, 

vol. 27, pp. 103-106. May 11, 1914. 

72. [Review of Lyon: Treeshrews. ] Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 4, No. 

12, pp. 330-331. June 14, 1914. 

73. Descriptions of four new Mammals from Tropical America. Proc. Biol. Soc. 

Washington, vol. 27. pp. 141-144. July 10. 1914. 
74-75-76. [Reviews of (a) Roosevelt and Heller, (b) Andrews, and (c) Grin- 
nell.] Die Natnruissenschaften, vol. 2, pp. 719-721. July 17, 1914. 

77. [References in Mammalogy.] Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 4, No. 14, 

p. 427. August 19, 1914. 

78. A Systematic Account of the Grasshopper Mice. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

vol. 47, pp. 427-489, pi. 15. October 29, 1914. 

79. New Mammals from Costa Rica and Mexico. P7-oc. Biol. Soc. WasMngton, 

vol. 27, pp. 209-210. October 31, 1914. 

80. The Systematic Name of the Brazilian Crab-Eating Raccoon. Proc. Biol. 

Soc. Washington, vol. 27, p. 215. October 31, 1914. 

81. The Technical Names of the Common Skunk and Mink of the Eastern States. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wnnhington, vol. 27, p. 215. October 31, 1914. 

82. On the Systematic Names of the Cheetahs. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washirigton, 

vol. 27, p. 210. October 31, 1914. 

83. The Spotted Tiger-Cat in Texas. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 27, p. 

219. October 31, 1914. 

76041—26 40 



614 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 

84. Two New South American Jaguars. Proc. V. S. Nat. ihis., vol. 48, pp. 

1G9-170, pi. 5. December IG, 1014. 

1915 

85. The Type locality of Pecari tajacu. Pi'or. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 28, 

p. G9. March 12, 1915. 
80. A New Name for the White-Tailed Jack Rabbit. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washing- 
ton, vol. 28, p. 70. March 12, 1915. 

87. [References in Mammalogry.] Journ. WasJiington Acad. Sci., vol. 5, No. 9, 

pp. 324-325. May 4, 1915. 

88. The Systematic Name of the Mexican Spider Monkey. Proc. Biol. Soc. 

Washington, vol. 28, p. 142. .Tune 29, 1915. 

89. The Genera and Subgenera of Raccoons and their Allies. Pruc. U. S. Nat. 

Mus., vol. 49, pp. 143-150, pis. .3.8-39. August 13, 1915. 

90. The Specific Name of the Striped Muishond of South Africa. Proc. Biol. 

Soc. Washington, vol. 28, p. 184. November 29, 1915. 

1916 

91. Descriptions of a New Genus and Eight New Species and Subspecies of 

African Mammals. Smithsoniaii Misc. Coll., vol. 66, No. 1. pp. 1-8. 
February 10, 191G. 

92. [References in Mammalogy.] Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 6, No. 4, 

pp. 96-97. February 19, 1916. 

93. Three new African Shrews of the Genus Crocidura. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., 

vol. 66, No. 8, pp. 1-3. May 22, 1916. 

94. The Generic Names Epimys and Rattus. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., vol. 29, 

p. 126. June 6, 1916. 

95. A Systematic Account of the Prairie-Dogs. North American Fauna, No. 40, 

pp. 1-37, pis. 1-7. June 20, 1916. 

96. Resolutions on death of Prof. W. W. Cook. Science, n. s., vol. 43, p. 941. 

June 30, 1916. 

97. The Tjrpe Species of Rattus. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 29, pp. 

206-207. September 22, 1916. 

98. Shrews Collected by the Congo Expedition of the American Museum. Bull. 

American Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 35, Art. 35, pp. 663-680, pis. 7-11. October 
21, 1916. 

99. Three New Murine Rodents from Africa. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 66, 

No. 10, pp. 1-3. October 26, 1916. 

1917 

100. [References in Mammalogy.] Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 7, No. 2, 

p. 41. January 19, 1917. 

101. Some Effects of Environment and Habit on Captive Lions. Proc. U. S. 

Nat. Mus., vol. 53, pp. 177-193, pis. 22-25. June 1, 1917. 

102. The Black Vulture in the District of Columbia and Maryland. Proc. Biol. 

Soc. Washington, vol. 30, p. 123. July 27, 1917. 

103. The Trumpeter Swan (Letter to R. M. Barnes). Oologist, vol. 34, pp. 

176-178. October 15, 1917. 

104. Report on the National Zoological Park [for the year ending June 30, 1917]. 

Report of the Sccrcturg of the Smithsonian Institution for 1917, pp. 
71-87, pis. 1-2. December 13, 1917. Reprinted in Smithsonian Report 
for 1917, December 29, 1919. 



NED HOLLISTER — OSGOOD 615 

1918 

105. New Rodents from British East Africa. l^tyiithHonian Misc. Coll , vol. 68, 

No. 10, pp. 1-3. January 16, 1918. 

106. Report of the Superintendent of the National Zoological Park for the 

fiscal year ending June 30, 1917. Ann. Report Smithsonian Inst. 1917. 
Issued as separate, February 7, 1918. 

107. A Sanctuary within a Sanctuary. Bird-Lore, vol. 20, pp. 158-159. April, 

1918. 

108. The Domestication of the Llama. Science, n. s., vol. 47, p. 461. May 

10, 1918. 

109. A New Hare from British East Africa. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 

31, pp. 35-36. May 16, 1918. 

110. The Earliest Technical Name for the Portuguese Ibex, Proc. Biol. Soc. 

Washington, vol. 31, p. 93. June 29, 1918. 

111. The Yellow Rail in the District of Columbia, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, 

vol. 31, p. 93. June 29, 1918. 

112. A New Name for an African Rat. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 31, p. 

97. June 29, 1918. 

113. International Zoology and the International Code. Science, u. s., vol. 48, 

pp. 12-13. July 5, 1918. 

114. East African Mammals in the United States National Museum. Part I. 

Insectivora, Chiroptera, and Carnivora, Bull. 99, U. S. Nat. Mus., pt. 1, 
pp. 1-194, pis. 1-55. August 16, 1918. 

115. [Abstract of Goldman's " The Rice Rats of North America (Genus 

Oryzomys)."] Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 8, No. 20, pp. 659-660. 
December 4, 1918. 

116. Report on the National Zoological Park [for the year ending June 30, 1918], 

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for 191S, pp. 
66-81. December 12, 1918. Issued as separate with date 1919 ; re- 
printed in Smithsonian Report for 1918, September 28, 1920. 

1919 

117. Brooding Habit of the American Coot. Auk, vol. 36, p. 102. January 

5, 1919. 

118. [Abstract of " East African Mammals in the "United States National 

Museum, Part I,"] Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 9, No. 2, p. 50. 
January 19, 1919. 

119. The Generic Names Anoa and Bubalus, Pi'oc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol, 

32, p. 45. April 11, 1919. 

120. A New Name for the Wild Sheep of Northeastern China. Proc. Biol. Soc. 

Washington, vol. 32, p. 46. April 11, 1919. 

121. " Mammals " in symposium on " What kind of characters distinguish a 

species from a subdivision of a species," Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., 
No. 8, vol. 9, p. 235. April 19, 1919. 

122. East African Mammals in the United States National Museum. Part II, 

Rodentia, Lagomorpha. and Tubulidentata. Bxill. 99, U. S. Nat. Mus., 
pt. 2, pp. 1-184, pis. 1-44. May 16, 1919. 

123. [Abstract of Hollister's " East African Mammals in the United States 

National Museum. Part II."] Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 9, 
No. 12, p. 343. June 19, 1919. 

124. The Systematic Position of the Ring-necked Duck. Aitk, vol. 36, pp. 

460-463. October 31, 1919. 



61G ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1025 

125. Editorial Comment. Journ. Mamm., vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 47-49. November 
28, 1910. 

120. Report on the National Zoological Park [for the year ending June 30, 1919]. 
Report of the Scei'etanj of the Stnithsonian Institution for 1919, pp. 
6S-S1. December 11, 1919. Issued as separate with date 1920; re- 
printed in Smithsonian Report for 1919, September 30, 1921. 

127. Some Changes in the Summer Bird Life at Delavan, Wisconsin. Wilson 

Bull, No. 109, pp. 103-108. December, 1919. 

128. The National Zoological Park: A Popular Account of its Collections. 

Annual Report Smithsonian Institution for 1917, pp. 543-593. pis. 1-4G. 
December 29, 1919. 

1920 

129. Two New East African Primates. Sinithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 72. No. 2, 

pp. 1-2. January 22, 1920. 

130. Segregation of Male Mallards. Condor, vol. 22, pp. 3S-37. .January 26, 

1020. 

131. Editorial Comment. Journ. Mamm., vol. 1. No. 2, pp. 108-110. March 

2, 1920. 

132. Editorial Comment. .Journ. Manun., vol. 1, No. 3, pp. 159-160. June 

19, 1920. 

133. Relative Abundance of Wild Diicks at Delavan, Wisconsin. Auk, vol. 37, 

pp. 367-371. July 1-1, 1920. 

134. Editorial Comment. Journ. Mamm.. vol. 1, No. 4, pp. 107-199. August 

24. 1920. 

135. Popular Guide to the National Zoological Park. I'lihlishcd by the 8m,ith- 

sonian InslHufio>i. October, 1920. 

136. Dates of Shedding of Horns. Journ. Mamm., vol. 1, No. 5, pp. 244-245. 

December 4, 1020. 

137. [Review of Fitzsimons' " The Natural History of South Africa. Mam- 

mals." Vols. 1 and 2.] Journ. Mamm.. vol. 1, No. 5, p. 246. December 
4, 1920. 

138. Editorial Comment. Journ. Mamm., vol. 1. No. 5, pp. 2.50-252. December 

4, 1920. 

139. Report on the National Zoological Park [for the year ending June 30, 1920]. 

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for 1920, pp. 
75-89. December 9, 1920. Issued as separate with date 1920; re- 
printed in Smithsonian Report for 1920, May 18, 1922. 

1921 

140. [Review of Fitzsimons' " The Natural History of South Africa. Mam- 

mals." Vols. 3 and 4.] Journ. Mamm., vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 41-42. Feb- 
ruary 10, 1921. 

141. Editorial Comment. Journ. Mamm., vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 50-51. February 

10, 1921. 

142. Descriptions of Sixteen New Murine Rodents from Celebes. (Joint author- 

sJiip with (Jerrit S. Miller, Jr.) Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 34, 
pp. 67-76. March 31, 1921. 

143. The Names for Two Genera of African Artiodactyla. Proc. Biol. Soc. 

Washington, vol. 34, p. 77. March 31, 1921. 

144. [Review of Gregory's " A Review of the Evolution of the Lacrymal Bone 

of Vertebrates with Special Reference to that of Mammals."] Journ. 
Mamm., vol. 2, No. 2, pp. 118-119. May 2, 1921. 



NED HOLLISTER— OSGOOD 617 

145. Collections of living Animals for the National Zoological Park. Siniflt- 
sonian Misc. Coll., vol. 72, No. G, pp. 59-63, figs. 72-76. May 12, 1921. 

14G. Twenty [two] New Mammals Collected by H. C. Raven in Celebes. (Joint 
authorship with Gorrit S. Miller, jr.) Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 
34. pp. 93-104. June 30, 1921. 

147. A New Name for the West African Pygmy Squirrel. P7-oc. Biol. Soc. 

Washington, vol. 34, pp. 135. June 30, 1921. 

148. [Review of Pohle's " Die Unterfamilie der Lutrinae."] J own. Mainni., 

vol. 2, No. 3, pp. 177-178. Au.mi.st 19, 1921. 

149. The Willow Thrush in the District of Columbia. Auk, vol. 38, p. 463. 

(July) October 5, 1921. 

150. [Review of Osgood's "A Monographic Study of the American Marsupial, 

Caenolestes."] Journ. Mamm., vol. 2, No. 4, pp. 241-242. November 
29, 1921. 

151. Report on the National Zoological Park [for the year ending June 30, 1921]. 

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for 192J, pp. 
84-99. December 8, 1921. Is.sued as separate with date 1921 ; reprinted 
in Smithsonian Report for 1921, June 29, 1923. 

1922 

152. Wild Turkeys Cross Seas on Board the S. S. Mesaba. Ocean Ferry, vol. 

I, No. 9, p. 16. June, 1922. 

153. A New Phalanger from Celebes. (J(»int authorship with Gerrit S. Miller, 

jr.) Proc. Biol. Soc. WashingtOfi, vol. 35, pp. 115-116. October 17, 1922. 
354. A New Hyrax from East Africa. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 35, p. 
135. October 17, 1922. 

155. Report on the National Zoological Park [for the year ending June 30, 1922]. 

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution [or 1922, pp. 
88-103. December 14, 1922. Lssued as separate with date 1922; re- 
printed in Smithsonian Report for 1922, October 9, 1924. 

1923 

156. Museum Preservation of Incisor Teeth of Ruminantia. Journ. Mamm., 

vol. 4, No. 2, pp. 123-125, fig. 1. May 9, 1923. 

157. [Review of Cabrera's "Manual de Mastozoologia."] Journ. Mamm., vol. 

4, No. 2, pp. 130-131. May 9, 1923. 

158. Report on the National Zoological Park [for the year ending June 30, 1923]. 

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for 1923, pp. 
87-103. December 13, 1923. Issued as separate with date 1923; re- 
printed in Smithsonian Report for 1923, June 27, 1925. 

1924 

159. East African Mammals in the United States National Museum. Part III. 

Primates, Artiodactyla, Perissodactyla, Proboscidea, and Hyracoidea. 
Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 99, pt. 3, pp. I-VIII, 1-164, pis. 1-57. July 20, 
1924. 

160. [Review of J. A. Allen's " Carnivora Collected by the American Museum 

Congo Expedition."] Journ. Mamm., vol. 5. No. 3, p. 209. August 

II, 1924. 

101. Report on the National Zoological Park [for the year ending June 30, 1924]. 
Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for 192 Ji, pp. 
89-104. December 11, 1924. Issued as separate with date 1925 ; re- 
printed in Smithsonian Report for 1924. November 13, 1925. 



618 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1925 



1G2. Another Record of the Ruddy ftuail-Dove at Key West. Auk, vol. 42, p. 
130. January 2, 1925. 

163. The Systematic Name of the Texas Armadillo. Journ. Mainm., vol. 6, No. 1, 

p. GO. Feliruary 9, 1925. 

164. Animals in the National Zoological Park. Annual Report, Smithsonian 

Institution, 1923, pp. 291-.338, pis. 1-29. .Tune C. 1925. 

165. A Modern Menagerie: More about the National Zoological Park. Annual 

Report, Smithsoniati Institution, 192/,, pp. 249-278, pis. 1-18. October 
24, 1925. 

GENEIEIC AND 8UBGENERIC NAMES 

Cercoctenus, 91, p. 1. 
Eropeplus, 146, p. 94. 
Leucocrossuromys, 95, p. 23. 
Melasmothrix, 146, p. 93. 
Nasuella, 89, p. 148. 

SPECIFIC AND SUB8PECIFIC NAMES 



AUactaga grisescens, 51, p. 2. 
Apodemus nigritalus, 59, p. 1. 
Apomys inicrodon, 67, p. 327. 
Arvicanthis abyssiuicus centrosui?, 99, 

p. 1. 
Ateles tricolor, 73, p. 141. 
Callosperinopbilus lateralis tescorum, 

41, p. 2. 
Cebus capucinus limitaneus, 71, p. 105. 
Cebus margaritffi, 71, p. 105. 
Chaerephon luzonus, 67, p. 312. 
Chaerephon pumilus naivashee, 91, p 4. 
Cheiromeles parvidens, 146, p. 100. 
Crocidura caliginea, 98, p. 664. 
Crocidura congobelgica, 98, p. 670. 
Crocidura dapbnia, 93, p. 1. 
Crocidura elougata, 146, p. 101. 
Crocidura latona, 98, p. 667. 
Crocidura lea, 146, p. 102. 
Crocidura levicula, 146, p. 103. 
Crocidura ludia, 98, p. 668. 
Crocidura nigripes, 146, p. 101. 
Crocidura nigripes lipara, 146, p. 101. 
Crocidura oritis, 98, p. 666. 
Crocidura parvipes nisa, 93, p. 2. 
Crocidura polia, 98, p. 669. 
Crocidura rhoditis, 146, p. 102. 
Crocidura simlolus, 93, p. 3. 
Cyclopes mexicanus, 79, p. 210. 
Cynomys guunisoui zuniensis, 95, p. 32. 
Dasymys helukus nlgridius, 99, p. 2. 
Echiothrix brevicula, 142, p. 67. 
Ecbiothrix centrosa, 142, p. 67. 
Epimys basilanus, 67, p. 322. 
Epimys benguetensis, 67, p. 323. 



Epimys calcis, 36, p. 89. 
Epimys coloratus, 67, p. 317. 
Epimys leucopbaeatus, 67, p. 320. 
Epimys mayonicus, 67, p. 319. 
Epimys ornatulus, 67, p. 322. 
Epimys querceti, 36, p. 90. 
Epimys robiginosus, 67, p. 318. 
Epimys vigoratus, 67, p. 321. 
Eptesicus ugandse, 91, p. 3. 
Eropeplus canus, 146, p. 95. 
Erythrocebus whitei, 25, p. 11. 
Eutamias asiaticus altaicus, 52, p. 183 
Eutamias ludibundus, 41, p. 1. 
Felis arundivaga, 37, p. 176. 
Felis uotlalis, 84, p. 170. 
Felis paraguensis, 84, p. 169. 
Fiber nebracensis, 35, p. 32. 
Fiber oregonus, 35, p. 33. 
Fiber zibethicus cinuamomeus, 

125. 
Fiber zibethicus mergens, 24, p. 1. 
Fiber zibethicus zalophus, 24, p. 1 
Galago sotikae, 129, p. 1. 
Genetta pumila, 91, p. 4. 
Harpyionycteris celebensis, 146, p 
Helogale undulata affinis, 91, p. 7. 
Heterohyrax brucei albipes, 154, 

135. 
Hydrochcerus hydrochaeris uotlalis, 69, 

p. 58. 
Lagostomus maxlmus petillidens, 69, 

p. 58. 
Lasiopyga pygerythra callida, 44, p. 1. 
Lasiopyga pygerythra contigua, 129, 

p. 2. 



28, p. 



99. 



P- 



NED HOLLTSTER — OSGOOD 



619 



Lenomys lougicaudus, 14G, p. 95. 

Lepus aui'igiueus, 52, p. 181. 

Lepus brachyurus angustideus, 52, p. 

183. 
Lepus capensis abbotti, 109, p. 85. 
Lepus quercerus, 52, p. 182. 
Lepus swinhoei sowerbyie, 52, p 182. 
Lepus townsendii campanius, 86, p. 70. 
Limnomys mearnsi, C7, p. 324. 
Limnomys picinus, 67, p. 325. 
Loncliores flavidus, 73, p. 143. 
Marmota oxytona, 68, p. 251. 
Marmota sibila, 43, p. 1. 
Mazama tema cerasiua, 79, p. 209. 
Melasmothrix naso, 146, p. 94. 
Mellivora abyssiuica, 29, p. 1. 
Mellivora sagulata, 29, p. 2. 
Miniopterus paululus, 67, p. 311. 
Moscbus parvipes, 30, p. 1. 
Muiigos albicaudus dialeucos, 91, p. 6. 
Mungos paludiuosus rubescens, 42, p. 

1. 
Mungos sanguineus parvipes, 91, p. 5. 
Mus bellus petilus, 99, p. 3. 
Mustela lineiventer, 55, p. 2. 
Mustela lymani, 51, p. 5. 
Mustela meridana, 73, p. 143. 
Mustela tiarata, 55, p. 2. 
Mustela visou letifera, 61, p. 475. 
Myocastor coypus santacruzse, 69, p. 

57. 
My opus morulus, 51, p. 1. 
Myosciurus minutulus, 147, p. 135. 
Myotis altifrons, 41, p. 3. 
Myotis baileyi, 21, p. 44. 
Myotis occultus, 21, p. 43. 
Myotis pernox, 41, p. 4, 
Myotis petax, 51, p. 6. 
Nannosciurus surrutilus, 67, p. 313. 
Nectomys squamipes pollens, 71, p. 104. 
Ochotona levis, 46, p. 57. 
Ocbotona nitida, 51, p. 4. 
Ocbotoua uinta, 45, p. 58. 
Ouychomys leucogaster breviauritus, 

66, p. 216. 
Onycbomys leucogaster capitulatus, 66, 

p. 215. 
Onycbomys torridus elarus, 66, p. 215. 
Onycbomys torridus surrufus, 78, p. 

472. 
Oreamuos americanus columbise, 53, p. 

186. 
Oryx annectens, 25, p. 7. 
Ourebia microdon, 25, p. 4. 



Ovis comosa, 120, p. 46. 
Pacbyura occultideus, 67, p. 303. 
Pedetes surdaster currax, 105, p. 3. 
Pedetes surdaster larvalis, 105, p. 2. 
Pbal anger furvus, 153, p. 115. 
Philander centralis, 71, p. 103. 
Phodopus crepidatus, 51, p. 3. 
Pitbecus mindorus, 67, p. 328. 
Procapra altaica, 56, p. 1. 
Procyon lotor crassidens, 73, p. 142. 
Proecliimys rubellus, 69, p. 57. 
Pteropus arquatus, 146, p. 100. 
Pteropus balutus, 62, p. 111. 
Pteropus mearnsi, 62, p. 112. 
Raugifer excelsifrons, 43, p. 5. 
Rangifer fortidens, 43, p. 3. 
Raugifer phylarcbus, 43, p. 6. 
Rattus adspersus, 142, p. 71. 
Rattus concha tinctus, 105, p. 1. 
Rattus dominator camurus, 146, p. 96. 
Rattus facetus, 146, p. 96. 
Rattus hamatus, 146, p. 97. 
Rattus helleri, 112, p. 97. 
Rattus bellwaldii cereus, 142, p. 74. 
Rattus bellwaldii localis, 142, p. 74. 
Rattus hoffmauui liuduensis, 142, p. 70. 
Rattus hoft'mauni subditivus, 142, p. 

70. 
Rattus mollicomus, 142, p. 71. 
Rattus musschenbroekii tetricus, 142, 

p. 68. 
Rattus nigellus, 142, p. 72. 
Rattus palelse, 142, p. 69. 
Rattus penitus, 142, p. 72. 
Rattus puuicans, 146, p. 98. 
Rattus rallus, 142, p. 73. 
Rattus raveni, 142, p. 68. 
Rattus raveni eurous, 142, p. 69. 
Rattus sericatus, 142, p. 73. 
Rhinolopbus keniensis, 91, p. 2. 
Rusa nigellus, 67, p. 332. 
Sciuropterus crinitus, 38, p. 185. 
Sciurus evidens, 146, p. 99. 
Sciurus murinus necopinus, 146, p. 98. 
Sicista uapiea, 51, p. 2. 
Sorex fontinalis, 34, p. 378. 
Sorex roboratus, 59, p. 2. 
Surdisorex polulus, 91, p. 1. 
Sylvisorex oriundus, 98, p. 672. 
Taphonycteris capito, 67, p. 308. 
Tapbozous cavaticus, 64, p. 157. 
Tapbozuus solifer, G4, p. 157. 
Tarsius fuscus dentatus, 146, p. 103. 
Tarsius pumilus. 146, p. 103. 



INDEX 



A 

Page 

Abbot, Dr. Charles G., assistant secretary of the Institution xi, 

XII, 2, 24, 86, 102, 104, 106 

Abbot, Dr. William L 4, 7 

Haitian botanical expedition 124 

Adams, Herbert 49, 50,51 

Adams, Washington I <- 27, 111 

Agriculture, Secretary' of (member of the Institution) xi 

Agriculture, United States Department of 29, 40, 58 

Ahearn, A. J 106 

Ailes, Milton E 4 

Aldrich, Dr. J. M xii 

Aldrich, L. B xii, 105 

Allotments for printing 15 

American Federation of Arts 19, 55 

and the Federation of W^omen's Clubs, activities of the 51 

American Federation of Labor 55 

American Historical Association reports 14, 15, 116 

American Meteorological Society 102 

Animal life at high altitudes (Hingston) 337 

Animals in the collection, June 30, 1925, National Zoological Park 91 

Anthropological collections. National Museum 31 

Appropriations for branches of the Institution 5 

Archeological expedition to China 9 

Arts and industries, department of. National Museum 35 

Ashton, Miss M. D 111 

Assistant secretary, additional 5, 12, 16, 47 

Astrophysical Observatory 1, 5, 0, 15, 24, 123 

annals 14, 116 

director 24, 106 

library 113 

personnel 105 

report 101 

staff XII 

work of the year 101 

removal of Mount Harqua Hala station 103 

solar variation and forecasting — 101 

Attorney General (member of the Institution) xi, 132 

Avery fund 4, 123, 125 

B 
Bacha, E 84 

Bacon fund, Virginia Purdy 4, 123, 125 

Bacon, Mrs. Martha W 5 

Baer, John L 11 

Bairdfund, Lucy H 4,123,124,125 

Baker, A. B., assistant superintendent, National Zoological Park xii 

Bartlett, Capt. R. A - 40 

621 



622 INDEX 

Page 

Bartsch, Dr . Paul xii, 40, 42 

Bassler, Dr. R. S xii, 17, 34, 35, 42 

Benedetti, V 84 

Benjamin, Dr. Marcus, editor. National Museum xii, 15, 111 

Bent, Fred N 87 

Bequests 5, 16, 17, 19, 27, 32, 33, 47, 55, 111, 125 

Berry, Mrs. Rose V. S 52 

Biological collections. National Museum 33 

Biological Survey, United States Department of Agriculture 12, 90 

Bishop, Carl Whiting, associate curator. Freer Gallery of Art xii, 10 

(The historical geography of early Japan) 547 

Bi.xby, W. K 51 

Blackman, Vernon H 43 

Blashfield, Edwin H 19, 50 

Boss, Norman 42 

Botanical exploration in Panama and Costa Rica 8 

Boyd, Dr. Nathan 56 

Bridgman, P. W. (Certain aspects of high-pressure research) 157 

Brockett, Paul 109 

Brookings, Robert S. (regent) xi, 2, 129, 132 

Brumpt, Prof. E 45 

Bryant, H. S., chief of correspondence and documents, National Museum _ xii 

Buda Co., The 36 

Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences 4, 32, 41 

Buildings and equipment, National Museum 43 

Bundy, John, superintendent, Freer Gallery of Art xii 

Butterflies, Carnivorous (Clark) 439 



Canadian Rockies, Geological explorations in the 6 

Capital Audit Co 124 

Carnegie Institution of Washington 34, 40 

Carnegie Solar Observatory 101 

Casey bequest, Col. Thomas Lincoln 16, 17, 33, 111 

Mrs. Thomas Lincoln 111 

Catalogue of Scientific Literature, International, Regional Bureau for the 

United States xii, 1, 5, 15, 24, 123 

report 107 

Cecil, Hon. John 56 

Chamberlain fund, Frances Lea 4, 33, 35, 123, 124, 125 

Chancellor of the Institution xi, 2, 4, 129, 132 

Chapman, A. Chaston (The yeasts: a chapter in microscopical science)-- 297 

Chase, Mrs. Agnes 40 

Chemical elements and atoms (Urbain) 199 

Chemistry of soUds, The (Desch) 235 

Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology xii, 15, 21, 32, 41, 62, 63, 74 

Chief clerk of the Institution xi, 23, 84 

Chief Justice of the United States (chancellor and member of the Institu- 
tion) XI, 1, 2, 4, 129, 132 

China, archeological expedition to 9 

China, western, zoological explorations in 7 

Choate, Charles F., jr. (regent) xi, 2, 4, 129 

Ciocca, Mme. A. Langley 54 

Clark, Austin H 12. 14, 16, 30, 42, 111 

(Carnivorous butterflies) 439 



INDEX 623 

Page 

Clark, Miss May S 74 

Clark, 11. S 33,39,40 

Clarke, Dr. F. W xii. 111 

Clarke, J. C 62 

Clayton, H. H 24, 102 

Coast Guard, United States 40 

Collection, The, Freer Gallery of Art 57 

Collections, Bureau of American Ethnology 74 

National Museum 31 

anthropological 31 

arts and industries 35 

biological 33 

geological 34 

historical 38 

Collins, Henry B., jr 33,47,61 

Comerford, B. M 37 

Commerce, Secretary of (member of the Institution) xi 

Concilium Bibliographicum 111 

Condit, Lester D 109 

Consolidated fund of the Institution 4 

Coolidge, Calvin, President of the United States (presiding oflBcer ex oflBcio 

and member of the Institution) xi 

Cope, Dr. Porter F 56 

Costa Rica, Panama, and. Botanical explorations in 8 

Cottrell fund, Fred. G 124 

Coville, Dr. F. V xii 

Cox, P. E., State archeologist of Tennessee 61 

Cox-McCormack, Mrs. Nancy 53 

exhibition of works in National Gallery of Art 53 

Curator, Freer Gallery of Art xii, 59 

Curators of the National Museum xi{ 

Cyclones, tropical, and the dispersal of life from island to island in the 

Pacific (Visher).. 313 

D 

Dall, Dr. WilUam Healey xii, 111 

Daughters of the American Revolution, National Society, report 122 

Davis, James John, Secretary of Labor (member of the Institution) xi 

Dawes, Charles G., Vice President of the United States (regent and mem- 
ber of the Institution) xi 

Day, Arthur L. (Some causes of volcanic activity) 257 

De Halecki, Prof. O 84 

Delano, Frederic A. (regent) xi, 2, 49, 127, 129, 132 

Denmark, C. R xii 

Densmore, Miss Frances 22, 32, 71 

Depew, Hon. Chauncey M 54 

De Prorok, Count Byron Khun 46 

(The excavations of the sanctuary of Tanit at Carthage). — 569 

De Quesada, Don C 46 

Desch, Cecil H. (The chemistry of solids) 235 

De Van Corporation, William T 3 

Director, Astrophysical Observatory xii, 24, 106 

Director, National GaUery of Art xii, 56 

District of Columbia, Commissioners of the 43 

Dognin, Paul 41 



624 ■ INDEX 

Page 

Dorsey, Harry W., chief clerk of the Institution xi, 23,84 

Dorsey, N. W., accounting and disbursing agent of the Institution xi, xii 

Douglas, A. Vibert (Immensities of time and space) 147 

Doyle, Miss Aida M 47 

Dubois, Dr. Eugene 17,32 



Editors of the Institution and branches xi, xii, 15, 122 

Egg to an insect. From an (Snodgrass) 373 

Endowment campaign expense fund, contributors to 4, 124 

Endowment fund of the Institution (general) 124 

condition of, July 1, 1925 123 

contributors to 4 

Entomology, The needs of the world as to (Howard) 355 

Establishment, Smithsonian 1 

Estabrook, L. M 44 

Ethnology, Bureau of American 1, 5, 6, 15, 17, 20, 32, 41, 123, 131 

chief XII, 15, 21, 32, 41, 62, 63, 74 

collections 74 

illustrations 73 

library 16,73,113 

publications 14, 22, 116 

distribution of 73 

editorial work and 72 

report 60 

researches 62, 71 

staflF XI I 

Evans, Victor J .23,87,90 

Exchanges, international 1, 5, 15, 22,27, 110, 127 

foreign depositories of United States governmental documents 77 

foreign exchange agencies 82 

interparliamentary exchange of the official j ournals 80 

report 75 

Expedition, Marsh- Darien 31 

Exploration and field work. National Museum 39 

Explorations in the Canadian Rockies, Greological 6 

researches and 6 

Explorers Club of New York 110 

F 
Fabry, Dr. Ch 104 

Far East expedition fund 124, 125 

Federation of Women's Clubs 19, 55 

American Federation of Arts and the, Activities of the 51 

Ferris, Senator Woodbridge N. (regent) xi, 2 

Fewkes, Dr. J. Walter, chief. Bureau of American Ethnology xii, 

15, 21, 32, 41, 62, 63, 74 

Finances of the Institution 4 

Financial operations of the Institution, detailed survey of 124 

Fire protection, additional 5 

Fisheries, Bureau of. United States Department of Commerce 58 

Ford, Henry 36 

Foreign depositories of United States governmental documents 77 

Foreign exchange agencies 82 

Foshag, Dr. W. F 34,35,41 



INDEX 625 

Page 

Foster, F. J 40 

Fowke, Gerard 21,41,62 

Fowie, F. E., jr., aid, Astrophysical Observatory xii, 32 

Fraser, James E 51 

Freeman, H. B 105 

Freeman, Israel 47 

Freer, Charles L 48 

bequest 5,27, 125 

estate 133 

funds derived from 124 

Freer Gallery of Art 1, 9, 10, 20 

attendance 59 

classification of invested funds 5 

collection 57 

curator xii, 59 

field work 59 

library 113 

personnel 59 

report 57 

staff XII 

Freer income tax, remission of 133 

French, Daniel Chester 51 

Fukushima Co. (Inc.) 17, 35 

G 

Gabaoosa, George 69 

Gallagher, J. A_ 111 

Geikie, Sir Archibald (Strahan) 591 

General considerations, secretary's report 2 

General endowment fund of the Institution 124 

condition of, July 1, 1925 123 

contributors to 4 

Geological collections, National Museum 34 

explorations in the Canadian Rockies 6 

Geological Survey, United States 29, 34, 41 

George Washington University 12 

Gest, J. H -. 49, 50,51 

Ghor, Robert 47 

Gidley, Dr. J. W 42 

Gill, De Lancey, illustrator. Bureau of American Ethnology xii, 73 

Gilmore, Dr. Charles W xii, 34, 35, 42 

Glover, Charles C, jr 4 

Goldsmith, J. S., superintendent of buildings and labor, National Museum. xn 

Government Printing Office 28 

Graham, Rev. David C 7, 8, 17, 33, 39 

fund 124 

Grant, Mr. and Mrs. E. R 87 

Gray, George (regent) xi, 2, 129 

Greeley, W, B. (The relation of geography to the timber supply) 533 

Guest, Grace Dunham, assistant curator, Freer Gallery of Art xii 

Gunnell, Leonard C xii, 108, 111 

H 

Habel fund 4 

Hall, Sir Daniel 43 



626 INDEX 

Page 

Hamilton fund 4, 123, 126 

Hanson, Anne C 4 

Harkness, Edward S 5 

Harriman Alaska expedition reports 14, 116 

Harriman trust fund 124, 125 

Harrington, John P xii, 21, 22, 65, 66 

Hay, Dr. O. P 111 

Hazard, Daniel L. (Terrestrial magnetism in the twentieth century) 243 

Headicar, B. M 84 

Hegeman, Miss 32 

Henry endowment fund, Joseph, National Academy of Sciences 41 

Henry fund, Caroline 4, 123, 124, 125 

Hess, F. L 34 

Hewitt, J. N. B. xii, 22, 67, 68, 69, 70 

High-pressure research. Certain aspects of (Bridgman) 157 

Hildebrand, S. F 40 

HUger, A 104 

Hill, J. H., property clerk of the Institution xi 

Hill, Leonard (The biological action of light) 327 

Hingston, Maj. R. W. G. (Animal life at high altitudes) 337 

Historical collections. National Museum 38 

Hoad, Miss Hortense 47 

Hodgkins fund, general 4, 123 

specific 4, 124, 125 

Hollister, Ned (Osgood) 599 

superintendent. National Zoological Park 15, 23, 26, 87 

Holmes, Dr. William H., Director, National Gallery of Art xii, 50, 56, 111 

Hoover, Herbert Clark, Secretary of Commerce (member of the Insti- 
tution) XI, 45 

Hornblower, Mrs. Caroline B 56 

Hough, Dr. Walter xii 

Howard, Sir Esme 63 

Howard, Dr. L. O. (The needs of the world as to entomology) 355 

Hoxmark, G 102 

Hoy, Charles M 7, 11 

Hrdlifika, Dr. Ale§ .._ xii, 41, 44, 111 

Hubby, Miss Ella F., bequest 17,32 

Hughes fund, Bruce 4, 123, 124, 125 



Indian tailor bird, The nest of the (Wood) 349 

Insect, From an egg to an (Snodgrass) 373 

Insect pests. The rdle of vertebrates in the control of (McAtee) 415 

Interior, Secretary of the (member of the Institution) xi 

International Catalogue of Scientific Literature, Regional Bureau for 

the United States xii, 1, 5, 15, 24, 123 

report 107 

International exchange of publications, Geneva, Switzerland, Committee 

of experts on the 84 

International exchanges 1, 5, 15, 22, 27, 110, 127 

foreign depositories of United States governmental documents 77 

foreign exchange agencies 82 

interparliamentary exchange of the official journals 80 

report 75 



INDEX 627 

J 

Page 

Japan, The historical geography of early (Bishop) 547 

Jardine, William M., Secretary of Agriculture (member of the Institution). xi 

Johansen, F 45 

Johnson, Representative Albert (regent) xi, 2, 129 

Jordan, David Starr (Isolation with segregation as a factor in organic 

evolution) 321 

Judd, Neil M xii, 17, 32, 41 

K 

Karapetoff, Prof. Vladimir 45 

Katz, Leo, exhibition of works in National Gallery of Art 53 

Kellogg, Frank B., Secretary of State (member of the Institution) xi 

Kinoshita, Y 59 

Knowles, W. A., property clerk, National Museum xii 

Krieger, H. W 41,47 

Ku-zhi-si-e 70 

L 

Labor, Secretary of (member of the Institution) xi 

LaFlesche, Francis xii, 22, 70, 71 

Laughlin, Irwin B. (regent) xi, 2, 4 

Lea collection, Isaac 35 

Leary, Ella, librarian. Bureau of American Ethnology xii, 73 

Lewton, Frederick L xii 

Libraries of the Institution and branches 1, 15, 73, 112 

report 109 

Library of Congress 16, 73, 111, 113 

Smithsonian deposit in 110 

Life, the dispersal of, from island to island in the Pacific, Tropical cyclones 

and (Visher) 313 

Light, The biological action of (Hill) 327 

Lightning and other high-voltage phenomena (Peek) 169 

Loans accepted by the National Gallery of Art 55 

by the National Gallery of Art 55 

Lodge, Senator Henry Cabot (regent) 2, 19, 25, 59 

death of 129 

Lodge, John EUerton, curator. Freer Gallery of Art xii, 50, 51, 54, 55, 132 

Loeb collection of chemical types 16 

curator 16 

Loeb fund, Morris 4, 123, 124, 125 

Long, The Misses 32 

Luchaire, J 84 

M 
Mann, Dr. William M., superintendent. National Zoological Park, xii, 15, 23, 100 

Marsh endowment fund, O. C, National Academy of Sciences 41 

Marsh-Darien expedition 11, 31, 32, 41 

Marsh, R. O 21,67 

Marshall, W. B 40 

Mather, Frank J., jr 50, 51 

Matignon, Camille (The manufacture of radium) 221 

Maxon, Dr. W. R xii, 111 

McAtee, W. L. (The r61e of vertebrates in the control of insect pests) 415 

McCormick, Senator Medill (regent) 2, 129 

McEwen, Alfred 37 



628 INDEX 

Pago 

McKcy, Miss Laura M 55 

Mechlin, Miss Leila 51 

Melchers, Gari 51 

Mellon, Andrew W., Secretary of the Treasury (member of the Insti- 
tution) XI 

Merriam, Dr. J. C 34 

Merrill, Dr. George P 15, xii 

Michelson, Dr. Truman xii, 21, 65 

Mifflin, Dr. Houston 56 

Miller, Dr. Gerrit S., jr xii, 40, 111 

Mitman, Carl W xii 

Moore, Charles 51 

Moore, Representative R. Walton (regent) xi, 2, 127, 129, 132 

Morris, Earl H 21, 63 

Mulford Co., H. K 33 

Munroe, Miss Helen ^ 73 

Museum of the American Indian 21 

Myer, W. E 61 

N 

National Academy of Design 53 

National Academy of Sciences 4 

National American Woman's Association 39 

National Gallery of Art 1, 5, 12, 15, 18, 123 

art works added during the year 54 

building 50 

plans fund 124, 125 

report special committee on 132 

commission . . 19 

annual report 130 

meetings 50 

director xii, 56 

distributions 56 

library 113 

loans accepted by the 55 

by the 55 

publications 56, 116 

report 48 

special exhibitions held in the 52 

National Geographic Society 17, 32, 33, 39, 40, 41 

National Herbarium 40 

National Museum of Engineering and Industry 130 

National Museum, United States 1, 5, 6, 12, 15, 16, 74, 123 

buildings and equipment 43 

collections 31 

curators xu 

explorations and field work 39 

library 46, 111 

meetings and receptions 43 

publications 14, 18, 46, 116, 131 

report on 120 

report 28 

visitors 18, 46 

National Park Service 35, 42 

National Portrait Gallerv 54 



INDEX 629 

Page 

National Press Club 39 

National Zoological Park ^ 1, 5, 15, 23, 123 

accessions 87 

animals in the collection, June 30, 1925 91 

funds for the purchase of animals 100 

improvements 98 

needs of the park 99 

removals 90 

report 87 

revenues 100 

superintendent xii, 12, 14, 87, 100 

visitors. _ 24, 98 

water main 99 

Navy Department, United States 39 

Navy, Secretary of the (member of the Institution) xi, 42 

Necrology 25 

New, Harry S., Postmaster. General (member of the Institution) xi 

Newton, Representative Walter H. (regent) _. xi, 2, 132 

Nichols, Mrs. Frances 72 

Nigdibippi, Chief Igwa 67,72 

Noble, W. Clark 54 

North American Wild Flowers publication fund 125 

O 

Olmsted, Arthur J., photographer, National Museum xii, 38 

Organic evolution, Isolation as a factor in (Jordan) 321 

Osgood, Wilfred H. (Ned Hollister) _ 599 

P 

Panama and Costa Rica, Botanical exploration in 8 

Parmelee, James 50, 51 

Peaslee, Horace W 54 

Peek, F. W., jr. (Lightning and other high-voltage phenomena) 169 

Pell, Rev. Alfred Duane, bequest 19, 55 

Pepper, Senator George Wharton (regent) xi, 2, 129 

Perard, Victor 39 

Perry, L. E — xii 

Pershing, Gen. John J 38 

Personnel Classification Board 28, 30 

Piatt, Charles A-_ - 19, 49, 51, 57 

Pohl, Erwin R - - 42 

Poore fund, Lucy T. and George W 4, 123, 126 

Poore, R. S 4 

Porter, A. Kingsley 51 

Portland Cement Association 36 

Postmaster General (member of the Institution) xi 

Potato of romance and reality. The (Saflford) 509 

Powers, Mrs. Frances Roome 32 

Powesheik, Horace 65 

Pratt, Herbert L --- 51 

President of the United States (presiding officer ex officio and member 

of the Institution) -__ xi, 1 

Printing and publication, Smithsonian advisory committee on 122 

76041—26 41 



630 INDEX 

Page 

Publications of the Institution and branches 14, 56, 131 

Astrophysical Observatory, annals 14, 116 

Bureau of American Ethnology 14, 22, 72, 73, 116 

National Gallery of Art 56, 116 

National Museum 14, 18, 46, 116, 120, 131 

report 116 

R 

Rabinowitz, Harry W 47 

Radio Corporation of America 5, 12, 13, 30 

Radium, The manufacture of (Matignon) 221 

Rae, Charles W 56 

Ranger, bequest, Henry Ward 53 

fund 53 

Ravenel, W. de C, administrative assistant to the secretary xii. 111 

Rea, Samuel 5 

Reber, Mrs. Samuel 38 

Redfield, Edward W 50, 51 

Regents of the Institution, Board of xi, 2 

adjourned meeting, January 5, 1925 ■ 132 

annual meeting 129 

appointment of 129 

executive committee, report 123, 130 

permanent committee, report 130 

proceedings 129 

Reid fund, Addison T 4, 123, 125 

Research Corporation 4 

rocket investigation 125 

Researches and explorations 6 

Resser, Dr. Charles E xii, 17,34,35,42 

Rheesfund... __ 4, 123, 125 

Rhoades, Katherine Nash, associate. Freer Gallery of Art xii 

Richmond, Dr. Charles W xii, 4, 111 

Ridgway, Dr. Robert xii 

Roberts, O. E., jr 16,31 

Rock, Dr. J. F 17,33,39 

Roebling, John A .- 4,24, 101, 102, 103 

funds 125 

Roebling, Col. W. A 17,34 

mineral fund 125 

Rogers, Prof. D. B.. -- 66 

Rohwer, S. A 111 

Rudge, William Edwin 37 



Safford, W. E. (The potato of romance and reality) 509 

Salvadorean Government 40 

Sampson, Edward 32 

Sanctuary of Tanit at Carthage, The excavations of (De Prorok) __ 569 

Sanford fund, George H 4, 123, 125 

Sargent, John G., Attorney General (member of the Institution) xi 

Schaus, Dr. William 4,41 

Schmitt, Dr. Waldo L. xii, 42 

Scudder, Newton P 15, 27, 47, 109 

Searles, Stanley, editor, Bureau of American Ethnology xii, 15, 72 



INDEX 63 1 

Page 

Secretary of the Institution m, 

XI, xn, 1, 27, 33, 40, 41, 46, 49, 50, 51, 53, 56, 59, 74, 86, 100, 
108, 110, 111, 115, 122, 129, 131, 132. 

Shannon, Earl V- 41, 111 

Shoemaker, C. W., chief clerk. International Exchanges.. xii 

Shufeldt, P. W 87 

Smith, E. E 106 

Smith, Dr. Hugh M 33,40 

Smith, Mrs. John W._ 56 

Smith, R. C 111 

Smithson, James 1 

fund 4,123 

Smithsonian advisory committee on printing and publication 15, 122 

annual reports 14, 116, 117, 131 

contributions to knowledge 14, 116 

endowment fund, condition of, July 1, 1925 123 

establishment 1 

Institution (article on) 575 

library 109 

Miscellaneous collections : 14, 24, 116 

radio talks 12, 13, 16 

scientific series fund 3, 125 

contributors to 5 

Smoot, Senator Reed (regent) xi, 2, 129, 132 

Snodgrass, R. E. (From an egg to an insect) 373 

Solids, The chemistry of (Desch) 235 

Sowerby, A. de C 17, 33, 39 

Space, Immensities of time and (Douglas) 147 

Space, structure of. The spiral nebulae and the (Wirtz) 137 

Spiral nebulae and the structure of space, The (Wirtz) 137 

Standley, Paul C 8, 9, 40, 71 

Stanley, Senator A. Owsley (regent) ._ 2, 132 

State, Secretary of (member of the Institution) xi 

Stejneger, Dr. Leonhard xii, 15 

Stewart, Joseph 56 

Stirling, M. W 41 

Strahan, Sir Aubrey (Sir Archibald Geikie) 591 

Superintendent, National Zoological Park xii, 23, 87, 100 

g^al^B. H 4, 23, 33, 87, 111 

fund 125 

Swanton, Dr. John R xii, 21, 64 

T 

Taft, William Howard, Chief Justice of the United States (chancellor 

and member of the Institution) xi, 1, 2, 4, 129, 132 

Tarbell, Edmund C 19, 50, 51 

Technoloerical library 112 

Terrestrial magnetism in the twentieth century (Hazard) 243 

Thams, Chr 45 

Thomas. Cecil 52, 54 

Thompson, Herbert E 59 

Timber supply. The relation of geography to (Greeley) 533 

Time and space. Immensities of (Douglas) 147 

Traylor, James G., appointment clerk of the Institution xi 



632 INDEX 

Pago 

Treasurer of the United States 127 

Treasury Department, United States 39, 46 

Treasury, Secretary of the (mennber of the Institution) xi 

True, W. P., editor of the Institution _ _ xi, 15, 122 

Tuckerman, Miss Emily 51, 54 

bequest _ _ 32 

Tule Indians of Panama 11, 12, 22, 31, 67, 71, 72 

U 

Ulrich, Dr. E. 0._ 17,34 

U. S. S. Tanager expedition 12 

Urbain, G. (chemical elements and atoms) _ 199 

V 

Vail, Floyd 38 

Van Auken, Mrs. Lansing _ 18, 36 

Vanderbilt, Mrs. George W 56 

Vertebrates in the control of insect pests, The role of (McAfee) 415 

Vice President of the United States (regent and member of the Institu- 
tion) _ XI, 1, 2 

Visher, Stephen Sargent (Tropical cyclones and the dispersal of life from 

island to island in the Pacific) 313 

Volcanic activity, Some causes of (Day) 257 

Volk, Douglas 51 

W 

Walcott, Dr. Charles D., secretary of the Institution iii, 

XI, XII, 1, 27, 33, 34, 35, 40, 41, 46, 47, 49, 50, 51, 53, 56, 59, 74, 
86, 100, 106, 108, 110, 111, 115, 122, 129, 131, 132. 

Mrs. Charles D 33, 46 

research fund, Charles D. and Mary Vaux 4, 123, 125 

Walker, Prof. M. V 4 

Wallace, Henry Cantwell 44 

Walsh, Dr. Edmund A 44 

War, Secretary of (member of the Institution) xi 

Warner, Worcester R __ 17,35 

Watts, W. W. (Geology in the service of man) 271 

Weather Bureau, United States 102 

Weeks, John Wingate, Secretary of War (member of the Institution) xi 

Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, assistant secretary of the Institution xi, 

XII, 12, 15, 16, 23, 45, 47, 87 

Wheaton, Mrs. Frank 38 

White, Dr. David xii 

White, Henry (regent) xi, 2, 49, 127 

Widforss, Gunnar 54 

exhibition of paintings in the National Gallery of Art 53 

Wilbur, Curtis D., Secretary of the Navy (member of the Institution) _ _ xi 

Wilkens, Hans 4 

Williams, Alpheus F _ 17, 34 

Williams, Alyn 52 

Wirtz, Carl (The spiral nebulae and the structure of space) 137 

Wood, Dr. Casey A. _ 33 

(The nest of the Indian tailor bird).. 349 

Woodhouse, Dr. Samuel W 38 



INDEX 633 

Page 

Worch, Hugo - 32 

Work, Hubert, Secretary of the Interior (member of the Institution) xi 

Wright, J. George 70 

Wulsin, F. R - 17,22,33,39 

Y 

Yale University Press 3 

Yeasts, The: a chapter in microscopical science (Chapman) 297 

Young, Miss Sara L 109 

Z 

Zoological explorations in western China. 7 

Zoological Park, National - 1, 5, 15, 23, 123 

accessions °' 

animals in the collection, June 30, 1925 91 

funds for the purchase of animals — 100 

improvements "" 

needs of the park "9 

removals "0 

report °' 

revenues 100 

superintendent - xii, 12, 14, 87, 100 

visitors 24, 98 

water main "" 

I o 



SMfTHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 



III llll I M HI I Hi ll i i ii [|| III llll Jilll 

3 9088 01421 7285 



