
Hi' 



Annual Report of the Board of Regents 

of the 



SMITHSONIAN 



INSTITUTION 




PUBLICATION 4190 



Showing the Operations, Expenditures, and Condition of the 
Institution for the Year Ended June 30 

1954 



UNITED STATES 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

VASHINGTON : 1955 



LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 



Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington^ December 30, 1954- 

To the Congress of the United States : 

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the 
United States, I have the honor, on behalf of the Board of Regents, 
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi- 
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended 
June 30, 1954. I have the honor to be, 
Respectfully, 

Leonard Carmichael, Secretary. 

II 



CONTENTS 



Page 

List of officials v 

General statement 1 

The Establishment 5 

The Board of Regents 5 

Finances 7 

Visitors 7 

Lectures 8 

Summary of the year's activities of the Institution 9 

Reports of branches of the Institution: 

United States National Museum 13 

Bureau of American Ethnology 29 

Astrophysical Observatory 47 

National Collection of Fine Arts 51 

Freer Gallery of Art 61 

National Air Museum 74 

National Zoological Park 93 

Canal Zone Biological Area 131 

International Exchange Service 137 

National Gallery of Art 146 

Report on the Library 159 

Report on Publications 163 

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents 169 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



The nature of the upper atmosphere, by H. S. W. Massey 179 

Solar influence on the earth, by John W. Evans 189 

Fifty years of flying progress, by Grover Loening 201 

Tektites and the lost planet, by Ralph Stair 217 

On comparing the brain with machines, by D. M. MacKay 231 

A glimpse of incomprehensibles, by George W. Corner 241 

The electron microscope in biology, by Ralph W. G. Wyckoff 251 

The spread of the cattle egret, by Alexander Sprunt, Jr 259 

The migration of mammals, by L. Harrison Matthews 277 

The flight of animals, by James Gray 285 

Botanical studies in Fiji, by Albert C. Smith 305 

The romance of domesticated plants, by Glenn W. Blaydes 317 

The scientific detection of crime, by Charles Sanni6 337 

The great Piltdown hoax, by William L. Straus, Jr 363 

Our State names, by John P. Harrintgon 373 

Shanidar cave, a Paleolithic site in northern Iraq, by Ralph S. Solecki 389 

Medicine, warfare, and history, by John F. Fulton 427 

Harriet Lane Johnston and the National Collection of Fine Arts, by 

Thomas M. Beggs 443 

in 



LIST OF PLATES 



Secretary's Report: P«^« 

Plates 1, 2 70 

Plates 3, 4 94 

Fifty years of flying progress (Loening): Plates 1-13 214 

Tektites (Stair): Plates 1-4 230 

Electron microscope (Wyckoff) : Plates 1, 2 254 

Cattle egret (Sprunt) : Plates 1-3 262 

Migration of mammals (Matthews) : Plate 1 278 

Flight of animals (Gray): Plates 1-10 304 

Botanical studies in Fiji (Smith) : Plates 1-12 310 

Domesticated plants (Blaydes): Plates 1-11 326 

Piltdown hoax (Straus): Plates 1, 2 366 

Shanidar cave (Solecki) : Plates 1-7 406 

Harriet Lane Johnston (Beggs): Plates 1-8 446 

IV 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

June 30, 1954 

Presiding Ofiicer ex officio. — ^Dwight D. Eisenhoweb, President of the United 

States. 
C/ianceHo/-.— Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the United States. 
Members of the Institution: 

DwiGHT D. Eisenhower, President of the United States. 

Richard M. Nixon, Vice President of the United States. 

Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the United States. 

John Foster Dulles, Secretary of State. 

George M. Humphrey, Secretary of the Treasury, 

Charles E. Wilson, Secretary of Defense. 

Herbert Brownell, Jr., Attorney General. 

Arthur E. Summerfield, Postmaster General. 

Douglas McKay, Secretary of the Interior. 

Ezra Tafp Benson, Secretary of Agriculture. 

Sinclair Weeks, Secretary of Commerce. 

James P. Mitchell, Secretary of Labor. 

Oveta Culp Hobby, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare. 
Regents of the Institution: 

Earl Wabben, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor. 

Richard M. Nixon, Vice President of the United States. 

Clinton P. Anderson, Member of the Senate. 

Levebett Saltonstali., Member of the Senate. 

H. Alexander Smith, Member of the Senate. 

Clarence Cannon, Member of the House of Representatives. 

Leroy Johnson, Member of the House of Representatives. 

John M. Vorys, Meml)er of the House of Representatives. 

Vannevar Bush, citizen of Washington, D. C. 

Abthue H. Comiton, citizen of Missouri. 

Robert V. Fleming, citizen of Washington, D. C, 

Jerome C. Hunsaker, citizen of Massachusetts. 

Owen J. Roberts, citizen of Pennsylvania. 
Executive Committee. — Robert V. Fleming, chairman, Vannevab Bush, Clab- 

ENCE Cannon. 
Secretary. — Leonard Cabmichael. 
Assistant Secretaries. — John E. Graf, J. L. Keddy. 
Administrative assistant to the Secretary. — Mrs. Louise M. Pearson. 
Treasurer. — J. D. Howard. 

Chief, editorial and publications division. — Paul H. Oehseb. 
Assistant chief, editorial and piihlications division. — John S. Lea. 
Librarian. — Mrs. Leila F. Clark. 
Chief, accounting division. — Thomas F. Clark. 
Superintendent of buildings and grounds. — L. L. Oliver. 
Assistant superintendents of buildings and grounds. — Chables C. Sinclaib, 

Andbew F. Michaels, Jb. 
Chief, personnel division. — Jack B. Newman. 
Chief, supply division. — Anthony W. Wilding. 
Chief, photographic laboratory. — F. B. Kestnee. 

V 



VI ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

Director. — A. Remington Kellogg. 
Exliihits specialist. — J. E. Anglim. 
Exhibits workers. — T. G. Bakeb, R. W. S. Browne, R. O. HoWEr, W. T. Makinetti, 

MoBRis M. Pearson. 
Chief, office of correspondence and records. — Helena M. Weiss. 

Department of Anthropology : 

Frank SI. Setzler, bead curator ; A. J. Andrews, exhibits preparator ; 
W. W. Taylor, Jr., collaborator in anthropology. 
Division of Archeology: Waldo R. Wedel, curator ; Clifford Evans, Jr., asso- 
ciate curator; George S. Metcalf, museum aide. 
Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; J. C. Ewers, C. M. Watkins, 

associate curators ; R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator. 
Division of Physical Anthropology: T. Dale Stewart, curator ; M. T. Newman, 

associate curator. 
Associate in Anthropology : Neil M. Judd. 
Department of Zoology : 

Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator ; W. L. Brown, chief exhibits preparator ; 
C. H. Ascliemeier, W. M. Perrygo, E. G. Laybourue, C. S. East, J. D. 
Biggs, exhibits preparators ; W. L. Goodloe, exhibits worker ; JMrs. 
Aime M. Awl, scientific illustrator. 
Division of Matnmals: D. H. Johnson, acting curator; H. W. Setzer, Charles 
O. Handley, Jr., associate curators ; A. Brazier Howell, collaborator ; 
Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., associate. 
Division of Birds: Herbert Friedraann, curator; H. G. Deignan, associate 
curator ; Gorman M. Bond, museum aide ; Alexander Wetmore, research 
associate and custodian of alcoholic and skeleton collections ; Arthur C. 
Bent, collaborator. 
Division of Reptiles and Amphibians: Doris M. Cochran, associate curator. 
Division of Fishes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator; B. A. Lachner, associate 

curator ; Robert H. Kanazawa, museum aide. 

Division of Insects: O. L. Cartwrlght, acting curator; R. E. Blackwelder, 

W. D. Field, Grace E. Glance, associate curators; Sophy Parfiu, junior 

entomologist ; W. L. Jellison, M. A. Carriker, R. E. Snodgrass, collaborators. 

Section of Hymenoptera : W. M. Mann, Robert A. Cushman, assistant 

custodians. 
Section of Diptera : Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian. 
Section of Coleoptera : L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection. 
Division of Marine Invertebrates: F. A. Chace, Jr., curator; Frederick M. 
Bayer, associate curator; Mrs. L. W. Peterson, museum aide; Mrs. Harriet 
Richardson Searle, Max M. Ellis, J. Percy Jloore, collaborators; Mrs. 
Mildred S. Wilson, collaborator in copepod Crustacea. 
Division of Mollusks: Harald A. Rehder, curator; Joseph P. E. Morrison, 
R. Tucker Abbott, associate curators; W. J. Byas, museum aide; Paul 
Bartsch, associate. 

Section of Helminthological Collections: Benjamin Schwartz, collabo- 
rator. 
Associates in Zoology: T. S. Palmer, W. B. Marshall, A. G. Boving, C. R. 

Shoemaker, Austin H. Clark. 
Collaborator in Zoology: R. S. Clark. 
Collaborator in Biology : D. C. Graham. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT VH 

Department of Botany (National Herbarium) : 
Jasou R. Swalleu, head curator. 
Division of Phunero<jams: A. C. Smith, curator ; E. C. Leonard, E. H. Walker, 
Lyman B. Smith, associate curators ; Velva E. Eudd, assistant curator ; 

E. P. Killip, research associate. 
Division of Ferns: C. V. Morton, curator. 

Division of Grasses: Ernest R. Sohns, associate curator; Mrs. Agnes Chase, 

F. A. McClure, research associates. 

Division of Cryptogams: C. V. Morton, acting curator ; Paul S. Conger, asso- 
ciate curator; John A. Stevenson, custodian of C. G. Lloyd myeological 
collections and honorary curator of Fungi. 
Department of Geology : 

W. F. Foshag, head curator; J. H. Benn, museum geologist; Jessie G. 
Beach, museum aide. 
Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. F. Foshag, acting curator; E. P. 
Henderson, G. S. Switzer, associate curators ; F. E. Holden, physical science 
aide; Frank L. Hess, custodian of rare metals and rare earths. 
Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: Gustav A. Cooper, 
curator ; A. R. Loeblich, Jr., David Nicol, associate curators ; Robert J. 
Main, Jr., museum aide ; J. Brookes Knight, research associate in paleon- 
tology. 

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology : J. B. Reeside, Jr., custodian of 

Mesozoic collection ; Preston Cloud, research associate. 
Section of Paleobotany : Roland W. Brovra, research associate. 
Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; D. H. Dunkle, 

associate curator ; F. L. Pearce, exhibits preparator. 
Associates in Mineralogy : W. T. Schaller, S. H. Perry, J. P. Marble. 
Associate in Paleontology: R. S. Bassler. 
Department of Engineering and Industries : 
Frank A. Taylor, head curator. 
Division of Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, acting curator; R. P. Multhauf, 
associate curator. 

Section of Civil and Mechanical Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, in 

charge. 
Section of Marine Transportation : Frank A. Taylor, in charge. 
Section of Electricity: K. M. Perry, associate curator. 
Section of Physical Sciences and Measurement: Frank A. Taylor, in 

charge. 
Section of Land Transportation : S. H. Oliver, associate curator. 
Division of Crafts and Industries: W. N. Watkins, curator; Edward C. Ken- 
dall, associate curator; E. A. Avery, William E. Bridges, museum aides; 
F. L. Lewton, research associate. 

Section of Textiles : Grace L. Rogers, assistant curator. 
Section of Wood Technology : W. N. Watkins, in charge. 
Section of Manufactures : Edward C. Kendall, associate curator. 
Section of Agricultural Industries: Edward C. Kendall, associate 
curator. 
Division of Medicine and Public Health: George B. Griffenhagen, associate 

curator ; Alvin E. Goins, museum aide. 
Division of Graphic Arts: Jacob Kainen, curator; J. Harry Phillips, Jr., 
museum aide. 

Section of Photography : A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., associate curator. 



Vin ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 195 4 

Depabtment of History : 

Mendel L. Peterson, acting head curator. 
Divisions of Military History and Naval History: M. L. Peterson, associate 
curator; J. R. Sirlouis, assistant curator; Craddock R. Goins, Jr., junior 
historian. 
Division of Civil History: Margaret W. Brown, associate curator; Frank E. 

Klapthor, museum aide; B. W. Lawless, exhibits worker. 
Division of Numismatics: S. M. Mosher, associate curator. 
Division of Philately: Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., associate curator. 

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

Director. — Matthew W. Stirling. 

Associate Director. — Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. 

Anthropologists. — H. B. Collins, Jr., Philip Drucker. 

Collaborators. — Frances Densmoke, John R. Swanton, A. J. Waring, Jr. 

Research associate. — John P. Harrington. 

Scientific illustrator. — E. G. Schumacher. 

River Basin Surveys. — Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director. 

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 

Director. — Loyal B. Aldrich. 
Division of Astrophysical Research : 
Ch ief. — [Vacancy. ] 

Instrument makers. — D. G. Talbert, J. H. Harrison. 
Research associate. — Charles G. Abbot. 
TaMe Mountain, Calif., field station. — Alfred G. Froiland, Stanley L. 

Aldrich, physicists ; John A. Pora, physical science aide. 
Calama, Chile, field station. — Frederick A. Greeley, James E. Zimmerman, 
physicists. 
Division of Radiation and Organisms : 
Chief. — R. B. WiTHROw. 

Plant physiologists. — William H. Klein, Leonard Price, V. B. Elstad, Mrs. 
Alice P. Withrow, Chao C. Moh. 

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 

Director. — Thomas M. Beggs. 

Curator of ceramics. — P. V. Gardner. 

Chief, Smithsonian Traveling EThihition Service. — Mrs. Annemarie H. Pope. 

Exhibits preparator. — Rowland Lyon. 

FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Director. — A. G. Wenley. 

Assistant Director. — John A. Pope. 

Assistant to the Director. — Burns A. Stubbs. 

Associate in Near Eastern art. — Richard Ettinghausen. 

Associate in technical research. — Rutherford J. Gettens. 

Assistant in research. — Harold P. Stern. 

Research associate. — Grace Dunham Guest. 

Honorary research associate. — Max Loehr. 

Consultant to the Director. — Katherine N. Bhoades. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT IX 

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM 

Advisory Board: 

Leonard Carmichael, Chairman. 

[Vacancy], V. S. Air Force. 

Reak Aum. Apollo Soucek, U. S. Navy. 

GnOVEK LOENINQ. 

William B. Stout. 
Head curator. — Paul E. Garbek. 
Associate curator. — R. C. Strodell. 
Manager, National Air Museum Facility. — W. M. Male. 
Museum aides. — Stanley Pottek, Winthkop S. Shaw. 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

Director. — William M. Mann. 
Assistant Director. — Ernest P. Walker. 
Head Animal Keeper. — Frank O. Lowe. 

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA 

Resident Manager. — James Zetek. 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE 
Chief. — D. G. Williams. 

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

Trustees: 

Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman. 

John Foster Dttlles, Secretary of State. 

George M. Humphrey, Secretary of the Treasury. 

Leonard Carmichael, Secretary of the Smithsouian Institution. 

Samuel H. Kress. 

Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 

Duncan Phillips. 

Chester Dale. 

Paul Mellon. 
President. — Samuel H. Kress. 
Vice President. — Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 
Secretary-Treasurer. — Huntington Cairns. 
Director. — David E. Finlet. 
Administrator. — Ernest R. Feidler. 
General Counsel. — Huntington Cairns, 
Chief Curator. — John Walker. 
Assistant Director. — Macgill James. 



Report of the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution 

LEONARD CARMICHAEL 
For the Year Ended June 30, 1954 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution: 

Gentlemen : I have the honor to submit a report showing the ac- 
tivities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches 
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1054. 

GENERAL STATEMENT 

The period covered by this report is the first full year in which I 
have served as Smithsonian Secretary. Certainly this has been an 
active and fruitful year at the Institution. An extensive program 
of renovation and remodeling of our exhibitions has been carried 
forward. 

Modernization Program Under Way 

The first wholly new exhibition hall to be completed in many years 
at the Smithsonian, "Highlights of Latin American Archeology," 
was opened to the public on April 14, 1954. The hall shows in a 
modern and graphic w^ay the development of the archeology of Cen- 
tral and South America in the Pre-Columbian period. A number 
of Smithsonian Regents, representatives of the Council of the 21 re- 
publics of the Organization of American States, other ambassadors 
to the United States from Latin America, as well as many scientists 
and State Department officials, attended the opening ceremony. The 
significance of the new hall lies not only in the excellent way it pre- 
sents the special facts of Pre-Columbian archeology. It also exem- 
plifies the plan of the Smithsonian to carry forward in an orderly 
program the reconditioning and modernization of exhibitions in the 
entire Institution. This new hall shows many new departures for us 
in modern museum techniques, in lighting, and in the use of color. 
The visitor who enters the hall and moves from case to case through 
the exhibits cannot fail to leave w-ith a real understanding of Central 
and South American cultures before the coming of Columbus. The 
exhibition is thus a true teaching device. No materials have been 
lost from the previous exhibits of South American pottery or stone 



2 Als^NUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITIITION, 1954 

implements, but duplicate or near duplicate articles have been moved 
from their old cluttered cases in the public exhibition rooms to well- 
organized study collections. 

Excellent progress also was made in preparing a new hall in which 
the dresses of the First Ladies of the ^Vliite House can be properly 
displayed. This is an exhibit that is much appreciated by our many 
women visitors. 

If progress in the modernization program comparable to that made 
during the present year can be continued for nine years, it will be 
possible to transform entirely the outmoded, inadequate, and all too 
often uninstructive features of the Smithsonian exhibitions so that 
they can all be seen in a modern suitable setting. 

Building Plans Gain Momentum 

Much of the year has also been devoted to preliminary planning 
tor the new buildings that are so urgently needed to make all our 
museums here at the Smithsonian comparable to the national mu- 
seums of other great nations. At the annual meeting of the Board 
of Regents last year consideration was given to the further develop- 
ment of plans for these buildings. The studies that had been made 
in recent years were reviewed. At the direction of the Board, and 
with the help of our staff, we are continuing the work on this impor- 
tant problem. 

It becomes increasingly clear that the scientific and scholarly re- 
search of the Institution, as well as its museum functions, cannot be 
adequately served without the erection of not one but three new build- 
ings. One of these must house in a suitable and modern way our 
iinequaled collections in American history and in applied science and 
technology. Another must properly provide for the National Air 
Museum. The third proposed required building is a new gallery for 
the National Collection of Fine Arts. 

A few words about ])lans for each of these buildings may be ap- 
propriate here. 

This year much progress was made in developing detailed specifica- 
tions for the new Museum of History and Technology, and an illus- 
trated booklet descriptive of the needs of this building was assembled. 
The Bureau of the Budget allowed the Institution to request the Con- 
gress to authorize planning for this building. Legislation looking to 
this end was introduced in the Senate by Senator Edward Martin, 
chairman of the Senate Committee on Public Works. Tliis bill was 
passed by the Senate. A similar bill was introduced in the House of 
Representatives by Congressman George A. Dondero, chairman of the 
House Committee on Public Works. This bill was not brought to the 
floor. In preparing this legislation and in its consideration by the 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 6 

Congress favorable comments concerning the need for such a building 
were given by the Fine Arts Commission, the National Capital Plan- 
ning Commission, and other interested groups, including the press. 
It is hoped that in the next session of Congress enabling legislation 
of this sort may be enacted. 

A gift of funds to the Institution from the Aircraft Association 
and the Air Transport Association made it possible to obtain the 
services of an architectural firm to make preliminary studies for a 
suitable building to house the Wright brothers' Kitty Dawk Flyer, 
Lindbergh's Spirit of /St. Louis, America's first supersonic jet plane, 
and all the other great planes and aeronautical equipment that make 
up the Smithsonian's woild-famous and unique collection of air- 
craft and aviation materials. When these plans are complete, it will 
be necessary to consider various possible ways in which this necessarily 
large and expensive structure can be financed and built. 

Fifteen years ago an architects' competition was held for a design 
for a building to house the Smithsonian's National Collecton of Fine 
Arts and also to provide a place for the exhibition of works of art 
created by living American artists and related displays. It was agreed 
then and it is still clear that the great National Gallery of Art, which 
is also a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, cannot and should 
not try to perform this function. Similarly, the Smithsonian's Freer 
Gallery of Art, which was given to the Nation by a citizen for very 
specific purposes, cannot be used for this broader purpose. It is now 
by no means sure that the design that won the architectural competi- 
tion for the new gallery in 1939 will meet all its now recognized needs. 
It is certain, however, that the country does require and somehow must 
secure a gallery to perform the functions outlined above. It was just 
50 years ago that by a court decree the art collections of the Smithso- 
nian Institution were "designated and established"' as this country's 
national gallery of art, but in all that time there has been no adequate 
housing either for proper protection or display. The collections have 
grown in size and importance, as witness the large and valuable Gel- 
latly collection added to it by gift in 1933, and the time has come 
when the Government must assume full obligation toward this price- 
less cultural asset of our country. Certainly all of us who are 
interested in the Institution must do our best to consider ways to 
achieve this important goal. 

Other museum buildings are also needed. A national planetarium 
has with wisdom over and over again been proposed for location at the 
Smithsonian. Additional buildings at the Smithsonian's National 
Zoological Park are also required. 

The last great building for our nation's collections to be erected 
from Federal funds was the Natural History Building. This monu- 
mental structure was opened more than 40 years ago. Since that time 



4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

two outstanding art buildings have been assigned to the Smithsonian 
for administration. Both of these were financed by generous gifts 
made to the United States by public-spirited citizens. Every day tens 
of thousands of Americans have reason for gratitude for the wisdom 
and generosity of Andrew W. Mellon for making possible the National 
Gallery of Art and to Charles Lang Freer for his gift to the country of 
the gallery which bears his name. Either by Federal appropriations 
or by further private gifts it is hoped that the United States, which 
has the world's greatest museum collections, now aggregating more 
than 35 million cataloged objects, may be housed in an appropriate 
way. Invaluable lessons in patriotism and science and in artistic ap- 
preciation are now learned in our buildings. Last year over 8,100,000 
visitors were counted in all our buildings. With modern and ade- 
quate structures, possibly twice this number of American citizens 
could be served and instructed every year. 

River Basin Program Curtailed 

Details of the operation of the ten bureaus administered by the 
Smithsonian Institution are given elsewhere in this report. It should 
be noted here that the funds that have previously been transferred 
to the Smithsonian from the Department of the Interior in order to 
make possible the study of the archeology of the river valleys of 
the West have been sharply restricted. Authorities have estimated 
that 80 percent of the important archeological remains which allow 
the study of the early life of the original Americans are in river 
valleys. Many of the most important of these sites are now being 
covered by water as new dams are filling up. Emergency help with 
this program is now being requested from nongovernmental sources. 
It is sincerely hoped that in some way next year the Federal Govern- 
ment may again make available the relatively small sum that would 
allow the continuation of this emergency work before it is forever 
too late. 

It may be appropriate to remark here that the appeal of the Smith- 
sonian to outside donors for special funds to assist in this emergency 
is by no means an isolated case. Much of the work of the Institution 
today can be accomplished only because of the gifts and grants which 
are transferred to it from philanthropic individuals, foundations, and 
other agencies. 

Protection of Cultural Property in Wartime 

The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution was appointed by the 
President of the United States to serve as chairman of a United States 
delegation to an international congress which met at The Hague this 
spring to negotiate a treaty for the protection tliroughout the world 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 5 

of museums, galleries, and historic monuments and cultural property 
in general in time of armed conflict. This conference was attended 
by 48 nations, including the U. S. S. R. A satisfactory treaty was 
formulated, and I had the honor of signing for the United States. 
Cynical individuals may express the feeling that in the present era 
of atomic warfare such a treaty has little value. It does not seem 
certain, however, that a unanimous expression of regard for cultural 
and scientific property by all the great powers of the world is without 
general significance even in the present period of history. Certainly 
the treaty for the first time regularizes the steps that must be taken 
to try to protect museums such as those in the Smithsonian group in 
time of war. 

Bio-Sciences Information Exchange 

The Smithsonian now operates for a number of other governmental 
and nongovernmental organizations a Bio-Sciences Information Ex- 
change. This agency, under the direction of Dr. Stella L. Deignan, 
provides current information in regard to research that is under way 
in biology, medicine, and related fields. Funds for this operation 
are provided by special grants made to the Smithsonian Institution. 

The staff of the Smithsonian Institution joins me in expressing deep 
appreciation to the Chancellor and the Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution for all they have done during the present year to advance 
the well-being of the Smithsonian. The needs of the Institution are 
many. But certainly the year that has passed has been one that has 
seen solid achievement and important accomplishments in many fields. 

THE ESTABLISHMENT 

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 
1846, in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson, 
of England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States 
of America "to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of 
knowledge among men." In receiving the property and accepting 
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was 
without authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore, 
constituted an "establishment" whose statutory members are "the 
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the 
executive departments." 

THE BOARD OF REGENTS 

The past year brought the death of two valued Regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution. Fred M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United 



6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

States and Chancellor as well as Regent of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, died on September 8, 1953. Chancellor Vinson had served as the 
presiding officer of the Board since June 24, 1046. His enthusiastic 
work for the welfare of the Smithsonian and his willingness to ad- 
vance its various programs will always be remembered with gratitude 
by all who are interested in the work of the Institution. The death 
of Senator Robert A. Taft was also a severe loss to the Institution. 
Senator Taft became a Regent of the Smithsonian on March 9, 1953, 
and his untimely death occurred on July 31, 1953. During this short 
period Senator Taft had naturally not been able to perform many 
official acts in relation to the Smithsonian, but he had indicated his 
desire to be of full service to the Institution. 

The Board is honored to welcome as a new member the Honorable 
Owen J. Roberts of Philadelphia. It is my pleasure also to record 
the appointment to the Board of Regents of Senator H. Alexander 
Smith, of New Jersey, and the reappointment of Robert V. Fleming 
and Vannevar Bush. 

On the evening of January 14, 1954, an informal dinner meeting 
of the Board was held in the main hall of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion. The chairman of the executive committee, Robert V. Fleming, 
presided. The holding of this dinner on the evening before the an- 
nual meeting of the Board is now a well-established custom at the 
Smithsonian. At the dinner this year research reports were made 
by a representative group of Smithsonian scientific and scholarly 
workers. A special exhibit was also arranged to show the plans of the 
Institution for the modernization of its exhibit halls. 

The regular annual meeting of the Board was held on January 15 
in the Regents Room of the Institution. At this meeting the Chief 
Justice of the United States, Honorable Earl Warren, was unani- 
mously elected as the Chancellor of the Institution. The Secretary 
presented his published annual report on the activities of the Institu- 
tion and its bureaus. The financial report was presented by Robert 
V. Fleming, chairman of the executive and permanent committees 
of the Board, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1954. The usual reso- 
lution was passed authorizing expenditures of the income of the In- 
stitution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1955. 

The roll of Regents at the close of the present fiscal year was as 
follows: Chief Justice of the United States Earl Warren, Chancellor; 
Vice President Richard Nixon; members from the Senate: Clinton 
P. Anderson, Leverett Saltonstall, H. Alexander Smith; members 
from the House of Representatives: Clarence Cannon, Leroy John- 
son, John M. Vorys; citizen members: Vannevar Bush, Arthur H. 
Compton, Robert V. Fleming, Jerome C. Hunsaker, and Owen Jose- 
phus Roberts. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 7 

FINANCES 

A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian 
jjrivate funds, will be found in the report of the executive committee 
of the Board of Regents, page 169. 

APPROPRIATIONS 

Funds appropriated to the Institution for the fiscal year ended June 
30, 1954, total $3,000,000, obligated as follows : 

Mnnagement $56, 134 

United States National Museum 1,092,723 

Bureau of American Ethnology 63, 150 

Astropbysical Observatory 111, 176 

National Collection of Fine Arts 43,839 

National Air Museum 144,602 

International Exchange Service 87,028 

Canal Zone Biological Area 7,880 

Maintenance and operation of buildings 1,089,131 

Other general services 301,332 

Unobligated 505 

Reserve ( Bureau of the Budget) 2, 500 

Total 3, 000, 000 

Besides these direct appropriations, the Institution received funds 
by transfer from other Government agencies as follows : 

From the District of Columbia for the National Zoological Park $660, 000 

From the National Park Service, Department of the Interior, for the 
River Basin Surveys 71,495 

VISITORS 

Visitors to the Smithsonian group of buildings during the year 
1953-54 reached a record total of 3,658,881, approximately a quarter of 
a million more than the previous year. April 1954 was the month of 
largest attendance, with 585,956; May 1954 was second, with 513,626; 
August 1953 third, with 448,956. Largest attendance for a single day 
was 55,305 for May 8, 1954. Table 1 gives a summary of the attendance 
records for the five buildings. These figures, when added to the 
3,616,220 estimated visitors at the National Zoological Park and 
887,213 at the National Gallery of Art, make a total number of visitors 
at the Smithsonian Institution of 8,162,314. 



326511—55- 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



Table 1. — Visitors to certain Smithsonian huildings during the year ended 

June SO, 1954 



Year and month 



195S 

July 

August --- 

September 

October 

November 

December 

195i 

January 

February - 

March.. 

April 

May 

June 

Total 



Smith- 
sonian 
Building 



71,413 
86, 587 
46, 568 
45,111 
31,605 
22, 993 



24, 708 
30, 284 
33, 024 
104,204 
92,315 
63, 266 



652, 078 



Arts and 
Industries 
Building 



229,917 
225, 050 
112,853 
137, 052 
69, 603 
51,818 



46, 903 
78, 924 
85, 947 
294, 030 
249, 080 
166, 250 



1,748,117 



Natural 
History 
Building 



82,665 
93, 657 
58,077 
71,132 
50, 179 
36,412 



46,245 
49, 823 
55 ,866 
115,980 
117,082 
84, 828 



801, 955 



Aircraft 
Building 



27,941 
34, 142 
1 12, 739 
10, 561 
14,863 
11,120 



9,801 
26, 295 
24, 792 
62, 321 
46, 462 
36, 947 



324, 984 



Freer 
Building 



7,540 
8,920 
6,451 
5,278 
4,220 
2, 494 



3,060 
3,944 
4,005 
9,421 
8,687 
7,721 



71,747 



Total 



419,482 
448, 956 
236, 088 
275, 134 
170, 560 
124, 846 



130.717 
189, 270 
203, 034 
585, 956 
513, 626 
360, 012 



3,058,881 



I Building closed 8 days lor installation of the Excalibur III. 



During the year a special record was kept of groups of school 
children visiting the Institution. The figures are given in table 2 : 

Table 2. — Croups of school children visiting the Smithsonian, 1953-54 



Year and month 



1953: 

July 

August 

September 
October. _ 
November 
December. 

1954: 

January. _ 
February. 

March 

April 

May 

June 




Children 



3,038 
1,923 
1, 161 
8,030 
9,544 
5,414 

4,042 
7,310 
19, 058 
62, 691 
91,441 
26, 977 



240, 629 



LECTURES 

In 1931 the Institution received a bequest from James Arthur, of 
New York, a part of the income from which was to be used for an 
annual lecture on some aspect of the study of the sun. The twenty- 
first Arthur lecture was delivered in the auditorium of the Natural 
History Building on the evening of May 27, 1954, by Dr. John W. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 9 

Evans, superintendent of the Upper Air Research Observatory, Air 
Force Cambridge Research Center, Sunspot, N. Mex, The subject of 
Dr. Evans's address was "Solar Influence on the Earth." This lecture 
will be published in full in the general appendix to the Annual Report 
of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution for 1954. 

Dr. Henry Thompson Rowell, chairman of the department of 
classics at Johns Hopkins University, delivered a lecture in the 
auditorium of the Natural History Building on the evening of Jan- 
uary 28, 1954, on the subject "Rome of the Flavians." This lecture 
was sponsored jointly by the Smithsonian Institution and the 
Archaeological Institute of America. 

Dr. Charles Greeley Abbot, former Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution, on April 1, 1954, lectured on "The Smithsonian Astro- 
physical Observatory." He related the distinguished history of the 
Astrophysical Observatory and described the important research this 
agency has been and is doing, both in Washington and at its field 
stations in California and Chile, in scientific studies of solar energy 
and radiation as related to life on the earth. 

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR'S ACTIVITIES OF THE INSTITUTION 

National Museum. — The working collections of the Smithsonian 
Institution are an essential tool to scientists who come to us from all 
over the country. On an average day at least 100 scientists, not on 
the Smithsonian staff, are at work in our buildings and laboratories. 
To keep these working collections, which are in one sense the "bureau 
of standards" in our fields, in a growing and as complete as possible a 
form is most important. This year these unique and world-famous 
collections were increased by approximately 632,000 specimens during 
the year, bringing the total catalog entries to 35,302,807. Some of the 
year's outstanding accessions included: In anthropology, over 8,700 
objects from an archeological site in Kansas representing the earliest 
date ever assigned to a pottery-bearing site in the Central Plains, 800 
archeological specimens from Korea, and a collection of ethnographi- 
cal materials from southern Colombia; in zoology, 1,500 small mam- 
mals from Korea, 625 mammals, 1,800 birds, and 100,000 mosquitoes 
from Thailand, nearly 5,600 marine invertebrates from the Caroline 
Islands, and 32,000 Cuban shells ; in botany, about 24,000 plant speci- 
mens from the Fiji Islands and a transfer of over 65,000 miscellaneous 
plants from the herbarium of the National Arboretum; in geology, 
2,000 selected negatives of photomicrographs of meteoric iron, the 
finest known crystal of the rare mineral genthelvite, many fine fossil 
invertebrates, and 600 rare Paleocene and Eocene mammals; in 
engineering and industries, an early wool-carding machine and im- 
portant additions to the antibiotic exliibit; and in history, a one- 



10 ANIsrXJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

horse open sleigh of the Colonial period and the inaugural gown of 
Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower. 

Members of the staff conducted field work in Thailand, Venezuela, 
Panama, Caroline Islands, Fiji, Mexico, and many parts of the United 
States. Several studied collections in European museums. 

Good progress was made in the Museum's program of exhibit mod- 
ernization, and one new hall, "Highlights of Latin American Archeol- 
ogy," was opened to the public. 

Bureau of American Ethnology. — The Bureau staff continued their 
ethnological research and publication : Dr. Stirling his studies of Pan- 
amanian archeology, Dr. Collins his activities in the Arctic, Dr. Har- 
rington his work on certain California Indians, and Dr. Drucker his 
investigations relatinc: to the Indians of southern Mexico and of the 
northwest coast of North America. Dr. Roberts continued as Director 
of the Eiver Basin Surveys. 

Astrophysical Observatory. — Work on two major publication proj- 
ects was completed during the year — Volume 7 of the Annals of the 
Astrophysical Observatory and the ninth revised edition of the Smith- 
sonian Physical Tables. Contract work with the OflBce of the Quar- 
termaster General, in progress for about 8 years, was terminated on 
September 30. Solar-radiation studies were continued at the Observa- 
tory's two field stations — Table Mountain in California and Mount 
Montezuma in Chile. In the division of radiation and organisms im- 
portant studies were made on the factors involved in photomorpho- 
genesis, the process by which light exerts its formative efi'ect on higher 
green plants. 

National Collection of Fine Arts. — The Smithsonian Art Commis- 
sion met on December 1, 1953, and accepted 4 oil paintings, 1 water- 
color, 4 miniatures, 3 bronzes, and 7 ceramic pieces. An addition of 
$5,000 was made to the Barney fund. The Gallery held 12 special 
exhibitions during the year. The Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition 
Service circulated 51 exhibitions, 46 in the United States and Canada 
and 5 abroad. 

Freer Gallery of Art. — Purchases for the collections of the Freer 
Gallery included Chinese bronzes, jade, painting, pottery, and sculp- 
ture; Japanese painting; Persian metal work, painting, and pottery; 
Syrian metalwork ; Arabic painting, Indian painting, and Egyptian 
painting; and Mesopotamian and Turkish pottery. A series of illus- 
trated lectures by distinguished art scholars, on subjects germane to 
the Gallery's activities, was given in the auditorium. 

National Air Museum. — Progress was made in transporting the 
stored collections of the Museum from Park Ridge, 111., to Suitland, 
Md. The Museum participated in the celebration of the Golden 
Anniversary of the Wright brothers' first flight, and a special exhibit 
in connection therewith was installed. For its aeronautical collections 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 11 

the Museum received during the year 360 specimens from 48 sources, 
comprising 55 separate accessions — 20 percent more than the highest 
previous year. Full-sized aircraft received included the Douglas 
XB-43, America's first jet-propelled bomber; the Boeing 247-D trans- 
port plane Adaptable Annie, flown in the 1934 MacRobertson Race; 
a German Pfalz D-12 fighter airplane of World War I; and a Ger- 
man rotary-wing autogiro kite, FA-330, used with submarines in 
World War II. 

National Zoological Park. — The Zoo received 899 accessions during 
the year, aggregating 2,250 individual animals, and 2,011 were re- 
moved by death, exchange, et cetera. The net count of animals at the 
close of the year was 2,980. Noteworthy among the accessions were 
an example of the rare reptile tuatara from New Zealand, two Philip- 
pine macaques, three shipments of mammals from Borneo and the 
Malay Peninsula, two young Malayan sun bears, and two Korean bear 
cubs. In all, 194 creatures were born or hatched at the Zoo during the 
year — 74 mammals, 91 birds, and 29 reptiles. Visitors totaled approxi- 
mately 3,616,000. 

Canal Zone Biological Area. — During the year approximately 500 
visitors came to Barro Colorado Island ; 22 of these were scientists 
who used the facilities of the station to further their various re- 
searches, particularly in biology, geology, and photography. 

International Exchange Service. — As the official United States 
agency for the interchange of governmental, scientific, and literary 
publications between this country and other nations, the International 
Exchange Service during the year handled 1,020,509 packages of such 
publications, weighing 797,320 pounds — slightly less than the previous 
year. Consignments were made to all countries except China, North 
Korea, and Rumania. 

National Gallery of Art. — The Gallery received 1,010 accessions 
during the year, by gift, loan, or deposit. Works of art accepted 
included, among others, paintings by Eakins, George Fuller, Melchers, 
Boucher, George Luks, Morse, Stuart, Blakelock, and Corot; two 
bronzes by Daumier; a porphyry vase; and about 300 prints and 
drawings. Eight special exhibitions were held. Traveling exhibi- 
tions of prints from the Rosenwald Collection were circulated to 17 
other galleries and museums. Exhibitions from the "Index of 
American Design" were given 69 bookings in 23 States and the District 
of Columbia and also in Western Germany and Palestine. Nearly 
42,000 persons attended the Gallery's special tours and the "Picture 
of the Week" talks, and 10,600 attended the 38 Sunday afternoon 
lectures in the auditorium. The Sunday evening concerts in the west 
garden court were continued. 



12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Library. — The Smithsonian library received a total of 69,484 pub- 
lications during the year. Over 500 new exchanges for the library 
were arranged. Notable among the year's gifts were several hundred 
zoological publications from the National Museum's former curator of 
mammals, Gerrit S. Miller, Jr. At the close of the year the holdings 
of the Smithsonian library and all its branches aggregated 945,562 
volumes, including 584,590 in the Smithsonian Deposit in the Library 
of Congress but excluding incomplete volumes of serials and many 
thousands of separates and reprints from serials. 

Publications. — An organizational change made during the year 
combined the Editorial Division and the Publications Division into 
the Editorial and Publications Division. 

Fifty-nine publications were issued under the Smithsonian imprint 
during the year (see Report on Publications, p. 163, for full list). 
Outstanding among these were: The 9th revised edition of the 
Smithsonian Physical Tables, compiled by William E. Forsythe; 
"Insect Metamorphosis," by R. E. Snodgrass; "The Reproduction of 
Cockroaches," by Louis M. Roth and Edwin R. Willis; "Songs and 
Stories of the Ch'uan Miao," by David C. Graham; "Fishes of the 
Marshall and Marianas Islands," by Leonard P. Schultz et al. ; "Index 
to Schoolcraft's 'Indian Tribes of the United States'," compiled by 
Frances S. Nichols; and "The Iroquois Eagle Dance, an Offshoot of 
the Calumet Dance," by William N. Fenton and Gertrude Prokosch 
Kurath. In all, 468,600 pieces of printed matter were distributed 
during the year — 141,953 copies of the publications and 326,647 
miscellaneous items. 



Report on the United States 
National Museum 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the con- 
dition and operations of the United States National Museum for the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 1954 : 

COLLECTIONS 

During the year 632,243 specimens were added to the national collec- 
tions and distributed among the six departments as follows : Anthro- 
pology, 22,816; zoology, 307,361; botany, 137,609; geology, 54,399; 
engineering and industries, 1,947; and history, 108,111. This increase 
is smaller than last year, when the unusual increase resulted from the 
accession of a large number of small fossils. This year's total is a 
more normal annual accretion. Most of the accessions were received 
as gifts from individuals or as transfers from Government depart- 
ments and agencies. The Annual Report of the Museum, published 
as a separate document, contains a detailed list of the year's accessions, 
of which the more important are summarized below. Catalog entries 
in all departments now total 35,302,807. 

Anthi'opology. — From an archeological site in Phillips County, 
Kans., a collection of 8,751 objects representing a Woodland-horizon 
ossuary was transferred by the River Basin Surveys, Bureau of Amer- 
ican Ethnology. The large charred wooden samples from this burial 
site yielded a radiocarbon date of 1343 (±240) years before the pres- 
ent. This is the earliest date ever assigned to a pottery-bearing site 
in the Central Plains. Over 800 important specimens from arche- 
ological sites in Korea were presented by Maj. Howard A. MacCord. 
By exchange with the American Museum of Natural History in New 
York, the division of archeology received an important series of diag- 
nostic specimens dated around 2500 B. C. from the Huaca Prieta site 
along the north coast of Peru. 

An interesting gift from Mrs. Eva Jemison Mitchell to the division 
of ethnology is a charm necklace worn by the Piegan Indian Stabs by 
Mistake while engaged in horse stealing from neighboring tribes. 
Attached to the necklace is a pouch of pungent prairie clover, regarded 
by the Piegans as a potent talisman for obtaining horses. An ear 
pendant of green jade worn by a Maori cliief and rare in museum 
collections was donated by Comdr. P. J. Cox, Jr. By transfer from 
the Army Medical Service Graduate School Expedition, through Dr. 

13 



14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

David H. Johnson, the division acquired a number of mammal traps 
fashioned of bamboo by the Dusan natives of North Borneo. Also 
transferred from the Bureau of American Ethnology was a collection 
of ethnographical materials, consisting of textiles, weaving para- 
phernalia, basketry, necklaces, and musical instruments, used by the 
sub-Andean Indians of southern Colombia. 

For the first time in 50 years the division of physical anthropology 
received a skull with an anomaly not represented heretofore in its 
collection of 18,000 human skulls. This irregularity consists of an 
extra suture dividing one of the parietal bones into two nearly equal 
parts. This skull was found on the surface of the ground near Cleve- 
land, Ohio, and was received for identification from the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation. 

Zoology. — Outstanding among the zoological accessions received 
were 1,500 small mammals collected in Korea by units of the Army 
Medical Services in connection with hemorrhagic-fever surveys; 300 
mammals obtained in North Borneo jointly by the U. S. Army Medical 
Research Unit and the British Colonial Oflfice Medical Research Unit ; 
and several lots of mammals from Formosa obtained by Dr. Donald 
J. Pletsch and medical units of the U. S. Navy. Other noteworthy 
accessions recorded were 625 mammals from Thailand collected by 
Robert E. Elbel, a fine series of New England mammals presented by 
Dr. Harold B. Hitchcock, a collection of southwestern mammals pre- 
sented by the School of Tropical and Preventive Medicine, Loma 
Linda, Calif., and 186 specimens from the British Museum (Natural 
History), adding to the collections several new African and Asiatic 
species. 

From areas in Thailand an important collection of 1,802 skins of 
birds and other ornithological material was obtained by H. G. Deig- 
nan. A valuable gift from Mrs. Charles E. Ramsden of 1,773 skins, 
75 skeletons, and 59 sets of eggs of birds from eastern Cuba was added 
to the collections. A gift of 107 bird skins from Donald W. Lamm 
made a notable addition to earlier donations collected in Mozambique. 
Dr. A. Wetmore contributed more than 1,200 bird skins and skeletons, 
and 3 sets of bird eggs collected in Panama. 

A noteworthy representation of Egyptian reptilian and amphibian 
material comprising 1,042 specimens collected by Dr. Robert E. Kuntz 
of the U. S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3 was transferred to 
the Museum. A valuable gift of 126 Brazilian frogs donated by 
Dr. C. F. Walker was added to the collections. An exchange with the 
University of Illinois through Dr. Hobart M. Smith yielded 56 speci- 
mens, including paratypes of 50 species of reptiles and amphibians. 

About 200 fishes collected in the Gulf of Mexico during the cruise 
of the Oregon were transferred to the collections by the U. S. Fish 
and Wildlife Service through Stewart Springer. An entire collec- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 15 

tion consisting of 3,694 foreign fishes was received from the State 
University of Iowa through Dr. Walter Thietje. These specimens 
were collected largely in the course of the several university expedi- 
tions to various parts of the world by the late Prof. C. C. Nutting, 
long a collaborator of the Smithsonian Institution. Some 1,155 fishes 
from the Guadalupe River, Tex., were presented by Robert Kuehne of 
the State Fish Hatchery at San Marcos. Dr. Giles W. Mead of Stan- 
ford University presented 137 fish specimens, including 4 holotypes 
and 2 paratypes. As exchanges there were added to the collections 
22 parrotfishes from the Chicago Natural History Museum through 
Loren P. Woods; 14 fresh-water fishes including 2 paratypes from Dr. 
Frank B. Cross, University of Kansas; and 2 paratypes of the North 
American catfish from the National Museum, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 
through Dr. Paulo de Miranda Ribeiro. 

More than 100,000 mosquitoes collected in Thailand by the donors, 
Mrs. Ernestine Thurman and her late husband, Lt. Comdr. Deed Thur- 
man, formed an extremely important accession. Received from Dr. 
Annette Braun was a unique and valuable gift of 440 specimens of 
the work or "mines" of identified leaf-mining insects mounted in 22 
books. Dr. Frank Morton Jones presented 3,758 beautifully prepared 
specimens of skippers and Microlepidoptera. A valuable series of 
1,752 elaterid beetles selected from the J. A. Hyslop collection was 
presented to the museum by Helen Sollers. 

By transfer from the Pacific Science Board, National Research 
Council, the Museum acquired an outstanding collection of approxi- 
mately 5,760 specimens of miscellaneous marine invertebrates from 
Ifaluk Atoll, Caroline Islands, through F. M. Bayer. Also trans- 
ferred were 65 crustaceans from the Joint U. S. Army-British Colo- 
nial Office Scrub Typhus Expedition, obtained in North Borneo 
through Capt. Bryce C. Walton. Among the more important gifts 
were 1,584 invertebrates from Arno Atoll, Marshall Islands, and 
Yap Island, Caroline Islands, received from Dr. Robert W. Hiatt; 
35 bathypelagic nemerteans, including 16 type specimens, from the 
eastern Pacific presented by Dr. Wesley R. Coe, Scripps Institution 
of Oceanography; 271 crustaceans from Saipan, Marianas Islands, 
donated by Dr. A. H. Banner, University of Hawaii ; 534 crustaceans, 
including the holotype, allotype, and morphotype of a crayfish from 
Virginia, received from Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., University of 
Virginia. 

The Museum's collection of Cuban shells was greatly enhanced this 
year by two significant donations. Mrs. Charles E. Ramsden of Cuba 
presented to the collections about 23,200 specimens acquired by her 
late husband and comprising one of the largest accessions of Cuban 
land shells. Likewise Sefiora Blanca de la Torre de Rosales of Cuba 
donated a valuable collection of some 8,930 land shells, including 81 



16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

cotypes, made by her husband, the late Dr. Carlos de la Torre. Other 
important gifts included 170 specimens from Portuguese East Africa, 
received from Frederico Marques Borges ; about 6,000 land and fresh- 
water mollusks of Texas from C D. Orchard, and 111 Mexican land 
mollusks including 69 paratypes of eight new species described by 
H. A. Pilsbry, from the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

Botany. — Under a grant from the National Science Foundation, 
Dr. A. C. Smith obtained 24,161 botanical specimens in the Fiji Is- 
lands. Dr. Ernest R. Sohns collected 1,143 plants in Tlaxcala and 
Michoacan, Mexico. About 2,780 specimens were collected in Brazil 
by Dr. Lyman B. Smith in connection with his studies of bromeliads 
in relation to malaria under the auspices of the Rockefeller Founda- 
tion, the Servigo Nacional de Malaria, and other Brazilian institu- 
tions. Dr. E. H. Walker collected 126 plants from the Ryukyu Is- 
lands. E. P. Killip collected 1,400 specimens from the Isle of Pines, 
Cuba, and 1,090 from Big Pine Key, Fla. 

By transfer from the herbarium of the National Arboretum, TJ. S. 
Department of Agriculture, an interesting lot of 65,327 miscellaneous 
plants was received. An important collection of 893 plants of Iran, 
collected by K. H. Rechinger, and 187 ferns of Malaya were pur- 
chased by the herbarium. 

Gifts included 1,056 plants of Tonga from Dr. T. H. Yuncker of 
De Pauw University; 433 plants of Mexico from Prof. Eizi Matuda, 
Mexico, D. F.; and 1,048 Virginia and West Virginia plants from 
H. A. Allard. 

Among the numerous collections received in exchange were 2,505 
plants from the Universitets Botaniske Museum, Copenhagen; 870 
plants of Haiti from the Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stockholm; 
688 plants of the Dominican Republic from the Arnold Arboretum ; 
543 plants of Mexico from the University of Michigan ; 391 plants of 
Australia from Cornell University ; and 350 plants of Russia from the 
V. L. Komarov Botanical Institute, Academy of Sciences of the 
U. S. S. R., Leningrad. 

Geology. — Many fine geological specimens were received as gifts, 
including the finest known crystal of the rare mineral genthelvite from 
J. W. Adams; a rich mass of pitchblende from the famous Mi Vida 
mine, donated by the owner, Charles Steen, and an excellent exhibition 
specimen of prehnite from a new Virginia locality presented by Mr. 
and Mrs. John D. Atkins. 

To the Roebling collection were added two unusual groups of large 
aquamarine crystals, an aquamarine crystal with brilliant natural 
facets, and a large crystal of pale yellowish-green spodumene, the 
variety triphane, all from the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil ; a pendant 
of white opal with rich fire from South Australia, a black opal from 
New South Wales, a synthetic emerald crystal made in the laboratories 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 17 

of Carroll Chatham, San Francisco, and a 5i/^-carat cut brown spene 
from Baja California. 

A suite of well-crystallized minerals from the lead-zinc mines of 
Trepca, Yugoslavia, a group of brown barite crystals from Elk Creek, 
S. Dak., and a tliorianite crystal, about an inch cube, were added to 
the Canfield collection. Through the Chamberlain bequest additions 
included a 5-carat brilliant-cut yellow sphene from Baja California, 
and a 45i/^-carat morganite of unusual apricot color from Brazil. 

A particularly important gift of Dr. Stuart H. Perry to the meteo- 
rite collection was his group of 2,000 carefully prepared and selected 
negatives of photomicrographs of meteoric iron. By exchange the 
Museum received from Tohoku University, through Prof. Kenzo Yagi, 
a representative set of rocks from the new Japanese volcano Syowa 
Sinzan, Hokkaido. Other important additions to the petrological 
collections were a series of rocks illustrating the petrology of the Ha- 
kone Mountains, Japan, as described by Prof. Hisashi Kuno, and of 
the Highwood Mountains, Mont., as described by Prof. Esper S. 
Larsen, Jr., Harvard University. 

Through funds provided by the Walcott bequest, important inverte- 
brate fossils were acquired by the Museum, including 500 Lower Cre- 
taceous mollusks by Dr. David Nicol; 500 Paleozoic invertebrates 
collected by Dr. G. A. Cooper, Dr. Arthur Boucot of the U. S. Geo- 
logical Survey, and Eoger Batten of Columbia University ; and 7,500 
Devonian fossils obtained by Dr. Cooper in Michigan, Ontario, and 
New York. Additions to the Springer collection included 369 echino- 
derms from the Pennsylvanian Francis shale of Oklahoma, and 15 
rare echinoderms from Devonian rocks of Ontario, Canada. 

Gifts included 150 specimens of Triassic fossils from Italy received 
from Dr. Franco Rasetti ; 400 Triassic fossils from Nevada from Dr. 
J. Lee Adams; 500 Lower Cretaceous mollusks from Texas from Carl 
R. Chelf ; 150 late Miocene mollusks from Washington from S. E. 
Crumb : and 300 Devonian fossils from New York from Max J. Kopf . 

Transfers from other Government agencies included the holotype 
of the trilobite Colpocoryphe exsul Wliittington, and the rare trilobite 
Tloekaspis from Bolivia, as well as collections of Eocene radiolaria 
from Saipan, and of Cretaceous pelecypods, from the U. S. Geological 
Survey, and a lot of brachiopods from the U. S. Fish and Wildlife 
Service. 

An outstanding collection of over 600 specimens of rare Paleocene 
and Eocene mammals was obtained by Dr. C. L. Gazin and Franklin 
L. Pearce in Wyoming under the income of the Walcott bequest. By 
transfer from the U. S. Geological Survey, through Dr. J. B. Reeside, 
Jr., the Museum obtained a collection of undistorted fossil fish from 
the Cretaceous Mowry shale in Wyoming. An important exchange 
gave the Musemn a series of 22 specimens and casts of primitive jaw- 



18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

less fish from the Upper Silurian of Norway and Spitsbergen, ob- 
tained from the National Museum of Norway. The Ohio Geological 
Survey, through John H. Melvin, presented to the collections the skull 
and partial skeleton of a rare embolomerous amphibian from the 
Pennsylvanian rocks of Ohio. An important purchase through the 
Walcott bequest included the type specimen of the titanothere from 
the Eocene Lisbon formation of Mississippi and the skull and jaws 
of the archeocete whale Zygorhiza kochii from the Upper Eocene 
Jackson formation of Mississippi. These were deposited on loan to 
the Museum for study several years ago and are significant in that 
the titanothere furnishes the only direct means of an age correlation 
between the marine Gulf coast Eocene and the continental Eocene de- 
posits of the Kocky Mountain region. This archeocete skull has fur- 
nished the first conclusive evidence of the replacement sequence of 
deciduous teeth by the permanent series in the order of whales. 

Engineering and Industries. — An early automobile speedometer of 
his design was presented by J. W. Jones, inventor. A schematic 
model of a gas-turbine, electric-generating plant was donated by the 
Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Co. Dr. Walter Cane presented a 
well-preserved example of the Mignon typewriter. Ralph E. Cropley 
continued to add to the collection of scrapbook data on watercraft 
history. 

A wool-carding machine constructed from memory in 1793 by John 
and Arthur Scholfield, English mechanicians, was presented by Davis 
& Furber Machine Co. Daniel Thompson presented scale models of 
a water-power grist mill, an ox-power cane mill, and a windmill- 
driven water lift for a salt works, all operative models of installations 
formerly in use in Puerto Rico. 

Important additions to the wood collections included a group of 
279 woods of Fiji collected by Dr. A. C. Smith, 124 woods of Japan, 
Thailand, Australia, and the Hong Kong market presented by Col. 
Harold B. Donaldson, and 72 woods of Yucatan, the Marshall Islands, 
and other regions, transferred by the U. S. Forest Products Labora- 
tory of the Department of Agriculture. 

The Museum acquired by purchase through the Dahlgreen fund a 
series of 17 chiaroscuro woodcuts by John Baptist Jackson, repre- 
senting the first attempt to reproduce paintings in the block print 
medium. Thirteen woodcuts, dealing with views of Jerusalem and 
environs, native types, and subjects from the Old Testament by con- 
temporary Israeli artists, were presented by local donors. 

Sir Alexander Fleming, the discoverer of penicillin, presented a 
specimen of the mold PeniciUitim notatum, and the Sir William Dunn 
School of Pathology at the University of Oxford, through Dr. N. G. 
Hestley, donated two of the original porcelain culture vessels from 
which was prepared the first crystalline penicillin used in clinical 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 19 

studies. Lederle Laboratories contributed tliron<]:h F. L. Murphy 
a test tube of some of the original soil from which aureomycin was 
isolated, and five petri dishes prepared by Dr. Duggar, the discoverer 
of aureomycin. The Sanborn Co. presented through James L. Jenks, 
Jr., an electrocardiograph used for taking the first electrocardiogram 
of a white (beluga) whale, and Dr. Paul Dudley White added the 
harpoon electrode used in these studies on the whale. 

History. — An interesting accession, a gift of Walter Voigt, was a 
one-horse open sleigh of the Colonial period with the date "1769" 
carved in the center back panel under a painted pine-tree decoration. 
Tradition associates the sleigh with Gen. George Washington and 
his New Jersey campaign of the Revolutionary War. As a gift to 
the national collection of dresses of the First Ladies of the Wliite 
House, Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower presented her pink-silk inaugural- 
ball gown. Mrs. Eisenhower also presented her wedding dress of ecru 
lace to the collection of American period costumes. By donation 
from ISIiss Margaret Bream four early American hats and bonnets in 
a band box of the early nineteenth century were added to the collec- 
tion of period costumes. Mrs. Elmer R. Shepherd gave to this col- 
lection two early nineteenth-century Quaker bonnets and three gauze 
undercaps. Specimens of furniture and room accessories for use in 
the series of period rooms of the White House were given by Awbrey 
N. Shaw and Mrs. W. Murray Crane. 

A large collection of German insignia of the period of World War 
II was presented by William A. Hambley, Jr. A valuable and rare 
powder horn of 1762 was received from Mrs. Stella Crooks and Miss 
Ethel Crooks. 

x\n outstanding accession in the division of numismatics was an 
Indian peace medal of Andrew Johnson dated 1865, presented by 
Miss Lucia K. Williams. 

A total of 2,341 stamps was received as a transfer from the Post 
OfRce Department. Of considerable importance were the transfers 
from the Internal Revenue Service of 57,955 revenue stamps, die 
proofs, and plate proofs. Gifts of major importance were made by 
John R. Boker, Jr., Ralph A. Schoenfeld, Ernst Ix)wenstein, Philip 
Ward, Jr., and Arthur F. Black. 

EXPLORATION, HELDWORK, AND RELATED TRAVEL 

During September and later in the year 1953, Dr. T. Dale Stewart, 
curator, and Dr. Marshall T. Newman, associate curator, division of 
physical anthropology, excavated a number of skeletons from a pre- 
historic Indian ossuary on the farm of Bernward Juhle on Nanjemoy 
Creek, near Ironsides, Charles County, Md. 

In response to a request made by United States Naval Medical 



20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Kesearch Unit No. 3 for a report on the mammals of the Anglo- 
Egyptian Sudan collected by the staff of that unit, Dr. Henry W. 
Setzer, associate curator, division of mammals, devoted six weeks to 
a study of pertinent types and other significant specimens at the 
British Ikluseum (Natural History) in London. 

On September 1, 1953, Herbert G. Deignan, associate curator, divi- 
sion of birds, returned to Washington after completing ornithological 
field studies in Thailand which were made possible by grants from 
the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation and special re- 
search funds of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator, department of zoology, left for 
Europe on April 1, 1954, and on arrival at Naples he was introduced 
to the staff and granted permission by Dr. Eeinhard Dohrn, director, 
to examine the collections of the Stazione Zoologica di Napoli. The 
director of the Museo Civico di Storia Naturale "G. Doria" in Genoa, 
Dr. F. Capra, made available the study and exhibit series of crus- 
taceans. At the Instituto di Zoologia, Universita di Torino, by 
courtesy of Dr. L. Pardi, director. Dr. Schmitt devoted two weeks 
to the study of Aegla and porcellanid collections. After visiting the 
Musee Oc^anographique de Monaco, he made a return visit to Naples 
to obtain a number of brachiopods which had been preserved for 
anatomical studies by Dr. G. A. Cooper of our Museum staff. While 
visiting the Musee d'Histoire Naturelle, Geneva, Dr. Schmitt met the 
new director. Dr. Emil Dottreus, and identified the specimens of 
Aegla in that institution. In Zurich, Dr. Bernard Peyer showed him 
the well-displayed synoptic collections of the Zoologische Sammlung 
of the university. Dr. Schmitt then proceeded to Leiden where he 
was invited by Dr. H. Boschma, director of Eijksmuseum van Natuur- 
lijke Historic, and Dr. Lipke Holthuis to see their collections, which 
include the type specimens described by de Haan in the Crustacea sec- 
tion of von Siebold's Fauna Japonica and the SnelUus South Pacific 
collections. At Utrecht he met Dr. Wagenaar P. Hummelinck of the 
Zoologisch Museum, Rijks Universiteit, and at Amsterdam was con- 
ducted by Mr. T. van der Feen through the Zoologische Museum 
where, among other important materials, are housed the famous Siboga 
collections. He devoted a week in London to the study of the Aegla 
specimens in the British Museum (Natural History) and another week 
in Paris examining the carcinological collections of the Museum Na- 
tional d'Histoire Naturelle. Through the courtesy of the director, 
Dr. G. Tregouboff, Station Zoologique, Universite de Paris, at Ville- 
franche-sur-Mer, he was enabled to inspect the exhibits of local ma- 
rine flora and fauna. Dr. Schmitt returned to Washington on 
June 22, 1954. 

During January and the early part of February Dr. Alexander 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 21 

Wetmore, research associate, was the guest of Mr. and Mrs. William 
H. Phelps, Jr., of Caracas, Venezuela, on an expedition in the Terri- 
tory of Amazonas, southern Venezuela. The party, which included 
the geologists Dr. Guillermo Zuloaga, of the Creole Petroleum Co., 
and Dr. C. D. Reynolds, of the Orinoco Mining Co., and Dr. James H. 
Kempton, Agricultural Attache at the American Embassy, left Cara- 
cas by plane on the morning of January 2 and flew to Esmeralda on 
the Upper Orinoco. Landing was made on the savanna, and trans- 
ferring to two launches the party proceeded to the head of the Cano 
Casiquiare. That stream, taking about one-third of the water from 
the Orinoco at this point, flows southward, augmented by several major 
tributaries, to join the Rio Guainia and to form the Rio Negro, one 
of the principal affluents of the Amazon, thus connecting the two great 
river systems of northern South America. On January 5 the party 
entered the Rio Pacimoni from the Casiquiare and 3 days later came 
into a branch of this stream known as the Rio Yatua. Presently the 
forest closed in as the stream narrowed, and it was necessary to trans- 
fer to canoes and so to continue through channels that wound through 
areas where the stream banks were flooded. 

A party of botanists under Dr. Bassett Maguire of the New York 
Botanical Garden had preceded, but in spite of this much time was 
lost in cutting through fallen trees and in locating the proper chan- 
nels. A base camp at the head of navigation was reached on January 
15, and Wetmore and Kempton remained here for work in the lowland 
forest, while the rest of the party continued with porters, to join the 
botanists on Cerro de la Neblina, a 7,000-foot mountain hitherto 
unknown, near the Brazilian frontier. On January 25, the mountain 
party having returned, the expedition moved downriver, continued 
south to San Carlos del Rio Negro, and from there back up the Rio 
Guainia to Maroa and Victorino on the Colombian frontier. On 
February 6 they crossed the 18-kilometer foot trail from Pimichin 
on tlie Amazon drainage to Yavita on the Rio Temi, which flows into 
the Atabapo, a tributary of the Orinoco. At Yavita a launch was 
waiting, and the downstream journey began, ending finally at Puerto 
Ayacucho, capital of Amazonas. On February 11 the group again 
reached Caracas, returning by air. Dr. Wetmore had opportunity 
through the journey to study the northern edge of the great Amazon- 
ian forest, and to make collections of birds, not only at the base camp, 
but also in Colombian territory along the river boundaries. 

During the latter half of February and through March, Dr. Wet- 
more, accompanied by Mrs. Wetmore, continued work on the birdlife 
of Panama. Attention this season centered on the mountainous areas 
of western Chiriqui, where through the kindness of Don Pablo Brack- 
ney, of Panama City, an excellent base was available at Palo Santo, 
west of the village of El Volcdn. Armageddon Hartmann was em- 



22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

ployed to assist in making the collections. Though clearings were 
extensive, much forest still remained and birds were abundant. The 
work centered mainly at intermediate elevations between 4,000 and 
6,000 feet in the subtropical zone. Many areas could be reached over 
rough mountain roads and trails by jeep so that the collections 
obtained covered an extensive terrain. The work included a week at 
Santa Clara, about 15 miles from the Costa Rican border, where the 
party had accommodations at the farm of Alois Hartmann, long a 
resident of Chiriqui. The series of specimens and the notes obtained 
have added measurably to knowledge of the birdlife of the Republic, 
and it is hoped to continue the study for another season at higher 
elevations on the Volcan Baru. In February Dr. Wetmore spent two 
days on Barro Colorado Island, and at the close of the work the first 
week in April he made observations at several points adjacent to the 
Canal Zone. 

From May 29 to June 12 Dr. Wetmore represented the Smithsonian 
Institution and the United States National Museum at the Eleventh 
International Ornithological Congress held in Basel, Switzerland. 
Following the meetings he was engaged briefly in studies of the scien- 
tific collections of birds in the Naturhistorische Museum in Viemia, 
and for a period of 5 weeks in the British Museum (Natural History) 
in London. 

Dr. Leonard P. Schultz, curator, division of fishes, was awarded a 
grant by the National Science Foundation to attend the Eighth Pacific 
Science Congress in Quezon City, Philippine Islands. Enroute he 
visited the Zoological Institute, the National Museum of Science, the 
Institute for Natural Resources, and the Tokaiku Suisan Kenkyiyo 
(Fisheries Experimental Station) in Tokyo. Following the con- 
clusion of the sessions of this congress on November 28, 1953, Dr. 
Schultz visited the Indian Museum, Zoological Survey of India at 
Calcutta, the University of Istanbul and the Hydrobiological Institute 
at Istanbul, the Laboratorio Centrale di Idrobiologia at Rome, the 
Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle and the Laboratory of Colonial 
Fishes at Paris, and the British Museum (Natural History) at Lon- 
don. He returned to Washington on December 14, 1953. 

Frederick M. Bayer, associate curator, division of marine inverte- 
brates, left Washington on September 1, 1953, to join the Fourth 
Pacific Atoll Survey Team sponsored by the Pacific Science Board of 
the National Research Council and to participate in a general ecologi- 
cal survey of Ifaluk Atoll in the Caroline Islands. In addition to 
obtaining extensive collections of marine invertebrates, which are 
indispensable to a thorough analysis of the biological zonation pat- 
terns and the determination of zoogeographical relationships, Mr. 
Bayer made observations on biological associations at all levels from 
commensalism to parasitism and studied the role played by alcyo- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 23 

narian corals in reef formation for comparison with corresponding 
conditions elsewhere. Following completion of the survey work on 
this atoll on November 13, 1953, Mr. Bayer proceeded to Tokyo, Japan, 
where the Octocorallia collections of Tokyo Imperial University were 
made available to him through the kindness of Profs. K. Takewaki 
and T. Fujii of the Zoological Institute Science Faculty. During the 
week following December 8, Mr. Bayer, through the courtesy of Prof. 
Huzio Utinomi, was permitted to examine the collections of the Seto 
Marine Biological Laboratory, Kyoto Imperial University at Shira- 
hama in Wakayama Prefecture. Subsequently at the invitation of the 
director, Prof. Ichiro Tomiyama, he made three short trips to Misaki 
Biological Station at Aburatsubo near Misaki on the shores of Sagami 
Bay. Through Professor Tomiyama's office as investigator on the 
staff of the Imperial Household, Mr. Bayer was invited to examine 
the collections of His Imperial Majesty the Emperor of Japan, and 
while there was extended the honor of an informal scientific interview 
with His Imperial Majesty. He returned to Washington on January 
11, 1954. 

Dr. A. C. Smith, curator, division of phanerogams, commenced field 
studies at Suva, Fiji, under a National Science Foundation research 
grant on March 29, 1953, and subsequently continued his studies on 
Viti Levu, Ovalau, Ngau, and Taveuni. Historic type localities were 
visited, but most areas explored had not been previously botanized. 
Dr. Smith departed from Suva on January 7, 1954, and returned to 
Washington January 30. 

Dr. E. H. Walker, associate curator, division of phanerogams, 
attended the Eighth Pacific Science Congress in Quezon City as a 
delegate for SIRI (Scientific Investigation of the Eyukyu Islands), 
program of the Pacific Science Board of the National Research Coun- 
cil and the United States Army, and made collections of herbarium 
materials on Luzon Island in the Philippines, and in Hawaii, John- 
ston Island, Guam, and Okinawa enroute. 

Dr. Ernest R. Sohns, associate curator, division of grasses, was 
engaged in field work for four weeks in the fall of 1953 in the states 
of Tlaxcala and Michoacan, Mexico. 

C. V. Morton, curator, division of ferns, under a fellowship grant 
from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, devoted the 
last three months of the fiscal year to a study of ferns in European 
herbaria. In August and September 1953 he participated in the field 
trips of the American Fern Society in New York, Quebec, and 
Michigan. 

Fieldwork by five parties engaged in search for invertebrate and 
vertebrate fossils was financed by the income from the Walcott be- 
quest. Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., in collaboration with Dr. Helen Tappan 

326511—55 ^8 



24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Loeblich, was engaged for nine months in the study of the types of 
Foraminifera in European institutions for the Treatise on Inverte- 
brate Paleontology and collected topotype foraminiferal material in 
England, France, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Netherlands, Germany, and 
Austria. As a result of this trip the national collections have acquired 
the largest representation of European Foraminifera in any institu- 
tion. 

Dr. G. A. Cooper, curator, and William T. Allen, museum aide, divi- 
sion of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany, left Washington 
in July 1953 for western Texas to carry on geological field work in 
the Glass Mountains and collect Permian silicified fossils in the Guada- 
lupe Mountains. Subsequently, they obtained a large collection of 
Permian invertebrate fossils in the vicinity of Carlsbad, N. Mex. 
Enroute to Washington they devoted several days to collecting Missis- 
sippian fossils in Oklahoma. 

During the first week of October 1953, Dr. Cooper, Mrs. Cooper, and 
Dr. Helen M. Muir-Wood, visiting research scholar from Great Brit- 
ain, obtained collections from the Devonian in the vicinity of Alpena, 
Mich., and on the return trip to Washington secured additional De- 
vonian specimens at Thedford, Ontario, and in New York State. 

On March 8, 1954, Dr. David H. Dunkle, associate curator, division 
of vertebrate paleontology, and Dr. Cooper left Washington for Ha- 
vana, Cuba, for the purpose of examining a large collection of verte- 
brate and invertebrate fossils that had been offered for sale to the 
Smithsonian Institution by Dr. Mario Sanchez-Roig. It was not 
possible to arrive at a mutually acceptable valuation of this collection. 

Dr. David Nicol, assistant curator, division of invertebrate paleon- 
tology and paleobotany, and his wife proceeded from Washington to 
Fort Worth and Lake Whitney Dam, Tex., on October 21, 1953, to 
collect pelecypods and other fossils from the Edwards (Cretaceous) 
limestone that had been exposed in excavations for the new lake. On 
the return trip they obtained Cretaceous fossils near Austin and 
elsewhere in Texas. 

Dr. C. L. Gazin, curator, and Franklin L. Pearce, exhibits worker, 
division of vertebrate paleontology, carried on field work at several 
Paleocene and Eocene localities in central and southwestern Wyo- 
ming. Particular success was achieved in the Paleocene of the Bison 
basin in the late Wasatchian or Lower Eocene of the Washakie basin 
and more especially in the Cathedral Bluff tongue of the Wasatchian 
strata interfingering with the lower part of the Green Eiver lake beds 
in the northern part of the Bridger or Green River basin. At the 
close of this field season. Dr. Gazin, accompanied by Mr. Pearce, at- 
tended the field conference of the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology 
held in the Uinta basin of northeastern Utah, and subsequently led a 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 25 

group of 14 to the Dragon Paleocene exposures in the Wasatch Plateau 
country of central Utah. 

Dr. George Switzer, associate curator, division of mineralogy and 
petrology, made trips to Colorado and Utah to observe the geological 
occurrence of uranium minerals in the Colorado Plateau mining dis- 
trict, and to the Fletcher mine, North Groton, N. H., to collect iron 
and manganese phosphate minerals. 

The investigation of the European origins of seventeenth- and eight- 
eenth-century American plovt^ types by Edward C. Kendall, associate 
curator, division of crafts and industries, was materially advanced by 
a grant of $1,500 from Deere & Co., which enabled him to attend the 
International Conference for Research on Ploughing Implements, 
History and Folklore, held at Copenhagen, June 1 to 5, 1954, and to 
examine agricultural, industrial, and technical collections in institu- 
tions at Stockholm, Oslo, Amsterdam, Brussels, Stuttgart, Munich, 
Zurich, Rome, Paris, and London. One objective of this trip was in- 
formation that will assist in reconstructing the types of plows in 
use at Mount Vernon during the residence there of George Washing- 
ton. 

Frank A. Taylor, head curator, department of engineering and in- 
dustries, visited 16 museums in West Germany and Berlin (West) 
at the invitation of the German Federal Government under the Amer- 
ica Exchange Programs and subsequently studied museum prac- 
tices of the Musee de la Marine, Musee de I'Air, Musee de I'Homme, 
Musee de Conservatoire National des Arts et Metiers, Le Palais de la 
Decouverte, and the Musee Postal in Paris, the Rijksmuseum voor de 
Geschiedenis der Natuurwetenschappen in Leiden, the Nederlandisch 
Historisch Scheepvaart Museum, and the Medish Pharmaceutish Mu- 
seum in Amsterdam, the Norsk Sj0f artsmuseum, Norsk Folkemuseum, 
Norsk Teknishmuseum, Skimuseet, and Vikingeskipene Museum in 
Oslo, the Statens Sjohistoriska Museet, Tekniska Museet, Nordiska 
Museet and Skansen in Stockholm, and the Science Museum, Victoria 
and Albert Museum, National Maritime Museum, British Museum 
(Natural History), and the British Museum (Bloomsbury) in Lon- 
don. 

EXHIBITION 

The long-contemplated program for modernization of exhibits was 
initiated under the 1954 Congressional authorization of $360,000. 
With these funds contracts were let and work actually commenced 
on the complete renovation of four major exhibition halls. 

Eight period rooms for displaying the collection of dresses of 
the First Ladies of the "White House are now under construction in 
the Arts and Industries Building. Furnishings, significant accesso- 
ries, and a number of historical architectural features such as mantels 



26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

and paneling from the White House rooms in which these dresses were 
worn will lend realism to dignified room settings befitting the col- 
lection and its historical significance. The gowns will be exhibited on 
plaster figures in rooms equipped with the furniture of the appropri- 
ate period. Six alcove wall cases will be utilized in this hall to dis- 
play objects too small to be clearly seen in the period rooms, including 
personal belongings of the First Ladies such as jewelry, laces, hand- 
kerchiefs, and fans, as well as china used in the White House. 

A series of ethnological exhibits ranging geographically from 
Tierra del Fuego to California and the southwestern States has been 
designed for early installation, "Native Peoples of Latin America 
and Southwestern United States," to explain the characteristics of 
Indian cultures in the Western Hemisphere. Ten life-size groups of 
Indians showing everyday activities in realistic settings will be in- 
stalled, as well as 12 alcoves which will contain 5 small-scale diorama 
models of villages depicting hunting and other activities and 38 panel 
cases containing materials illustrative of the culture, implements, and 
achievements of these aboriginal peoples. Ten new wall-case displays 
illustrating the cultures of the Indians of California, the Navaho, and 
the Apache have been completed ; others are in progress. 

Construction work has been commenced on display cases for four 
habitat groups in the North American mammal hall. The mammals 
chosen for exhibition in this hall include not only those of outstanding 
interest to the public but particularly those that played an important 
role in the lives of our pioneering settlers. Virginia deer, pronghorn 
antelopes, timber wolves, and the puma will be shown in habitat set- 
tings with natural accessories and painted backgrounds. 

The bird hall will contain 10 habitat groups of birds chosen for 
special interest either because of unusual habits or structures they 
possess. Antarctic penguins, ostrich, bowerbird, passenger pigeon, 
Carolina parakeet, hoatzin, argus pheasant, Kea parrot, palm chat, 
and rhinoceros hornbill have been selected for these groups. In 10 
topical alcoves and 12 topical wall cases typical representatives of 
various families of birds of the world will be shown as well as such 
aspects of birdlife as nests and nest building, migration, courtship, 
flight, food and feeding habits, plumages, birds famous in legend and 
literature, and tlie agricultural and other economic importance of 
birds to man. 

These exhibition funds also enabled the purchase and erection in the 
west court of the Natural History Building of a Butler-type steel 
building which provides 8,000 square feet of additional storage space 
for materials temporarily removed from the exhibition floors. Facili- 
ties have also been provided in this building for a working area, en- 
abling the staff of exhibit workers to accomplish the preliminary 
artistic work and assembly of exliibits while the construction of dis- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 27 

play cases is in progress in the halls. All this behind-the-scenes activ- 
ity is being directed toward the opening of these halls in 1955. 

The modernized and wholly revised hall now designated as "High- 
lights of Latin American Archeology" was completed and formally 
opened to the public on Pan American Day, April 21, 1954. Repre- 
senting a noteworthy advance over the previously existing poorly 
lighted and overcrowded arrangement of archeological specimens, the 
new exhibits installed present man's cultural development from his 
earliest begimiings in Latin America to the high civilizations of the 
Inca, Aztec, and Maya. Thirty exhibit cases are arranged in alcoves 
corresponding to marginal, tropical forest, circum-Caribbean, Meso- 
American, and Andean culture areas. These exhibits are designed to 
illustrate the advance of various cultures from the primitive hunting, 
lishing, and gathering level of existence to the highly advanced soci- 
eties practicing well-developed agriculture with complex social and 
political organizations and skilled technologies. 

VISITORS 

During the fiscal year 1954 there were 3,262,150 visitors to the Mu- 
seum buildings, an average daily attendance of 8,937. This is an in- 
crease of 141,493 over the total in the previous fiscal year. Included 
in this total are 240,629 school children, who arrived in 6,616 sepa- 
i-ate groups. This year among the visitors were special groups such 
as the 4-H Club, Sea Scouts, Safety Patrol, Stockmen and Cattlemen, 
who came from Kansas, Wyoming, Montana, Missouri, and Texas. 
The month of April 1954 drew the largest crowd with 514,214 visitors. 
May 1954 was the second largest with 458,477 and August 1952 was 
third with 405,894. Attendance records for the buildings show the 
following numbers of visitors: Smithsonian Building, 652,078; Arts 
and Industries Building, 1,748,117; and Natural History Building, 
861,955. 

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT 

Three major projects were undertaken during the year which pro- 
vided additional storage space for the collections. In the Smithsonian 
Building 3,250 square feet were made available for storing botanical 
specimens by the construction of a steel balcony in the east end of 
the herbarium. An additional 895 square feet of storage space for the 
fish collections was provided in the Natural History Building when a 
steel gallery was built in one of the storage rooms. Refrigeration 
equipment and 665 square feet of additional space were procured for 
the storage of valuable pelts of fur-bearing mammals. These furs now 
can be stored properly by regulating the temperature and hmnidity 
variation. 



28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF 

After 35 years of service in Federal agencies, Dr. Edward A. Chapin, 
curator, division of insects, retired on January 31, r954. Dr. Chapin 
was appointed curator on July 1, 1934, as a transfer from the Bureau 
of Entomology and Plant Quarantine. Oscar L. Cartwright was 
designated as acting curator February 10, 1954. 

A vacancy in the division of engineering was filled on April 5, 1954, 
by the appointment of Dr. Eobert P. Multhauf as associate curator. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Remington Kellogg, Director. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the Bureau of 
American Ethnology 

Sir : I have tlie honor to submit the following report on the field 
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri- 
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1954, conducted 
in accordance with the act of Congress of April 10, 1928, as amended 
August 22, 1949, "to continue independently or in cooperation 
anthropological researches among the American Indians and the 
natives of lands under the jurisdiction or protection of the United 
States and the excavation and preservation of archeologic remains." 

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES 

M. W. Stirling, Director of the Bureau, studied in the laboratory 
and prepared descriptions of the archeological materials collected 
during 1953 on Taboga, Taboguilla, and Urava islands in the Gulf of 
Panama, and from the region of Almirante Bay on the north coast of 
Panama. Technical descriptions of the materials, principally 
ceramics, were completed and photographs for illustrations made 
preparatory to publication of the report in the Bureau's Bulletin 
series. Otherwise most of the time during the fiscal year was occupied 
with administrative duties. 

Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Associate Director of the Bureau and 
Director of the River Basin Surveys, devoted virtually all his time 
during the year to the direction and management of the River Basin 
Surveys. In that connection he reviewed and revised a number of 
manuscript reports of the results of field investigations by members 
of the Surveys' staff. In May he attended the annual meeting of the 
Society of American Archaeology at Albany, N. Y., and as a member 
of the executive committee presented a set of Archaeological Stand- 
ards, prepared jointly by him and Dr. Waldo R. Wedel of the U. S. 
National Museum, which was adopted by the Society. 

Dr. Henry B. Collins, anthropologist, continued his Eskimo research 
and other Arctic activities. From June 24 to August 29 he and his 
assistant, William E. Taylor, conducted archeological excavations on 
Cornwallis Island in the Canadian Arctic, the work being sponsored 
jointly by the Smithsonian Institution and the National Museum of 
Canada. Cornwallis and the other islands in the northern part of the 
Arctic Archipelago were uninhabited when discovered by Parry in 
1819, and Eskimos have not lived tliat far north in Canada in historic 

29 



30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

times. However, Dr. Collins's excavations have shown that some 
centuries ago when living conditions were better, Cornwallis Island 
had been occupied by two distinct groups of prehistoric Eskimos, the 
Thule and Dorset. The remains visible on the surface — the ruins of 
solidly built houses of stones, whale bones, and turf — are those of the 
Thule people. The Dorset occupation, which preceded Thule, was 
indicated by a buried sod line within and below which w^ere found the 
stone, bone, and ivory implements characteristic of that culture. 
Thule material was found above the old sod line. The Dorset artifacts 
were different in type from the Thule and were also more deeply 
patinated, being dark brown or gray in contrast to the light cream- 
colored Thule objects. The same was true of the animal bones; those 
from the Dorset level were more weathered in appearance, darker 
colored, and lighter in weight than the relatively fresh-looking bones 
from the upper part of the midden. The marked difference in the 
state of preservation of the animal bones and artifacts suggests that 
after the Dorset occupation the site had been abandoned for some 
centuries before the Thule Eskimos established their village on the 
same spot. Samples of sod, soil, charcoal, wood, bones, skin, and 
other organic materials were collected for possible dating by radio- 
carbon and pollen analyses. 

Dr. Collins prepared a preliminary report describing the 1953 
excavations for the Annual Report of the National Museum of 
Canada. His booklet "Arctic Area," a summary of existing knowl- 
edge of the ethnology, archeology, physical anthropology, and 
linguistics of the Eskimos and Northern Indians, was published by 
the Comision de Historia of Mexico as one of the unit studies in its 
Program of the History of America. Other papers included a 
critique of the role of Ipiutak in Eskimo culture and an evaluation of 
the recently developed technique of lexico-statistics in relation to the 
archeological evidence. This new linguistic technique, which at- 
tempts to estimate the time of separation, or age, of related languages 
on the basis of vocabulary change, produces results for the Arctic area 
that are in close agreement with the evidence of two other dating 
techniques — dendrochronology and radiocarbon analysis — as well as 
with Dr. Collins's previous reconstruction of culture growths, con- 
tacts, and population movements in the Eskimo area as deduced from 
archeology. 

Dr. Collins continued to serve as chairman of the directing commit- 
tee supervising the work on the Arctic Bibliography, which the Arctic 
Institute of North America is preparing for the Department of De- 
fense under contract with Office of Naval Research. The first three 
volumes of the Bibliography, of approximately 1,500 pages each, were 
issued by the Government Printing Office in August 1953. They list 
and summarize the index contents of 20,000 of the more important 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 31 

publications in all fields of science relating to the Arctic and sub- 
Arctic areas of the world. The work on the Bibliography is being car- 
ried out by a staff of 12 bibliographers and scientists under the direc- 
tion of Miss Marie Tremaine. Most of the work has been done at the 
Library of Congress but the collections of the New York Public 
Library, Smithsonian Institution, Harvard University, and some 60 
other large libraries in the United States and Canada have also been 
utilized. In addition to books and monographs, the Bibliography 
lists and describes material published in more than 1,400 scientific 
journals and serial publications in English, Russian, and other lan- 
guages. Titles of foreign-language publications are given in the 
original and in English, with description of the contents in English. 
Covering all fields of science for all the Arctic and sub-Arctic, the 
Arctic Bibliography is now recognized as the most comprehensive 
regional bibliography ever assembled. Volume 4, of approximately 
1,500 pages, is scheduled for publication in August 1954. Dr. Collins 
made arrangements with the Department of the Air Force, which has 
supported the work for the past two fiscal years, for continuation of 
the Bibliography project in 1954-55, and for the printing of volume 5, 
the material for which was delivered to the Govermnent Printing Of- 
fice in June 1954. 

On June 21, Dr. Collins and three assistants, William E. Taylor, Jr., 
Dr. J. Norman Emerson, and Eugene Ostroff, left to conduct arche- 
ological work in Hudson Bay. The expedition is being sponsored by 
the National Museum of Canada, the National Geographic Society, and 
the Smithsonian Institution. The party was flown by the Royal 
Canadian Air Force from Montreal to Coral Harbour, on Southamp- 
ton Island, and will remain until September, investigating prehistoric 
Eskimo sites on Southampton and Coats Islands. 

During July and August of 1953, Dr. John P, Harrington was in the 
region of Santa Barbara, Calif., continuing his studies of the Chu- 
mash Indians, the most advanced tribe of the State. He also made a 
special study of place names as recorded by the Cabrillo expedition of 
1542 and by the Portola and Anza expeditions of 1769 and 1776, re- 
spectively. A great majority of these names were located during the 
field study. On returning to Washington Dr. Harrington continued 
the preparation of a detailed report on his findings. 

At the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. Philip Drucker, anthro- 
pologist, was in Washington continuing his studies of Olmec arche- 
ological materials from southern Mexico. He also began preparations 
for a field trip to the coast of British Columbia and southeast Alaska 
in order to continue his study of modern intertribal Indian organiza- 
tion. Early in September he went to British Columbia to carry on this 
research. A grant from the Arctic Institute of North America made 
this work possible. Toward the end of the calendar year a supple- 



32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

mentary grant from the American Philosophical Society enabled him 
to proceed to southeast Alaska to complete his study of the Alaska 
Native Brotherhood. In mid-March he returned to Washington. 
Since his return Dr. Drucker has worked on the final report on these 
intertribal organizations and on related problems of acculturation on 
the Northwest Coast. He also devoted considerable time to a com- 
mittee study of the research potential of the Smithsonian Institution. 
During the fiscal year Drucker prepared two papers for publication, 
one on "Origins of Northwest Coast Culture" and the other with 
Eduardo Contreras on "Site Reconnaissance in Olmec Territory." 

RIVER BASIN SURVEYS 
(Prepared by Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.) 

The River Basin Surveys, instituted in the autumn of 1945 as a 
unit of the Bureau of American Etlinology to carry into effect a 
memorandum of understanding between the Smithsonian Institution 
and the National Park Service, providing for the salvage of archeolog- 
ical and paleontological materials which will be lost as a result of the 
nation-wide program for flood control, irrigation, hydroelectric and 
navigation projects sponsored by the Federal Government, State, and 
private agencies, continued its operations during the year. As in 
previous years the work was carried on in cooperation with the Na- 
tional Park Service and the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department 
of the Interior, the Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, and 
a number of State and local institutions. During the fiscal year 1953- 
64 the investigations were financed by transfer of $71,495 from the 
National Park Service to the Smithsonian Institution. Included in 
that sum were $64,500 for work in the Missouri Basin and $6,995 for 
other areas. An additional carry-over of $3,409 made the over-all 
total available for obligation during the fiscal year $74,904. That sum 
was approximately only 43 percent of that available for the preceding 
year and made necessary a sharp reduction in the work of the River 
Basin Surveys. 

Activities in the field consisted for the most part of reconnaissances 
or surveys for the purpose of locating sites that will be involved in 
construction work or are so situated that they will eventually be 
covered by the waters of the reservoirs formed by the completion of 
dams. There also was some excavation, but because of lack of funds 
the digging was on a small scale. In several reservoir areas intensive 
test surveys were carried on. The parties concerned with that activity 
visited sites previously located and recorded but about w^hich there was 
meager information. At each such site a number of test pits were dug 
and artifacts were collected in order to determine the cultural affilia- 
tions of the remains found there. Straight reconnaissance parties 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 33 

visited two reservoir basins located in one State. The intensive test 
surveys were made in three reservoir areas in two States, At the end 
of the fiscal year excavations were completed or were under way in 
four reservoir basins in two States. During the course of the year 
there were four excavating parties in the field, three of them in areas 
where investigations had previously been made. By June 30, 1954, 
areas where archeological surveys had been made or excavations 
carried on since the start of the program in 1946 totaled 243 in 27 
States. One lock project and four canal areas also have been investi- 
gated. During the course of the work a total of 4,345 archeological 
sites have been recorded and of that number 852 have been recom- 
mended for excavation or further testing. Preliminary appraisal 
reports were completed for all the reservoirs surveyed and further 
supplemental reports have been prepared where additional reconnais- 
sances have resulted in the discovery of further sites. During the 
course of the year seven such reports were issued. The total number 
distributed since the start of the program is 179. Wliere several 
reservoirs form a unit in a single drainage subbasin, the information 
on all was included in a single report. Consequently, the 179 mimeo- 
graphed pamphlets contain information on all the 243 reservoirs thus 
far surveyed. Excavations carried on during the year brought the 
total for reservoir projects where such investigations have been made 
to 44 located in 17 different States. The total number of sites thus far 
excavated or extensively tested totals 324. Fourteen manuscript re- 
ports on previous excavation work were completed during the year and 
are ready for publication. One major technical report was in final 
page-proof form at the end of the fiscal year and will appear as Bureau 
of American Ethnology Bulletin 158. In view of the necessary reduc- 
tion in force because of lack of funds, no paleontological field work was 
carried on during the year. The paleontologist who formerly was a 
member of the River Basin Surveys staff was lent by the National 
Park Service for a period of three weeks to the Missouri Basin Project 
of the River Basin Surveys in order that he might complete the identi- 
fication of specimens previously collected. 

The reservoir projects which have been surveyed for archeological 
remains as of June 30, 1954, were distributed as follows: Alabama, 1; 
California, 20; Colorado, 24; Georgia, 5; Idaho, 11; Illinois, 2; 
Kansas, 10; Kentucky, 2; Louisiana, 2; Minnesota, 1; Mississippi, 1; 
Montana, 15; Nebraska, 28; New Mexico, 1; North Dakota, 13; Ohio, 
2; Oklahoma, 7; Oregon, 27; Pennsylvania, 2; South Dakota, 9; 
Tennessee, 4 ; Texas, 19 ; Virginia, 2 ; Washington, 11 ; West Virginia, 
2; and Wyoming, 22. 

Excavations have been made or were under way in reservoir basins 
in: California, 5; Colorado, 1; Georgia, 4; Kansas, 3; Montana, 1; 
Nebraska, 1 ; New Mexico, 1; North Dakota, 4; Oklahoma, 2; Oregon, 



34 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

3 ; South Carolina, 1 ; South Dakota, 3 ; Texas, 7 ; Virginia, 1 ; Wash- 
ington, 4 ; West Virginia, 1 ; and Wyoming, 2. The foregoing figures 
include only the work of the River Basin Surveys or that in which 
there was direct cooperation with local institutions. Projects that 
were carried on by local institutions under agreements with the 
National Park Service are not included because complete information 
about them is not available. 

During the year the River Basin Surveys continued to receive help- 
ful cooperation from the National Park Service, the Bureau of 
Reclamation, Corps of Engineers, and various State and local insti- 
tutions. Temporary office and laboratory space were provided at 
some of the projects, transportation and guides were furnished at 
others, and in several cases mechanical equipment was made available 
by the construction agency. Detailed maps of the reservoirs under 
investigation were supplied by the agency concerned. The field per- 
sonnel of the various agencies was extremely cooperative in assisting 
the River Basin Surveys men and because of that help much more 
was accomplished than would have been possible otherwise. The 
National Park Service continued to function as the liaison between 
the various agencies both in Washington and in the field. It also 
was responsible for the preparation of estimates and justifications and 
the procurement of funds for carrying on the program. The co- 
operation of Park Service personnel was a definite aid in all phases 
of the operations. 

The main office in Washington directed and supervised the program 
in the East and South while the field headquarters and laboratory in 
Lincoln, Nebr., directed the work in the Missouri Basin. The mate- 
rials collected by Missouri Basin parties were handled at the Lincoln 
laboratory while those from the East and South were processed in 
Washington. 

Washington Office. — Through the fiscal year the main headquarters 
of the River Basin Surveys continued under the direction of Dr. 
Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. Carl F. Miller and Ralph S. Solecki were 
based at that office although Mr. Solecki was on leave without pay 
during most of the year. From July 1953 until May 12, 1954, Mr. 
Solecki was in Iraq as a Fulbright Scholar, conducting excavations 
financed jointly by the Iraq Government and the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. On May 12, 1954, he returned to active duty with the River 
Basin Surveys and made a reconnaissance of two projects on the 
Cumberland River in Tennessee. On June 28 he resigned to resume 
his graduate studies in anthropology. 

Mr. Miller spent the greater part of the year in the office preparing 
reports based upon field investigations made in previous years. In 
August he completed a brief preliminary report of a rapid recon- 
naissance of the Cheatham Lock and Dam, Old Hickory, and Carthage 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 35 

Reservoirs in Tennessee. He completed one manuscript pertaining 
to the Siouan occupation of the Roanoke River area in southern Vir- 
ginia. This research was an outgrowth of his studies in connection 
with the results of his excavations at the John H. Kerr (Buggs 
Island) Reservoir. In addition Mr. Miller worked on his detailed 
technical report for the John H. Kerr Reservoir, completing the 
analysis, classification, and comparison of specimens obtained from 
a number of different sites. In May 1954, Mr. Miller made a brief 
trip to a site along the old Chesapeake and Ohio Canal near Sharps- 
burg, Md., where traces of an Indian occupation were being uncovered 
by erosion. On that trip Mr. Miller accompanied Dr. John M. Cor- 
bett and John L. Cotter of the Archeological Branch, History Di- 
vision, National Park Service. At the close of the fiscal year Mr. 
Miller was busy working on his John H. Kerr report. 

Missouri Basin. — The Missouri Basin Project continued to operate 
throughout fiscal 1954 from the field headquarters at the University 
of Nebraska and the laboratory in the business section of Lincoln, 
Nebr. Robert L. Stephenson served as acting chief of the project 
from July 1 to June 14 when he was promoted to chief. Activities 
throughout the year were greatly reduced because of the lack of funds. 
The permanent staff had been cut from 21 to 11 on July 1 and during 
the year was further reduced to 8. Consequently field activities were 
on a much smaller scale. However, all four phases of the salvage pro- 
gram as originally drawn up were in progress. Some reconnaissance 
work was done consisting of intensive survey and testing of archeo- 
logical sites in two reservoirs and reconnaissance of a portion of a 
third reservoir. The second phase, the excavation of selected sites, 
continued at three sites in three reservoir areas while a fourth field 
party did some digging at four sites in a single reservoir area. The 
third phase of the program, the processing of the collections obtained 
from the digging, the analysis and study of the materials, and the prep- 
aration of general and technical manuscripts on the results, was car- 
ried on actively by the members of the staff. Phase four, the 
publication and dissemination of scientific and popular reports, 
showed some accomplishment. Several short papers were published 
during the year and one long report was in the final stages of printing 
at the Government Printing Office. By the end of the fiscal year 10 
manuscripts had been completed and submitted for publication. 

During the year six River Basin Surveys field jiarties operated in the 
Missouri Basin. In July, August, and September one party visited 57 
previously located sites in the Fort Randall Reservoir and carried on 
test excavations in 18 of them. Test pits were dug and surface collec- 
tions of artifacts were made at the other 39 sites. Many of them were 
actually in the process of being inundated by the rising waters of the 
reservoir at the time the party visited them. A total of 5 previously 



36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

unrecorded sites were located in addition to the 57 examined and 
sample collections were made from each. During August, September, 
and October another party made an intensive reconnaissance and 
tested major sites in the Oahe Reservoir area in north central South 
Dakota. The purpose of that party was to locate new and unrecorded 
sites in the area, to visit all the old sites reported in previous years 
in order to reevaluate them in terms of new information, and to test 
extensively those which seemed to warrant full-scale exploration in 
order to determine the minimum amount of digging necessary to obtain 
a fair sample from each. The party accomplished all three objec- 
tives. Eleven previously unknown sites were recorded and tests made 
in them. A total of 89 previously located sites were revisited and 
tests of varying intensiveness were made in 45. 

In May 1954 a reconnaissance party returned to the Fort Randall 
Reservoir to obtain further information from several additional sites 
for which the data were not conclusive. The party found that several 
of those scheduled for study had already gone under water but by the 
end of the fiscal year 13 had been visited and more or less intensively 
investigated. Extensive excavations were carried out at three of them. 
At one a circular house and an exterior cache pit were dug, and at 
another stratified camp remains were trenched. At the end of the 
year the party was clearing debris from the ruins of an earth lodge. 
A second party also went to the Fort Randall Reservoir in May to 
complete investigations at a large earth-lodge village which had been 
occupied by at least two groups of prehistoric Indians and where con- 
siderable work had been done during two previous seasons. At the 
end of the year that party was still in the field, having excavated earth 
lodges, palisade trenches, and cache pits, establishing not only the 
two occupations previously noted but a third one as well. The evi- 
dence obtained indicates that the three occupations took place at vari- 
ous times between A. D. 1500 and 1700. At the end of the year the 
water of the reservoir had already risen to the lower edges of the site 
and it was expected that by mid-July tlie entire area would be under 
several feet of water. 

A third party went to the Garrison Reservoir in North Dakota in 
May and resumed excavations at the site of Fort Berthold II where 
extensive digging had been done during the 1952 field season. Shortly 
after arriving at the location the River Basin Surveys party joined 
forces with one from the State Historical Society of North Dakota 
which was working under a cooperative agreement with the National 
Park Service. As a single unit, the combined group completed the 
excavation of all features of the site of Fort Berthold II, which was 
occupied by both fur traders and American military forces from about 
1858 to 1890. The group then turned its attention to the remains of 
the adjacent Indian village where considerable digging had been done 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 37 

in previous years by the North Dakota Society. During the progress 
of the operations the remains of Fort Berthold I, an earlier fur-trading 
post dating from 1845 to 1862, were located and uncovered. The orig- 
inal post had been burned by the Sioux Indians and earth lodges 
erected over the site. For that reason its location was long in doubt 
and it was a fortunate circumstance that it was found because much 
previously unknown information on the fur trade during the middle 
nineteenth century was obtained. At the end of the fiscal year the joint 
field party was occupied with the remains of Indian houses located 
between the two trading posts. No further work will be possible there 
after the 1954 field season because the Garrison Reservoir was to cover 
it before the end of the summer. Heavy equipment was used with 
marked success during the digging at the Garrison Reservoir. By 
using a road grader and a bulldozer it was possible to define for the 
first time the entire course of the palisade which originally enclosed the 
oldest portion of the Indian village. As a result of the investigations, 
a complete detailed map of the entire Indian village and the tAvo Fort 
Bertholds could be made. 

The fourth party went to the Jamestown Reservoir area in east- 
central North Dakota early in June. It devoted three weeks to a sur- 
vey of the upper end of the basin, locating five new sites of which three 
were tested. The remaining time was spent digging at the location of 
a former earth-lodge village where excavations were started during 
the 1952 field season. The work of the 1954 season determined the 
limits of the village and added enough new infonnation to make pos- 
sible a fairly accurate description of early eighteenth centuiy Mandan 
culture in that part of the Plains. There were other sites in the area 
w^hich merited further study but since flooding was already well under 
way, no additional work could be done. The party had returned to the 
headquarters at Lincoln by the end of the fiscal year. 

During July two of the temporary staff members assisted a joint 
party from Kansas State College and the Laboratory of Anthropology 
of the University of Nebraska in excavations at a site in the Tuttle 
Creek Reservoir in northeastern Kansas. The site was partially dug 
by a River Basin Surveys group in June 1953 but it was not possible 
to complete the work that had been started before the party had to 
return to the Lincoln headquarters. Since portions of an earth lodge 
and other village features had been uncovered, it was essential to 
finish those investigations and to accomplish that end the cooperative 
effort was organized under the sponsorship of Kansas State College. 
The information obtained helps to explain a little-known phase of the 
history of that particular district. 

During the year the Laboratory at Lincoln processed 27,965 speci- 
mens from 181 sites in 3 reservoir areas and 5 unassignable sites. A 
total of 5,346 catalog numbers were assigned to the series of specimens. 



38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

As of June 30, 1954, archeological materials from 1,496 sites in reser- 
voir areas and from 43 sites outside reservoir areas where loss from 
other construction was imminent had been cataloged. The work in 
the laboratory also included: reflex copies of record sheets, 9,488; 
photographic negatives, 2,160; photographic prints, 12,367; prints 
mounted to illustrate manuscripts, 220 ; photographic transparencies 
mounted in glass, 188 ; drawings, tracings, and maps, 211 ; pottery ves- 
sels restored, 5 ; pottery vessel sections restored, 145 ; specimens drawn 
for illustration, 57; plate layouts for manuscripts, 122; restorations 
of human crania, 10. 

Interpretative displays showing the scope and results of archeologi- 
cal investigations in the Missouri Basin were installed from time to 
time in the windows of the laboratory in the business section of Lin- 
coln and in one of the main banks of the city. A special display ex- 
plaining the archeological salvage program was also installed at the 
Nebraska State Fair held at Lincoln during September. The latter 
attracted considerable attention from visitors to the fair. 

Paul L. Cooper, archeologist, was at the Lincoln headquarters at 
the beginning of the fiscal year and did not make any field trips during 
the summer of 1953. He devoted the months at the laboratory to the 
completion of a summary report of the INIissouri Basin salvage pro- 
gram during the calendar years 1950-51. He also completed for pub- 
lication a technical report on the excavations made at the Heart Butte 
Reservoir during a previous season. In addition he worked on a report 
of investigations in three burial mounds, two near the location of the 
former Wlieeler Bridge and the White Swan Mound which was in the 
area of the spillway of the Fort Randall Dam. A report on the human 
skeletal material is being prepared by Dr. ^Marshall T. Newman of the 
U. S. National Museum and will appear as an appendix to the archeo- 
logical report. Mr. Cooper participated in the sessions of the Eleventh 
Conference for Plains Archeology held at Lincoln in November. On 
May 16 he proceeded to the Fort Randall Reservoir area in South Da- 
kota and directed an intensive test survey of 13 sites and carried on 
excavations in 3 sites. Some of them had already been partially inun- 
dated and others were flooded shortly after they were investigated. 
At the end of the fiscal year he was continuing his operations in the 
Fort Randall area. 

Robert B. Cumming, archeologist, was at the headquarters in Lin- 
coln at the start of the fiscal year. On July 27 he left for the Fort 
Randall Reservoir area in charge of a party which was to make inten- 
sive test surveys during the period extending to September 12. After 
instructing the party as to the proper procedure, he returned to the 
Lincoln headquarters and devoted his time to analj^zing and prepar- 
ing a report on the results of his previous investigations in that area. 
During the time he was at the laboratory Mr. Cumming completed a 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 39 

technical report on the excavations which he had made at the Tuttle 
Creek Dam in Kansas the previous year. He also prepared a special 
report concerning the archeological potentialities of the Powder River 
Basin in Wyoming. In November he participated in the Eleventh 
Conference for Plains Archeology, presenting 3 papers. On May 17 
he returned to the Fort Randall Reservoir area and resumed excava- 
tions at a site where work had been done during two previous field 
seasons. On May 31 he returned to the field headquarters leaving his 
party under the direction of Harold A. Huscher. Mr. Gumming re- 
signed from the River Basin Surveys on June 6 after having been 
with the Missouri Basin Project from its inception in 1946. 

Harold A. Pluscher, field assistant, was in direct charge of the field 
party in the Fort Randall area from July 27 to September 12. He 
worked under the general supervision of Robert B. Cumming. Dur- 
ing the time he was in the field he supervised the testing of 18 sites and 
located 5 which were previously unrecorded. After returning to the 
field headquarters at Lincoln, Mr. Huscher completed a report on the 
summer's work. He returned to the university for graduate work dur- 
ing the fall and winter and rejoined the River Basin Surveys in June 
when he took charge of the excavating party, which had been under 
Mr. Cumming's direction, in the Fort Randall area. At the end of the 
fiscal year, Huscher and his group were busy stripping a large area 
and uncovering house remains at the important Oldham site. 

G. H. Smith, archeologist, rejoined the staff of the Missouri Basin 
Project in May and proceeded to the Garrison Reservoir area in North 
Dakota where he resumed excavations at the site of Fort Berthold II 
and Like-a-Fishhook village. Smith was subsequently joined by Alan 
R. Woolworth, curator of the Museum of the State Historical Society 
of North Dakota, and his group of laborers and the combined parties 
worked as a unit in carrying on the excavations. In addition to com- 
pleting the investigation of Fort Berthold II which Smith had started 
in the summer of 1952, various Indian house remains were cleared and 
the original Fort Berthold, which was established by the American Fur 
Company in 1845, was located. In addition to those activities, the 
general base map of the entire area which had been started in 1952 
was completed. This provides for the first time an adequate historical 
and archeological map of the entire site. The joint field party was 
still at work there at the close of the fiscal year. During the year Mr. 
Smith completed the detailed technical report on the excavations which 
he made in a previous season at the site of Fort Stevenson, also in the 
Garrison area. 

During the fiscal year Robert L. Stephenson, chief of the Missouri 
Basin Project, devoted the major portion of his time to directing the 
operations of the project. In addition, however, he prepared a series 

326511—55 4 



40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

of summary statements on the T years of the project's activities. He 
also virtually completed a technical report, "Archeological Investiga- 
tions in the Whitney Reservoir Area, Hill County, Texas," and pre- 
pared an article on salvage archeology for the Bible Archeological 
Digest and a paper, "Taxonomy and Chronology in the Central Plains- 
Middle Missouri River Area," which was published in the Plains An- 
thropologist, No. 1. He also took an active part in the Eleventh 
Conference for Plains Archeology and presented a paper at the Sixty- 
fourth Annual Meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences in 
Omaha. He gave the principal address at the Semiannual Meeting 
of the Missouri Archeological Society held in Kansas City in May. 
In June he made a tour of inspection, visiting the various field parties 
working in the Missouri Basin. 

Richard Page Wheeler, archeologist, was at the field headquarters 
at the beginning of the fiscal year working on reports covering his 
previous investigations. On August 13 he proceeded to the Oahe 
Reservoir area in South Dakota where until October 9 he, with two 
assistants, made an intensive survey of the lower section of the area. 
In the course of the work 82 previously recorded sites were visited and 
16 new ones were discovered. In a number of instances material new 
to the Oahe area was noted and one of the sites gave evidence of five 
successive occupations. After returning to headquarters Wheeler de- 
voted the winter and spring months to work on technical reports con- 
cerning excavations made in previous seasons at the Angostura, 
Boysen, and Keyhole reservoirs in South Dakota and Wyoming. He 
completed two articles; one, "Selected Projectile Point Types of the 
United States: II," was published in the Bulletin of the Oklahoma 
Anthropological Society, vol. 2, while the other, "Two New Pro- 
jectile Point Types: Duncan and Hanna Points," was printed in the 
Plains Anthropologist, No. 1. He participated in the Eleventh Con- 
ference for Plains Archeology and attended the Sixty-fourth Annual 
Meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences where he presented a 
paper, "New Contributions to the Archeology of Oahe Reservoir." 
At that time he was elected chairman of the anthropology' section for 
the Sixty-fifth Annual Meeting of the Academy. On June 3 Wheeler 
proceeded to the Jamestown Reservoir in North Dakota and resumed 
excavations at a site where he dug in 1952. While that work was 
going on he also made a survey of the upper end of the reservoir basin. 
The Jamestown investigations were completed and Wheeler returned 
to the Lincoln Office on June 30. 

Tennessee. — The only work done in Tennessee during the year was 
the detailed surveys of the Cheatham Lock and Dam and Old Hickory 
Lock and Dam projects on the Cumberland River near Nashville. A 
brief preliminary reconnaissance of the area in June 1953 indicated 
that a more extended examination was warranted and arrangements 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 41 

were made for further investigations. During the period from May 17 
to June 2 both projects were covered on foot, by vehicle, by boat, and 
by two flights over them in light planes for photographic purposes. 
The Cheatham Dam is located 35 river miles below Nashville and 
the reservoir it impounds will be about 67.5 river miles long. Twenty 
archeological sites were found in the area but only one will be affected 
by the flooding of the basin. The others, lying on the second and 
third bottoms or higher slopes will not be in danger. The one which 
will be involved represents an Archaic horizon and test digging in it 
was recommended. At one of the higher-level locations a fluted point 
was found in association with a series of nondescript flakes and chips. 
This indicates that the Paleo-Indian was in the area, although there 
may not be a true site for that horizon. The Old Hickory Dam is 
located 25 river miles upstream from Nashville and 2 river miles below 
the town of Old Hickory. The reservoir which it forms will extend 
97.3 river miles above it. Twenty-three archeological sites were found 
within the limits of the proposed pool. The sites comprise 18 Archaic, 
1 Middle Mississippi, 1 cave of undetermined cultural affiliations, al- 
though probably Middle Mississippi, and 3 which did not give suf- 
ficient surface evidence to permit identification. Test excavations 
were recommended for four of the sites. 

Cooperating institutions. — As in previous years, a number of State 
and local institutions cooperated in the Inter- Agency Salvage Pro- 
gram. In a few cases State groups carried on independently, but 
correlated their activity closely with the over-all operations. Most of 
the projects, how^ever, were under agreements between the National 
Park Service and the various agencies. In Indiana the Historical 
Society continued to include surveys of proposed reservoir areas in its 
general program for archeological investigations in that State and 
made reports on the results of its work. The Ohio State Archeological 
and Historical Society again conducted salvage operations in several 
localities. The Alabama Museum of Natural History and the Bir- 
mingham Anthropological Society voluntarily investigated the situa- 
tion along the Coosa River Valley where a series of dams was planned 
by the Alabama Power Company. Louisiana State University made a 
survey of the construction area for a new river channel at the mouth 
of Old River in Louisiana. The cooperative efforts of the Kansas 
State College and Laboratory of Anthropology of the University of 
Nebraska at the Tuttle Creek Dam have already been discussed. 

Institutions working under agreements with the National Park 
Service and the projects undertaken were: the University of Calif- 
ornia, Berkeley, in the summer of 1953 completed the excavation of 
sites in the Nimbus and Redbank Reservoir basins, obtaining impor- 
tant data from the latter, and in the late spring of 1954 began investi- 
gations in the Monticello Reservoir basin ; the University of Missouri 



42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

excavated in the Table Rock Reservoir area on the White River in 
Missouri during the summer of 1953 and returned to the same area in 
June 1954; during the first quarter of the year the University of 
Kansas completed excavation at four sites in the Fort Randall 
Reservoir basin in South Dakota; the Nebraska State Historical 
Society started a series of excavations on June 10 at the Crow Creek 
site in the Fort Randall Reservoir basin and had just gotten well under 
way at the end of the fiscal year; the University of Nebraska State 
Museum completed work on a portion of one site in the Medicine 
Creek Reservoir area in western Nebraska at the end of July and then 
moved to the Big Sandy project in southwestern Wyoming where a 
number of sites were investigated during the month of August, 
paleontological studies being conducted on a voluntary basis at several 
locations in the Missouri Basin by the same organization ; as previously 
noted, the State Historical Society of North Dakota resumed its 
activities at the Garrison Reservoir, North Dakota, in May and was 
still at work at the end of the fiscal year ; the University of Oklahoma 
was preparing to start surveys late in June at the Norman, Foss, and 
Fort Cobb reservoir projects in that State ; the University of Oregon 
excavated at sites in The Dalles Reservoir on the Oregon side of the 
Columbia River in the summer of 1953 and returned to the same 
locality for the 1954 field season; a joint party of the W. H. Over 
Museum of the University of South Dakota and South Dakota 
Archeological Commission completed excavation at the Spotted Bear 
and Cottonwood sites in the Oahe Reservoir area in South Dakota in 
the first quarter of the year and in June returned to the same basin 
and started digging at the Swan Creek site; the University of Utah 
was preparing to start a basin-wide survey in the Missouri Basin at 
the close of the fiscal year ; the University of Washington carried on 
excavations at the Wakemap Mound on the Washington side of the 
Columbia River at The Dalles Reservoir project during the first quar- 
ter and returned to the same location in June. In the case of the three 
cooperating groups in the Missouri Basin, the River Basin Surveys 
assisted the field activities by the loan of vehicles and other equipment. 

ARCHIVES 

Mrs. Margaret C. Blaker, archivist for the Bureau, continued her 
program of reorganizing the manuscript and photographic collections 
in addition to the usual daily routine. 

From time to time the photographic and manuscript collections of 
the archives are enriched by gifts from persons who find old or rare 
items in their possession. During the past fiscal year among the more 
important additions received were the following : 

About 100 prints and IG glass-plate negatives of California Indians made 
ca. 1889-95 by the Rev. H. C. Meredith, a missionary. Received through John 
Witthoft, Pennsylvania State Museum. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 43 

Twenty mounted stereoscopic views of ethnological subjects made on the 
Geographical Explorations and Surveys West of the 100th Meridian ("Wheeler 
Surveys") of 1871, 1873 and 1874. Gift of Vincent McMullen, Washington, D. C. 

Thirty photographic prints of Crow Indians made by Dr. Dixon on the Wanna- 
maker expedition to the Plains, 1909-13. Received through Dr. Georg Neumann. 

The following photographs were received through loan for copying : 

Fifty-seven original prints of Kiowa and Comanche Indians made in and 
around Fort Sill, Okla., on the Kiowa Reservation in the lS90's by various 
photographers, including George W. Bretz. Lent by F. B. Shuler, Hamilton, 
Ohio. 

Photographic print (copy), a portrait of Billy Bowlegs, Seminole leader, 
thought to have been made in 1852. Lent by H. P. Kennedy, Tampa, Fla. 

Photograph of a Kansa delegation to Washington in winter of 1909-10. 
Lent by Vincent McMullen, Washington, D. C. 

Identifications of a number of portraits of Kiowa and Comanche 
Indians living on the Kiowa Keservation in the 1890's were supplied 
by Arthur R. Lawrence, Lawton, Okla., who obtained the information 
from descendants or contemporaries of the individuals portrayed. 

ILLUSTRATIONS 

During the past fiscal year, E. G. Schumacher, illustrator, con- 
tinued the preparation of illustrations, charts, maps, and diagTams 
for publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, including 
those of the River Basin Surveys. Time was also taken to prepare and 
execute many miscellaneous diagrams, drawings, and other illustrative 
materials for different branches of the Institution. 

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS 

There were issued 1 Annual Report and 3 Bulletins, as follows : 

Seventieth Annual Roport of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1952-1953. 

ii+33 pp. 1954. 
Bulletin 152. Index to Schoolcraft's "Indian Tribes of the United States," 

compiled by Frances S. Nichols, vi-f 257 pp. 1954. 
Bulletin 154. River Basin Surveys Papers : Inter-Agency Archeological Sal- 
vage Program. Nos. 1-6. xviii-f 336 pp., 56 pis., 40 figs. 1953. 
No. 1. Prehistory and the Missouri Valley Development Program: Sum- 
mary report on the Missouri River Basin Archeological Survey in 1948, 
by Waldo Wedel. 
No. 2. Prehistory and the Missouri Valley Development Program: Sum- 
mary report on the Missouri River Basin Archeological Survey in 1949, 
by Waldo R. WadeL 
No. 3. The Woodruff Ossuary, a prehistoric burial site in Phillips County, 

Kansas, by Marvin F. Kivett. 
No. 4. The Addicks Dam sites : 
L An archeological survey of the Addicks Dam basin. Southeast Texas, 

by Joe Ben Wheat. 
II. Indian skeletal remains from the Doering and Kobs sites, Addicks 
Reservoir, Texas, by Marshall T. Newman. 



44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

No. 5. The Hodpes site: 

I. Two rock shelters near Tucumcari, New Mexico, by Herbert W. Dick, 

II. Geology of the Hodges site, Quay County, New Mexico, by Sheldon 
Judsou. 

No 6. The Rembert Mounds, Elbert County, Georgia, by Joseph R. Cald- 
well. 
Appendix. List of River Basin Surveys reports published in other series. 
Bulletin 156. The Iroquois Eagle Dance, an offshoot of the Calumet Dance, 
by William N. Fenton, with an analysis of the Iroquois Eagle Dance and 
songs, by Gertrude Prokosch Kurath. vi+324 pp., 28 pis., 36 figs. 1953. 

The following publications were in press at the close of the fiscal 
year: 

Bulletin 157. Anthropological Papers, Nos. 43-48. 

No. 43. Stone Monuments of the Rio Chiquito, Veracruz, Mexico, by Mat- 
thew W. Stirling. 
No. 44. Tlie Cerro de las Mesas offering of jade and other materials, by 

Philip Drucker. 
No. 45. Archeological materials from the vicinity of Mobridge, South 

Dakota, by Waldo R. Wedel. 
No. 46. The original Strachey vocabulary of the Virginia Indian language, 

by John P. Harrington. 
No. 47. The Sun Dance of the Northern Ute, by J. A. Jones. 
No. 48. Some manifestations of water in Mesoamerican art, by Robert L. 
Rands. 
Bulletin 158. River Basin Surveys Paper No. 7. Archeological Investigations 

in the Oahe Dam area, South Dakota, 1950-51, by E>onald J. Lehmer. 
Bulletin 159. The Horse in Blackfoot Indian culture, with comparative ma- 
terial from other western tribes, by John C. Ewers. 
Bulletin 160. A ceramic study of Virginia archeology, by Clifford Evans, with 
an appendix on an analysis of projectile points and large blades, by C. G. 
Holland. 

Publications distributed totaled 21,229, as compared with 38,596 
for the fiscal year 1953. 

COLLECTIONS 
Ace. No. 

194273. Casts of vessels and figurines excavated at Cerro de las Mesas, Veracruz, 

Mexico, in 1941. Original material collected by Dr. M. W. Stirling, 
1948. 

194274. Potsherds and figurines excavated at La Venta, Tabasco, Mexico. Col- 

lected by Philip Drucker, 1942. 
195872. Twenty-five pottery vessels from Veraguas, Panama. Collected by Dr. 

M. W. Stirling, 1951. 
200850. Nine gold, copper, and pottery objects from Panama (1951), and 2 

archaic pottery figurines from Mexico (1946), Collected by Dr, M. W. 

Stirling. 
201030. Eleven stone beads from Veraguas, Panama (1949), and 1 efBgy bird 

from Veracruz. Mexico, Collected by Dr. M. W. Stirling, 
201671, Pottery ves.sel from Panama. Collected by Dr. M. W. Stirling, 1951, 
202489, Twenty-six ethnographical specimens from a sub-Andean Indian tribe 

of Colombia, S. A. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 45 

196412. Miscellaneous bones of 7 species of mammals from Sapeloe Island, Ga., 
carlion-14 determined age about 3,800 years. Through Dr. A. J. 
Waring. 

199026, 201100. One snake, 1 gecko, 3 grasshoppers, and 6 marine mollusks from 
Taboga Island, Panama Bay, collected by Dr. U. W. Stirling, 1033. 

FROM RIVER BASIN SURVEYS 

199132. Eighteen archeological specimens from 4 sites in Albeni Falls Keser- 

voir area, Pend Oreille Kiver, Bonner Co., Idaho. Collected by Joel L. 
Shiner, 1952. 

199133. Ninety archeological specimens from 2 sites in Cachuma Reservoir area 

on Santa Ynez Kiver, Santa Barbara Co., Calif. Collected by Albert 
D. Mohr, 1952. 

199134. 650 archeological specimens from Site 45 BN 3. McNary Reservoir, Co- 

lumbia Kiver, Benton Co., Wash. Collected by Dr. Douglas Osborne, 

1948. 
199267. Two bird bones from North-South Dakota area. Through Robert L. 

Stephenson. 
199210, 200377. Thirty fresh-water mussels from archeological sites in the Mis- 
souri Basin. Through Robert L. Stephenson. 
199430. Fifty-seven Oligocene fossil mammal specimens from Canyon Ferry 

Reservoir area in Montana, collected by Dr. Theodore E. White, June 

1953. 
200125. Pottery, stone, bone, and shell artifacts and human skeletal material 

from the Woodruff Ossuary, Phillips Co., Kans. Collected by Marvin 

L. Kivett, 1946. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Dr. Frances Densmore, Dr. John R. Swanton, Dr. Antonio J. War- 
ing, Jr., and Ralph S. Solecki continued as colhiborators of the Bureau 
of American Ethnology. 

On April 30, 1954, Dr. John P. Harrington retired after 39 years' 
service as ethnologist on the staff of the Bureau. Upon his retire- 
ment he was appointed research associate of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion and will continue his linguistic studies in that capacity. 

Information was furnished during the past year by members of 
the Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning the Amer- 
ican Indians, past and present, of both continents. The increased 
number of requests from teachers, particularly from primary and 
secondary grades, from Scout organizations, and from the general 
public, indicates a rapidly growing interest in the American Indian. 
Various specimens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on them 
furnished for their owners. 

Respectfully submitted. 

M. W. Stirling, Director. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the Astrophysical Observatory 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera- 
tions of the Astroi)hysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended June 
30, 1954 : 

The Observatory includes two research divisions: (1) The Division 
of Astrophysical Research, which since 1890 has carried on studies 
related to solar radiation, and (2) the Division of Radiation and Or- 
ganisms founded in 1929 for studies of the effects of radiation upon 
plants and animals. No alterations in the observatory buildings other 
than minor repairs have been made. Air conditioning was installed 
in the instrument shop to protect precision equipment from corrosion. 

On September 11, 1953, the Astrophysical Observatory suffered an 
irreparable loss in the sudden death of William H, Hoover, Chief of 
the Division of Astrophysical Research. Mr. Hoover was outstand- 
ing in research accomplislmients and in his comprehensive knowledge 
of the details of our work. His loss is sincerely mourned by all his 
associates. No successor has as yet been chosen. 

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH 

At the Observatory's two high-altitude observing stations, Monte- 
zuma in northern Chile and Table Mountain in southern California, 
certain developments concerning the quality of the skies are somewhat 
disturbing. Twenty-five miles to the north of Montezuma, extensive 
copper-mining interests have recently changed from electrolytic to 
smelting methods. As a result great quantities of gas and smoke are 
released to the surrounding atmosphere. It is hoped that the prevalent 
strong afternoon trade winds will dissipate much of this smoke. At 
Table Mountain, a gradual increase of haze probably associated with 
the smog of southern California has been noted. 

"Work in Washington. — The time of the staff, in addition to furnish- 
ing requested information to interested scientists and others, was spent 
as follows : 

1'. Correcting the proofs of volume 7 of the Annals of the Astro- 
physical Observatory and checking the many hundreds of thousands 
of digits included in the tables. Some time was also required in prep- 
aration for the final issuance of the 9th Revised Edition of the Smith- 
sonian Physical Tables which occurred in June 1954. 

2. Analyzing, appraising, recomputing where doubtful, and tabu- 
lating the solar-constant record as received from the field stations, 
for the year 1953. 

46 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 47 

3. Previous reports have mentioned the radiation measurements 
made by the division under contract with the Office of the Quarter- 
master General in connection with Quartermaster Corps researches 
to determine the causes for the deterioration of exposed textiles. The 
work was begun early in 1945 with the preparation of proper equip- 
ment to measure the total sun and sky radiation received upon the 
fabrics, both in the open, and under various filters. Actual measure- 
ments began at Camp Lee, Va., in December 1945 and continued 
through November 1947. To determine the effect of a moist, sea-level 
environment, similar exposures and measurements were made at 
Miami, Fla., during 1948 and 1949. These also included spectrobolo- 
metric measurements made with equipment formerly used in solar- 
constant measurements at Tyrone, N. Mex. In 1950-53 similar ex- 
posures and measurements were made at Montezuma, Chile, a dry, 
high-altitude station. A summary of all these measurements is given 
in volume 7 of the Annals, chapter 6. The contract between the Office 
of the Quartermaster General and the Smithsonian Institution expired 
September 30, 1953. Subsequent to this a complete inventory of all 
equipment acquired was prepared. Through the cooperation of the 
Quartermaster Corps, the Smithsonian Institution was permitted to 
purchase at reasonable cost the bulk of this equipment for continued 
use in the Astrophysical Observatory. 

4. In addition to routine calibrations of instruments used in the 
field, the following calibrations were made for others: 

(a) Mr. Mateer, of the Meteorological Service of Canada, brought 
silver-disk pyrheliometer S. I. 14 from the University of Toronto to 
Washington for recalibration. In spite of adverse weather conditions, 
satisfactory comparisons were made, indicating relatively little change 
in its constant since the last calibration in 1937. 

(5) One of three modified Angstrom pyrheliometers, purchased 
in 1951 from the Astrophysical Observatory by the Meteorological 
Service of the Belgian Congo, was accidentally injured in use. It was 
returned to us by air in May, rebuilt with new manganin strips and 
new thermoelements by instrumentmaker J. H. Harrison, recalibrated 
partly by Mr. Harrison and Mr. xYldrich in Washington and partly 
in the better skies of Table Mountain, Calif., and finally returned by 
air to the Belgian Congo. 

(c) With the help of T. H. MacDonald and Norman Foster of the 
IT. S. Weather Bureau, calibrations were made of a Weather Bureau 
normal-incidence Eppley pyrheliometer against our substandard pyr- 
heliometer. In addition, the Weather Bureau staff was interested in 
attempting to transform their silver-disk pyrheliometer S. I. 78 into 
an automatically recording instrument. Mr. Harrison of our staff 
inserted a copper-constantan thermoelement attached to the back of 
the silver disk of S. I. 78. Mr. Foster devised an automatic shutter 



48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

which quickly opened and closed the shutter precisely on the desired 
seconds. The thermoelement leads were fed through an amplifier to 
a Leeds and Northrup micromax recorder. Several sets of compari- 
sons were made between the automatic recorder and a silver-disk in- 
strument read as usual. These preliminary readings looked very 
promising and it is hoped in the near future to make further compari- 
sons to determine the relative accuracy of this, the first automatically 
recording silver-disk pyrheliometer. 

Work in the field. — At Montezuma, Chile, a change in personnel 
occurred in June 1954. John A. Pora, for five years assistant observer 
at this station, returned to Washington. Dr. James E. Zimmerman 
of our Table Mountain (Calif.) staff replaced him at Montezuma. 
Mr. Pora after an extended leave will proceed to Table Mountain. 

The Coast and Geodetic Survey has assigned a new seconds-pendu- 
lum precision clock to the Montezuma station, for use in the seismo- 
graphic work referred to in last year's report. 

At Table Mountain several special projects mentioned in previous 
reports have continued in operation. Further tests with the Harvard 
photometer and the filter pyranometer were made. The ozone studies, 
sponsored by Dr. Oliver R. Wulf, were materially aided by Dr. Zim- 
merman of our staff. This work is described in a paper by Drs. 
Wulf and Zimmerman entitled "A Method for the Measurement of 
Atmospheric Ozone Using the Absorption of Ozone in the Visible 
Spectrum," soon to be issued as vol. 123, No. 3, of the Smithsonian 
Miscellaneous Collections (Publication 4177). 

In 1952 Mr. Hoover and Mr. Froiland mounted the standard water- 
flow pyrheliometer at Table Mountain and made a long series of com- 
parisons against silver-disk pyrheliometer S. I. 5. The standard in- 
strument was then dismantled and returned to Washington. To set- 
tle an uncertainty which has arisen in discussing pyrheliometers with 
Dr. Abbot, it seemed advisable to return the standard to Table Moun- 
tain and have Mr. Froiland remount it as it was in 1952. The un- 
certainty concerned the magnitude of the error due to outgoing radia- 
tion to space emitted through the aperture of the pyrheliometer and 
also due to brightness of the sky around the sun visible through the 
aperture. Before shipping the instrument, Mr. Harrison built a 
plastic airtight box around the thermo junctions of the water-flow 
pyrheliometer to reduce drift due to convection currents. As the re- 
sult of Mr. Froiland's tests it is concluded that in clear skies the re- 
sulting error is negligible. 

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS 
(Report prepared by R. B. Witiirow, chief of the division) 

The form assumed by higher green plants under favorable condi- 
tions is determined by heredity and the complex of environmental f ac- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 49 

tors. Of the latter, light is one of the most important and determines 
both the rate of growth and the ultimate form that the plant assumes. 
The light factor exhibits its influence through various types of photo- 
chemical reactions. One of these is photomorphogenesis, the process 
by which light exerts its formative effect on higher green plants. In 
the absence of light but with adequate food reserves, the young plant 
fails to develop normal leaves and stems. The leaves are usually very 
small or rudimentary and the first formed stem nodes are much elon- 
gated. At germination, most dicotyledonous seedlings such as bean, 
tomato, and many others have an apical stem hook which disappears on 
exposure to weak light. In darkness, this hook never completely dis- 
appears. These formative effects are brought about by several photo- 
reactions which are activated chiefly by the red end of the visible spec- 
trum. The blue and green portions are relatively ineffective. 

This division has found that the apical stem hook is an excellent and 
reproducible test object for measuring the effect of various radiant- 
energy and chemical factors on the photomorphogenic response. If 
the hook is removed from the plant and placed in a petri dish on moist 
filter paper in complete darkness, it does not open for the first 20 to 24 
hours at 25° C. In the presence of very low energies of red light, 
however, the hook begins to open within a few hours. The rate of 
opening in degrees of angle is directly proportional to the logaritlim 
of the incident radiant energy. 

We have reported previously that the opening of the stem hook of 
6-day old Black Valentine beans is due to a differential growth reaction 
which can be mediated by the native auxin, indoleacetic acid (lAA) 
which tends to inhibit the effect of the photoreaction. The antiauxin, 
triiodobenzoic acid (TIBA) , which opposes the effect of auxin in many 
other plant responses, produces an effect similar to that of the photo- 
reaction. It causes the hook to open partially in complete darkness, 
although it does not appear to be able to reproduce completely the ef- 
fect of the photoreaction. Studies are now in progress to determine 
the kinetical relationships between auxin concentrations and red 
irradiance. 

Histological studies of sections from dark-treated bean hooks show 
that the hooking is caused by the retarded growth of a group of cells 
on the inside of the hook which are about 60 percent shorter than those 
on the outside. When the hooks are irradiated with red energy, these 
cells increase very rapidly in length, while those on the outside elongate 
relatively slowly. This differential growth causes the hook to dis- 
appear and the stem to straigthen. 

The effect of the red energy on initiating the early opening of the 
bean hook can be inhibited by a short exposure to far-red energy 
beyond 700 m/x. If the excised hooks are exposed to approximately 10 
milli joules of red energy (625 to 700 ni/x) and then placed in complete 



50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

darkness for 20 hours, the hook will open about 20° ; if the red ex- 
posure is followed by far-red energy in the range of 710 to 1,000 mju. of 
approximately 100 millijoules, the red effect is almost completely 
neutralized. The photoreversal can be repeated several times on the 
same section and the ultimate response is determined by the wave- 
lengths of the last given exposure. This work is being greatly ex- 
panded to determine quantitatively the relative energies required and 
the action spectrum of the photoreversal process. 

Studies have been completed on the effectiveness of various wave- 
lengths of the spectrum on the opening of the bean hook, using a series 
of interference filter monochromator units, the design of which was 
reported previously. With 10 of these units set up in a constant- 
temperature room, it has been possible to cover the spectrum from 365 
to 800 mfx at intervals of 10 to 20 m/A. The action spectrum has a strong 
maximum at 660 plus or minus 5 m;* and evidence of two weak maxima 
at 620 and 700 ni/x. There are no strong maxima in the blue or green. 
Work is now in progress on the isolation of a pigment with absorption 
maxima in the general regions indicated by the action spectrum. Thus 
far no success has been obtained in isolating such a pigment. 

Excised bean hooks have been exposed to X-ray dosages ranging 
from 500 to 8,000 roentgens. Dosages up to 2,000 r produce an 
opening of the dark-grown hooks which is proportional to dosage and 
which is, in effect, very similar to that produced by red light. Beyond 
4,000 r, increases in dosage produce a slight decrease in response. 
If the hooks are treated with weak red light after X-radiation there 
is a marked inhibition of the effect of the red energy if the X-ray 
dosage is more than 4,000 r, but a stimulation of the red reaction occurs 
with a dosage up to 2,000 r. Apparently, X-ray dosages below 1,000 r 
produce the same type of growth reaction as weak red light. It is 
not known as yet whether the two are participating in the same basic 
biochemical system. 

Studies on the effect of auxins on respiratory processes in relation- 
ship to mitochondrial activity have not to date shown any effect of 
indoleacetic acid, or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid or its ammonium 
salt, on the uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation in bean plants 
or rat livers. Active plant mitochondrial preparations have been se- 
cured from dark-grown Black Valentine bean plants germinated in 
gravel culture for 3 to 4 days at 25° C, using the apical stem hook 
sections to prepare the homogenate. 

EespectfuUy submitted. 

L. B. Aldrich, Director. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary/, Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the National Collection 
of Fine Arts 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activ- 
ities of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended 
June 30, 1954 : 

SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION 

The 31st annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commission was 
held in the Kegents Room of the Smithsonian Building on Tuesday, 
December 1, 1953. Members present were : Paul Manship, chairman ; 
Leonard Carmichael, secretary (member, ex officio) ; Robert Woods 
Bliss, Gilmore Clarke, Lloyd Goodrich, Walker Hancock, Archibald 
Wenley, Lawrence Grant White, Andrew Wyeth, and Mahonri Young, 
Thomas M. Beggs, director. National Collection of Fine Arts, was 
also present. 

Resolutions on the deaths of James Earle Fraser, John Taylor Arms, 
and Frank Jewett Mather were submitted and adopted. 

The Commission recommended to the Board of Regents the name 
of Reginald Marsh to succeed Mr. Arms and Charles H. Sawyer to 
replace Eugene E. Speicher. The Commission also recommended the 
reelection of Robert Woods Bliss, John Nicholas Brown, George 
Hewitt Myers, and Mahonri M. Young for the next 4-year period. 

The following officers were elected for the ensuing year : Paul Man- 
ship, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman; and Leonard 
Carmichael, secretary. 

The following were elected members of the executive committee for 
the ensuing year: David E. Finley, chairman, Robert Woods Bliss, 
Gilmore D. Clarke, and George Hewitt Myers. Paul Manship, as 
chairman of the Conunission, and Leonard Carmichael, as secretary 
of the Commission, are ex-officio members of the executive committee. 

Doctor Carmichael reported briefly on a bill (H. R. 5397), intro- 
duced by Representative Howell, "to provide for the establishment 
of a National War Memorial Arts Commission," and on how it might 
affect the National Collection of Fine Arts. 

The following objects were accepted by the Commission for the 
National Collection of Fine Arts : 

Oil, Major General George B. McCIellan (1826-85), by Julian Scott, A. N. A. 
(1846-1901). Bequest of Georgiana L. McCIellan. Accepted for the National 
Portrait Gallery. 

Oil, Lago Maggiore, c. 1867, by William Stanley Haseltine, N. A. (1835-1900). 
Gift of Mrs. Roger Plowden. 

51 



62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Oil, The Dedication of the American Roll of Honor at St. Paul's Cathedral, 
July 4, 1951, by Frank O. Salisbury (1874- ). Gift of the British Memorial 
Committee to the American people. Accepted for the Smithsonian Institution 
with recommendation that it be assigned to the department of history, U. S. 
National Museum. 

Oil, The Necklace, by Richard E. Miller, N. A. (1875-1943). Henry Ward 
Ranger bequest. 

Watercolor, Rev. George Heaton, M. A., by Edward Heaton (1824-?). Gift 
of Mrs. H. H. Germain. 

Two miniatures, watercolor on ivory. Captain Joseph Anthony, by Walter 
Robertson (177-1802), and Josiah Hewes Anthony, by James Peale (1749- 
1831 ) . Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Ruel P. Tolman. 

Miniature, watercolor on ivory, A Country Fair, by "Van Blarenberghe. Gift 
of Mrs. Henry DuPrfe Bounetheau. 

Miniature, watercolor on ivory, Unknown Woman, by an undetermined artist. 
Gift of Mrs. George Bullock-Willis, in memory of her mother, Mrs. James Madi- 
son Bullock (Anna Mary Garrow). 

Two bronzes, Rising Sun and Descending Night, by Adolph A. Weinman, N. A. 
(1870-1952) . Gift of Mrs. Adolph A. Weinman. 

Bronze, Edward R. Baldwin, N. A. (1864-1947), by Anthony dl Bona (1896- 
1951). Gift of Miss Charlotte GefEken. Accepted for the National Portrait 
Gallery. 

Seven award-winning pieces from the Fourth Annual Exhibition of Ceramic 
Art, 1953. Gift of The Kiln Club of Washington, D. C. : 

Toureen, by Peter H. Voulkos. Winner of the International Business Ma- 
chines Corporation award. 

Bowl, stoneware, by Alexander Giampietro. Winner of the Frank A. Jellefl 
award. 

Bottle, stoneware with black sand glaze, by Gordon C. Lawson. Winner of the 
B. F. Drakenfield award. 

Bowl, brush design, by Audrey C. Hayden. Winner of the George F. Muth 
award. 

Vase, red-brown glaze, by Vally Possony. Winner of the Popular Ceramics 
award. 

Bowl, reduction glaze, by Marion Beachem. Winner of the Arts and Crafts 
award. 

Bowl, stoneware with mottled glaze, by Ralph R. Fast, Winner of the Harper 
Electric Furnace award. 

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND 

Fourteen miniatures, watercolor on ivory, were acquired from the 
fund established through the bequest of the late Catherine Walden 
Myer, as follows : 

87. Peter Van Dyke (1807-52), by Mrs. J. Bogardus (1804-78). 

88. Mrs. Peter Van Dyke, by Mrs. J. Bogardus. 

89. Dr. Cook, by Washington Blanchard (fl. 1831-43). 

90. Member of the May field Family, attributed to Benjamin Trott (c. 1770- 
c. 1841). 

91. Mr. Drury, by Thomas E. Barratt (fl. 1837-54). 

92. Unidentified Gentleman, by Nathaniel Rogers (1788-1844) ; from S. R. 
McCuUoch, Kirkwood, Mo. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 53 

93. George Rundle, by John Smart, Jr. (1740/1-1811) ; from Edmund Bury, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 

94. Mrs. Gillis' great-great-grandmother, attributed to Rapbaelle Peale (1774- 
1825), and 

95. Mrs. Gillis' great-great-grandfather, attributed to Rapbaelle Peale (1774- 
1825) ; from Mrs. Lillian Duncan Gillis, Washington, D. C. 

Gfj. Man with Red Hair, by Alvan Clark (1804-87). 

97. Unknown Gentleman, by Sarah Goodridge (17SS-1S53). 

98. Unknown Young Lady, attributed to Henry Inman (1801-46). 

99. J. B., by Rapbaelle Peale (1774-1825). 

100. Unknown Lady, by John Ramage (1748-1802). 

Nos. 87 through 91, and 96 through 100 were acquired from Mr. and 
Mrs. Kuel P. Tolman. 

LOANS ACCEPTED 

Six oils, by Edmund C. Tarbell, N. A. (1862-1938) : Mr. Frick and 
Daughter Helen; In the Orchard; Mary Reading; Mrs. Tarbell as a 
Girl; Roses in Blue Vase; and a Self Portrait, were lent by Mrs. 
Josephine Tarbell Ferrell on July 16, 1953. 

A carved-ivory writing tablet, in leather case, was lent by the 
Misses Hollerith on February 1, 1954. 

Thirteen pieces of modern glass (2 Finnish, 5 French, 3 Swedish, 
and 3 American) were lent by Mr. and Mrs. Hugh J. Smith, Jr., on 
September 20, 1953, and one piece of Swedish glass was lent by Mr. 
Smith on April 12, 1954. 

Five pieces of modern glass, designed and produced by Frederick 
Carder, were lent by him on June 28, 1954. 

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS 

Oil, The Nativity, attributed to Otto van Veen, lent by Dr. Anton 
Gloetzner in 1910, was withdrawn by his son, Alwin A. Gloetzner, on 
October 23, 1953. 

Oil, Portrait of a Dutch Lady, by Michel Janszoon van Miereveld, 
lent in 1931 by the estate of Henry Cleveland Perkins, was withdrawn 
by the owner, Mrs. Mabel Ruggles, on April 6, 1954. 

Nine pieces of modern glass (1 Finnish, 4 French, and 4 Swedish) 
were withdrawn by Hugh J. Smith, Jr., on March 24, 1954, and seven 
pieces (2 American, 1 French, and 4 Swedish) were withdrawn on 
April 12, 1954. 

A pastel portrait of George Washington and a matching pastel por- 
trait of Martha Washington, by James Sharpies, were withdrawn 
with the consent of the owners for showing at the AVashington All 
Society Auction on April 22, 1954, and were returned on April 30, 1954. 



54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

ART WORKS LENT 

The following art works were lent for varying periods : 

To the Department of State, Washington, D. C. : 

July 13, 1953 Plymouth Hills, by John Wesley Beatty. 

Stable Interior, Horses and Groom, by John F. 

Herring. 
Birch Clad Hills, by Ben Foster. 
(Two oils, by Edwin Scott, from the Smith- 
sonian Lending Collection.) 

July 27, 1953 Left arm and gauntlet of suit of armor, for 

photographing. (Returned July 31, 1953.) 

October 28, 1953 The Continentals, by Frank Blackwell Mayer. 

November 10, 1953 Early Spring, by Alexander Theobald Van Laer, 

The Path to the Village, by John Francis Mur- 

piiy. 

(One oil, by Edwin Scott, from the Smith- 
sonian Lending Collection.) 

February 9, 1954 Moonrise, by Ralph A. Blakelock. 

Sunset, Navarro Ridge, California Coast, by 

Ralph Blakelock, 
September Afternoon, by George Inness. 
Lago Maggiore, by William Stanley Haseltine. 
To the Supreme Court, Washington, D. C. : 

December 8, 1953 A family of Birches, by Willard L. Metcalf. 

(Returned February 2, 1954.) 
A Group of Elk, Wind River Mountains, Wyo- 
ming, by Edwin W. Deming. 
Marine Study, by Franklin D. Briscoe. 

February 2, 1954 Tohikon, by Daniel Garber, 

To the U. S. Court of Military Appeals, Washington, D. C. : 

July 22, 1953 Night Attack on the Gen. Armstrong, Off Pico, 

Azores, by William B. Norton. 
Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its 
Way, by Emanuel Leutze. (Returned April 
15, 1954.) 

April 15, 1954 Laguna, New Mexico, by Albert L. Groll. 

To the American Institute of Architects, Washington, D. C. : 

August 21, 1953 Table, French, 18th century (P. 220). 

October 1, 1953 Model of prize-winning design for the Smith- 
sonian Gallery of Art, by Eliel Saariuen. 
To the United States Information Agency, to be included in the traveling exhibi- 
tion of American Drawings : 

December 18, 1953 The Devil's Tower from Johnston's, Crook 

County, Wyoming, by Thomas Moran. 
To the Bureau of the Budget, Washington, D. C. : 

September 18, 1953 Young Girl With Dog, by Edward P. Moran. 

(One oil, by Edwin Scott, and two pastels by 
Alice Pike Barney, from the Smithsonian 
Lending Collection. ) 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 55 

To IMckinson College, Carlisle, Pa., for a special exhibition of portraits by 
George P- A. Healy, November 12 tlirough 24, 1953 (shipped November 6, 
1953, aud returned December 4, 1953) : 

Col. Albert G. Brackett. 
Mrs. Joseph B. Collins. 
Gen. Albert J. Myer. 
Jlrs. Albert J. Myer. 
William G. Preston. 
Vinnie Ream (Mrs. Hoxie). 
Gen. William T. Sherman. 
Mrs. William T. Sherman. 
Self Portrait. 
To The Century Association, New York City, for a retrospective exhibition of 
the work of John C. Johansen, December 2, 1953, through January 10, 1954 
(shipped November 24, 1953, and returned January IS, 1954) : 

Hon. Earl of Balfour (sketch). 
Marshal Earl Haig (sketch and oil). 
Marechal Joseph Joffre (sketch and oil). 
Premier Ignace Jan Paderewski (sketch). 
To the Detroit Institute of Arts for a special exhibition January 19 through 
February 28, 1954 (shipped January 6 and returned March 18, 1954) : 

Chelsea Vase (P. 877). 
To the Joslyn Ai't Museum, Omaha, Nebr., for an Omaha Centennial exhibition, 
"Life on the Prairie, The Artist's Record," May 12 through July 4, 1954 
(shipped April 16, 1954) : 

Fired On, by Frederic Remington. 
Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way, 
by Emanuel Leutze. 
To the Institute of Contemporary Arts, Boston, Mass., for a special exhibition 
of the artist's work, May 19 through June 30, 1954 (shipped May 5, 1954) : 

Prince Kimmochi Saionji, by Charles Hopkinson. 
To the Department of Agriculture, Division of Entomology, for a special exhibi- 
tion during the month of June ( returned June 30, 1954) : 

Five pieces of 18th-century porcelain from the 
Pell collection showing insects as decorations. 

LOANS RETURNED 

Oil, Laguna, New Mexico, by Albert Lorey Groll, lent February 6, 
1953, to the TYliite House, was returned April 15, 1954. 

Two oils. Cliffs of the Upper Colorado River, Wyoming Territory, 
by Thomas Moran, and Moonlight, by Albert P. Ryder, lent January 
12, 1953, to the American Federation of Arts for an exhibition of 
19th-century American Paintings to be circulated in Germany, were 
returned June 2, 1954. 



326511—55- 



56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

SMITHSONIAN LENDING COLLECTION 

One watercolor, The Placid Potomac, by William H. Holmes 
(184G-1933), the gift of Mrs. George F. Becker, was added to the 
collection. 

One pastel, Portrait of Ali Kuli Khan, lent to the United States 
District Court for the District of Columbia on February 18, 1953, 
was withdrawn and returned to the owner, Ali Kuli Klian, on 
February 17, 1954. 

Three paintings by Edwin Scott were lent to the Department of 
State: The Cabs and St. Gervais, on July 13, 1953, and The 
Madeleine, on November 10, 1953. 

Two paintings were lent to the United States District Court for 
the District of Columbia : R. D. Shepherd as Shylock, by Alice Pike 
Barney, on July 28, 1953, and Ernest Lee Major, by S. Burtis Baker, 
on September 23, 1953. 

Three paintings were lent to the Bureau of the Budget: L'Heure 
Bleu a Paris, by Edwin Scott, and Village Street and Bar Harbor, by 
xilice Pike Barney, on September 18, 1953. 

Ten paintings by Edwin Scott were lent to the Department of 
Health, Education, and Welfare, on January 18, 1954 : La Concorde ; 
Marine ; Place de la Concorde No. 2 ; Porte Saint Martin No. 1 ; Rue de 
Village ; Rue des Pyramides ; Rue San Jacques, Paris ; St. Germain des 
Pres No. 1; The Seine at Paris, Pont de la Concorde; and Self 
Portrait. 

ALICE PIKE BARNEY MEMORIAL FUND 

An addition of $5,000 to the fund established in 1951 by Miss 
Natalie Clifford Barney and Mrs. Laura Dreyfus-Barney, in memory 
of their mother, for the purpose of encouraging the appreciation and 
creation of art in the United States, was received in January 1954. 

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND 

According to a provision in the Ranger bequest that paintings pur- 
chased by the Council of the National Academy of Design from the 
fund provided by the Henry Ward Ranger bequest and assigned to 
American art institutions may be claimed during the 5-year period 
beginning 10 years after the death of the artist represented, one paint- 
ing "The Necklace," by Richard E. Miller, N. A., was recalled and 
accepted by the Smithsonian Art Commission at its meeting on De- 
cember 1, 1953. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



57 



The following paintings, purchased by the Council of the National 
Academy of Design since the last report, have been assigned as 
follows : 



Title and Artist 

143. Alienation of the Fathoms (water- 

color), by Kenneth Nack (1923- 
). 

144. Facade (watercolor), by James W. 

Parr (1923- ). 

145. Black and White, by Alexander 

Brook, N. A. (189&- ). 

146. March, Vermont, by Emil A. Gruppe 

(1896- ). 

147. Abandoned, by George Picken (1898- 

). 

148. Bahnhof, by Eric J. Ryan, Jr. (1930- 

). 

149. Sea Life (watercolor), by Irene 

Saasto-Auuio (1919- ). 

150. End of Winter (watercolor), by A. 

Lassell Ripley (1896- ). 

151. Tower Bridge (watercolor), by Don- 

ald Teague, N. A. (1897- ). 

152. Bridge at Booth Bay (watercolor), 

by Edmond J. Fitzgerald (1912- 
). 

153. Back Country (watercolor), by 

Henry C. Pitz, N. A. (1895- ). 

154. Serviceman's Wife, by Ivan G. Olin- 

sky, N. A. (1878- ). 
1.55. The Shadow, by John Carroll, N. A. 
(1892- ). 

156. Carrousel Bridge, Paris, by Edwin 

Dickinson, N. A. (1891- ). 

157. The Outer Reefs, by Paul Wescott 

(1904- ). 

158. Ruins Along the Schuylkill, by 

Francis Speight, N. A. (1896- 
). 

159. City Streets (watercolor), by Herb 

Olson, A. N. A. (190.5- ). 

160. Autumn Fields (watercolor), by 

Tore Asplund, N. A. (1903- ). 

161. Morning Light, by Robert Nisbet, 

N. A. (1879- ). 

162. Industrial Landscape, by Thomas 

Yerxa (1923- ). 



Assignment 
University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebr. 



Detroit Institute of Art, Detroit, Mich. 

Roswell Museum, Roswell, N. Mex. 

Fort Wayne Art School and Museum, 

Fort Wayne, Ind. 
University of Texas, Austin, Tex. 

Smith College, Northhampton, Mass. 

Evansville Public Museum, Society of 
Arts, History and Science, Evans- 
ville, Ind. 
(Not yet assigned.) 

Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Rich- 
mond, Va. 

Bedford Carnegie Library, Bedford, 
Ind. 

Cleveland Museum of Art, Cleveland, 

Ohio. 
Birmingham Museum of Art, Birmtag- 

ham, Ala. 
University of Arizona, Tucson, Ariz. 

Bowdoin College, Museum of Fine 
Arts, Brunswick, Maine. 

Albany Institute of History and Art, 
Albany, N. Y. 

Rochester Memorial Art Gallery, Uni- 
versity of Rochester, Rochester, 
N. Y. 

Cayuga Museum of History and Art, 
Auburn, N. Y. 

Aslieville Art Museum, Asheville, N. C. 

Wesleyan CbUege, Macon, Ga. 

University of Pennsylvania, Wharton 
School of Finance and Commerce, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 



Embassy of Denmark; Friendship 
I Among Children and Youth Organiza- 
tion. 



58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

SMITHSONIAN TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE 

Fifty-one exhibitions were circulated during the past season, 46 in 
the United States and Canada, and 5 abroad, as follows : 

UNITED STATES AND CANADA 

Painting and Drawing 
Title Source 

American Natural Painters Galerie St. Etienne and private col- 
lectors. 
Children's Paintings from Forty-five 

Countries, I. 
Children's Paintings from Forty-five 

Countries, II. 
Children's Paintings from Forty-five 
Countries, III. , 

Children's Paintings from Japan United Nations Educational, Scientific, 

and Cultural Organization. 

Chinese Paintings by Tseng Yu-ho Art Institute of Chicago ; artist. 

Contemporary American Drawings American Academy of Arts and Letters ; 

artists. 

Fuseli Drawings Pro Helvetia Foundation in Zurich; 

Legation of Switzerland. 
German Drawings and Watercolors- Dr. Charlotte Weidler. 

Gloriana British Embassy; artist, John Piper. 

Paintings by Austrian Children Superintendent of Schools in Vienna ; 

Embassy of Austria. 
Seven Cuban Painters Institute of Contemporary Art in Bos- 
ton ; Pan American Union. 
Watercolors and Drawings by Ga- Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore; Rosen- 
varni. wald Collection, National Gallery of 

Art. 

Winslow Homer Drawings Cooper Union Museum ; American 

Academy of Arts and Letters. 

OrapMo Arts 

American Color Prints Library of Congress. 

Children's Books from Fifty Coun- U. S. Office of Education and State De- 
tries, partment. 

Children's Picture Books, I xxr ^- ^ t^ .. r^^^^^J3 . t» i tt. i 

^^.,^ , „.^ „ , ^^ Washington Post Children's Book Fair. 

Children s Picture Books, II 

Modern Swedish Bookbinding Swedish Association of Master Book- 
binders ; Embassy of Sweden. 

Prints, 1942-1952 Brooks Memorial Art Gallery ; artists. 

Woodcuts by Antonio Frasconi The Print Club of Cleveland ; The Cleve- 
land Museum of Art ; Weyhe Gallery ; 
artist. 

Architecture 

New Libraries American Institute of Architects. 

The Re-union of Architecture and American Institute of Architects. 

Engineering. 
The Crystal Palace Smith College Museum of Art; Massa- 
chusetts Institute of Technology. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 59 

Textiles 
Title Source 

Swedish Textiles Swedish Homecraft League; Friends of 

Textile Art ; Embassy of Sweden. 

Desiffn 

American Craftsmen University of Illinois, Urbana. 

Brazilian Landscape Architecture — Brazilian Embassy ; artist. 
New Designs by Roberto Burle 
Marx. 

Design from Britain Council of Industrial Design ; British Em- 
bassy. 

Furniture, Costume, and Textiles Index of American Design, National Gal- 
lery of Art. 

Textiles and Ceramics Museum of Cranbrook Academy of Art; 

artists. 

Photoyraphy 

Birds in Color, by Eliot Porter . Artist. 

Twenty-five Years on Ice Dr. Bradford Washburn. 

Veramics 

Artists and Potters of Vallauris, I Kene Bati.Lcno, Director, IMuseum of Val- 

Artists and Potters of Vallauris, II lauris, France. 

German Ceramics Professor G. von Pechmann, Director of 

the Museum for Applied Arts in Mu- 
nich ; The Diplomatic Mission of the 
Federal Republic of Germany. 

Folk Art 

Americana Index of American Design, National 

Gallery of Art. 

Eskimo Art, I . Eskimo Art, Inc.; Canadian Handicrafts 

Eskimo Art, II Guild. 

Norwegian Decorative Painting Norwegian Artists Guild; Embassy of 

Norway. 
Our Wide Land . Index of American Design, National 

Gallery of Art. 
Pennsylvania German Arts and Index of American Design, National 

Crafts. Gallery of Art. 

Popular Art in the United States Index of American Design, National 

Gallery of Art. 
The Art of the Spanish Southwest Index of American Design, National 

Gallery of Art. 

Oriental Art 
Chinese Gold and Silver — from the Dr. Carl Kempe; Embassy of Sweden. 
Kempe Collection. 

Ethnology 

Art and Magic of Aruhem Land Smithsonian Institution, Department of 

Anthropology. 
Carl Bodmer Paints the Indian Fron- Karl Viktor Priuz zu Wied ; The Dlplo- 
tier. matic Mission of the Federal Republic 

of Germany. 



60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

ABROAD 

American Drawings. 

Fine American Printing. 

High-Speed Pliotograpiiy. 

Beyond the Mississippi with George Catlin. 

The Story of American Glass. 

These displays were scheduled as an integral part of the program 
of the United States Information Agency and 121 museums and gal- 
leries located in 36 States, the District of Columbia and Canada. 
Special catalogs were published for each of the following important 
exhibitions: Fuseli Drawings; Watercolors and Drawings by 
Gavarni ; Carl Bodmer Paints the Indian Frontier ; and Chinese Gold 
and Silver in the Carl Kempe Collection (published in Sweden by the 
owner and lender, Dr. Carl Kempe) . Special acknowledgments for 
the Fuseli and Bodmer catalogs were written by Mrs. Annemarie H. 
Pope, chief of the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service. 

INFORMATION SERVICE AND STAFF ACTIVITIES 

In addition to the many requests for information received by mail 
and telephone, inquiries made in person at the office numbered 2,122. 
Examination was made of 748 works of art submitted for identifica- 
tion. 

The staff members of the National Collection of Fine Arts served 
on juries for 8 exhibitions, delivered 5 lectures (4 illustrated), partici- 
pated in 1 radio broadcast, and made 1 TV appearance. 

An article, "National Collection of Fine Arts, John Gellatly (1853- 
1931)," by Thomas M. Beggs, was printed in the summer, 1954, issue 
of the American Society Legion of Honor Magazine, and one by Paul 
V. Gardner, curator of ceramics, "Archaeological Highlights in the 
John Gellatly Collection," was published in the summer, 1954, issue of 
Archaeology. 

Rowland Lyon, exhibits preparator, held three special exhibitions: 
35 prints at the Division of Graphic Arts, United States National 
Museum, during December 1953; 49 oils, watercolors, prints, and 
sculptures, at George Washington University in May 1954; and 25 
block prints at the Galleria Clan, Madrid, Spain, during Jmie 1954. 

REPAIRS AND IMPROVEMENTS TO THE COLLECTION 

In continuance of the cleaning, revarnishing, and replacing in reno- 
vated frames or mounts, with the aid of the Museum's maintenance 
and repair staff, of 1,730 paintings, sculptures, and other objects, dur- 
ing the reorganization of the permanent exhibition in 1952-53, the 
following work was done during the past year: 

Seventy-two paintings and sculptures were cleaned, or revarnished, 
or otherwise renovated, for use on permanent exhibition or as loans. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 61 

Two hundred and twenty-nine paintings were removed from storage, 
inspected, and hung on screens in a reequipped and repainted air-con- 
ditioned room. 

A Chinese bronze buckle (269 GeHatly Collection) was renovated 
by Joseph Ternbach in September 1953. 

Ruins and Figures, by Guardi, and two portraits of Mr. and Mrs. 
Joshua Jolmson, formerly attributed to Trumbull, were X-rayed by 
the National Gallery of Art on November 18, 1953. 

The work of repairing the Turfan frescoes in the Gellatly Collection 
was undertaken by Doanda Wlieeler on June 18, 1954. 

In June 1954 Neshan G. Hintlian began renovation of the tapestry 
"Julius Caesar Crossing the Rubicon." 

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS 
Twelve special exhibitions were held during the year: 

8eptet)ilcr 4 through 27, 1953. — The Fourth Annual International Exhibition 
of Ceramic Arts, sponsored by the Kiln Club of Washington, consisting of 211 
pieces (77 by local ceramic artists; 17 by local and invited artists in stained 
glass; G4 by invited American artists, and 53 by artists of various nations 
through their respective Embassies or Legations in Washington). Demonstra- 
tions on the potter's wheel were given three times daily. A catalog was privately 
printed. 

Octoher 9 through 29, 1953. — "Beyond the Mississippi with George Catlin," 
consisting of 27 oil paintings of American Indians and views of the western 
United States, done by George Catlin between 1832 and 1836, and a portrait of 
George Catlin, by William Fisk. The Catlin paintings, lent by the Depart- 
ment of Anthropology of the United States National Museum, were assembled 
for the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service and were sent to Europe under 
the sponsorshij) of the United States Information Agency. A mimeographed 
catalog was provided. 

October 21 through Noveviber 29, 1953. — Exhibition of an oil painting, "The 
Dedication of the American Roll of Honor at St. Paul's Cathedral, July 4, 1951," 
by Frank O. Salisbury, presented to the American Nation on behalf of the British 
Memorial Committee, by Sir Roger Makins, Ambassador from Great Britain to 
the United States, and accepted for the American People by Adra. Arthur W. 
Radford, U.S.N., Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 

November 8 through 29, 1953. — The Sixteenth Metropolitan State Art Contest, 
held under the auspicies of the D. C. Chapter, American Artists Professional 
League, assisted by the Eutre Nous Club, consisting of 299 paintings, sculpture, 
prints, ceramics, and metalcraft. A catalog was privately printed. 

Decemher 6, 1953, through January 3, 195 4. — An exhibition of Children's Art 
from Division 1 of the Public Schools of Washington, D. C, consisting of about 
300 oil paintings ; watercolors ; sculptures in wood, ceramics, plaster, and wire ; 
mobiles; block-printed textiles; graphic arts; puppets; masks; examples of 
lettering; and publications. 

January 10 through 27, 1954- — An archeological exhibition, "From the Land of 
the Bible," assembled by the American Fund for Israel Institutions from 
museums and private collections all over the world, consisting of about 501 items. 
A catalog was privately printed. 

February 5 through 26, 1954. — The Sixty-second Annual Exhibition of the 



62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Society of Washington Artists, consisting of 108 paintings and 26 pieces of 
sculpture. A catalog was privately printed. 

March 7 through 2S, 1954. — The Fifty-seventh Annual Exhibition of the Wash- 
ington Water Color Club, consisting of 164 watercolors, etchings, and drawings. 
A catalog was privately printed. 

April 11 through 29, 1954. — The Biennial Art Exhibition of the National League 
of American Pen Women, consisting of 248 paintings, sculpture, prints, ceramics, 
and metalcraft. A catalog was privately printed. 

May 9 through 31, 1954. — The Twenty-first Annual Exhibition of the Miniature 
Painters, Sculptors, and Gravers Society of Washington, D. C, consisting of 235 
examples. A catalog was privately printed. 

May 9 through 31, 1954. — An exhibition of Dolls and Related Objects, by the 
Dollology Club of Washington, consisting of 900 items. A catalog was privately 
printed. 

June 15 through July 11, 1954- — A Loan Exhibition of Paintings, by Per Krohg, 
under the patronage of His Excellency, the Ambassador from Norway, Mr. Wil- 
helm Munthe de Morganstierue, consisting of 42 paintings. A catalog was 
privately printed. 

Kespectf ully submitted. 

Thomas M. Beggs, Director. 
Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

/Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the Freer Gallery of Art 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the Thirty-fourth Annual Report on 
the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1954. 

THE COLLECTIONS 

Thirty-eight objects were added to the collections by purchase as 
follows : 



53.80. Chinese, Late Cbou dynasty (4th-3cl century B. C). Pair of cast-bronze 

53.81. finials ; design inlaid with gold and silver ; some earthy incrustations and 
green patina. 0.040 x 0.061. 

53.82. Chinese, Late Chou dynasty (4th-3d century B. C). Gilt-bronze belt hook 

inlaid with carved and plain jade, covered here and there with green 
patination. 0.054 x 0.0'JO. 

53.83. Chinese, Early Chou dynasty (llth-lOth century B. C). Bronze cere- 

monial tripod vessel with cover, of type chio; decorations in intaglio and 
low relief; gray-colored bronze with patches of malachite and azurite. 
Inscription of 16 characters inside opposite handle and repeated inside 
cover. 0.224 x 0.095. (Illustrated.) 

53.88. Chinese, Late Chou dynasty (4th-3d century B. C). Gilt-bronze open- 

work belt hook ; designs inlaid with turquoise. Length : 0.245. 

54.13. Chinese, Shang dynasty (12th-llth century B. C). Vessel of the type 

fang i ; smooth gray to green iiatina ; decorations cast in low relief and 
intaglio. Inscription of one character inside body near lip. 0.191 x 
0.107 X 0.077. 

54.14. Chinese, Han dynasty (207 B. C-A. D. 220). Cast-bronze fitting, green 

patina. 0.150 x 0.040. 

54.15. Chinese, Shang dynasty (12th-llth century B. C). Ceremonial vessel of 

the type chiieh ; decorations cast in relief and intaglio ; gray-green patina 
with flecks of cuprite; four-character inscription under handle. 0.232 x 
0.187 X 0.103. 

JADE 

54.7. Chinese, Late Chou dynasty (4th-3d century B. C). Ornament; nephrite, 
white to mottled shades of brown. 0.057 x 0.050. 

METALWORK 

53.92 Persian, 3d to 7th century A. D., Sasanian period. Bottle stand consisting 
of a ring held up by four pairs of uprights fixed to a wide flat base, each 
pair framing a standing eagle. Broken and put together. 0.0S5 x 0.178. 

53.89. Syrian, 14th century, Mamluk period. Plate, inlaid with silver and gold to 

form designs of birds and other animals and inscriptions in circular 
bands. Some of the silvery inlay and nearly ail the gold has fallen 
out. 0.032 X 0.289. 

63 



64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

PAINTING 

53.91. Arabic (Mesopotaiuian), A. D. 1224 (Rajab 621 H.), Baghdad School, 
written by 'Abdullah ibn al-Fadl. Outdoor scene with mad dog biting 
man, onlooker with sword on left. An illustration on the recto of a leaf 
from an Arabic translation of the Materia Medica by Dioscorides. 
Opaque color and gold. Text in black naskhl on both sides. Captions 
on verso in rad. 0.332 x 0.2G0. (Illustrated.) 

53.78. Chinese, Ming dynasty, by T'ang Yin (A. D. 1470-1523.). Handscroll 

landscape entitled Nan Yu. Ink on paper; signatory inscription and 10 
seals on painting; 22 seals and 10 inscriptions on mount; label. 
0.243 X 0.S93. 

53.79. Chinese, Ming dynasty, by Ch'en Shun (A. D. 1482-1539). Handscroll 

landscape entitled Yiin-shan, and dated in correspondence with A. D. 
1535. Ink and color on paper; signatory inscription and 17 seals on 
painting; 21 seals and 2 in.scriptions on mount; label. 0.305 x 1.407. 

53.84. Chinese, Ming dynasty, by Ch'iu Yiog (ca. A. D. 1522-1560). Landscape 

entitled Sung hsia h^ng ch'in Vu, "Play the c/i'm beneath a pine tree" ; 
done in ink and slight color on paper ; signature and 10 seals on painting ; 
2 colophons and 8 seals on mount ; 1 seal on label. 1.053 x 0.222. 

53.85. Chinese, Yuan dynasty, by Wu Chen (A. D. 12S0-1354). Bamboo; dated 

in correspondence with June 17, 1350; ink on paper; signatory inscrip- 
tion and 7 seals on painting ; 2 inscriptions and 7 seals on mount ; 1 seal 
on label. 1.090x0.326. 

54.8 Chinese, Ming dynasty, by Hsii Wei (A. D. 1.520-1593). Twelve flowers 
and poems; painted in ink on paper; 42 seals on painting and 12 on 
mount; 12 inscriptions on painting and 1 on mount; label ou outside 
mounting. 5.355 x 0.325. 

54.10. Chinese, Yiian dynasty, attributed to Ch'ien Hsiian (13th century). A 
branch of pear blossoms painted in color on paper. One seal on painting. 
0.315 X 0.397. 

54.12. Chinese, Yiian dynasty, by ShOnij Mou (14th century A. D.). Awaiting 
the Ferry at Autumn River, dated in correspondence with April 12, 
1351. Landscape in ink on paper; signature and 6 inscriptions on 
painting ; 31 seals on painting ; title label with 2 seals on outside mount. 
1.125 X 0.465. 

54.17. Chinese, Ming dynasty, by Hsieh Shih-ch'en (A. D. 1488-1548). Land- 
scape in ink on silk, signature and one seal on painting; inscription 
and one seal on label. 1.081 x 0.481. 

54.1. Egyptian, ca. 1335. Page from Bidpal's Fal)les. Recto: 13 lines of black 

naskhi script. Verso: color on gold ground showing a man, saddled 
horse and boar. Blue frame. Three lines of text in naskhl below, 
additional words in margin. 0.249 x 0.176. 

54.2. Egyptian, ca. 1335. Page from Bidpal's Fables. Recto: 13 lines of black 

naskhi script. Verso: color on gold ground showing a bear on the 
ground conversing with two monkeys in a tree. Blue frame. One line 
of text in naskhl above and two below. 0.249 x 0.176. 
53.93. Indian, early 17th century, Mughal, School of .Jahfinglr (1605-1627), 
attributed to Muhammad 'All. Verso of an album sheet with miniature 
of a youth in a stylized landscape. He Is seated on a low. golden stool 
and reading a book ; a falcon is perched on a stand before him. Attribu- 
tion in black nashki on mount. Wide border with realistically rendered 
flowers. Opaque color and gold on paper, mounted on cardboard. 
Recto blank. 0.333 x 0.210. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 65 

54.6. Indian, Mughal, School of Akbar, about 1600. Page from an unidentified 
Persian prose text. Recto: 17 lines of black nastaTiq script. Verso: 
full-page miniature in gold and colors showing the worship of Lord 
Krishna in the Golden City, with a pastoral scene of cowherd and 
cattle in the foreground. 0.349 x 0.232. 

53.94. Jar-auese, lath century. Ashika,i;a School, by Sessbfi. P.irds and Flowers 

of the Four Seasons. Spring and Summer. Painted in siimi with 
color added. Signature and one seal. Pair with 53.95. 1.619 x 3.595. 
(Illustrated.) 

53.95. Japauese, 15th century, Ashikaga School, by Sesshfi. Birds and Flowers 

of the Four Seasons. Autumn and Winter. Painted in stimi with color 
added. Signature and one seal. Pair with 53.94. 1.619 x 3.586. 

54.9. Japanese, late 14th century or early 15th century, late Kamakura or early 
Ashikaga Buddhist. Amida Buddha, attended by Kannon and Seishi, 
welcoming souls to paradise. Painted in colors and gold with kirigane 
(cut gold leaf ). No signature or seal. 1.100x0.495. 

54.11. Japanese, late ISth century, Kyoto School, by Mori Sosen (1749-1821). 
Three Monkeys and Wasps. Color and ink. Signature and seal. 1.097 
X 0.517. 

54.4. Persian, second quarter of 16th century, Safavid period. School of Shah 

Tahmfisp, attributed to Mal.imfid Musawwir. Half of a double-page 
miniature showing one of two opposing armies. Pasted on thick paper, 
margin slightly stained. Color and gold on paper. 0.322 x 0.206. 

54.5. Persian, second quarter of 16th century, Safavid period, School of ShSh 

Tahmasp, attributed to Mahmud Musawwir. Half of a double-page 
miniature showing one of two opposing armies. Attributed on the lower 
(new) margin of the miniature. Pasted on thick paper, margin slightly 
stained. Color and gold on paper. 0.323 x 0.210. 

POTTERY 

53.75. Chinese, Ming dynasty, Chcng-t(^ period (A. D. 1506-1.521). Bowl with 

slightly flaring rim ; fine white porcelain ; plain, transparent, glossy 
ghjze; decoration in underghize blue; inside, a border of thunder pat- 
tern and in the center an Arabic inscription surrounded by scrolls ; 
outside, six circles with Arabic script amid floral motifs. Six-character 
Cheng-te mark on base. 0.123 x 0.280. 

53.76. Chinese, Ming dynasty, early 15th century. Dish with llaring rim ; white 

porcelain: plain, transparent glaze, none on base; decoration in under- 
glaze blue, wave border, floral scroll in cavetto, melon vine in center 
and six fruit .sprays on outside. 0.073 x 0.377. 

53.77. Chinese, Ming dynasty, early 15th century. Dish with flaring foliate rim; 

white porcelain ; plain, transparent glaze, none on base ; decoration 
in underglaze blue, floral scroll border and flower sprays In 12 moulded 
sections of the cavetto, 3 bunches of grapes on vine in center and 12 
flower sprays on outside. 0.0S9 x 0.447. 

53.90. MesoiJotamian. 10th century. Vase, luster painted, with two superimposed 
stylized birds alternating twice with a long-robed figure with inclined 
head, the designs being separated by five-unit arabesque tree. Broken 
and put together. 0.282 x 0.2.32. 

54.16. Persian, lOth-llth century, Nishapur type. Dish, wide flat rim, small 
foot; soft, buff-white clay, stained on base; opaque cream-white glaze, 
partly crackled and stained; decorated with a band of Kufic writing 
from rim to rim in brown slip except for three letters in red. One 
brown letter at top and bottom. Broken and repaired. 0.050 x 0.850. 



66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

54.3. Turkish (Ottoman), ca. 1500. Dish with wide flaring rim; buff-colored, 
fairly soft clay ; thin, transparent glaze ; decorated with floral designs 
in underglaze blue. 0.065 x 0.393. 

STONE SCULPTURE 

53.86, Chinese, Six Dynasties. Pair of limestone sculptures in high relief; 

53.87, demon figures as bases to pilasters ; from Hsiang-t'ang-shan caves ; 
backed up and mounted in concrete. 53.86 : 0.805 x 0.557 ; 53.87 : 0.844 
X 0.534. 

Total number of accessions to date (including above) 10, 832 

REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTIONS 

Forty-eight Cliinese and Japanese objects were restored, repaired, 
or remounted by T. Sugiura, who also made three rubbings of inscrip- 
tions on bronzes and mounted these and 19 other rubbings made by 
Prof. S. Umehara. He also mounted four fragments of Japanese 
sutras for the library and repaired or remounted six Near Eastern 
objects in the collection. John and Richard Finlayson of Boston re- 
paired and revarnished two American paintings, and Mr. Gettens 
remended a piece of Persian pottery, 

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS 

Changes in exhibitions totaled 409 as follows : 

American art : 

Oil paintings 9 

Arabic art : 

Glass 5 

Manuscripts 2 

Paintings 4 

Armenian art : 

Manuscripts 6 

Chinese art: 

Bronze 61 

Gold 1 

Lacquer 3 

Paintings 23 

Pottery 29 

Sculpture, stone 6 

East Christian art : 

Paintings 5 

Egyptian art: 

Bronze 2 

Crystal S 

Gold 2 

Greek art: 

Manuscripts 7 

Indian art: 

Paintings 7 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 67 

Japanese art: 

Lacquer 13 

Paintings 43 

Pottery 2 

Persian art : 

Manuscripts 3 

Metalwork 22 

Paintings 116 

Pottery 24 

Syro-Egyptian art : 

Metalwork 2 

Pottery 3 

Tibetan art: 

Paintings 2 

Turkish art: 

Paintings 4 

UBRARY 

Accessions of books, pamphlets, periodicals, and study materials 
came to a total of G55 pieces, of which over one-half were received 
as gifts from generous friends and institutions. 

Cataloging included 662 analytics, 204 books and pamphlets, and 
55 titles recataloged and reclassified. A total of 4,047 cards were 
added to the catalogs and shelf lists. 

Three bibliographies were prepared in response to outside requests 
and two bibliographies were revised for publication in Freer Gallery 
Study Outlines. A total of 449 items were bound, labeled, repaired, 
or mounted. Cards were completed for the index of Chinese artists. 
The compilation of material for "Abstracts of Technical Studies in 
Art and Archaeology, 1943-1952," mentioned in the last annual report, 
was completed. 

PUBLICATIONS 

Two publications of the Gallery were issued during the year : 

Revised edition of Gallery XIII Gallery Book (Chinese Art). 
Revised bibliography for the Annotated Outlines of Chinese Art. 

Papers by staff members appeared in outside publications as follows : 

Ettinghausen, Richard: "Islamic Art" (translated into Hebrew by publisher), 

Encyclopaedia Hebraica, vol. 5, cols. 25-30, 5 figs. Jerusalem, 1053. 
. "Islamic Architecture" (translated into Hebrew by publisher), ibid., 

vol. 5, cols. 737-752, 14 figs. 
. L. A. Mayer, Mamluk Costume, Geneva, 1952, reviewed in The Muslim 

World, vol. 43, pp. 207-208, 1953. 
. A. C. Weibel, Two Thousand Years of Textiles, New York, 1052, reviewed 

in U. S. Quart. Book Rev., vol. 9, p. 285, 1953. 
Getten.s, Rutherford J. : "True and False Vermillion on Early Chinese Ceramics," 

Far Eastern Ceramic Bull., Hui-Hsien Number, vol. 6, No. 1, Serial No. 25, 

March 1954. 



68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Pope, John A. : S. Yorke Hardy, Illustrated catalogue of Tung, Ju, Kuan, Chun, 
Kuang-tung and Glazed I-Hsing Wares in the Percival David Foundation of 
Chinese Art, reviewed in the Far Eastern Quart., vol. 13, No. 3, pp. 34G-347. 
May 1954. 

REPRODUCTIONS 

During the year the photographic laboratory made 2,706 prints, 
625 glass negatives, and 1,239 lantern slides. Total number of nega- 
tives on hand, 10,555 ; lantern slides, 8,187. 

The Gallery engaged the services of Alva Studios of New York to 
make reproductions of objects in the collections. These reproductions 
are sold by Alva Studios and through various outlets; the Gallery 
buys at a discount such objects as it requires for sale through the sales 
desk. 

BUILDING 

The general condition of the Freer Building is good, and the main- 
tenance and operation have been satisfactory. The exterior needs 
cleaning and pointing, and all interior areas are sorely in need of 
painting, decorating, lighting, air-conditioning, floor covering, etc. 
The continuing lack of a full-time painter is reflected in the increasing 
dilapidation of the interior. 

The major project of the cabinet shop has been the production and 
installation of extensive new storage facilities in No. 1 Storage. Mis- 
cellaneous odd jobs in connection with storage, exhibition, restoration, 
crating, and the maintenance of office and Gallery equipment continue 
as usual. 

Extensive replanting and soil conditioning have been carried out 
in the court, and all phuiting maintained steady growth and is in good 
condition. 

ATTENDANCE 

The Gallery was open to the public from 9 to 4 : 30 every day except 
Christmas Day ; on Tuesdays the hours were 2 to 10. Public response 
to the Tuesday evening openings was slight, and the experiment was 
terminated on May 4, 1954, after a trial period of 49 weeks. The 
total number of visitors to come in the main entrance was 71,747. 
The highest monthly attendance was in April, 9,421, and the lowest 
was in December, 2,494. 

There were 1,798 visitors to the office during the year: 

For general information 745 

To see staff members 132 

To read in the library 179 

To make sketches and tracings from library books 1 

To see building and installations 46 

To take photographs in court and exhibition galleries 73 

To make sketches in the exhibition galleries 8 

To examine, borrow, or purchase slides 24 

To submit objects for examination 405 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 69 

To see objects in storage : 

Washington MSS 8 

Far Eastern ijairitings and textiles 143 

Near Eastern, Indian, and Armenian paintings and 

manuscripts 31 

American paintings 14 

Oriental pottery, jade, bronze, lacquer, woodcarving, 

bamboo, ivory, and furniture 93 

All sculpture 10 

Syrian and other glass 2 

Near Eastern metalwork, Gold Treasure, and Byzan- 
tine objects 4 

HERZFELD ARCHIVE 
The Herzfelcl material continues to be used by scholars in Near 
Eastern archeology througliout the world. 

AUDITORIUM 
The series of illustrated lectures on Oriental Art begun on May 26, 
195S, continued to attract good audiences. The following lectures 
were given during the year : 

195S 

Oct. 20. Prof. Benjamin Rowland. Harvard University, gave an illustrated 

lecture ou "Chinese Painting in the Ming Dynasty." Attend- 
ance, 290. 

Nov. 17. Prof. Alexander Soper, Bryn Mawr College, gave an illustrated 

lecture on "Japanese Scroll Painting." Attendance, 1S4. 

195i 

Jan. 19. Robert Treat Paine, Jr., Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, gave an 

illustrated lecture on "Japanese Screen Painting." Attendance, 
338. 

Feb. 9. Prof. Ernst Kiihnel, Director Emeritus, Islamic Department, State 

Museums, Berlin, Germany, gave an illustrated lecture on "Per- 
sian Miniature Painting," Attendance, 185. 

Mar. 23. Prof. D. S. Rice, School of Oriental and African Studies, Univer- 

sity of London, England, gave an illustrated lecture on "A Pic- 
ture Book from Baghdad." Attendance, 151. 

Apr. 20. Prof. Max Loehr, Department of Fine Arts, University of Mich- 

igan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, gave an illustrated lecture on 
"Ancient Chinese Bronzes." Attendance, 146. 

In addition the auditorium was used for two lectures by staff 
members : 

195S 

Sept. 19. Dr. Ettinghausen addressed the Colloquium of Islamic Civiliza- 

tion which met in the Freer Gallery auditoi-ium ; subject, 
"Islamic Art." (Illustrated with color slides.) Attendance, 
67. 

Apr. 27. Mr. Pope gave an illustrated lecture on "The History of Chinese 

Art" to Dr. C. Y. Hu's class from the University of Jlaryland, 
which met in the Freer Gallery auditorium. Attendance. 57. 



70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Three outside organizations used the auditorium as follows : 

195S 

Oct. 27. U. S. Departmeiit of Agriculture Bureau of Agricultural Econom- 

ics used the Freer Gallery auditorium from 12 noon to 4 : 40 
p. m. for an Outlook Conference on "Housing." Attendance, 148. 
Oct. 27. The Washington Society of the Archaeological Institute of 

America used the Freer Gallery auditorium for a lecture at 
8 : 15 p. m. by Prof. Christopher Hawks of Oxford University on 
"Transformation of Classical Elements in Celtic Art." Attend- 
ance, 48. 
Nov. 5. Resettlement Administration of the U. S. Department of Agricul- 

ture held a meeting in the Freer Gallery auditorium from 2 to 
4 : 30 p. m. Attendance, 08. 

STAFF ACTIVITIES 

The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of 
new accessions, of objects contemplated for purchase, and of objects 
submitted for examination, as well as to individual research projects 
in the fields represented by the collections of Chinese, Japanese, Per- 
sian, Arabic, and Indian materials. Reports, oral or written, and 
exclusive of those made by the technical laboratory on specimens 
(listed below), were made upon 3,781 objects as follows: belonging to 
private individuals, 2,304; belonging to dealers, 862; belonging to 
other museums, 615. In all, 1,115 photographs of objects were ex- 
amined and 668 oriental language inscriptions were translated for 
outside individuals and institutions. By request, 13 groups totaling 
223 persons met in the exhibition galleries for docent service by staff 
members ; and 3 groups totaling 57 persons were given docent service 
in the study-storage rooms. There were 96 distinguished foreign 
visitors who studied the collections. 

In the technical laboratory 85 objects from the Freer Collection 
were examined and 49 from outside sources. The project on organic 
red pigment was completed and the results published, and work on 
the copper corrosion product in ancient Egyptian bronze was con- 
tinued. The collection of abstracts of Technical Studies in Art and 
Archaeology was concluded, and a new collection of abstracts for the 
International Institute of Conservation was begun. Additional speci- 
mens were added to the permanent collection for purposes of com- 
parison, and a complete X-ray diffraction powder camera with track 
and bracket assembly was added to the laboratory equipment. 

By invitation the following lectures were given outside the Gallery 
by staff members: 

196S 

Aug. 7. Mr. Stern gave a lecture at Fordham University on "The Exhibi- 

tion of Japanese Painting and Sculpture Currently Touring the 
United States." (Illustrated.) Attendance, 35. 



Secretary's Report. 1954 



Plate 1 






.^,Lj>>, ^^'feuu»i:U!;i^;-^'>;i^c,\j.^ 




■SBw'i^iiiflSMHKiiiiaiHv 








■% 



5 3 . « :i 

Recent additions to the collection of the Freer (jallery of Art. 



Secretary's Report, 1954 



PLATE 2 






n 

10 



o 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 71 

195S 

Nov. 15. Dr. Ettinghausen gave a lecture at All Souls Unitarian Churcb, 

Washington, D. C, on "Travels in the Near East." (Illustrated.) 
Attendance, 80. 

Nov. 25. Dr. Ettinghausen gave a lecture at the Baltimore Museum of Art 

on "The World of Muslim Art." (Illustrated.) Attendance, 75. 

Jan. 5. Di'. Ettinghausen gave a lecture at Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, 

Pa., on "Landscapes and Monuments in Iran." (Illustrated.) 
Attendance, 150. 

Apr. 25. Dr. Ettinghausen gave an illustrated lecture to the International 

Avicenna Congress at the University of Teheran, Teheran, Iran, 
on "The Art of Iran at the Time of Avicenna." Attendance, 200. 
(Dr. Ettinghausen extended to the Congress, in Persian, the 
thanks of the American Delegation. This lecture is to be pub- 
lished in the Report of the Avicenna Congress for the Persian 
Government.) 

May 17. Mr. Gettens gave a lecture to the Colorists of Washington and 

Baltimore at the Washington Y. W. C. A., on "The Story of Early 
Blue Pigments." (Illustrated.) Attendance, 22. 

May 21. Mr. Pope gave a lecture to the Kiln Club of Washington in the 

auditorium of the U. S. National Museum, on "The Qualities of 
a Show-Worthy Pot." (Illustrated.) Attendance, 70. 

June 9. Dr. Ettinghausen gave a lecture to the Iran-America Society, in 

Teheran, Iran, on "The Development of Iranian Art in the Mos- 
lem Period." (Illustrated.) Attendance, 200. 

Members of the staff traveled outside of Washington on official busi- 
ness as follows: 

195S 

Sept. 21- As a representative of the Smithsonian Institution, Mr. Gettens, 
Oct. 29 associate in technical research, attended the Conference on 

Museum Laboratories held in Paris on September 25 under the 
auspices of the International Council of Museums. Mr. Gettens 
also traveled in Italy, Belgium, and England where he visited 
museums and laboratories to see the work being done and meth- 
ods and techniques used in connection with the maintenance, 
care, and restoration of museum collections. 

Oct. 3-5. Mr. Wenley attended the meeting of the Far Eastern Ceramic 
Group in Birmingham, Mich., and Cranbrook Museum of Art, 
Bloomfield Hills, Mich., where he read a paper for Mr. Gettens 
entitled "Seeing Red — True and False Vermilion on Early 
Chinese Ceramics." At the Universit.v of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 
Mich., he conferred with Prof. Max Loehr regarding use of the 
Freer Fund. 

19Si 

Jan. 8-25. Mr. Pope was in London for the Loan Exhibition of Chinese Blue 

and White Porcelain held by the Oriental Ceramic Society, took 

part in a specimen meeting of the Society. 
Apr. 12-18. Mr. Stern, in New York, attended the meetings of the American 

Oriental Society, April 13-15, delivering a paper on "A Pair of 

Sesshfi Screens" (illustrated) on April 13. 



326511—55- 



72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Apr. 12-19. Mr. Pope, in New York, read a paper entitled "An Example of the 
Unreliability of Chinese Texts on Ceramics," at a meeting of the 
Art and Archaeology Section of the American Oriental Society. 

Apr. 25. On the invitation of the Iranian Government, Dr. Ettinghausen, 

as a representative of the Smithsonian Institution, attended the 
celebrations in honor of the 1,000th anniversary of the birth of 
the great Iranian philosopher and physician Abu Ibn Sina, liuown 
in the West under the name of Avieenna. The ceremonies were 
held in Hamadan, Iran. In Iran he was studying private collec- 
tions and museums as the year ended. 

June 4. Mr. Pope was in Europe to attend the International Exhibition of 

Chinese Art held at Venice in celebration of the 700th anniversary 
of the birth of Marco Polo. He also visited the exhibition of 
Asiatic Art held in the Mus^e Cernuschi, Paris, in memory of 
Ren6 Grousset. He examined objects in museums and private 
collections and conferred with scholars in London, Paris, and 
Brussels. 

In addition, 5 members of the staff made a total of 13 otlier trips 
outside of Washington on official business. 

Members of the staff held honorary posts and undertook additional 
duties outside the Gallery as follows : 

Mr, Wenley : Member, Visiting Committee, Dumbarton Oaks Research 

Library and Collection. 

Research professor of Oriental Art, Department of Fine 
Arts, University of Michigan. 

Member, Board of U. S. Civil Service Examiners at "Wash- 
ington, D. C, for the Smithsonian Institution. 

Member, Board of Trustees, Textile Museum, Washington, 
D. C. 

Member, Board of Trustees, Hermitage Foundation, Nor- 
folk, Va. 

Member, Council of the Far Eastern Ceramic Group. 

Member, Smithsonian Art Commission. 

Member, consultative committee, Ars Orlentalis. 

Chairman of the Louise Wallace Hackney Scholarship Com- 
mittee of the American Oriental Society. 

Member of the House Committee, Cosmos Club, Washington, 
D, C. 
Mr. Pope : President, Far Eastern Ceramic Group. 

Art Editor, Far Eastern Quarterly. 

Member, Editorial Board, Archives of the Chinese Art Society 
of America. 

Member, Board of Governors, Washington Society, Archeo- 
logical Institute of America. 

American member. Consultative Committee for the Interna- 
tional Exhibition of Chinese Art held at Venice in connec- 
tion with the celeb i-ation of the 700th anniversary of the 
birth of Marco Polo. 

President, Association of the Southern Alumni of the Phillips 
Exeter Academy. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



73 



Dr. Ettingbausen : Research Professor of Islamic Art, Department of Fine Arts, 
University of Michigan. 
Near Eastern editor of Arts OHentalis. 
Member, Editorial Board, The Art Bulletin. 
Trustee, American Researcb Center in Egypt. 
Member, Comitato Internazionale di I'atronato, Museo Inter- 

nazionale delle Ceramiche, Faenze, Italy. 
Member, Editorial Advisory Committee, and contributor to 
Studies in Art and Literature in honor of Belle DaCosta 
Oreene. 
Editor and contributor to A Selected and Annotated Bihlioff- 
raphy of Books and Periodicals in Western Languages 
Dealing icith the Near and Middle East tmth Special Em- 
phasis on Medicinal and Modern Times, Supplement No. 1, 
1954; published by the Middle East Institute. 
Delegate to the Avicenna Celebrations held in Iran, April 

21-30, 1954. 
During the fall semester, gave a course on Islamic miniatures 
to a class at Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md. 
Mr. Gettens : Consultant, Advisory Board of the Intermusoum Association. 

Associate editor. Studies in Conservation, published for the 
International Institute for the Conservation of Museum 
Objects. 
Abstractor for Chemical Abstracts, American Chemical 

Society. 
Representative of the Smithsonian Institution at the con- 
ference on Museum Laboratories held iu Paris on Septem- 
ber 25 under the auspices of the International Council of 
Museums. 
Sponsor of the Artists Technical Research Institute, 240 E. 

20th Street, New York 3, N. Y. 
Socio Corrispondente, Centro de Storia della Metallurgia 
(Associazione Italiana di Metallurgia), Via Moscova 16, 
Milauo, Italy. 
Attended a course in cleaning and laundering of ancient 
fabrics at the Textile Museum, Washington, D. C. ; the 
course included lectures, laboratory work, and examina- 
tions. It was conducted by Col. James W. Rice, director 
of research. National Institute of Rug Cleaning, Silver 
Spring, Md. 
Submitted a review of a dossier on painting for the Spring- 
field Museum of Fine Arts. 
Mr. Stern: On January 13 attended a meeting at Radio Station WCFM 

to assist in planning a series of programs concerning gal- 
leries, museums, etc. On February 25 read a paper on the 
history and activities of the Freer Gallery on the WCFM 
radio program, one of a series on "Our National Art 
Centers." 



Respectfully submitted. 

Dr. LeoNx\rd Carmichael, 
Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



A. G. WenIxEY, Director. 



Report on the National Air Museum 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi- 
ties of the National Air Museum for the fiscal year ended June 30, 
1954: 

GENERAL STATEMENT OF CONDITIONS 

Conditions have improved in the National Air Museum relative to 
its two principal problems — the care of the stored material and the 
need for an exhibition building to house the national aeronautical 
collections. 

Considerable progress was made during the year with the Museum's 
storage facility at Suitland, Md., but there remained the problem of 
transporting the stored collections from O'Hare International Air- 
port, Park Ridge, 111., where they were originally placed. By the 
close of the fiscal year, however, arrangements were being made for 
the allotment of Air Force funds for shipping this material. Many of 
the aircraft and all the engines require preservation treatment, several 
are yet to be dismantled, and those previously boxed need reinforce- 
ment before they can be shipped, but a target date of January 1956 
was set for completing the move. 

The problem of acquiring an adequate exhibition building to house 
the national aeronautical collections has become a vital one since the 
close of World War II. It will be recalled that Public Law 722 of the 
79th Congress authorized the Museum "to investigate and survey 
suitable lands and buildings for selection as a site for said national 
air museum and to make recommendations to Congress." Comprehen- 
sive plans were prepared for a National Air Museum, but Congress 
did not act upon them. Since then these plans have been subjected 
to considerable modification including the proposal that the location 
be near existing Smithsonian buildings. Recently a plan has been 
originated for improving the southwest area of Washington south of 
the Smithsonian buildings. The planners have included a proposed 
Smithsonian museum and other cultural buildings in their layout, 
and Smithsonian officials have expressed their interest in such 
proposals. 

In the meantime steps are being taken to determine the needs of 
the National Air Museum, including the size and cost of a site and 
building. It is a pleasure to report that the Aircraft Industries Asso- 
ciation and the Air Transport Association have generously donated 
funds to cover the costs of this primary study. 

74 • 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 75 

The condition of exhibited material in the two buildings now con- 
taining aeronautical displays, although far from ideal is, nevertheless, 
a tribute to the zealous efforts of the staff and the exhibits workers. 
Space for displays remains a pressing problem. Cases are crowded, 
and the visiting public is constricted by the narrow aisles. The staff 
is constantly faced with the need to decide whether to display a new 
accession and add to the crowding, or to store it and thereby deprive 
Museum visitors of its educational and interest value. The number 
of accessions recorded this fiscal year is the greatest in the history of 
the National Air Museum — more than 20 percent above the highest 
previous year — and the number of visitors to the Aircraft Building 
this year was a third more than the previous high count. Requests 
to the Museum for information and service are constantly increasing, 
although the staff has had to be reduced because of lack of funds. 
This growing interest in the Museum certainly would seem to empha- 
size the need for better facilities both for exhibition and informational 
services. 

The increasing demands of administrative work in the Washington 
office of the Museum have limited the time that could be allotted to 
trips for the purpose of surveying and procuring material for the 
Museum, but whenever time could be spared for such personal inves- 
tigations, the results were always more productive and informative 
than those achieved by correspondence alone. 

ADVISORY BOARD 

Two changes occurred in the personnel of this Board which advises 
and assists in the administration of the National Air Museum. On 
July 1, 1953, Rear Adm. Thomas S. Combs was succeeded by Rear 
Adm. Apollo Soucek, representing the Chief of Naval Operations; 
and on June 16, 1954, Maj. Gen. Laurence C. Craigie was replaced 
by Maj. Gen. George W. Mundy, representing the Chief of Staff of 
the Air Force. No change was made in the original civilian ap- 
pointees, Grover Loening and William B. Stout. \Vhile members 
of the Board have met occasionally, informally, no formal meetings 
were called by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution during 
the year. The members, however, have continued to help with a 
number of Museum projects and to stimulate progressive action on 
important developments. 

STEPHENSON BEQUEST 

Progress is being made in the matter of the bequest of George H. 
Stephenson of Philadelphia who provided for a statue of the renowned 
air leader Gen. William Mitchell, to be sculptured and presented to the 
National Air Museum. After consultations with a number of 
sculptors recommended by the Commission of Fine Arts, Bruce Moore 



76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

was selected. On June 11, 1954, Mr. Moore, with Alfred Verville, who 
was a close friend and aeronautical engineering associate of General 
Mitchell, and the head curator of the Air Museum, were received by 
Mrs. Thomas Byrd, widow of the General, who discussed the air 
leader's characteristics and qualities, lent a number of photographs 
of the general to the sculptor, and generously gave to the Museum a 
selection of the General's uniforms and other items associated with his 
military and aeronautical career, these objects to be incorporated in 
an exhibit associated with the statue when it is completed. The 
statue is to be one-sixth larger than life-size, full length, and mounted 
on a granite pedestal. It will occupy an honored place in the 
Aeronautical Hall of Fame, which is to be a feature of the proposed 
National Air Museum. Meanwhile, upon completion, it will be placed 
with General Mitchell's World War I SPAD airplane which has long 
been one of the most prominent exhibits in the Aircraft Building. 

SPECIAL EVENTS AND DISPLAYS 

As the calendar year 1953 approached, the staff of the Museum 
realized that the fiftieth year of powered flight would be a significant 
milestone of progress. Following the acquisition of the Wright 
brothei-s' original Kitty Hawk Flyer on December 17, 1948, the forty- 
fifth anniversary of its first flight, a concentrated effort was made by 
the staff to obtain related material, so that the complete story of the 
Wright brothers' aeronautical accomplishments could be assembled 
in tangible form, and the related files furnish authentication. Ke- 
search for and acquisition of Wright memorabilia had been under- 
taken even before the Kitty Hawk Flyer was received, but the renewed 
effort brought encouraging results. In this quest the Museum had the 
valuable assistance of many persons who had known the famous 
brothers and whose knowledge was authoritative and intimate. As 
research progressed the staff was successful in locating several scale 
drawings and numerous photographs of Wright aircraft and 
activities. The Department of History of the U. S. National Museum 
cooperated by removing all of their display cases from the floor ahead 
of and beneath the Kitty Hawk Flyer so that a special Golden Anni- 
versary Exhibit could be assembled in the most appropriate location, 
and the Smithsonian Photographic Laboratory and other service units 
assisted in preparations. The display was opened to the public the 
first week in December. 

As the visitor to the Museum entered the front door he saw first 
individual sculptured portraits of the brothers, both sculptures the 
work of Oskar Hansen. These flanked a scale model of the monument 
erected to the honor of Wilbur and Orville Wright atop Kill Devil 
Hill. Nearby was the letter written by Wilbur Wright to the Smith- 
sonian Institution on May 30, 1899, in which he stated : 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 77 

I have beeo interested in the problem of mechanical and human flight ever 
since as a boy I constructed a number of bats * of various sizes after the style of 
Cayley's and Penaud's machines. My observations since have only convinced 
me more firmly that human flight is possible and practicable. ... I am about 
to begin a systematic study of the subject in preparation for practical work to 
which I expect to devote what time I can spare from my regular business. . . . 
I wish to obtain such papers as the Smithsonian Institution has published on 
this subject, and if possible a list of other works in print in the English 
language. ... I wish to avail myself of all that is already known and then if 
possible add my mite to help on the future worker who will attain final success.^ 

Beyond the sculptures and monument model was a full-scale repro- 
duction of the Wright wind tunnel of 1901-2 with which the brothers 
developed their basic knowledge of aeronautics. Then, in a wide arc 
under the wings of the Kitty Hawk Flyer itself was a series of scale 
models and associated photographs illustrating the astounding fact 
that Wilbur and Orville Wright and the Wright Company, between 
1900 and 1916, designed and constructed no less than 25 types of 
heavier-than-air craft, including the first to carry a passenger, the 
first to fly for an hour, the first to fly for two hours, the first military 
airplane to be put into practical service by any government, the first 
to rise a mile, the first to carry air express, the first to fly across the 
United States, and the first to fly while the pilot released the controls 
and an automatic stabilizer was used — all these supplementing that 
most wonderful "first" of all, the first heavier-than-air craft in the his- 
tory of the world to carry a man in free, powered and controlled flight. 
A scale model of the Burgess Type H showed one of the several air- 
craft made by other companies under license from the Wright broth- 
ers, and a model of the De Havilland-4 illustrated a type j^roduced 
by the Dayton Wright Company during World War I, when Orville 
was a director and engineer of that company. Three separately ex- 
hibited Wright engines were shown : an upright 4-cy Under of 25 hp., 
a 6-cylinder engine of 60 hp., and a later version of the 6, developing 
70 hp. Supplementing these exhibits were five photographic displays 
illustrating Wilbur and Orville Wright's gliding experiments of 
1900, 1901, 1902, and Orville's of 1911 ; their flights in Europe in 1908 
and 1909; Orville's military demonstration flights at Fort Myer in 
1908 and 1909 ; the schools established by the Wrights at Dayton, Ohio, 



» Model aircraft. 

* He was sent four Smithsonian pamphlets: "Empire of the Air," by Louis-Pierre 
Moulllnrd, "The Problem of Flying and Practical Experiments In Soaring," by Otto 
Llllenthal, "Story of Experiments In Moclianlcal Flight," by Samuel P. Langley, and 
"On Soaring Flight," by E. C. riuffaker. The reply also recommended a list of aero- 
nautical books Including "Progross In Flying Machines," by Octave Chanute, "Experiments 
in Aerodynamics," by Langley, and the "Aeronautical Annuals," edited by James Means, 
coTitalnIng a number of reprints of early discourses on flight, and articles by experimenters 
of the late nineteenth century. When the Wright brothers were presented with the 
Langley Medal in 1909 by the Smithsonian Institution, Wilbur Wright referred to this 
early letter and its helpful reply. 



78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1964 

Montgomery, Ala., and Augusta, Ga. ; and some of the many awards, 
trophies, and honors bestowed on these famous brothers. 

The Golden Anniversary Exhibit remained on display during De- 
cember and was admired by thousands of visitors, particularly those 
who attended the Wright anniversary celebrations on the 17th. 

A number of other special events and displays were held during the 
year. On July 17, 1953, a famous airplane, the Boeing 247-D, was 
brought to Washington on its own wings. The 247-D was one of the 
first passenger transports of modern design, and this particular one is 
the most notable of its type. In 1934 it placed third in the race from 
England to Australia sponsored by Sir MacPherson Robertson, being 
outflown only by a British De Havilland racer and by a Dutch team 
in another American transport — the Douglas DC-2. The 247-D was 
then brought back to the United States and became the flagplane of 
United Air Lines. After extended passenger service this 247-D was 
purchased by the Union Electric Co. and used as an executive plane 
mitil 1939. For the next 15 years it became a test plane for instru- 
ments, navigating devices, checking radio beams, making airways in- 
vestigations, and filling other requirements of the Civil Aeronautics 
Administration. In that service this airplane earned the name of 
Adaptable Annie. Finally, after 20 years of strenuous performance 
and 10,000 hours in the air, the Civil Aeronautics Administration 
turned the aircraft over to the National Air Museum with appropriate 
ceremonies. 

On July 22, 1953, the twentieth anniversary of Wiley Post's second 
world flight in which he made the circuit alone, guided in great 
measure by the Sperry robot pilot, the Sperry Gyroscope Co. pre- 
sented to the Museum a special display in which Wiley Post's robot 
pilot is mounted in an exhibition case together with an operable ex- 
ample of the mechanism, which can be studied by Museimi visitors 
through manipulation of controls. 

August 12, 1953, was the seventh anniversary of the establishment of 
the National Air Museum. As one of the celebrations marking the 
fiftieth year of powered flight, Jennings Randolph, formerly Repre- 
sentative in Congress from West Virginia, who had been one of those 
responsible for establishing this Museum, chose that anniversary date 
to present to the Museum the original pen with which the President 
of the United States had signed the establishing act. At a Lions Club 
luncheon, Mr. Randolph spoke of his discussions with General of the 
Air Force, H. H. Arnold, at the close of World War II, regarding the 
importance of preserving significant aircraft because of their edu- 
cational and inspirational value, and how the General and he had 
combined their ideas into the text which finally became law. 

For the thirty-fifth anniversary of the establishment of Post Office 
Department-operated airmail, also celebrated on August 12, groups 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 79 

of scale models and airmail relics were arranged as a separate exhibit 
in the Aircraft Building, and the head curator delivered a lecture on 
the history of postal aviation at the banquet of the Air Mail Pioneers 
when he was elected president of the local chapter of that organiza- 
tion. The Museum cooperated with the International Aviation 
Pioneers' dinner on October 14 by arranging a display of models and 
illustrations of Wright brothers' aircraft at the Mayflower Hotel 
where the banquet was held and on the next afternoon it was host to 
that distinguished group for a tour of the collection. 

The North American F-51 airplane Excalibur-III^ which still holds 
the propellered transatlantic speed record established on January 31, 
1951, and which made the first solo flight over the North Pole on 
May 29, 1951, both flights piloted by Capt. Charles Blair of Pan 
American World Airways, was formally presented to the National 
Air Museum by Pan American on November G, 1953. 

For the annual Wriglit brothers' banquet conducted by the Aero 
Club of Washington at the Statler Hotel on the anniversary of the 
first flight, December 17, the Museum lent its series of enlarged photo- 
graphs of Wright aircraft and the sculptures from the Golden Anni- 
versary Exhibit. On December 29, the Chilean Air Force, through 
the air attache, Col. Henrique Flores, presented to tlie Museum a scale 
model of the Bristol Monoplane in which Capt. Dagoberto Godoy 
of the Chilean Air Force made the first flight over the high Andes 
from Chile to Argentina, December 12, 1918. This presentation was 
attended by officials of those countries and the air attache of the 
British Embassy, the airplane having been of British manufacture. 

At the annual meeting of the Smithsonian Board of Regents, on 
January 15, 1954, selections of models from the Golden Anniversary 
Exhibit were shown. On March 18, the Ninety-Nines, an organiza- 
tion of women flyers of which Amelia Earhart was a founder and 
which includes many of the most prominent airwomen in America, 
presented to the Museum their 25-volume set of scrapbooks dating 
from October 1929, when they were organized. This forms a very 
useful reference work in connection with the many excellent accom- 
plislmients by women in aviation. 

IMPROVEMENTS IN EXHIBITS 

The two exhibits workers have made numerous improvements in 
the displays, in many instances with the much appreciated assistance 
of the service shop personnel of the Smithsonian. In several of the 
major projects, the donors or other interested parties assisted with 
these undertakings. The Civil Aeronautics Administration and 
United Air Lines aided in preparing the 247-D for storage, John 
Holzer, expert mechanic lent by United, being particularly helpful. 
Pan American Airways assigned one of their top mechanics, Robert 



80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

McCormick, to work with Museum personnel in preparing the Excali- 
hur-III for exhibition. That project included dismantling and 
storing the Polar Star. The fabric on the Eaglet glider, which in 
1930 was piloted by Frank Hawks from Los Angeles to New York 
City, had deteriorated so badly that re-covering was needed. This 
was expertly accomplished by Butler Aviation and financed by the 
Texas Co., the original sponsors and donors of this famous glider. 
The Pratt & Whitney Engine Division of United Aircraft Corpora- 
tion assigned their public relations head, Kenneth Koyen, and one 
of their technical experts, Harvey Lippincott, to assist in improving 
the display of their Wasp No. 1 engine of 1925 and the Wasp Major 
engine used on the nonstop world flight of the Air Force Lucky Lady 
B-50 bomber in 1949. Assistance from this corporation included the 
design and construction of a special stand for the latter engine. 

Additions to the group of photographs and specimens illustrating 
the awards of the Collier Trophy have, together with better labeling, 
improved that exhibit; while the procurement of other famous tro- 
phies has added to the attractiveness and significance of the trophy 
display. By relocating a group of large models of current transport 
airplanes, several guided missiles, a display on the German V-1 Buzz 
Bomb of World War II, and several of the trophies, noteworthy 
improvements were made in the general appearance of Aeronautical 
Hall ; and an exhibit associated with Wiley Post and his famous world 
and stratosphere flights was moved and renovated to form a companion 
case adjacent to his Sperry robot pilot. A number of the airplanes 
including the Curtiss "Jenny," Fokker D-7, Loening Amphibian, 
the hull of the NC-4, and the cockpit of the World War II fighter 
Eepublic F-84, received more than the usual requirement of mainte- 
nance. 

STORAGE 

At the Museum's Park Ridge, 111., storage facility more than a third 
of the fiscal year was spent in moving the storage material in compli- 
ance with requirements of the Air Force, which maintains administra- 
tive and flight operations at that airport. Each of these moves in- 
volved the repeated handling of several hundred items, including large 
and heavy aircraft boxes, while the moves from Building T-7 to 
Building T-6, and within T-6, required each time the reestablishing 
of the office area, shop equipment and supplies, and all the many serv- 
ice connections needed to operate the tools, cleaning equipment, and 
preservation gear. 

Despite these delays the personnel at Park Ridge, when finally able 
to resume the normal operations of the storage facility, shipped to 
Suitland, ]\Id., 21 aircraft involving 38 boxes, many of which had to 
be repaired before shipment because of damage sustained by long out- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 81 

door exposure; cleaned and gave preservation treatment to 24 en- 
gines, of which 9 were boxed, and 2 shipped ; boxed and shipped 142 
component items; disassembled 10 aircraft, several being large twin- 
engined foreign airplanes; packed 5 of them, requiring 11 boxes, and 
partially packed 4 of them into 8 boxes ; repaired and weatherproof ed 
86 large aircraft boxes which had been badly damaged by high winds, 
and spray-coated 17 big boxes with protective covering. There were 
also numerous maintenance projects including care and repair of han- 
dling equipment, machinery, and tools. All this work was accom- 
plished largely by a group of four men : the manager, Walter Male, 
two mechanics, and one carpenter, while the five guards assisted, be- 
tween patrols by sorting and tagging material being packed, and 
v^ith preservation and maintenance projects. For two of the moves 
the Air Force assigned enlisted men to help carry material. 

In 1951, when the Air Force believed that Building T-6 could be 
reactivated as an airplane factory, and the Museum was sent the first 
notice to clear its material from the building, arrangements were made 
to fly out several airplanes that were serviceable. They were stored at 
Pyote Air Force Base in Texas. In September 1953, the Museum was 
notified that they could not remain there as that base was to be closed. 
Andrews Air Force Base, near Washington, agreed to receive these 
airplanes and permit them to remain there until the Museum can take 
tiiem on its own premises, and the Air Force graciously furnished the 
flight crews and flew these planes in. 

At the Suitland, Md., storage area, located about 5 miles from the 
Smithsonian exhibition premises, the principal accomplishment dur- 
ing the fiscal year was tlie construction under contract of a large 5-unit 
prefabricated storage building, which adds 20,000 square feet of in- 
door space to the 24,000 provided the previous fiscal year. The ship- 
ments from Park Ridge and the aircraft and material received from 
other sources were accommodated within Buildings 1 to 6, the large 
Building 7 not being completed until after their arrival. By the mid- 
dle of May plans were under way for extending the road to give access 
to sites for the remaining five buildings to be erected. Economies 
in Smithsonian expenditures, and cooperation from other bureaus of 
the Institution, made it possible to purchase material for four of those 
five buildings and to finance a fence to enclose the entire 21-acre area. 
Contracts for these improvements were made through the General 
Services Administration, The U. S. Army Engiiieering School at 
Fort Belvoir, Va., was very kind to consider the extension of the road- 
way as a practical school project and assigned officers and men with a 
huge bulldozer to cut the way through the wooded area. Air Force 
personnel and equipment from nearby Boiling Air Force Base then 
covered that roadway with gravel brought from Andrews Air Force 
Base, and lent trucks, a scraper, and small bulldozer to smooth and 



82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

level the new road and also fill the ruts and hollows on the entrance 
roadway. This completes the loop as drawn in the original plans. 
Andrews Air Force Base also lent a quantity of pierced steel plank- 
ing for temporary road reinforcement. The Navy Department, Bu- 
reau of Yards and Docks, assisted in preparing the specifications and 
processing the contracts for the Museum's storage buildings at Suit- 
land. Additional assistance from Boiling Air Force Base was often 
given for unloading heavy shipments beyond the capacity of the 
Museum's handling equipment; and mention of this equipment recalls 
the efficient services of the Smithsonian property officers who, with the 
cooperation of the Army and Navy and General Services Administra- 
tion, obtained two large forklifts and a crane at a cost for transporta- 
tion only. These machines were made serviceable through tlie help of 
the Smithsonian service shop personnel and the Museum's exhibits 
workers. Maintenance projects included painting of six building 
roofs, clearing stumps and brush, and sawing the felled trees into 
boards to be used for shoring and shelving. 

Thus, although the amount requested in the budget estimate of the 
fiscal year 1954 for construction and utilization of the Suitland 
storage facility was not granted, much progress has been made toward 
completing this greatly needed auxiliary. 

COOPERATIVE AND EDUCATIONAL SERVICES 

Requests for aeronautical information and educational material 
are constant and, as the resources and abilities of the Museum and staff 
become better known, are increasing. The staff is pleased to give such 
assistance to the best of its ability. The following are typical ex- 
amples of the kinds of services rendered : 

A number of Government departments were assisted. The Libraiy 
of Congress and the Musemn have been of mutual assistance in devel- 
oping files relating to the Wright brothers. Air Force engineer offi- 
cers preparing a technical study of aircraft structures were given a 
chronological review illustrated by specific examples in the collection ; 
Kelly Air Force Base was furnished biographical data on Lt. George 
M. E. Kelly, for whom that base was named ; and the flight school at 
Laredo was helped with the writing of articles and with photographs 
for its students' yearbook. Many Air Force officers visited or phoned 
for technical and historical facts; the subjects ranged from details 
of the first World Flight of 1924, biographies of noted airmen, and 
flight performances of famous airplanes, to clarification of technical 
terms in foreign translations. The Air University was supplied with 
a group of photographs illustrating aircraft of the Wright brothers. 
Authors for Naval Air publications were assisted in identifying photo- 
graphs of aircraft and in preparing articles. Material and informa- 
tion were supplied for an exhibit on aircraft-carrier history and for a 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 83 

display of early aircraft radio installations ; Naval research engineers 
requested the loan of a scale model of the Grumman F6F for use in 
ordnance studies and were particularly i^leased to be shown in the 
Museum a piece of early equipment which embodies elements applica- 
ble to important current studies. Both the Air Force and Navy were 
helped in planning their Armed Forces Day exhibits. The General 
Services Administration Archives Division was aided in identifying a 
number of old aeronautical photographs; the Civil Aeronautics Ad- 
ministration was given illustrations for a text on the Wright brothers ; 
and the U. S, Office of Education was provided with a monograph on 
the Wrights which they copied and distributed to the many delegates 
at the educational meeting held in Atlantic City. 

For the fiftieth anniversary celebration held at Kitty Hawk, N. C, 
December 14—17, and as a permanent addition to the Wright brothers' 
memorial there, the Department of the Interior reconstructed the two 
buildings erected north of Kill Devil Hill by Wilbur and Orville 
Wright to house their aircraft and themselves during their experi- 
ments of 1902-3, and upon their later return. This reconstruction was 
in line with a suggestion proposed several years ago by this Museum, 
and the staif was pleased to assist with additional ideas and informa- 
tion. Investigators of the Department of Justice continued to call 
upon the Museum for examples of equipment and related facts under 
discussion in current claim suits, and the Weather Bureau received 
assistance in preparing displays on aircraft meteorology. The Re- 
public of Guatemala was furnished with photographs and information 
for a historical aviation display honoring the Wright brothers. 

Many aeronautical organizations, airlines, and manufacturers were 
assisted by the Museum. The National Aeronautic Association hon- 
ored the head curator by appointing him as one of its directors. Early 
Patent Office models of aeronautical inventions were lent to the Johns 
Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory for use in an exliibit intended 
to encourage local inventors, and the Schebler Carburetor Company 
received aid in tracing some of their early types used on aircraft en- 
gines. Both Trans- World Airlines and United Airlines were lent 
scale models of aircraft associated with their history, American Air- 
lines was given facts about early engines, and Pan American World 
Airways was assisted in conducting a model airplane contest. A 
historian from Chance Vought Aircraft of Dallas, Tex., was helped 
in preparing a company history, and that company has reciprocated 
by preparing models and photographs of its types for the Museum 
series. The Early Birds, an organization composed of pioneer fliers, 
was lent an authentic Wright propeller to serve as a pattern for a 
bronze casting which is to be incorporated in a memorial to those who 
flew at Governors Island, N. Y., before the first world war. The Air- 
craft Industries Association was aided in preparing a historical article 



84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

on helicopter development, and the Air Transport Association was 
given facts about the P. R. T. Airline of 1926 and the Washington 
Hoover Airport for a chronological treatise. The Air Force Associa- 
tion was provided with maps, photographs, and texts pertaining to the 
first transcontinental flight, made in a Wright brothers' airplane and 
requiring 84 days and 70 landings, in 1911. This association plans to 
erect a marker at Pasadena, Calif., in memory of the pilot Calbraith 
Perry Rodgers. 

The results of Museum assistance to artists have been apparent in au- 
thentic aircraft paintings and drawings for Life, Aero Digest, and the 
Saturday Evening Post, while other magazines and publishers aided 
by Museum material and information during this year include the Na- 
tional Geographic Society for its December aviation issue, the Book 
of Knowledge, Collier's Encyclopedia, and the World Book, which 
were supplied with aeronautical photographs. A pictorial history of 
aeronautics, "Flight," compiled by the publishers of Year includes 
many views selected at the Museum. Among the universities that re- 
quested assistance from the Museum are the Catholic University in 
Washington, D. C, and the State universities of Illinois, Colorado, Ne- 
braska, and Maryland. Several museums were helped with current 
projects. The Dayton Art Institute was furnished with illustrations 
of old Chinese kites for an exliibit on early ideas on flight; the Kern 
County Museum of California was supplied with a selection of air- 
history photographs; the Deutsches Museum in Munich, Germany, 
which is trying to repair the ravages of war among its aircraft ma- 
terial, was sent drawings of a Wright brothers' Type A Flyer; and the 
Musee de I'Air in France was furnished information about the Japa- 
nese Kamikaze rocket-bomb aircraft in the National Air Museum. 

With the continuation of celebrations by the air fraternity, directed 
by the national and local committees associated with the Fiftieth 
Anniversary of Powered Flight, which culminated with the close of 
the calendar year 1953, the Museum experienced the greatest demands 
yet made upon its informational services. 

Requests to the Museum for lectures on widely varied aeronautical 
subjects were particularly frequent during the anniversary year and 
continued into the remainder of the fiscal year. Among the 23 lec- 
tures given by the head curator in the 12-month period were those to 
the Pan American World Airways Management Group at Miami, Fla., 
October 13; to the Columbia Historical Society of Washington, D. C, 
October 20 ; to the large group celebrating the Fiftieth Anniversary of 
Powered Flight at Ithaca, N. Y., December 8 ; before the National Air- 
port Club, Alexandria, Va., January 7 (which resulted in that club's 
adopting a motion to cooperate with the Museum in its need for an ade- 
quate building for the aircraft collection) ; on January 27, at Sampson 
Air Force Base, New York, to a double assembly of about 5,000 student 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 85 

airmen; to the full brigade of U. S. Naval Reservists of the Potomac 
River Naval Command, February 10 ; the amiual Ruediger Lecture at 
George AVashington University in Washington, D. C, March 1 ; and 
before the Royal Air Force Club in Washington, D. C, on April 15. 
Most of these lectures were illustrated with films and slides and 
described various aspects of the history of aeronautics, with emphasis 
on the outstanding accomplishments of Orville and Wilbur Wright. 

Because of the small staff and the pressure of work it is seldom pos- 
sible to conduct groups on tours of the exhibits, but when this can be 
done it is mutually helpful. Among the 12 tours conducted were those 
for about 150 Civil Air Patrol cadets and a nearly equal group of 
foreign cadets in July ; a group of engineers associated with the Air 
Transport Association and the Radio Technical Commission in 
October; and nearly 200 teachers of aeronautics from all over the 
United States during the special Wright brothers' celebration on 
December 17. 

The National Air Museum furnished material for many radio and 
television programs. It is gratifying to know that the special tele- 
vision series arranged for schools by Mrs. Marjorie Campbell, a W^ash- 
ington science teacher who received assistance from the I^Iuseum, was 
given highest place in a nationwide rating. The TV shows based on 
the national aeronautical collection and conducted by John Daly, Ed 
Murrow, and Dave Garroway were widely a-?«laimed. 

RESEARCH 

Two of the Museum's special study projects have been materially 
advanced during the year. These are the origin and history of the 
guided missile in i\jnerica and the pictorial history of the Wright 
brothers. Both have been conducted largely by Associate Curator 
Robert Strobell. 

There were two contemporary American projects for producing 
guided missiles in World War I, identified respectively by the develop- 
ments of Elmer A. Sperry and his son Lawrence for the Navy and by 
Charles F. Kettering for the Army. It is significant to recall that 
Orville Wright was associated with the latter undertaking. Museum 
research has progressed to the extent that enough material is available 
on the Kettering project to prepare drawings for a scale model, pub- 
lish the findings, and assemble an authentic record in the permanent file 
of the Museum. Less information has been obtained on the Sperry 
missile, and research will continue as opportunity permits and co- 
operation is extended. A number of the interesting facts thus far 
revealed are embodied in an illustrated article, "America's First Pilot- 
less Aircraft," published in the July 1954 Aero Digest, co-authored by 
Rear Adm. Delmar S. Falu-ney, U. S. N. (ret.), and Mr. Strobell. 

Because the national aeronautical collection includes three original 



86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Wright brothers' aircraft, six of their engines, numerous scale models, 
and other related specimens, an associated project to procure significant 
pictorial material is well justified. Remarkable progress as been made 
tliis year in acquiring and correlating photographs of the Wright 
brothers, of historic events associated with their accomplislmients, 
views of their aircraft in flight and on land or water, and technical de- 
tails of their aircraft, engines, launching gear, instruments, and other 
devices. Excellent cooperation has been received from Underwood & 
Underwood, the New York Times, Culver Service, Frederick Lewis, 
European Picture Service, Brown Brothers, and the Institute of Aero- 
nautical Sciences. S. W. Dunham, of Bellbrook, Ohio, and M. W. 
Todd, of Dayton, have been very cooperative, as have numerous other 
collectors and historians throughout America and Europe. As a re- 
sult of this widespread interest in assembling in one appropriate place 
a complete record, the Museum's Wright brothers' pictorial collection 
has tripled in size this year and may be said to be the largest of its 
kind, although considered about tliree-fourths complete. It now 
numbers about 2,500 prints. Many interesting facts about the Wright 
brothers, biographical, technical, and historical, have come to light 
through this research, and as one direct result the series of 25 scale 
exhibition models of Wright types is nearing completion and becom- 
ing a valuable accessory to the original aircraft, further expanding 
public knowledge about the accomplishments of these famous pioneers 
of the air. 

THE LINK FOUNDATION 

In January 1954 an announcement was made by Edwin A. Link, 
chairman of the board of Link Aviation, Inc., Binghamton, N. Y., 
that the Link Foundation had been established to advance training 
and education in aeronautics. The Secretary of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution was appointed a member of the Technical Assistance Board, 
and Miss Marilyn Link, sister of the founder, is executive secretary. 
Her office is at the Smithsonian Institution. One of the first grants 
by the Link Foundation was to the Smithsonian, to be applied to 
the preparation and publication of a booklet describing 12 of the 
famous aircraft in the collection. 

IMPROVEMENTS IN REFERENCE MATERIAL 

During the Secretaryship of Dr. Samuel P. Langley, third head of 
the Smithsonian Institution, 1887-1906, he began collecting aero- 
nautical books and reference material. Later, extracts from periodi- 
cals and newspaper articles collected during the first decade of this 
century by Alexander Graham Bell were added. Thus the Smith- 
sonian became rich in data pertaining to the early days of aviation. 
This library is constantly expanding. During 1953 a number of cur- 
rent books, as well as earlier editions, were added, and the periodical 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 87 

section of the library was improved. From the U. S. Book Exchange 
many magazines were received to fill gaps in the series; and from 
nmiierous private collectors and several commercial sources more 
missing copies and several bound volumes were obtained. The addi- 
tion of this valuable source of contemporary information has enabled 
the staff to better perform its duties of labeling specimens and answer- 
ing queries. 

For every specimen recorded by the Museum an accession record or 
reference-file jacket is maintained. These jackets are constantly 
being improved and serve as a source of supplementary data for the 
staff and for visitors desiring more information than is given on the 
specimen labels. In the same reference file, jackets are kept on widely 
varied subjects associated with aeronautics. Many friends of the 
Museum send in items from time to time which are helpful. This 
year Ray Fife of Coronado, Calif., Fred Becchetti of Des Moines, 
Iowa, James Murray of the Boeing Airplane Co., E. T. Pachasa of 
the Cleveland Model Products Co., and Hideya Ando of Tok^^o, 
Japan, have been very cooperative. Mr. Ando sent in a book on Japa- 
nese aircraft of World War II, which is of much assistance in describ- 
ing the types of that nationality in the Museum collection. 

Frequently publishers and others send in extra copies of their pub- 
lications. The Fairciiild Airplane and Engine Corporation donated 
300 copies of their reprints of Walter Bonney's excellent historical 
article "Preclude to Kitty Hawk" and a quantity of Fred Neely's com- 
plete issue on the Collier Trophy. The Chance Vought Aircraft, 
Inc., supplied drawings of their early VE7-H airplane, and a num- 
ber of other donations have been received. Selections of duplicate 
material have been sent to teachers and studies, and to other in- 
quirers during the year. 

The care of retained reference items in the permanent file is a con- 
stant necessity. During this year about a hundred file cases released 
by another Government department were taken to the Suitland stor- 
age area, and in them the large quantity of Air Force data, known as 
Technical Orders, was filed, following screening and sorting. This 
information is most useful in conducting the dismantling of aircraft 
now in progress at Park Ridge and will be even more necessary as 
the assembly of these aircraft is undertaken, following acquisition 
of an adequate building for exhibiting the collection. The photo- 
graphs illustrating aircraft developed by the Aeromarine Co., by 
Curtiss, and by Curtiss- Wright, the first-named group received last 
year, and tlie others this year, were given preservation treatment. 

Documentary additions to the collection include the original per- 
spective drawing of the Wright brothers' Kitty Hawk Flyer, made by 
Ralph McLarren of Aero Digest, given by the artist. An eniarge- 

326511—55 7 



"88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

ment of that drawing formed the background for the Aero Club of 
Washington's Fiftieth Anniversary of Powered Flight banquet on 
December 17. A copy of Frank Jefferies' detailed drawing of the 
Air Force's Boeing P-26 fighter has also been received from the 
original artist. Pan American World Airways arranged for the 
painting of a scene representing their first flights to the Orient to 
illustrate the Collier Trophy award of 1936 to that Airway. Joseph 
Nieto, whose excellent drawings of aircraft are often featured in cur- 
rent magazines, continued to send large-scale copies for the Museum 
files, Robert Nevin, of Baltimore, Md., generously lent his large 
collection of photographs and data pertaining to Glenn Martin air- 
craft, so that prints and notes could be copied. 

For the following lots of reference material entries have been made 
in a separate acknowledgment file : 

AiB Force, Depabtment of, Wright-Patterson A. F. B., Ohio : A large selection of 
Technical Orders containing data on recent and current aii'craft. 

Berliner, Henry A., Riverdale, Md. : Copies of the James Means' Aeronautical 
Annual for 1897, books on aerodynamics by Gustave Eiffel, and the loan of a 
scrapbook of early aviation by James Lee Simmons. 

Brown, Maj. Kimbrotjoh S., U. S. A. F., Fort Walton Beach, Fla. : 71 books and 
pamphlets pertaining to aeronautics, the majority relative to the World War I 
period. 

Clemmons, Mrs. Anna B., Saratoga Springs, N. Y. : A collection of 654 photo- 
graphs and 2 booklets of early Curtiss aircraft. 

CoEN, Mrs. Cuxr^EK, Peusacola, Fla. : An original souvenir program of the 1910 
Belmont Park Air Meet. 

Collins, Isobel V., Washington, D. C. : 39 photographs of Bell airplanes, 37 of 
them illustrating the P-39 Airacobra, and 2 of the XFM-1. 

Cuktiss-Wbight Corporation, Wood-Ridge, N. J.: 208 photogrophs of aircraft 
produced by Glenn H. Curtiss, the Curtiss Aeroplane and Motor Co., and the 
Curtiss-Wright Corporation. 

Emig, Mrs. C. E., Washington, D. C. : A collection of slides prepared by the late 
Maj. Emig during World War I, and used for educational lectures on aircraft 
construction and operation. 

Gabrielli, G., Torino, Italy : A collection of 103 photographs of Fiat aircraft 
and engines, 6 pamphlets describing Fiat products and activities, a book, Fiat, 
a 50 Years' Record, and a group of 4 small scale models of Fiat airplanes. 

Hauwood, Mrs. Georgia, Mantoo, N. C. (through the interest and help of Aycock 
Brown) : 22 original photographic negatives taken by the late VanNess Har- 
wood illustrating Orville Wright's glider experiments in 1911 when Wright 
was developing his automatic stabilizer. 

La Grone, Mrs. John K., Kansas City, Mo. : 50 photographs of aircraft, mainly 
of the period before and during World War I, flown by or associated with the 
late "Tex" La Grone. 

LippiNCOTT, Harvey H., Hebron, Conn. : A collection of books, pamphlets, and 
other printed reference material relative to current and recent types of aircraft 
and engines. 

National Cash Register Co., Dayton, Ohio (through Carl Beust) : 271 photo- 
graphs pertaining to the Wright brothers, including interior views of their 
home, and of Orville's laboratory, and many of the Wright brothers' aeronauti- 
cal activities. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 89 

Navy, Department of the, Washington, D. C. : Blueprints showing construction 
details of the German Me-163 rocket interceptor airplane, and of miscel- 
laneous equipment including guided missiles made in Germany during 
World War II. 

Ninety-Nines, Inc., San Francisco, Calif, (through Ruth N. liueckert) : The 24- 
volume scrapbook-history of this renowned organization of licensed women 
fliers, dating from 1929. 

POLiTis, Jacques N., Paris, France : 16 photographs illustrating flights by Wilbur 
Wright in France in 1908 and 1909. 

Rehdek, Habald, Washington, D. C. : 36 illustrations of aircraft collected at the 
Rheims, France, Aviation Meet in 1909. 

Wright, Theodoke P., Ithaca, N. Y. : An album of Curtiss aircraft photographs. 

ACCESSIONS 

This year the Museum received 360 specimens from 48 sources, 
comprising 55 separate accessions. Those from Government depart- 
ments are recorded as transfers, others were received as gifts, except 
as noted. Eacli has been entered in the permanent records of the 
Musemn and formally acknowledged. 

Air Force, Department of, Washington, D. C. : Douglas XB-43, America's first 
jet-propelled bomber, an experimental project of the U. S. Air Force (N.A.M. 
796). Fuselage of the Douglas XB-42 "Mixmaster" experimental attack 
bomber, 1944 (N.A.M. 789) . German rotary-wing autogiro kite FA-3uO, piloted, 
for use with submarines in World War II (N.A.M. 794). Prewitt 
Rotorchute, used for dropping equipment under extreme conditions of speed 
and stress beyond the limits of conventional canopy-type parachutes (N.A.M. 
790). 

All W^oman Transcontinental Air Race, Inc., San Diego, Calif. : Trophy 
awarded annually since 1947 to first-place winner of the Transcontinental Air 
Race, sponsored by the Ninety-Nines, Inc., and the National Aeronautic As- 
sociation. (N.A.M. 814). 

Aston, Arthur C, Chevy Chase, Md. : Scale model, about 1 : 12 size, of a 12- 
cylinder Liberty engine of the World War I period (N.A.M. 799) . 

Atlas Supply Co., Newark, N. J., with cooperation of the Douglas Aircraft Co., 
Inc., through Mrs. Margaret Bedford and Col. E. E. Aldrin : Scale model, 1 : 16, 
of the Douglas DC-4 airplane named the "Atlas Sky Merchant" which operated 
throughout the world, 1946-1953, as a "flying show case" (N.A.M. 801). 

Bendix Aviation Corporation, Eclipse-Pioneer Division, Teterboro, N. J., through 
E. O. Cooper : The engine-driven supercharger produced by this company for 
the Pratt and Whitney engine of the airplane Winnie Mae, and used during 
the high-altitude performance and pioneering substratosphere flights by Wiley 
Post in 1935 (N.A.M. 800, loan) . 

Bushey, Frank B., Hartford, Conn. : A panel of original rubberized fabric from 
a Curtiss pusher-type biplane flown by M. Bonnetti, about 1909 (N.A.M. 809, 
loan). 

Byrd, Mrs. Thomas, Boyce, Va. : Uniforms, flight equipment, and flags of Brig. 
Gen. William Mitchell (N.A.M. 811). 

Chilean Air Force, through Col. Enrique Flores, air attach^ to the Chilean 
Embassy, Washington, D. C. : Scale exhibition model, 1 : 16, of the Bristol 
Monoplane Type M.IC in which Capt. Dagoberto Godoy of the Chilean Air 
Force, on December 12. 1918, made the first flight from Santiago, Chile, to 
Mendoza, Argentina, over the high Andes (N.A.M. 824). 



90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Chbysleb Corporation, Plymouth Division, Detroit, Mich. : The Plymouth Jet 
Trophy, a current award and perpetual trophy for model airplane competition 
(N.A.M.831). 

Civil Aeronautics Administration, Washington, D. C, through Fred B, Lee: 
The Boeing 247-D transport airplane Adaptable Annie, flown by Roscoe Turner 
and Clyde Pangborn in the MacRobertson Race, 1934, later flagplane of United 
Air Lines and until recently used by the C. A. A. in connection with its airways 
operations (N.A.M. 823). 

Civil Air Patrol, Washington, D. C, through Gen. Lucas V. Beau : A barograph 
of current type constructed by Peravia, Ltd., Bern, Switzerland (N.A.M. 827). 

Cochrane, Jacqueline, New York, N. Y. : Flag used at headquarters in England 
of the Air Transport Auxiliary, an organization of women fliers who per- 
formed valuable and patriotic service in ferrying military aircraft during 
World War II (N.A.M. 826) . 

CuBRAN, John J., Long Island City, N. Y. : Five parts of aircraft associated with 
the donor's extensive aeronautical experience. An angle of incidence indicator 
from his Bleriot Monoplane 1913, the propeller from Matthew Sellers Quadru- 
plane of about 1910, a radiator apparently from a Martin TT airplane of 1913, 
a propeller from a British F. E. 2B airplane of World War I, and a radiator 
shutter from a Vought VE7-H airplane of 1920 (N.A.M. 816) . 

Douglas Aircraft Co., Inc., El Segundo, Calif., with cooperation by the U. S. 
Navy, Bureau of Aeronautics : Four scale models, 1 : 16, of current types of 
Naval airplanes produced by Douglas; the AD5W "Skyraider," A2D-1 "Sky- 
shark," A3D "Sky Warrior" carrier attack plane, and the F4D-1 "Skyray" 
(N.A.M. 805). 

Fales, E. N., Washington, D. C, through P. L. Ritchie, Dayton, Ohio: Three 
blades from rotors of the U. S. Air Service Engineering Division helicopter 
developed by Dr. George De Bothezat and Ivan Jerome, 1922-24 (N.A.M. 803). 

Goodyear Aircraft Corporation, Akron, Ohio : A canopy for a U. S. Air Force 
F-84 Republic "Thunderjet" fighter, a type used in the Korean War, 1953 
(N.A.M. 795). 

Hartigan, Col. John D., Washington, D. C. : A silver insigne pin in the form 
of an American flag within a circle, worn by members of the First Aero 
Squadron, A. E. F., World War I (N.A.M. 798). 

HuBBELL, Charles H., Cleveland, Ohio : Six scale exhibition models, 1 : 16, of 
aircraft produced by Orville and Wilbur Wright and the Wright Company. 
These are the gliders of 1901 and 1911, the military Type C, the floatplane CH, 
and the Aeroboats Type G-1913 and G-1914 (N.A.M. 833, purchase). 

Jones, Joseph W., New York, N. Y. : Two airplane instruments — a "Victometer" 
tachometer and an air-speed indicator, manufactured during the World War I 
period by the company established by the donor (N.A.M. 822) . 

Kemble, Lt. Coaidr. Parker H., USNR (Bet.), Marblehead, Mass.: A propeller 
from a Burgess-Dunne airplane in which the donor and Geoffrey Cabot con- 
ducted air-pickup tests in November 1917 (N.A.M. 817). 

Eennell, Capt. Lotns C. and Vina, Hollywood, Calif.: A German Pfalz D-12 
fighter airplane of World War I (N.A.M. 793), 

Lewis, Leonaed L., Oklahoma City, Okla., through C. H. Hubbell: A Harding 
parachute, made about 1917 and used in over 200 jumps including the first by 
Wiley Post, who in 1924 made exhibition jumps to help finance his flying 
lessons. The donor, who holds Commercial Pilot License 163, used this chute 
during his barnstorming days, shortly after World War I (N.A.M. 806). 

Library of Congbess, Washington, D. C. : The Richard anemometer from the 
estate of Octave Chanute, lent by him to the Wright brothers during their 
early experiments at Kitty Hawk so that duration and air speeds could be 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 91 

measured (N.A.M. 797) ; a collection of 1G6 medals and 6 plaques associated 
with aeronautical history and formerly a part of the Paul Tissandier collec- 
tion ; and an electric lamp used by Adm. R. E. Byrd during an Antarctic 
expedition (N.A.M. 785). 

Link Aviation, Inc., Binghamton, N. Y. : An early Link trainer, 1929, embodying 
the initial developments of Edward Link for simulating flight conditions 
(N.A.M. 820). 

McDonnell Aikckaft Cokpokation, St. Louis, Mo. : A portrait and a memorial 
album commemorating the accomplishments of Woodward Burke, test pilot, 
who lost his life while testing the McDonnell XFD-1 "Phantom." The portrait 
is by his widow, Olivia Bendelari Burke (N.A.M. 791). 

Moor.E, IlEKBKKT R., Washington, D. C. : A contemporary iiisisne of the 94th 
Squadron, famous American air unit of World War I, in which the donor was 
an enlisted mechanic (N.A.M. 825). 

Mus£;e de l'Air, Paris, France, through the Couservateur, Charles DoUfus : The 
original fuselage panel of fabric from the Breguet airplane, "Point d'lnter- 
rogation," in which Dieudonne Coste and Maurice Bellonte made the first 
flight from Paris to New York, 1930 (N.A.M. 830). 

National Aeeonautic Association, Washington, D. C. : The Pulitzer Trophy, 
donated by the Pulitzer brothers as an incentive for air racing with land 
planes and awarded aunuahy from 1920 through 1925 for the fastest time 
over a closed circuit course (N.A.M. 780). 

Navy, Depaktment of, Washington, D. C. : Scale exhibition model, 1 : 16, of the 
Richardson 82-A seaplane. The original was constructed at the Washington 
Navy Yard, 1916, and was the first airplane designed and built by the U. S. 
Government (N.A.M. 819). Through the British Royal Navy, a propeller from 
the first airplane of U. S. Navy type accredited with a victory in World War II 
(N.A.M. 828). A series of 8 meteorological displays illustrating weather con- 
ditions and explaining their relation to flight operations (N.A.M. 829). A 
complete PK-2 life raft exhibit showing equipment furnished Naval pilots 
for arctic survival in event of a forced landing ; four crash helmets of types 
issued to Naval jet pilots; an airplane ejection seat with mannequin dressed 
in flight gear; a Naval aviator's oxygen-breathing system; and an aviator's 
vest incorporating nylon padding as protection against bullets and flak 
(N.A.M. 836). 

Nevin, Robert S., Baltimore, Md. : Scale exhibition model, 1 :16, of the De 
Havilland DH-4 airplane as manufactured by the Dayton Wright Co. for serv- 
ice in World War I (N. A. M. 808, loan). 

Newcomh, Chakles, Bethania, N. C. : Scale exhibition model, 1:16, of the Wright 
brothers' aeroplane flown by V/ilbur iu Europe, 1908 ; a model to same scale 
of the catapult tower, track, and truck used to launch this and other Wright 
Type A aeroplanes ; and a 1 :16 model of the military tractor airplane Type H 
of 1912 made by Burgess and Curtis, licensed by the Wright brothers (N.A.M. 
837, purchase). 

North American Aviation, Inc., Los Angeles, Calif.: A group of 6 scale exhibi- 
tion models, 1 :16, illustrating types developed by this company for the Armed 
Services — the B-2.fj-J "Mitchell" medium bomber, F-51-D "Mustang" fighter, 
F-8C-E "Sabrejet" fighter. FJ-2 "Fury" carrier-based fighter, AJ-1 "Savage" 
Naval attack plane, and the AT-6 "Harvard" trainer (N.A.M. 812). 

Perry, Rokert L., New London, Conn. : Awards collected by and issued to the 
donor's grandfather. A, Holland Forbes, early spherical balloon pilot and 
president of the Aero Club of America (N.A.M. 821, loan). 

Plahte, Lt. Col. Fred L., Fort Lewis, Wash. : A Japanese tubular gun camera 
of the type mounted on aircraft for photographing the effect of offensive fire 
(N.A.M. 835). 



92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Port of Oakland, Oakland, Calif. : A BBT light used for the original airport- 
lighting installation at Oakland Airport ; and a gasoline tank from the Italian 
transpolar airship "Norge" 1926 (N.A.M. 807). 

PUMPHKEY, Mr. and Mrs. Charles, Washington, D. C. : A world globe on which 
several noted aviators and air navigators, including Wiley Post, Harold Gatty, 
and Roger Q. Williams, ijersonally inscribed the course of their long-distance 
flights (N.A.M. 810, loan). 

Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind. : A collection of medals, awards, keys to 
cities, and other trophy items presented to or in honor of Amelia Earhart, 
first woman to fly across the Atlantic Ocean, 1928 ; first woman to pilot her 
airplane solo across that ocean in 1932; and in 19.35 to fly solo from Hawaii 
to California across the Pacific (N.A.M. 802, loan). 

Randolph, Hon. Jennings, Washington, D. C. : The pen with which the Presi- 
dent of the United States, Harry S. Truman, on August 12, 1946, signed the 
Act establishing the National Air Museum. That Act (Public Law 722 of 
the 79th Congress) was authored by the donor with General of the Air Force 
H. H. Arnold (N.A.M. 813) . 

Rearwin, Kenneth R., La Jolla, Calif. : An Anzani aircraft engine of radial 
form. Type B, manufactured in France about 1925, 6-cylinder, 45 hp. 
(N.A.M. 804, loan). 

Richmond, Lt. Jack, USAF (Ret), Los Angeles, Calif.: Helmet and goggles 
worn by him during training at Love Field, Dallas, Tex., World War I. Auto- 
graphed by famous aviation personalities (N.A.M. 787). 

RiNALDi, Victor, Arlington, Va. : Scale exhibition models, 1 : 16, of two Wright 
brothers' aeroplanes — the Type A, first military flyer of 1909, and the Type E, 
single-propelled pusher biplane of 1913. Modeled by Roderic Davis of 
Takoma Park, Md. (N.A.M. 815, purchase). 

RoGAi.LO, Francis M., Langley Field, Va. : Three examples of flexible-surfaced 
kites, invented by him ( N.A.M. 834) , 

Sperry Gyroscope Company, Great Neck, N. Y. : An operable demonstration 
unit of the Sperry Automatic Pilot, assembled in an exhibition case with the 
original instrument of this type used by Wiley Post in his solo flight around 
the world, July 13 to 22, 1933 (N.A.M. 832), 

Swallow Airplane Co., Inc., Wichita, Kans., through Sam Bloomfield, presi- 
dent: Fuselage of the Laird "Super Solution" biplane in which Maj. James 
H. Doolittle won the Bendix Race at the National Air Races and set a record 
of 11 hours 16 minutes elapsed time between Burbank, Calif., and Newark, 
N. J., September 1931 (N.A.M. 788). 

United Aircraft Corp., East Hartford, Conn. : A utensil carried on the balloon 
"Graphic" during a trip from New York to Canaan, Conn., 1873 (N.A.M. 783). 

University of Detroit, Detroit, Mich.: A Packard Diesel aircraft engine of 
1929, No. DR-9S0, Serial No. 5 J, 9-cylinder, radial, air-cooled, developing 
225 hp. at 1,950 r. p. m. (N.A.M. ,818). 

Veeder-Root, Inc., Hartford, Conn. : A Veeder Counter, similar to the one 
installed by the Wright brothers on their Kitty Hawk Flyer to record the 
revolutions of their engine when they made the first powered and controlled 
heavier-than-air flights by man, December 17, 1903 (N.A.M. 784). 

Wagonrod, W. E., Dayton, Ohio: Two scale exhibition models, 1:16, of Wright 
brothers' aircraft — their glider of 1902 and their third aeroplane, 1905. Mod- 
eled by Joseph Fallo of Dayton (N.A.M. 792, purchase). 

Respectfully submitted. 

Paul E. Garber, Head Curator. 
Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 
Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the National Zoological Park 

Sir : Transmitted herewith is a report on the operations of the Na- 
tional Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1954. 

This year showed a considerable increase over last in accessions to 
the Zoo. In all, 899 accessions, comprising 2,2.50 individual animals, 
were added to the collection during the year by gifts, deposits, pur- 
chases, exchanges, births, and hatchings. Among these were many 
rare specimens never before shown in this Zoo. The addition of new 
kinds of animals enhances the value of the collection, which is main- 
tained not only for exhibition but also for research and education, thus 
fostering the Smithsonian's established purpose of "the increase and 
diffusion of knowledge." Opportunities for research are afforded 
students of biology, particularly vertebrate zoology, as well as artists, 
photographers, and writers. Methods of study that do not endanger 
the welfare of animals or the safety of the public are encouraged. 

In addition to the regular diversified duties of carrying on all the 
operations of the Zoo, the services of the staff included answering in 
person or by phone, mail, or telegraph questions regarding animals 
and their care and transportation; furnishing to other zoos and other 
agencies, public and private, information regarding structures for 
housing animals; cooperating with other agencies of Federal, State, 
and municipal governments in research work; and preparing manu- 
scripts for publication. 

The stone restaurant building, which was constructed in the Park 
in 1940, is leased at $46,212 a year. This money is deposited in the 
United States Treasury. The concessionaire serves meals and light re- 
freshments and sells souvenirs. 

THE EXHIBITS 

Animals for exhibition are acquired by gift, deposit, purchase, ex- 
change, birth, and hatching, and are removed by death, exchange, or 
return of those on deposit. Although depositors are at liberty to re- 
move their specimens, many leave them permanently. 

As in any colony of living things, there is a steady turnover, and 
the exhibits are constantly changing. Thus, the inventory of speci- 
mens in the collection on June 30 of each year does not show all the 
kinds of animals that were exhibited during the year, for sometimes 
creatures of outstanding interest at the time they were shown are no 
longer in the collection at the time the inventory is made. 

The United States National Museum is given first choice of all ani- 

93 



94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

mals that die in the Zoo. If they are not desired for the Museum they 
are then made available to other institutions or scientific workers. 
Thus the value of the specimen continues long after it is dead. 

ACCESSIONS 

GIFTS AND DEPOSITS 

The Zoo has been particularly fortunate in having friends who 
show their sincere interest by bringing in specimens or arranging for 
acquisitions from foreign countries. 

The Zoo's effort of several years to obtain specimens of sea otters 
{Enhydra lutris) was finally rewarded by the receipt on June 14, 1954, 
of three of these animals. They had been captured in the Aleutian 
Islands, Alaska, by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department 
of the Interior and transported from Alaska to Seattle by the U. S. 
Navy. They are of considerable interest historically as well as bio- 
logically, for it was the pursuit of sea otters by the Russians that led 
to much of the exploration of the Alaskan coast. Through excessive 
slaughter the animals were brought to the verge of extermination, and 
for some years it was thought that they might become extinct; but 
finally they began showing a slight increase in the wild. The Fish and 
Wildlife Service is now carrying on studies of sea otters to determine 
what steps should be taken to care properly for the wild ones and 
whether they can be successfully kept in captivity. In view of the 
rarity and great value of these animals, the Zoo's specimens were 
installed in cages that were air-conditioned to provide an environment 
as nearly like their natural habitat as possible, and they were fed in 
accordance with the suggestions of the Fish and Wildlife scientists. 
Unfortunately, however, the otters survived only a few days. 

An outstanding acquisition of the year was a tuatara {Sphenodon 
punctatitm) from the Government of New Zealand. This reptile, 
lizardlike in form, but having some characteristics of the turtle, is a 
primitive type that in its early stages of development possesses four 
or three eyes, but in the adult form has only two, which are large and 
brilliant. It has been called a living fossil because it appears to be 
the least changed of any animal from its ancient ancestors, which lived 
during the time of the dinosaurs. These animals have become scarce 
and are now rigidly protected by the Government, and so the specimen 
sent to the Zoo is a prized accession ; special pains are being taken to 
provide for it suitable living conditions. As the tuatara normally 
lives in temperatures that are lower than those favored by lizards, 
and definitely lower than those prevailing in Washington in summer, 
it is necessary to cool the bottom portion of its cage in very warm 
weather. To induce it to eat freely, it has been given a lizard 
companion. 



S->retJrv's Report. I'l>4 



Plate 3 




Philippine macaque {Miiraca pinli ppiut'usis), a recent accession in the National Zooloeical 
Park. (Plu.tograph by Krnest P. Walker.) 




Caiant arniadillM {Primlontcs giganlea), the lartjest of li\'in,u' armadillos, and rare in collections. 
(Photograph by Krnest P. Walker.) 



Secretary's Report. 1954 



Plate 4 




Upper figure, an Australian bearded lizaid {Amphiboluru , .,/ .,.■■ , lv>\ver figure, New 
Zealand tuatara {Sphenodon punctata), a lizardiike reptile of ancient lineage that is 
iidw extreme!}' rare. (Photograph by Ernest P. Walker.) 




'I..;,, :. Mii-d chameleon {Chamaeleori jacksont), a remark, il ■ nr mi i i;.i; - im nnu- 

viduals of the species have three horns, some have only two, and some have none. 
(Photograph by Ernest P. \\"alker.) 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 95 

Two common Philippine macaques were received from the U. S. Air 
Force tlirough Col. Leon Booth, Air Research and Development Com- 
mand. These monl^eys are of uncommon interest because they were 
used in an experiment at Halloman Air Force base, Alamagordo, 
N. Mex., where they were placed in an x\.ir Force Aerobee rocket wliich 
was fired to an altitude of 200,000 feet. So far as known, these are 
the first primates to reach so great an altitude. 

Laboratory mice were also used in this experiment. When the 
rocket took off, the animals were subjected to about 15 G's, a strain 
about 15 times that which is normal for their weight. Later in the 
flight they lost all weight, as they were away from the gravitational 
force of the earth. 

A fine young chimpanzee {Pari troglodytes) was given to the Zoo 
by the Walter Reed Army Medical Center. 

Through Lt. Col. Robert Traub, chief. Department of Entomol- 
ogy, Army Medical Service Graduate School, Army Medical Center, 
Washington, D. C, there were received three separate collections of 
mammals from Borneo and the Malay Peninsula, including a young 
wau-wau gibbon {Hylobates moloch)^ a crab-eating macaque {Macaca 
irus)^ two brush-tailed porcupines {THchys Upura), a ferret badger 
{Helictis everetti) , three Kinabalu tree shrews ( Tupaia montana halu- 
ensis) , two Rajah tree rats {Rattus rajah) , four slow lorises {Nyctice- 
hus coucang)^ five specimens of three different species of the beautiful 
tree squirrels {C allosciurus) , one pencil-tailed tree mouse {Chiropod- 
omys gliroides), one big black Kinabalu tree rat {Rattus infraluteus) ^ 
four specimens of Berdmore's squirrel {Menetes herd7norei), three 
spiny-backed tree rats {Rattus sahanus), and three Whitehead's tree 
rats {Rattus lohiteheadi). The Berdmore's squirrels and one of the 
Callosciurus were collected by the United States Operations Mission to 
Thailand. The remainder of the specimens were collected by special 
United States Army Research Medical Units in Malaya and Borneo 
with the assistance of Capts. H. T. Newson and Bryce Walton. 

President Syngman Rhee of Korea presented to President Eisen- 
hower two Korean bear cubs {Selenarctos thibetanus ussuricu^) that 
had been his pets. They were turned over to the Zoo where they are 
thriving and are an interesting and entertaining exhibit. They were 
flown to Washington by Northwest Airlines' Stratocruiser, in charge 
of Capt. Y. C. Kwak. 

The Sun Life Insurance Co. of America, through Harvey L. Kes- 
model, Jr., presented two young Malayan sun bears {Helarctos niala- 
yanus) the first the Zoo has had for some time, and a young Hima- 
layan bear {Selenarctos thiheta7ius) . 

Dr. R. E. Kuntz, United States Medical Officer, Rc^search Unit No. 
3, Cairo, Egypt, sent a shipment of 22 kinds of lizards and snakes, 



96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

comprising 125 specimens. These are especially interesting as some 
of them are highly specialized for life under desert conditions. 

Shrum's Chinchilla Kanch, of Front Eoyal, Va., presented a male 
chinchilla, and the Greeson Chinchilla Farm, of Arlington, Va., de- 
posited in the Zoo for a short time four chinchillas {Chinchilla chin- 
chilla) , a pair and their two young. These attractive little creatures 
formed an interesting exhibit. 

Through the interest of Mrs. Esther Van Wagoner Tufty, the Gov- 
ernment of Australia and U. S. Consul General Donald Smith pre- 
sented a pair of great gray kangaroos {Macropus giganteus). 

The Hecht Co. of Washington presented 15 young monkeys repre- 
senting 6 different kinds. These had been on exhibition in the Hecht 
Co. store windows and were desirable additions to the Zoo collection. 

The Wyoming Game and Fish Commission, through the kindness 
of State Game Warden Norbert C. Faass, sent two pronghorn 
antelopes {Antilocapra americana) , the first the zoo has had for many 
years. 

Robert W. Macdonald, of the National Marine Bank Building, 
Baltimore, Md., acting on behalf of the people of the Republic of 
Indonesia, presented a Malayan sun bear {Helarctos malayanus). 
The Isthmian Steamship Co. brought the bear to the States. 

The New York Zoological Society, through James Oliver, gave 10 
arrow-poison frogs {Dendrobates aiiratus) and 10 of the very beautiful 
yellow atelopus frogs {Atelopus varius zeteki). The arrow-poison 
frogs are particularly interesting, as the secretion from their backs is 
used by the Central American natives to poison the tips of their blow- 
gun darts. 

Joe Walkup, of the Safeway Stores at Landover, Md., gave the Zoo 
a very beautifully marked necklace snake [Erythrolamprus aesculapii) 
that he had found in food material received from the Tropics. 

Mario DePrato, principal keeper in the National Zoological Park, 
gave to the Zoo 10 different kinds of small creatures that he obtained 
on his vacation. Especially interesting were the narrow-mouthed 
toads {Microhyla carolin^n.se) not previously exhibited. 

With the growth of the Washington metropolitan region there has 
been a constant increase in the number of helpless local wild creatures 
rescued by kind people and brought to the Zoo. Some of those that 
seem to have a fair chance of survival are liberated, some are ex- 
changed for material needed for the Zoo, and occasionally some are 
given to persons who will give them good care. During the past year 
127 Peking ducks, 71 rabbits, 40 opossums, 33 hamsters, 13 gray squir- 
rels, 12 skunks, G robins, and various other creatures that had been 
pets, or were found when young or injured, were turned over to the 
Zoo. This gives unduly large accession and removal lists, but to re- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



97 



ceive, care for, and place such creatures appears to be a proper func- 
tion of the National Zoological Park. 

This year, as in many years past, various individuals have deposited 
in the Zoo animals to which they desired to retain title. These are 
most acceptable additions to the exhibits. Depositors are assured that 
the animals will receive routine care, but the Zoo assumes no respon- 
sibility for their return and no obligation to replace any that do not 
survive. 

DEPOSITORS AND DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS 

(Deposits are marked *; unless otherwise indicated, addresses of donors are 

Washington, D. C.) 



Abrahams, Jennifer, Arlington, Va., 
cottontail rabbit. 

Ackner, Ned E., Arlington, Va., 2 Peking 
ducks. 

Adams, Charles, indigo snake. 

Akins, K., Indian Head, Md., painted 
turtle. 

Alensteiu, Mrs. Charles, Peking duck. 

All, Iloljert E., Fairfax, Va., domestic 
rabbit. 

American Airlines, Inc., through Herb 
Ford, 18 zebra finches, 20 Gouldian 
finches. 

Ammerman, J. F., Arlington, Va., red- 
lined turtle. 

Angel, Mrs. Jane, horned lizard. 

Archbold, Mrs. Anne, whippoorwill. 

Army Medical Center, Walter Reed, 
chimpanzee. 

Army Medical Service Graduate School, 
through Col. Robert Traub, 3 Kina- 
balu tree shrews, 2 Rajah tree rats, 
2 slow lorises, 5 Siamese squirrels, 
pencil-tailed tree mouse, Kinabalu 
tree rat, 4 Berdmore's squirrels, 2 
Bornean orangutans, wau-wau gib- 
bon, crab-eating macaque, 2 brush- 
tailed porcupines, ferret badger, 2 
slow lorises*, 3 spiny-backed tree 
rats *, 3 Whitehead's tree rats.* 

Ashton, Mrs. A., 2 domestic rabbits. 

Ault, Richard, red-bellied turtle 

Australia, Commonwealth of, and Con- 
sul General Donald Smith, Sydney, 
Australia, through Mrs. Esther 
Van W. Tufty, 2 gray kangaroos. 

Avery, Phyllis, grass parakeet. 

Ayer, Bruce, 2 domestic rabbits. 

Babcock, Mrs. Stover, Silver Spring, 
Md., rhesus monkey. 

Backer, J. E., Silver Spring, Md., alli- 
gator. 

Badger. Mrs. June, Middleburg, Va., 5 
pygmy sunfish, 5 American flag- 
fish, 11 mosquitofish, 1 "Mad Tom" 
catfish, 2 hluefin top minnows, 2 
wild mollies. 

Bailey, Capt. R. W., Camp Lejeune, 
N. C, white-tailed deer. 

Baldi, Fiorenza, caiman. 



Baldwin, Robert, Silver Spring, Md., 

spotted salamander. 
Barnes, Clayton, great horned owl. 
Barrett, David M., Alexandria, Va., 

golden hamster. 
Barto, Mrs. W. F., Arlington, Va., 

cowbird. 
Battenberg, Mrs. William R., Vienna, 

Va., Peking duck. 
Baxter, Frank A., domestic rabbit. 
Baylor, Mrs. C. Neill, Jr., Takoma Park, 

Md., Peking duck. 
Becker, H. E., Takoma Park, Md., pilot 

black snake. 
Beers, Lynn, 2 red squirrels. 
Bell, Wayne A., Arlington, Va., fish 

hawk. 
Bennett, Mrs., Bethesda, Md., black 

widow spider. 
Bennett, Harry M., Morningside, Md., 

raccoon. 
Benton, Robert, Winston-Salem, N. C, 

chain or king .snake. 
Bergan, M. P., Arlington, Va., rabbit, 

caiman, horned lizard. 
Bernstein, Mrs., A., Peking duck.* 
Bernstein, Mrs. Howard, Chevy Chase, 

Md., domestic rabbit. 
Bevis, Mrs. Kathryn, 2 Peking ducks. 
Bittenbender, Karl, Arlington, Va., 

cardinal. 
Bomar, Edward, Central American boa. 
Bonnette, Lynn, Silver Spring, Md., 

Peking duck. 
Booher, Joseph, McLean, Va., rhesus 

monkey.* 
Boone, Emmette, Alexandria, Va., 

raccoon. 
Bowsel, Helen W., robin. 
Bradburd, Eddie, Silver Spring, Md., 2 

opossums. 
Breen, Mrs. G. H., domestic rabbit. 
Breitel, Linda, domestic rabbit. 
Briggs, Mrs. L. E., Kenwood, Md., spec- 
tacled caiman. 
Brisker, Mrs. N., hamster. 
Brodell, Mis. F., Chevy Chase, Md., Pe- 
king duck. 
Broida, Arthur, Alexandria, Va., cedar 

waxwing. 



98 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



Brown, Sidney, smooth-scaled green 
snake. 

Brown, Mr. and Mrs. W. S., Kensing- 
ton, Md., mole. 

Brucker, Eratl, Arlington, Va., 4 water 
snakes.* 

Bucher, Rose, Takoma Park, Md., Pe- 
king duck. 

Buck, Larry, Arlington, Va., 4 box 
turtles. 

Burch, E., Hyattsville, Md., Peking 
duck. 

Burke, Mrs. Thomas J., Arlington, Va., 
brown capuchin. 

Burkech, Agie, opossum. 

Burris, Robert B., Florida water turtle. 

Bushee, Charles A., Salisbury, Md., .3 
squirrel monkeys, woolly monkey,* 
capuchin. 

Byrd, G. C, guinea pig. 

Capps, G. B., domestic rabbit. 

Carey, Otis F., African guenon. 

Carnicero, .J., 3 Peking ducks. 

Carroll, S. H., Takoma Park, Md., 2 
domestic rabbits. 

Carter, Dr. Hill, red fox. 

Chamberlain, Mary, red-lined turtle. 

Chapman, S. H., kiukajou.* 

Chase, Joe, Franklin, Va., box turtle, 
indigo snake, black racer, water 
snake. 

Chasy, Paul S., Arlington, Va., caiman. 

Chatelaine, Mrs. Irene, York, Pa., 
macaw.* 

Cherney, Chris, Arlington, Va., pied- 
billed grebe. 

Clanahan, Lee W., 2 kingbirds. 

Clark, Ronald W., Riverdale, Md., 
pigeon. 

Cleer, Robert C, Falls Church, Va., 
brown capuchin monkey. 

Clymer. Frank, Arlington, Va., black 
rabbit. 

Cohen, Richard, Alexandria, Va., 
caiman. 

Cole, Edgar T., 2 Peking ducks. 

CoUinge, Mrs. S., Bethesda, Md., domes- 
tic rabbit. 

Compton, Mrs. Annette, 2 red-lined tur- 
tles. 

Connor, Ralph R., albino opossum. 

Conroy, Mike, Silver Spring, Md., water 
snake. 

Cooper, Mrs. Henry O., Upper Marlboro, 
Md., 2 opossums. 

Coopersmith, .Joseph, false chameleon. 

Corman, Harold, and Eisenberg, Jack, 
great blue heron. 

Cortes, Mrs. J., Riverdale, Md., 2 alliga- 
tors. 

Cox, David, McLean, Va., 2 woodehucks. 

Cranford, Dick, domestic rabbit. 

Crawford, C. W., 2 rabbits. 

Crymes, C. L., domestic rabbit. 

Curtin, William, Alexandria, Va., 
domestic goose. 

Dai ley, Kay, 2 eastern skunks. 



Daniel, James, Vienna, Va., pied-billed 

grebe. 
Dantzic, Dr. S. Oliver, Silver Spring, 

Md., Peking duck. 
Davis, Marge Anne, Silver Spring, Md., 

raccoon. 
Davis, Robert R., kinkajou.* 
Day, Hugh A., IV, Beltsville, Md., 2 

opossums. 
Day, Mrs. Walter O., Falls Church, Va., 

robin. 
DeAgro, Richard P., caiman. 
Deahl, M. D., Arlington, Va., opossum, 

2 golden hamsters. 

Deane, Mrs. Helen C, Hyattsville, Md., 
woolly moniiey. 

Dela field, D. A., Takoma Park, Md., 2 
parakeets* 

DeLaureal, H. H., Arlington, Va., 2 
Peking ducks. 

Del Genio, Mrs. N., Peking duck. 

DeMint, Miss Joyce, robin. 

DePrato, Joe and Jack, Langley Park, 
Va., 35 toads. 

DePrato, Mario, Lanham, Md., anolis, 
6 hermit crabs, 6 fiddler crabs, 4 
stone crabs, 2 brown skinks, 2 nar- 
row-mouth toads, newt, spotted 
salamander, 6 small Florida toads, 

3 large South Carolina grasshop- 
pers, 5 giant Florida grasshoppers. 

Detwiler, David, chukar quail. 

DeWilde, Austin, Chevy Chase, Md., 2 
Peking ducks. 

Dews, J. M., opossum, 

Dillon, Mrs. Gay, Falls Church, Va., 
barred owl. 

Dix, Michael, robin, 3 pilot black 
snakes, water snake. 

Donnelly, John, rabbit. 

Donohue, Joseph D., Silver Spring, Md., 
domestic rabbit. 

Dove, Mrs. F. A. G., Woodacres, Md., 4 
white mice. 

Dove, Leo B., Peking duck. 

Downey, Mike O., spectacled caiman. 

Droughman, Mrs. Diane. Java finch. 

Dudley, Donnie, guinea pig.* 

Dudley, Mrs. T. E., domestic rabbit. 

Dunn, Louis C, eastern skunk. 

Edwards, M. W., opossum. 

Eleazer, Dr. J. M., Clemson, S. C, red- 
shouldered hawk. 

Eleazer, Thomas, Clemson, S. C, turkey 
buzzard. 

Eller, Arnold, Falls Church. Va., 2 Pe- 
king ducks. 

Ellis, Julia D., mourning dove. 

Embree, Efl3ngham, Vienna, Va., 2 white 
goats,* 5 domestic goats. 

Etherson, Richard, Silver Spring, Md., 
caiman. 

Fabrizio, Francis J., 2 Peking ducks. 

Fahey, John, Takoma Park, Md., gopher 
tortoise. 

Faulkner, John D., Bethesda, Md., do- 
mestic rabbit. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



99 



Fauntleroy, Robert, snapiiiug turtle. 

Feeney, Joseph, Chevy Chase, Md., do- 
mestic rabbit. 

Ferris, Gordon, H., Hyattsville, Md., 
pied-billed grebe. 

Fieser, Jim and John, Bethesda, Md., 2 
horned lizards. 

Finley, Susan, Alexandria, Va., 2 Peking 
ducks. 

Fire Department, National Airport, fish 
hawk. 

Fish and Wildlife Service, U. S., 
Anchorage, Alaska, 3 sea otters. 
Through Robert H. Bain, Cam- 
bridge, Md., 9 Canada geese. 
Through Howard W. Brown, Lex- 
ington Park, Md., 3 whistling 
swans. 
Through Dr. Herbert Graham, 
Chief, North Atlantic Fisheries 
Investigation, Woods Hole, 
Mass., electric eel. 

Fisher, Mrs. J., Alexandria, Va., Peking 
duck. 

Fisher, Judy, Alexander, Va., Peking 
duck. 

Fisher, Robert, Kensington, Md., black 
raccoon. 

Flocken, Jed. domestic rabbit. 

Flood, Rickey, domestic rabbit. 

Food and Drug Administration, U. S., 
through Dr. Curtis, 4 macaques. 

Ford, Bertelle E., Rockville, Md., pilot 
snake, 3 iguanas,* 2 African lions,* 
brown capuchin.* 

Frank, Glynn N., Hyattsville, Md., cop- 
perhead snake. 

Franklin, Lloyd, Lanham, Md., wood- 
chuck. 

Frazier, Mrs. Ann, opossum. 

Freedman, Herbert, 2 worm snakes. 

Freeman, Carl, Silver Spring, Md., 3 
Peking ducks. 

Freeman, Lee, gray squirrel. 

French, J. G., Sharon Hill, Pa., 2 sooty 
manga beys.* 

Frese, Martha and Wayne, Chevy 
Chase, Md., white rabbit, guinea pig. 

Frost, Linda E., canvasback duck. 

Frye, Charles, guinea pig. 

Funkhouser, Kathleen, Arlington, Va., 
2 Peking ducks. 

Garrison, Beau, Hollywood Md., red- 
shouldered hawk. 

Garrison, D., Silver Spring, Md., 2 
Peking ducks. 

Gauch, Hugh, Bowie, Md., caiman. 

Gauntlett, M., pigeon. 

Gavell, Mrs. Vivian, domestic pigeon. 

Gaver, Gordon, Thurmont, Md., 6 alli- 
gators,* 3 black tegus,* rhesus 
monkey.* 

Gaw, Donald and Richard, Arlington, 
Va., Peking duck. 

Gentle, Fred, Arlington, Va., queen 
snake. 

Glaser, Philip E., Falls Church, Va., 
caiman. 



Godman, Herman, 2 red-lined turtles. 

Goodman, George, Alexandria, Va., 
opossum. 

Graves, Donald, domestic rabbit. 

Greenwood, Walter and Tommy, Falls 
Church, Va., musk turtle, snapping 
turtle. 

Greenwood, W. B., Falls Church, Va., 
caiman. 

Greeson Chinchilla Farm, Arlington, 
Va., 4 chinchillas.* 

Griggs, Nelson M., Wheaton, Md., chain 
or king snake. 

Groomes, Warren L., Silver Spring, Md., 
Peking duck. 

Guun, Mrs. Dorothy, Hyattsville, Md., 9 
canaries. 

Hahl, Mrs. L., 2 grass parakeets. 

Haines, Earl, Frederick, Md., spider 
monkey. 

Hall, Mrs. James, Silver Spring, Md., 
Peking duck. 

Haller, H. L., opossum.* 

Hambleton, James, Takoma Park, Md., 
timber rattlesnake. 

Hamilton, Mrs. George E., College Park, 
Md., spider monkey. 

Hanna, Mrs. W. H., Alexandria, Va., 
domestic rabbit. 

Hansen, Keith L., Gainesville, Fla., 2 
frogs. 

Hardesty, M. N., skunk. 

Harris, Wilson, Jr., Charles, and Scotty, 
Falls Church, Va., whit4:'-tailed deer. 

Harvin, Mrs. M. D., Arlington, Va., 5 
mallard ducks. 

Hawks, Alfred L.. Triangle, Va., 2 cop- 
perhead snakes. 

Hay, Malcolm, box turtle. 

Hayhoe, Walter, 2 raccoons. 

Hays, Dallas B., Bethesda, Md., 2 Peking 
ducks. 

Hays, .Jonathan, caiman. 

Hazlett, Brian, District Heights, Md., 
Florida water turtle. 

Hecht Co., 3 rhesus monkeys, 4 green 
guenons, 2 golden or dog-faced ba- 
boons, 2 spider monkeys, 2 sooty 
mangabeys, 2 brown capuchins. 

Hennessy, Mrs. J. D., Arlington, Va., 
caiman. 

Herber, W., Takoma Park, Md., blue 
.lay. 

Hermann, Fredericka and Sabina, 2 
caimans. 

Herudon, G. O., Chevy Chase, Md., do- 
mestic rabbit.* 

Hickman, John R., Silver Spring, Md., 
2 Peking ducks. 

Higgins, Juanita and Thelma, 3 guinea 
pigs. 

Hindman, Harold, Alexandria, Va., do- 
mestic rabbit. 

Hines, William George, Jr., alligator. 

Hinman, W. S., Falls Church, Va., flying 
squirrel. 

Hitt, Albert, Hyattsville, Md., wood- 
chuck. 



100 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



Hoffman, J. L., Woodacres, Md., Peking 
duck. 

Hoffuer, Sandra, killdeer. 

Hogle Zoo, Salt Lake City, Utah, west- 
ern racer snake, 2 western rattle- 
snakes. Great Basin rattlesnake, 
banded king snake. 

Holeran, Mrs. Marie, Fairfax, Va., ring- 
necked dove. 

Holt, Pliil, Bethesda, Md., horned lizard. 

Hope, Mrs. P. B., Alexandria, Va., 3 
Cumberland turtles. 

Hopkins, Thomas M., Laurel, Md., 2 
gopher turtles. 

Horn, Stefan F., mockingbird. 

Howarth, A. E. R., Arlington, Va., 
Peking duck. 

Howe, E. H., Falls Church, Va., skunk. 

Howell, R. D., Peking duck. 

Huddle, Jesse, Arlington, Va., brown 
capuchin. 

Huggins, Stephen and James, Arlington, 
Va., bantam roo.ster. 

Hulen, Mrs. Clarence, Falls Church, Va., 
2 Peking ducks. 

Huntt, Mrs. H. S., Silver Spring, Md., 
2 domestic chickens. 

Hutchison, A. Scott, domestic rabbit. 

Hynek, Frank, emperor boa, night 
snake. 

Ingham, Mrs. Lulu M., Arlington, Va., 
red-lined turtle. 

Jameson, Louis, 9 guinea pigs. 

Jaquette, Jean P., Arlington, Va., robin. 

Ja.v. LeRoy, black-widow spider. 

Jenary. William F., Hillcrest, Md., 
screech owl. 

Jenkins, Mrs. Florence, Arlington, Va., 
gray squirrel. 

Jenks, Robert H., Chevy Chase, Md., 
coach whip snake, 3 soft-shelled 
turtles, chicken snake, mud turtle. 

Jennings, John F., Friendly, Md., 2 rac- 
coons. 

Jennings, Michael, guinea pig. 

Johnson, Carl H., Jr., Silver Spring, 
Md., fish hawk. 

Johnson, D. C, Arlington, Va., 7 De- 
Kay's snakes. 

Johnson, Harry W., Rockville, Md., 2 
Peking ducks. 

Johnson, John E., Falls Church, Va., 
Peking duck. 

Johnson, Mrs. Johnnie Q., skunk. 

Johnson, Julius James, alligator. 

Jones. Barbara, 2 domestic rabbits. 

Jones, Mrs. E. W., 2 Peking ducks. 

Jones, Roy K., 2 domestic ral)bits. 

Joseph, Mrs. Marion, ringtail monkey.* 

Josko, ^Irs. Eva, opossum. 

Jou venal, Mrs. Hannah A., Silver 
Spring, INId., American bittern. 

Kaplan, Melvin. 2 Peking ducks. 

Keese, William E., Jr., gray squirrel. 

Keith, Mrs. L. W., 2 false chameleons. 

Kerr, Dr. L. E., 3 Peking ducks. 

Killinger, George, domestic rabbit. 

Kirsch, Dale L., skunk. 



Kittelle, John, Arlington, Va., 2 grass 
parakeets. 

Klein, Mrs. Elmer, 2 gray squirrels. 

Kokker, Mrs. G. K., Silver Spring, Md., 
domestic rabbit. 

Koppy, L., Portland, Oreg., 14 Pacific 
Northwest rattlesnakes. 

Koval, Thomas, Cheverly, Md., caiman. 

Krehdiel, Peter, Falls Church, Va., ring- 
necked dove. 

Kulp, Frank P., Silver Spring, Md., pilot 
black snake. 

Kuntz, Dr. Robert E., Cairo, Egypt, 
black-necked spitting cobra, 4 
horned vipers, cat-eyed snake, 18 
sand vipers, Egyptian cobra, 3 
Thebes sand boas, 3 Dassas sand 
boas, 7 sand snakes (three species), 
3 Girtari snakes, 3 diadem colubers, 

3 big-eyed snakes (2 species), 
gecko, 2 chameleons, 20 skinks. 30 
sand lizards, 24 sand skinks, 3 five- 
lined skinks, 3 Acatithodactylits 
lizards. 

Lafever, Donald, Herndon, Va., copper- 
head snake. 

Lamb, Terry, 2 red foxes. 

Laney, Melvin J., Silver Spring, Md., 
crow. 

Latta, Carolyn, Mount Rainier, Md., 
domestic rabbit. 

Lawrence, Betty, English sparrow. 

Lee, Carol M., Silver Spring, Md., Pe- 
king duck. 

Lee, Mrs. Edward, SUver Spring, Md., 

4 guinea pigs. 

LeGost, Frank C, Arlington, Va., rac- 
coon. 

Lenderking, Robert G., Bethesda, Md., 
gray squirrel. 

Letner, A. E., 8 canaries. 

Letner. G. E., 7 canaries. 

Letterkenny Ordnance Depot, Oham- 
bersburg. Pa., 4 ground hogs. 

Lever, Michael, 2 guinea pigs. 

Lewis, Millard, 2 Peking ducks. 

Lienau, Mrs. C. W., Silver Spring, Md., 
Peking duck. 

Ligon. J. Stokley, Carlsbad, N. Mex., 2 
Gambel's quail X scaled quail 
hybrids. 

Livermore, Mrs. Gordon, Arlington, Va., 
4 Peking ducks. 

Locke, Otto Martin, New Braunfels, 
Tex.. 3 rattlesnakes, bull snake, 
striped racer, G Mexican water moc- 
casins, horned lizard. 

Loftis, J. R., domestic rabbit. 

Logan, Wilton, Bethesda, Md., domestic 
rabbit. 

Loomis. Orraond E., Alexandria, Va., 11 
opossums. 

Lowe, James M., Jr., Cabin John, Md., 
Peking duck. 

Lynch, Joseph F., 2 domestic rabbits. 

Lynott, William, Hyattsville, Md., Pe- 
king duck. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



101 



Macdonald, Robert W., Baltimore, Md., 
for the iwople of Indonesia, 
Malayan sun bear. 

Machliu, Jack, Arlington, Va., Peliing 
duck. 

Maggenti, R. J., Chillum, Md., Peking 
duck. 

Magnuson, Hon. Warren G., 4 Cumber- 
land turtles,* Barbour's turtle.* 

Mallinof, Mrs. P. Greenbelt, Md., blue 
jay. 

Maloue, Jane, Ai-lington, Va., alligator. 

Marley, Miriam, Arlington, Va., alli- 
gator. 

Marshall, Leonard M., 5 woodchucks. 

Mason, Mrs. Blanche, 2 Peking ducks. 

Matson, Bill, Silver Spring, Md., alli- 
gator. 

Matter, John M., Arlington, Va., Peking 
duck. 

Matthews, Mrs. J. B., Alexandria, Va., 
Peking duck. 

Maurice, Winthrop, Peking duck. 

McArtor, Mike and Betty, opossum. 

McCabe, John H., Arlington, Va., gyr- 
falcon.* 

McClauahan, T. E., caiman. 

McClellan, Billy, Silver Spring, Md., 
Peking duck. 

McCollum, W. v.. University Park, Md., 
2 Peking ducks. 

McDaniel, Barbara, skunk. 

McDonald, Efling, Takoma Park, Md., 
Pacific rattlesnake.* 

McGee, Henry, broad-winged hawk. 

McGowan, Mrs. Richard, Bethesda, Md., 
8 grass parakeets. 

McWilliams, Mrs. W. C, Arlington, Va., 
grass parakeet. 

Merritt, Philip, cockatiel. 

Mcryraan, Dr. Harold T., Cabin John, 
Md., 3 copperhead snal^es. 

Mesnig, Mrs. George E., Alexandria, Va., 
gray squirrel. 

Mickey, Paul, domestic rabbit. 

Miller, George, spectacled caiman. 

Miller, J. C, Falls Church, Va., 5 young 
rabbits. 

Mills, Joseph M., woodchuck. 

Monagan, Cathy, mourning dove. 

Montgomery, C. R., Sarasota, Fla., 12 
small anacondas, indigo snake, 
large anaconda,* ball python.* 

Moore, Mrs. George, Glenn Dale, Md., 
skunk. 

Morgan, David, G., Bethesda, Md., 
loggerhead shrike. 

Morse, Alfred W., Arlington, Va., do- 
mestic rabbit. 

Mount Rainier Fire Department, Mount 
Rainier, Md., ground hog. 

Mumaw, Homer, Harrisonburg, Va., 5 
red foxes. 

Nalbandian, Richard, gray squirrel. 



National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, 

Md., through Mr. Poiley, 3 white- 
footed mice, 3 Egyptian spiny mice, 

2 rice rats. 
National Park Service, Great Falls, Md., 

copperhead snake. 
Neale, A. W., marine turtle. 
Nelson. G. G., golden pheasant. 
New York Zoological Society, New 

York, N. Y., through James Oliver, 

10 arrow-poison frogs, 10 yellow 

atelopus frogs. 
New Zealand, Government of, tuatara. 
Nichols, George, Belgian rabbit. 
Norman, L. E., Hyattsville, Md., 3 

horned lizards. 
Norris, Hubert, College Park, Md., cai- 
man. 
North Atlantic Chemical & Fertilizer 

Co., New York, N. Y., Indian 

python,* 4 regal pythons,* 2 Indian 

pythons.* 
O'Brien, P. G., Silver Spring, Md., 3 

canaries. 
O'Connor, Elizabeth, Chevy Chase, Md., 

domestic rabbit. 
Ohly, Nicky, McLean, Va., 2 water 

snakes, pilot snake. 
O'Neal, David, brown capuchin monkey. 
Owens, Harry C, domestic rabbit. 
Packwood, Norval E., Falls Church, 

Va., white-faced capuchin. 
Palmer, Mrs. Marian E., squirrel. 
Parker, Terry, Arlington, Va., Peking 

duck. 
Parks, Mrs. E. N., Silver Spring, Md., 

Peking duck. 
Patterson, Perry, Jr., Sandy Spring, 

Md., woodchuck. 
Paul, D. M., Falls Church, Va., 4 Pe 

king ducks. 
Pena-Briceno, Capt. Enrique, troupial. 
Peter, Mrs. Alexander, Kensington, 

Md., slate-colored junco. 
Petroff, Mrs. G., hamster. 
Phillips. Walter M., Frederick, Md., 

screech owl. 
Pielmeier, George, Japanese black bear. 
Piper boys, domestic rabbit. 
Poe, Tommy, Arlington, Va., 2 Peking 

ducks. 
Porter, Mary, sparrow hawk. 
Poundstone, Mrs. F. M., Silver Spring, 

Md.. 2 Peking ducks. 
Pratt, Mr. and Mrs. E. Lee, Branchville, 

Md., 2 I'arbary apes. 
Preacher, Stephen, Arlington, Va., 2 

chickens, 2 Peking ducks. 
Price, C. M., Arlington, Va., caiman. 
Price, Forst E., Alexandria, Va., caiman. 
Price, Jeffrey, Chevy Chase, Md., horned 

lizard. 
Propes, Thomas C, 2 Peking ducks. 
Prophet, Beverly, Wheaton, Md., 2 

Peking ducks. 



102 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



Pulsifer, Clyde R., bantam fowl. 

Pumphrey, Don, Bladensburg, Md., 
matamata turtle, alligator.* 

Purnell, L. E., Arlington, Va., domestic 
rabbit. 

Quinter, Ralph, Chevy Chase, Md., 
horned lizard. 

Reed, Laury, Kensington, Md., Peking 
duck. 

Reinhardt, Roger Edward, white- 
throated capuchin monkey. 

Remillard, Roger, opossum. 

Renshaw, E. F., Alexandria, Va., 2 
Peking ducks. 

Resnick, Jerry, king snake. 

Rettig, Florence, caiman. 

Reudiger, Mrs. Stephen, 8 golden ham- 
stcrs 

Reynolds! Mrs. S. W., Bethesda, Md., 2 
Peking ducks. 

Rhee, President Syngman, Seoul, Korea, 
2 Korean bears. 

Rice, John, and Ruotsi, Otto, through 
Hon. John B. Bennett, Hancock, 
Mich., bald eagle. 

Richardson, D. W., Bethesda, Md., 
domestic rabbit. 

Richardson, Jeanette, Peking duck. 

Richbourg, Philip G., Mount Rainier, 
Md., albino squirrel. 

Ringer, Joyce Brookmont, Md., domes- 
tic rabbit. 

Risley, Michael, Florida king snake. 

Rivero. Dr. J. S., Mayagiiez, Puerto 
Rico, Puerto Rican boa. 

Robbins, Larry, Silver Spring, Md., 
water snake. 

Robbins, Mrs. Leroy, opossum. 

Robey, J. E., Takoma Park, Md., Peking 
duck. 

Rollman, A. G., Riverdale, Md., 2 Peking 
ducks. 

Roper, George S., opossum. 

Rose, Paul, domestic rabbit. 

Rueger, L. J., Silver Spring, Md., Peking 
duck. 

Russell, Earl, 2 barn owls. 

Sabine, L. D., Betliesda, Md., caiman. 

Sapienza, Basil, Takoma Park, Md., do- 
mestic rabbit. 

Sarkin, H. T., mallard duck. 

Saunders, William R., caiman. 

Sawyers, Thomas R., Alexandria, Va., 
rhesus monkey. 

Scallorn, Nicholas and Dean, eastern 
swamp rabbit. 

Scerbo, Mrs. W. M., guinea pig. 

Schley, Mrs. J. L., opo-ssum. 

Schmid, Paul, Jr., 3 corn snakes*, king 
snake*, black rat snake*, 2 water 
snakes*, Central American boa*, 
western bull snake *, 2 black 
racers ♦, black snake *, ringneck 
snake *, 2 garter snakes *, 2 black 
racers.* 

Scillian, Mrs. Glenn, Silver Spring, Md., 
Peking duck. 



Scofield, John, Wheaton, Md., 2 blood- 
billed weavers, zebra finch, saffron 

finch. 
Scott, Howell, scorpion. 
Scully, Charles W., Jr., Alexandria, Va., 

Peking duck. 
Sears, Eddie, Chevy Chase, Md., horned 

lizard. 
Seligson, Stephen, Silver Spring, Md., 

wood thrush. 
Shahan, Gary, Mount Rainier, Md., 

caiman. 
Shannon, Nancy, Falls Church, Va., 

Peking duck. 
Sharp, Hannah, domestic rabbit. 
Shaw, John D., Bethesda, Md., barred 

owl. 
Shaw, Mrs. Olen C, opossum. 
Shaw, Mrs. Ralph D., Oson Hill, Md., 

spider monkey.* 
Shelton, Eddie, Brown, Frank, and 

Mills, Nancy, woodchuck. 
Shillin, Eleanor, 4 goldfish, 4 snails. 
Shilling, George, box turtle, grass snake. 
Shipe, Mildred, Java finch. 
Shoreham Pet Shop, Bethesda, Md., 20 

golden hamsters, 75 white mice. 
Shrum's Chinchilla Ranch, Front Royal, 

Va., chincliilla. 
Siegel, Sharon and Howard, caiman. 
Simmons, James, Arlington, Va., cai- 
man. 
Simms, William A., skunk. 
Simpson, Janey, caiman. 
Simpson, Joseph, Seat Pleasant, Md., 

squirrel monkey. 
Smith, Maj. Hudgins R., Arlington, Va., 

Central American boa. 
Smith, Jean O., hog-nosed snake, 48 

leopard frogs. 
Smith, Mrs. Lyle, Arlington, Va., Peking 

duck. 
Smith, Roy, albino squirrel. 
Smith, William T., College Park, Md., 

Mnscovy duck. 
Snell, Mrs. Dale, Chevy Chase, Md., 

black rabbit. 
Sommers, Pete and Philip, Silver 

Spring, Md., domestic rabbit. 
Sparks, Pete, Bladensburg, Md., 3 

mynah birds.* 
Sparks, R. M., Alexandria, Va., wood 

turtle. 
Speiss, Katherine, 2 Peking ducks. 
Spilman, Wilbur, Chevy Chase, Md., 

caiman. 
Springfield, Randy, Arlington, Va., 

domestic rabbit. 
Spniill, Larry, Bethesda, Md., opossum. 
Stadler, Mrs. Paul, Silver Spring, Md., 

2 Peking ducks. 
Stahl, O. Glenn, Arlington, Va., Peking 

duck. 
Stambaugh, D., 6 ring-necked doves.* 
Stanley, A. D., domestic fowl. 
Starkloff, H. W., Rockville, Md., Peking 

duck. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



103 



Stephens, Mrs. V. K., Chevy Chase, Md., 
2 Peking ducks. 

Stephenson, J. E., Alexandria, Va., 
Peking duck. 

Sternbergh, Caribel, guinea pig. 

Stevens, Mrs. Erland, Arlington, Va., 
horned toad. 

Stevenson, Billy, Hyattsville, Md., hy- 
brid duck. 

Stone, G. K., 2 snapping turtles, 6 
painted turtles, 6 mud turtles. 

Stulta, Robert F., Woodstock, Va., great 
horned owl, 

Sullivan, A. P., Arlington, Va., 2 Peking 
ducks. 

Sun Life Insurance Company of Amer- 
ica, Baltimore, Md., through Har- 
vey L. Kesmodel, Jr., Himalayan 
bear, 2 Malayan sun bears. 

Sweet, Mrs. Trevor W., Chevy Chase, 
Md., American goldfinch. 

Symonds, IM. E., Edinburg, Va., white- 
tailed deer. 

Tackett. Mrs. A. H., opossum. 

Tait, Mrs. DeSparre, paradise whydah 
finch. 

Talbot County Humane Society, Easton, 
Md., bald eagle. 

Taylor, C. S., Peking duck. 

Taylor, E. W., yellow-bellied terrapin, 
Cumberland turtle. 

Taylor, Lucile, Bethesda, :Md., 18 
opossums. 

Teller, Robert W., Silver Spring, Md.. 
horned lizard. 

Thayer, Mrs. Mollie Van Renselaar, 15 
yellow atelopus frogs, 6 blue honey- 
creepers. 

Thomas, John P., Bluemont, Va., ring- 
necked snake. 

Thotlin, Fred, Alexandria, Va., indigo 
snake. 

Tiller, INIrs. B. C, Hyattsville, Md., alli- 
gator. 

Tiller, Jeanne L., Cheverly, Md., bull 
frog. 

Townsend, Judy, domestic rabbit. 

Trefflich, Henry, New York, N. Y., 2 
chimpanzees.* 

Tremont, Henry, barred owl. 

Tribble, Jack S., weeping capuchin.* 

Tropical Garden Pet Shop, Richmond, 
Va., red coatimundi. 

Tu.vander, Harry, 3 cottontail rabbits. 

Twigg, Susan, Alexandria, Va., 2 boa 
constrictors.* 

Tyler, B. O., Gaithersburg, Md., gray 
squirrel. 

Tyrrell, W. B., Takoma Park, Md., 4 
pilot black snakes, 2 greater five- 
lined skinks. 

Ulman, Mrs. Harry E., Laurel, Md., 
caiman. 

U. S. Air Force, through Col. Leon 
Booth, 2 Philippine macaques. 



University of Colorado Museum, Boul- 
der, Colo., 2 western chipmunks. 

Van Hoesen, Mrs. J. B., Silver Spring, 
Md., mockingbird. 

Van Natter, F. M. robin. 

Vazquez, Alberto W., Arlington, Va., 
chain or king snake*, Boyle's king 
snake*, pilot black snake.* 

Vega, Jessie, domestic rabbit. 

Vehrencamp, Mrs. W. L., Mount .Tack- 
son, Va., white-tailed deer. 

Ver Standig, Belmont, white-throated 
capuchin monkey. 

Voight, Jack, Bethesda, Md., caiman. 

Wade, J. P., Peking duck. 

Wager, Candy, Bethesda, Md., domestic 
rabbit. 

Walker, Andree and Norman, Arlington 
Va., white rat. 

Walkup, J. J., Landover, IMd., 2 boa 
constrictors, necklace snake. 

Wamsley, W. S., Falls Church, Va., wild 
rabbit. 

Ward, Mrs. Bettina, Middleburg, Va., 
African gray parrot.* 

Warner, Tony, Bethesda, Md., snapping 
turtle. 

Warren, Mrs. F. C, Arlington, Va., east- 
ern skunk. 

Washington Missionary Collage, Ta- 
koma Park, Md., black racer, 2 
pilot black snakes, 5 water snakes, 
2 ring-necked snakes. 

Weber, Elizabeth, horned lizard. 

Weinberg, T. H., 1 black tetra, 2 kissing 
gouramies, 2 spotted gouramies, 1 
zebra danio, 5 angel tish. 

Weinraub, Bobby, Peking duck. 

Weiss, Marc, Bethesda, Md., water 
snake. 

Wesley, L. S., Spencerville, Md., pilot 
black snake, barn owl. 

Wesley, Rhoda, Spencerville, Md., black 
snake. 

Wetzel, William W., Fort Belvoir, Va., 
rhesus monkey.* 

Wheaton, Hal D., Hill City Zoo, Rapid 
City, S. Dak., 4 diamond-backed 
rattlesnakes. 

Wigent, John Q., Arlington, Va., do- 
mestic goose. 

Williams, H. J., Springfield, Va., Pek- 
ing duck. 

Williams, Lt. Col. L. O., Quantico, Va., 
caiman. 

Williamson, Mrs. E. T., cardinal. 

Winnacker, John, Chevy Chase, Md., 
si)ectacled caiman. 

Witt, Bill, Arlington, Va., king snake*, 
black snake*, Holbrook's king 
snake*, southern pilot snake.* 

Witter, Benjamin H., Brookmont, Md., 
opossum. 

Wolf, John E., Arlington, Va., barn owl. 

Wood, Julia, Shadyside, Md., kinje 
snake. 



326511— 5E 



104 



ATvTNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



Woodward, Susan, Alexandria, Va., 

Peking duck. 
Word, T./Siit. Marguerite F., Arlington, 

Va., spectacled caiman. 
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio, 

through Capt. Reeves, 2 Philippine 

macaques. 
Wright, Sondra. Mount Rainier, Md., 

domestic rabbit. 



Wyoming Game and Fish Commission, 
through Game Warden Norbert C. 
Faass, Cheyenne, Wyo., 2 prong- 
horn antelopes. 

Young, E. IM., Alexandria, Va., 2 Pek- 
ing ducks. 

Zacchini, Silver Spring, Md., chimpan- 
zee.* 

Zuk, Ted, domestic rabbit. 



PURCHASES 

Among a number of interesting specimens obtained by purchase 
were : 

Tlie first giant armadillos {PHodontes giganteus) ever exhibited 
in the National Zoo. These are the largest of the living armadillos 
and have been exhibited in captivity only a few times. 

The first golden-bellied mangabeys {Cercocebus chrysogaster) ever 
exhibited by the Zoo were obtained from the Belgian Congo. 

A female lesser panda {Ailurus fulgens) was obtained as a mate 
for the male that had been previously acquired. These are specialized 
feeders, and it is difficult to provide suitable food, but they are now 
thriving on the somewhat incongruous diet of bamboo leaves and 
pablum. 

A female bush dog {Speothos venaticus) was obtained. This 
small, reddish, short-legged dog is seldom exhibited in captivity. 

A pair of Pere David's deer {Elaphurus davidianus) were secured 
from the New York Zoological Society. These are the first of their 
kind to be exhibited in this Zoo. They are relatively large deer that 
somewhat resemble the American elk and are of particular interest 
because they are now extinct in their native haunts in China, but are 
being raised in captivity from specimens that were transported to 
England from China many years ago. 

A pair of rare and beautifully marked Mearns's quail {Cyrtonyx 
montezumae mearnsi) and five other kinds of quail of the southwestern 
United States that are being raised in captivity were obtained. 

From East Africa the Zoo received two examples of yellow-breasted 
sunbirds {Cinnyris venustus) and four dark malachite sunbirds 
{Nectarinia johnstoni) , which are beautiful and rare in collections. 

The Zoo was fortunate in obtaining direct from Africa 13 three- 
horned chameleons {Chamaeleon jacksoni) and 3 of a smaller hornless 
type with a peculiarly marked head casque {Chamaeleon taitensis). 
The three-horned type has a great range of variation in the species, 
some having three long horns, others only two horns, and some no 
horns. 

Three specimens of the gliding tree snake {GhrysopeJea ornata) 
of southern Asia were obtained. These are active rear-fanged tree 
snakes that are of no particular danger to man. They catch geckos 
and other lizards and small animal life. They flatten the posterior 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 105 

portion of their body, jump from an elevated location, and glide 
downward through the air. 

BIRTHS AND HATCHrNCS 

Conditions under which animals are kept on exhibition are usually 
not favorable for breeding or raising young. However, occasionally 
young are born or hatched that are of outstanding interest to the 
public, and are valuable as additions to the group, or for exchange. 

The giraifes {Girajfa camelopardalis) produced two young during 
the year. It would be pleasing to have a considerable herd of giraffes 
that could be built up from the young that are born here, but accom- 
modations are not adequate for a large group of these animals, and 
so the young are used in exchanges to obtain other animals that are 
needed. 

The Chinese water deer {Hydro'potes inermis) produced three 
young that survived during the year. This rate of increase is rapidly 
building up an excellent group of these attractive little animals. 

During the year the colony of pygmy hippopotamus {Choeropsis 
liberiensis) gave birth to two young. These are valuable animals and 
the surplus is exchanged for other species, the last one helping to 
pay for a young rhinoceros. 

The little colony of the rather showy slender-tailed cloud rats 
{Phloeomys cwiniiigi) is gradually increasing. This year there were 
two births of one each. Both young are thriving. 

The hybrid Alaska brown bears {Ursus gyas) and polar bears 
{Thalarctos maritwvus) again produced a litter of three cubs, but 
unfortunately the young did not live. 

The group of African porcupines {IJystrix galeata) was augmented 
by the birth of one more. The care that is given the new-born young 
is an outstanding demonstration of a group defending its young. 
The parents and older brothers and sisters keep the young between 
them almost constantly and maintain an unbroken front of long sharp 
spines projecting in all directions around the baby. 

Barbara, the female hybrid gibbon {Hylobates agilis X H. lar 
pileatii-'i) gave birth to a baby that unfortunately lived only about a 
week. 

The pacas {Cuniculus paca) produced another young. 

The crested screamers {Chauna torquata) hatched two eggs. Not 
only were these two birds very desirable additions to the collection, but 
the growing young are attractive and arouse much interest. 

The colony of black-crowned night herons {Nycticorax nycticorax 
hoactli) continues to thrive as it has for many years, and this year 
raised 12 young. They are not rarities, but it is interesting to note 
that they do well in captivity. 

The sharp-tailed sand boas {Eryx thebaicus)^ received from Dr. 
Kuntz, produced five young that are thriving. 



106 ANTSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

One morning a number of baby shovel-nosed skinks {Scincus 
o^cinalis) were found darting in and out of the sand at the bottom 
of the cage which housed the collection sent to the Zoo by Dr. Kuntz. 
Twenty survived. 

It was gratifying to find a young White's skink {Egernia whitii) 
in the cage in which a group of Australian skinks had been since 
November 1951. 

During the year several of the reptiles laid eggs. This is always 
encouraging, and an effort is made to hatch the more promising ones. 
A few of the eggs, or those that seem sterile, are sent to the National 
Museum for its collection of preserved specimens. Those reptiles 
that laid eggs this year were : 

Matamata turtle (Chelys fimbriata) 20 

Small snake-necked turtles {Hydromcdusa tectifera) 4 

American crocodile (Crocodyhts aaitus) 36 

Chinese alligator {AlUyator sinensis) 14 

Indian rock python {Python moluriis) 36 

Pilot black snake (Elaphe oTJSoleta otsoleta) 18 

Following is a complete list of the births and hatchings : 

MAMMALS 

Scientific name Common name Numier 

Ammotragus lei'via Aondad 5 

Bibos gaums Gaur__ 1 

Bos taunts Iw'H^t^t'."^ ""Z"^!:,- '\ 

(.West Highland cattle 1 

Capra hireus Domestic goat 1 

Cebus fatuellus Weeping capuchin 1 

Cercopithcais aethiops sahaciis X C. a. pygery- Green guenon X vervet gue- 1 
thrus. non hybrid. 

Cervus canadensis American elk 1 

Cervus elaplms Red deer 2 

Cervus nippon Japanese deer 2 

Chocropsis liheriensis Pygmy hippopotamus 1 

Cholocpus didactylus Two-toed sloth 2 

Cuniculus paca Paca 1 

Dama dama f Brown fallow deer 5 

\Wliite fallow deer 3 

Equus turchellii bohmi Grant's zebra 1 

Erythrocebus patas Patas monkey 1 

Felis leo Lion 7 

Felis pardus Black leopard 2 

Oiraffa camelopardalis Nubian giraffe 2 

Hydropotes inermis Chinese water deer 7 

Hylobates agilis X H . lar pileatus Hybrid gibbon (2d genera- 1 

tion). 

Uystrix galeata African porcupine 2 

Lama glama Llama 1 

Leontocebus rosalia Silky marmoset 1 

Macaca mulatta Rhesus monkey 1 

Macaca sylvanns Barbary ape 1 

Myocastor coypus Coypu 3 

Odocoileus virginianus White-tailed deer 1 

Phlocomys cumingi Slender-tailed cloud rat 3 

Taurotragus oryx Eland 1 

Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus middendorfli Hybrid bear (2d generation)- 5 

Vulpes fulva i Silver fox 2 

IRed fox 2 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 107 

BIRDS 

Anas platyrhyrichos Mallard duck 18 

Branta canadensis Canada goose 8 

Chauna torquata Crested screamer 2 

Columba livia Domestic pigeon 1 

Oallus gallus Silky bantam fowl 1 

Lams noraeliollandiae Silver gull 6 

Nijcticorax nycticorax hoactli Black-crowned night heron 12 

Padda oryzivora Java finch 8 

Pavo cristatus Peafowl 1 

Porphyrio poliocephalus South Pacific swamp hen 3 

Streptopelia decaocto Ring-necked dove 23 

Taeniopygia castanotis Zebra finch 8 

REPTILES 

Egemia tvhitii White's skink 1 

E7-yx thebaicus Sharp-tailed sand boa 5 

Srincus ofpcinalis Shovel-nosed skink 23 

MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMExNTS 

Maintenance and repair work at the Zoo suffered considerably dur- 
ing the fiscal year 1954 owing mainly to shortage of funds for the 
hire of personnel. Being forced to absorb salary increases, the Zoo 
could employ but little temporary labor and also had to leave vacant 
permanent positions on the maintenance staff. 

The routine work of the division of maintenance and construction, 
which is carried on practically every day of the year, consists of such 
varied tasks as the removal of stoppages from drains and sewers, re- 
pairs of faucets, doors, cages, water lines, steam lines, boilers, refrig- 
eration equipment, buildings, roads, and walks, and innumerable 
miscellaneous jobs necessary to keep the National Zoological Park in 
a safe and presentable condition. This year, as in the previous year, 
because of shortage of manpower due to lack of funds, only the most 
urgently needed repairs could be undertaken. Consequently mainte- 
nance of the grounds, as well as the physical plant, has been at a 
minimum. 

No serious permanent harm has resulted, but it will take some time 
to catch up on neglected work such as the fight against poison ivy, 
the trimming or the taking down of old trees, and planting to replace 
lawns, trees, and shrubs that have deteriorated or become unsuitable 
for the locations. 

The larger jobs done during the year were: 

1. The laying of 2,300 linear feet of concrete road shoulders, 2 
feet wide and 3 inches thick, to prevent deterioration of the edges of 
the road, 

2. Keplacement of badly deteriorated cage fronts in the parrot room 
with glass fronts, 

3. Repair of the lion house roof, which necessitated replacing sheath- 
ing and covering with 50 square yards of 240-pound shingles. In 



108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

connection with this, 19 metal skylights were reconstructed and set 
with copper flashings ; and 4 new gutters were installed. 

4. Installation of 300 linear feet of new paddock fencing with sup- 
porting posts in front of the South American camel paddocks, and 
filling the moat (which had proved unsatisfactory), thereby slightly 
increasing the size of the paddocks and permitting the animals to 
come closer to the public. 

5. Construction of two concrete shelters in the waterfowl enclosure 
for the protection of the birds. 

6. Installation of automatic heat-regulating devices in the lion 
house. 

7. Adaptation and installation of a small cooling unit in the lower 
portion of one small cage in the reptile house to provide conditions 
suitable for the rare New Zealand tuatara, a lizardlike reptile. 

8. Slight alteration of a cage in the small-mammal house and in- 
stallation of an air-conditioned unit for the sea otters. 

9. Extension, under contract, of a steam line and wet-return line 
from the small-mammal house to the bird house, a distance of 1,200 
feet. It is believed that this will provide much more reliable heating 
of the bird house at less cost than was possible with the separate oil- 
heating plant that was in the bird house. Certainly it eliminates the 
need for replacement of the boilers and burners in that building. 

Along the north side of the road, from the mountain sheep moun- 
tain to the South American camel group, a hazardous condition for 
pedestrians has existed for many years. To view the animals from 
that side of the road, visitors have had to walk in the street. In 
December 1953 work was started on filling in the ravine along the road 
at this point, and by the end of the fiscal year this had progressed 
far enough to provide pedestrians with plenty of space off the roadway 
and also parking space for 50 passenger cars. When the fill is com- 
pleted there will be additional parking space for more cars for a 
period of a year or two while the fill is settling. Then at least six 
good-size paddocks can be constructed on it, and sufficient space for a 
sidewalk and parking for 50 additional cars. Even in its incomplete 
state this is a great improvement in both attractiveness and utility and 
is being accomplished without cost to the Government. 

Over a period of years there has been a gradual increase in the 
amount of trimming of trees necessary along the roads, walks, and 
paths, and in the exhibition area. Because of disease or age, some 
of the trees are dying and must be cut down. Others must be trimmed 
to remove dead or broken limbs that might fall and injure people or 
animals, or damage automobiles or structures. 

The job of cleaning up the grounds is a major undertaking. Using 
all available manpower, it usually takes 5 to 10 days to pick up the 
trash and restore the Park to a fair degree of presentability after 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



109 



Easter Sunday and Monday. This work has of necessity been re- 
duced to a minimum, with the result that the Zoo has been criticized by 
correspondents and the press for the condition of the grounds. 

Temporary policemen were employed this year to assist the regular 
police during days of heaviest attendance or when the force was 
short-handed. This is a satisfactory arrangement and much more 
economical than employing additional full-time policemen when the 
permanent persoimel now authorized is adequate for a large proportion 
cf the time. 

VISITORS 

The estimated number of visitors to the Zoo was 3,616,220, which was 
384,770 more than for the year 1953. 

Estimated number of visitors for fiscal year 195^ 



Februai-y 184, 700 



March 
April _. 
May- 
June— 



260, GOO 
440, 770 
402, 800 
409. 500 



July (1953) 422,000 

August 561, 500 

September 296, 000 

October 310, 000 

November 191, 200 

December 58, 150 

January (1954) 79,000 Total 3,016,220 

Groups came to the Zoo from schools in Cuba, Mexico, and 30 States, 
some as far away as Maine, Florida, Mississippi, California, and Wis- 
consin. 

Number of groups from schools 



Locality 



Alabama.. _. 

California 

Connecticut 

Cuba _ 

Delaware... 

District of Columbia 

Florida 

Georgia 

Illinois 

Indiana. 

Iowa 

Kentucky 

Maine 

Maryland 

Massachusetts 

Mexico 

Michigan -. 

Minnesota 



Number 


Number 


of groups 


in groups 


23 


996 


1 


72 


7 


431 


1 


70 


10 


478 


80 


4,614 


7 


922 


50 


2, 998 


4 


342 


2 


63 


1 


16 


5 


176 


5 


194 


530 


33, 162 


12 


528 


2 


51 


9 


333 


4 


191 



Locality 



Mississippi 

New Hampshire 

New Jersey 

New York 

North Carolina.. 

Ohio 

Oklahoma 

Pennsylvania 

Rliode Island 

South Carolina.. 

Tennessee 

Vermont 

Virginia ..- 

West Virginia... 
Wisconsin 

Total 



Number 
of groups 



2 

10 

106 

212 

46 

1 

152 

1 

48 

45 

1 

468 

32 

1 



1,884 



Number 
in groups 



238 

87 

808 

6, 959 

8,030 

1,836 

38 
8,427 

33 
2,123 
1,871 

40 

24, 739 

2,971 

83 



103, 926 



About 2 p. m. each day the cars then parked in the Zoo are counted 
and listed according to the State, Territory, or country from which 
they came. This is, of course, not a census of the cars coming to the 
Zoo, but is valuable in showing the percentage of attendance, by 
States, of people in private automobiles. Many District of Columbia, 



110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 54 

Maryland, and Virginia cars come to the Zoo to bring guests from 
other States. The tabulation for the fiscal year 1954 is as follows: 



Percent 

Maryland 26. 3 

District of Columbia 23.4 

Virginia 23. 

Pennsylvania 4. 6 

New York 2.6 

North Carolina 1.9 



Percent 

New Jersey 1.6 

Ohio 1. 5 

West Virginia 1. 3 

Massachusetts 1. 2 

Florida 1. 

Illinois . 7 



The cars that made up the remaining 10.9 percent came from every 
one of the remaining States, as well as from Alaska, Austria, British 
Columbia, Canada, Canal Zone, Cuba, Germany, Hawaii, Honduras, 
Liberia, Mexico, Nova Scotia, Puerto Rico, South America, and the 
West Indies. 

On the days of even small attendance there are cars parked in the 
Zoo from at least 15 States, Territories, the District, and foreign coun- 
tries. On average days there are cars from about 22 States, Terri- 
tories, the District, and foreign countries; and during the periods of 
greatest attendance the cars represent not less than 34 different States, 
Territories, and countries. 

COOPERATION 

At all times special efforts are made to maintain friendly contacts 
with other Government and State agencies, private concerns and 
individuals, and scientific workers for mutual assistance. As a result 
the Zoo receives much help and advice and many valuable specimens, 
and in turn the Zoo furnishes information and, whenever possible, 
specimens it does not need. 

Dr. Willard H. Eyestone, veterinary pathologist of the National 
Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Md., continued making autopsies on 
animals that have died in the Zoo, in order to obtain information 
regarding cancer and other diseases affecting human beings. 

Special acknowledgment is due to the United States Despatch Agent 
in New York City, Howard Fyfe, an officer of the State Department, 
who has frequently been called upon to clear shipments of animals 
coming from abroad. This he has done, often at great personal incon- 
venience, and the animals have been forwarded to Washington without 
the loss of a single specimen. 

As in previous years the Zoo received gifts of various kinds of food 
that could not be sold for human consumption but was suitable for 
animals. Some of this material was turned over to the Zoo at the 
suggestion of the United States Food and Drug Administration and 
the District of Columbia food inspectors. This helps considerably to 
hold purchases to a minimum. Through the office of United States 
Marshal W. Bruce Matthews, food that had been condemned by the 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 111 

courts was sent to the Zoo for the animals. This consisted of 60 
cartons of large prunes and 237 bags of green split peas. 

From the District of Columbia Health Department 70 crates of 
ear corn were received. Other contributions were : 

600 pounds of candy from the Harris Candy & Specialty Co. 

28 cartons of grape-nuts flakes from the Mazo-Lerch Co. 

26 cartons of Italian tunafish from Chicken-of-the-Sea, Inc. 

100 pounds of sunflower seed from General Services Administration. 

The National Institutes of Health, the Navy Medical Center, the 
Army Medical Center, Animal Farm Unit, Camp Detrick, and the 
Nutritional Laboratory of the Department of Agriculture gave the 
Zoo mice, rats, guinea pigs, rabbits, and other animals no longer suit- 
able for their purposes. 

The Poultry Division of the Department of Agriculture gave a 
considerable number of day-old chicks that were hatched in con- 
nection with certain of their experiments. 

The practice has been continued of picking up from grocery stores 
in the vicinity of the Zoo quantities of discarded green material such 
as beet tops, celery stalks, and the outer leaves of cabbage, cauliflower, 
and lettuce, and some fruit. This provides an abundance of greens 
for the animals and helps reduce purchase of such foods. 

In a few instances such materials as rice, flour, and beans, unaccept- 
able for human use, have been purchased at low prices from General 
Services Administration or commercial firms. 

ROCK CREEK-POTOMAC PARKWAY 

The proposed northward extension of the Rock Creek-Potomac 
Parkway through the Zoo on the east side of the creek by a bridge 
near the location of the lower ford, a tunnel through the hill on which 
the office is located, and the construction of the roadway northward 
from the tunnel between the creek and Adams Mill Road will bring 
about a serious condition for the Zoo. The following changes will 
be necessary before the highway project can be begun: (1) A fence 
must be constructed on the west side of the creek to connect the south- 
ern boundary with the northern boundary, so that the Zoo can at all 
times be properly enclosed. (2) Parking spaces must be developed 
on Zoo ground to make up as far as is possible for the loss of parking 
spaces on the east side of the creek that now accommodate 55 buses 
and 230 cars. (3) New paddocks must be constructed to replace those 
that will be eliminated by the construction of the new parking lot. 
(4) An office building for the administration of the Zoo should be 
constructed on the Zoo's grounds at a convenient location. (5) The 
coal bunker for the central heating plant must be enlarged. 



112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

NEEDS OF THE ZOO 

Replacement of antiquated structures that have long since ceased 
to be suitable for the purposes for which they are used is still the prin- 
cipal need of the Zoo. Urgently required are : 

A building to house antelopes and other medium-sized hoofed ani- 
mals that require a heated building. 

A new administration building to replace the 149-year-olcl historic 
landmark that is still in use as an office building but that is neither 
suitably located nor well adapted for the purpose. 

A fireproof service building for receiving shipments of animals, 
quarantining them, and caring for those in ill health or those that 
cannot be placed on exhibition. 

A new ventilating system for the bird house. 

Lesser items of equipment that are needed are a vacuum pump for 
more efficient and economical operation of the heating system in the 
reptile house ; a band saw to replace one that is more than 40 years 
old ; and an air compressor for general use about the Park. 

The enclosures and pools for beavers, otters, seals, and nutrias, in 
the ravine, need to be reconstructed. Owing to lack of funds for 
upkeep, and consequent deterioration, this area has become unsightly 
and inadequate for the proper care and exhibition of these animals. 

In addition to new buildings, new paddocks are needed. Over the 
years, space for the exhibition of such animals as deer, sheep, goats, 
and other hoofed animals has been curtailed so that the collection no 
longer contains the proper assortment of these attractive and valuable 
animals. This has been brought about by the natural deterioration 
of materials, making some of the paddocks no longer usable; elimina- 
tion of some paddocks for the construction of buildings on the sites ; 
and abandonment of some paddocks that were in undesirable loca- 
tions. Further abandonment of some paddocks is imminent to make 
way for parking space for cars and buses to offset losses in such space 
that will occur if the Rock Creek-Potomac Parkway is extended 
through the Zoo property on the east side of the creek. Construction 
of ten new paddocks and rehabilitation of six old ones are urgently 
needed. 

Provision of new parking space necessitates grading and surfacing 
about 14,000 square yards of land in several different locations. 

The establishment of parking space near the mechanical shops will 
make unavailable an area that has been used for the storage of a 
reserve pile of coal. As this location has never been an entirely satis- 
factory one, it would be highly desirable at this time to build an 
addition to the regular coal bunker to increase the capacity and elimi- 
nate the need for maintaining a separate reserve pile. 

The steadily increasing popularity of the Zoo, as a source of both 
entertaimnent and education, has developed such a volume of requests 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 113 

for information that there is now need for an additional scientist to 
share the load of answering queries and to assist in other administra- 
tive work so that the Director and Assistant Director can devote more 
time to general supervision of the Zoo. 

One additional general mechanic is needed to assist the maintenance 
personnel in what has hitherto been a losing race in trying to keep pace 
with natural deterioration in the structures. The newest of the ex- 
hibition buildings are 17 years old, the reptik house is 23 years old, 
and the bird house is 26 years old. The minimum, of maintenance has 
fully occupied the mechanical force, mainly on the larger structures, 
so that there has been almost no opportunity to take care of the lesser 
structures such as paddocks and outside cages, with the result that an 
increasing number of these are unusable. 

Two additional permanent laborers are needed for proper mainte- 
nance, removal of dead or fallen tree limbs and other safety hazards, 
and repair of walks, guard rails, and other structures, for the protec- 
tion of the public. 

To comply with the requirements of keeping property and inventory 
records, in accordance with the program laid down by tlie General 
Services Administration, by authority of Federal Property and Ad- 
ministrative Services Act of 1949 (Public Law 152, 81st Congress, ap- 
proved June 30, 1949), General Regulation 100 of the General Ac- 
counting Office, and Budget-Treasury Regulation No. 1, there is 
need for three additional clerks. 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1954 

MAMMALS 

MONOTREMATA 
Scientific name Common name Number 

Tachyglossidae: 

Tachyglossus aculeatus Echidna, or spiny anteater 2 

MARSUPIALIA 

Didelphiidae: 

Caluromys philander Woolly opossum 2 

Didelphis marsupialis virginiana Opossum 2 

Marmosn miiis Mouse opossum 3 

Phalangeridae: 

Petaurus norfolcensis Australian "flying" phalanger_. 5 

Trichosurus vidpecula Australian long-eared opossum, 2 

Phascolomidae: 

Lasiorhinus laiifrons Hairy-nosed wombat.^ 3 

Vombatus hirsutus Mainland wombat 1 

Macropodidae: 

Dendrolagus inustus New Guinea tree kangaroo 1 

Tir ■ , / Great grav kangaroo 4 

Macropus gxganteus 1 Albino great gray kangaroo 1 

Macropus rufus Great red kangaroo 1 

Wallahia ayilis Agile wallaby 2 

INSECTIVORA 

Soricidae: 

Blarina brevicauda Greater short-tailed shrew 1 



114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1954— Continued 

MA MM ALS— Continued 

PRIMATES 
Scientific name Common name Number 

Tupaiidae: 

Tupaia montana bahiensis Kinabalu tree shrew 3 

Lemuridae: 

Lemur macaco Acoumba lemur 2 

Lemur mongoz Mongoose lemur 1 

Lorisidae: 

hycticehus coucang Slow loris 4 

Cebidae: 

Aotus Irivirgalus Douroucouli, or night monkey 2 

Aides geoffroyi vellerosiis Spider monkey 5 

Cebus albifrons Pale capuchin 8 

Cebus capucinus White-throated capuchin 2 

Cebus fntuellus Weeping capuchin 1 

Lagothrix lagotricha Woolly monkey 3 

Saimiri sciureus Squirrel monkey 7 

Callithricidae: 

Leontocebus rosalia Silky or lion-headed marmoset _ _ 4 

Cercopithecidae: 

Allenopithecus nigroviridis Allen's monkey 1 

Cercocebus albigena Gray-cheeked mangabey 2 

Cercocebus aterrimus Black-crested mangabey 4 

Cercocebus aterrimus opdenboschii Opdenbosch's black-crested man- 3 

gabey. 

Cercocebus chrysogaster Golden-bellied mangabey 1 

Cercocebus fuliginosus Sooty mangabey 4 

Cercocebus galeritus agilis Agile mangabey 2 

Cercocebus torquatus Red-crowned mangabey 2 

Cercopithccus aelhiops pygerythrus Vervet guenon 2 

Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus Green guenon 10 

Cercopithecus aelhiops sabaeus X Hybrid, green guenon X vervet 3 
C. a. pygerythrus guenon. 

Cercopithecus cephus Mustached guenon 2 

Cercopithecus diana Diana monkey 2 

Cercopithecus diana roloway Roloway monkey 1 

Cercopithecus neglectus De Brazza's guenon 2 

Cercopithecus nictitans erythrogasler.. Red-bellied guenon 1 

Cercopithecus nictitans petaurista Lesser white-nosed guenon 2 

Cercopithecus preussi Preussi's guenon 1 

Colobvs polykomos White-tailed colobus 1 

Comopithecus hamadryas Hamadryas baboon 2 

Erythrocebus patas Patas monkey 2 

Macaca irus Crab-eating macaque 1 

Macaca irjis mordax Javan macaque 3 

Macaca lasiotis Chinese macaque 1 

Macaca tnaurus Moor macaque 1 

Macaca mulalla Rhesus monke}' 14 

Macaca nemestrina Pig-tailed monkey 1 

Macaca philippinensis Philippine macaque 7 

Macaca sinica Toque, or bonnet monkey 1 

Macaca speciosa Red-faced macaque 1 

Macaca sylvanus Barbary ape 7 

Mandrillus sphinx Mandrill 2 

Papio comatus Chacma baboon 2 

Papio cynocephalus Golden baboon 3 

Presbytis phayrei Phayre's langur 1 

Pongidao: 

Hylobaies agilis Y. H. lar pilealus Hybrid gibbon 1 

Hylobates hoolock Hoolock gibbon 1 

Hylohates lar White-handed gibbon 1 

Hylobates moloch Wau-wau gibbon 1 

Hylobates sp. (young) Blond gibbons 4 

Pati troglodytes Chimpanzee 4 

Pongo pygmaeus abelii Orangut^ 2 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 115 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1954— Continued 
MAMMALS— Continued 

EDENTATA 
Scientific name Common name Number 

Myrmecophagidae: 

Myrmecophaga tridactyla Giant anteater 1 

Brady podidae: 

Choloepus didactylus Two-toed sloth 7 

Dasy podidae: 

Chaetophr actus villosiis Hairy armadillo 2 

LAGOMOBPHA 

Leporidae: 

Oryctolagus cuniculus Domestic rabbit 26 

Sylvilagus palustris Swamp rabbit 1 

RODENTIA 

Sciiiridae: 

Cnlloscinrus caniceps Southern Asiatic squirrel 1 

Callosciurus eryihraeus Southern Asiatic squirrel 4 

Callosciurus nigrovittatus Southern Asiatic squirrel 1 

Callosciurus s-p Southern Asiatic squirrel 1 

CaUospermophilus lateralis Albino golden-mantled ground 1 

squirrel. 

CaUospermophilus lateralis chryso- Golden-mantled ground squirrel- 1 
deirus. 

Citellus tridecemlineatus Thirteen-lined ground squirrel - . 1 

Cynomys ludovicianus Plains prairie dog 10 

Eutamias quadrimttatus Western chipmunk 1 

Marmota monax Woodchuck, or ground hog 10 

Menetes berdmorei Berdmore's squirrel 4 

Ratufa indica Giant Indian squirrel 1 

Sciurus carolinensis Gray squirrel 4 

Sciurus niger niger Fox squirrel 1 

Tamias striatus Eastern chipmunk 1 

Tamiasciurus hudsonicus Red squirrel 2 

Cricetidae: 

Mesocricetus auratus Golden hamster 10 

Neotoma lepida Pack rat 1 

Neotoma magister Allegheny wood rat 2 

Oryzornys palustris Rice rat 4 

Peromyscus maniculatus White-footed mouse 3 

Muridae: 

Acomys cahirinus Egyptian spiny mouse 6 

Bandicoia hengalensis Lesser bandicoot rat 3 

Cricetomys gambianus Giant pouched rat 4 

Mus rnusculus White and other domestic mice__ 10 

Phloeomys cumingi Slender- tailed cloud rat 7 

Pitymys pinetorum Pine mouse 2 

Rattus bower si Bower's tree rat 1 

Rattus rajah Rajah spiny rat 2 

Rattus irifraluteus Kinabalu giant rat 3 

Rattus rattus thai Thailand rat 6 

Rattus sab anus Large Malayan tree rat 6 

Rattus whiteheadi Whitehead's rat 3 

Hystricidae: | 

Acanthion brachyurum Malayan porcupine 2 

Hystrix galeata African porcupine 5 

Trichys lipura Bornean porcupine 3 

Caviidae: 

Cavia porcellus Guinea pig 15 

Dasyproctidae: 

Cuniculus paca Paca 6 

Dasyprocta punctata Speckled agouti 2 

Dasyprocla sp Agouti 7 



116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1954^Continued 

MAMMALS— Continued 
RODENTIA — continued 

Scientific name Common name Nvmber 
Chinchillidae: 

Chinchilla chinchilla Chinchilla 1 

Lagidium viscaccia Peruvian viscacha 1 

Capromyidae: 

Myocastor coypus Coypu 3 

Bathyergidae: 

Cryplomys lugardi Mole rat 2 

CARNIVORA 

Canidae: 

Canis antarcticus Dingo 1 

Canis lairans Coyote 1 

Canis niger rufus Texas red wolf 1 

Femiecus zerda Fennec fox 2 

Nyctereutes procyonoides Raccoon-dog 6 

Otocyon megalolis Big-eared fox 4 

Speoihos venaticus Bush dog 2 

Urocyon cinereoargenteus Gray fox 14 

TT 7 J. 7 /Red fox 12 

Vulpesfulva (silver fox 4 

Ursidae : 

Euarctos ajnericanus Black bear 2 

Helarcios malayanus Malayan sun bear 3 

Selenarctos ihibetanus Himalayan bear 2 

Selenarctos Ihibetanus japonicus Japanese bear 1 

Selenarctos ihibetanus ussuricus Korean bear 2 

Thalarctos maritirnus Polar bear 1 

Thalarctos maritirnus X Ursus mid- /Hybrid bear 4 

dendorffi, \Hybrid bear, second generation, 1 

Tremarctos ornatus Spectacled bear 1 

Ursus arctos European brown bear 1 

Ursus arctos occidentalis Syrian brown bear 2 

Ursus gyas Alaskan Peninsula bear 2 

Ursus horribilis Grizzly bear 2 

Ursus middendorffi, Kodiak bear 1 

Ursus sitkensis Sitka brown bear 3 

Ursus sp Alaska brown bear 1 

Procyonidae: 

Ailurus fulgens Lesser panda 2 

Bassariscus asiutus Ringtail, or cacomistle 2 

Nasua narica Coatimundi 2 

Nasua nasua Red coatimundi 1 

Potos flavus Kinkajou 3 

Potos sp Dwarf kinkajou 2 

(Raccoon 15 

Black raccoon 4 

Albino raccoon 1 

Mustelidae: 

Lutra canadensis vaga Florida otter 1 

Meles meles leptorynchus Chinese badger 1 

Mephitis mephitis nigra Skunk 14 

Mustela eversmanni {ifblnole'rVet":::::::::::::::: 2 

Mustela frenata noveboracensis Weasel 2 

Spilogale phenax California spotted skunk 1 

Taxidea taxus American badger 2 

Tayra barbara Tayra 2 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 117 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1954r-Coniinued 

MAMMALS— Continued 
CARNIVORA — continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Viverridae: 

Arciogalidia trivirgata siigmatica Small-toothed civet 1 

Atilax paludinosus African water mongoose 2 

Civettidis civetta African civet 1 

Crossarchus obscurus Kusimanse 1 

Geneita tigrina Genet 3 

Ichneumia albicaudatus White-tailed mongoose 1 

Paguma larvata taivana Formosan masked civet 1 

Paradoxurus hermaphroditus Palm civet 1 

Viverrn iangahniga Ground civet 1 

llyaenidae: 

Crocuta crocuta germinans East African spotted hyena 2 

Felidae: 

Acinonyx juhaia Cheeta 2 

Felis chaus Jungle cat 3 

Felis concolor Puma 3 

Felis concolor X F. c. paiagonica Hybrid, North American puma 5 

X South American puma. 

Felis leo Lion 6 

Felis onca Jaguar 3 

Felis pajeros Pampas cat 1 

Felis pardalis Ocelot 1 

CT ,. J /African leopard 4 

Felts pardus... jg,^^!^ leopsivd 4 

Felis tigris Bengal tiger 3 

Felis tigris sumatrae Sumatran tiger 1 

Felis wiedi Margay cat 1 

Lynx rufus Bobcat 2 

PINNIPEDIA 

Otariidae: 

Zalophus calif ornianus California sea-lion 3 

TUBULIDENTATA 

Orycteropodidae: 

Orycteropus afer Aardvark, or ant bear 1 

PROBOSCIDEA 

Elephantidae: 

Elephas maximus Asiatic elephant 3 

HYRACOIDEA 

Procavidae: 

Procavia capensis Cape hyrax 1 

PERISSODACTYLA 

Equidae: 

Equus burchellii antiquorum Chapman's zebra 1 

1^ Equus burchellii bohrni Grant's zebra 5 

Equus caballus Horse 1 

^ Equus grevyi Grevy's zebra 4 

Equus kiang Asiatic wild ass, or kiang 1 

^ Equus onager Onager 1 

Equus przewalskii Mongolian wild horse 2 

Tapiridae: 

Tapirus terrestris Brazilian tapir 1 

Rlunocerotidae: 

Diceros bicornis African rhinoceros 2 

Rhinoceros unicornis Great Indian one-horned rhinoc- 1 

eros. 



118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1954^Continued 
MAMMALS— Continued 

ARTIODACTYLA 
Scientific name Common name Number 

Suidae: 

Sus scrofa European wild boar 1 

Tayassuidae: 

Tayassu tajacu Collared peccary 1 

Hippopotamidae: 

Choeropsis liberiensis Pygmy hippopotamus 8 

Hippopotamus amphibius Hippopotamus 2 

Camelidae: 

Camelus bactrianus Bactrian camel 2 

Camelus dromedarius Single-humped camel 2 

Lama glama Llama 8 

Lama glama guanicoe Guanaco 4 

Lama pacos Alpaca 4 

Vicugna vicugna Vicuna 1 

Cervidae: 

Cervus canadensis American elk 6 

Cervus elaphus Red deer 4 

Cervus nippon Japanese deer 7 

Cervus nippon manchuricus Dybowsky's deer 2 

r, J /Fallow deer 21 

Damadama \ White fallow deer_ . 15 

Elaphurus davidianus Pfere David's deer 2 

Hydropotes inermis Chinese water deer 10 

Mazama sartorii Mazama 1 

Odocoileus virginianus White-tailed deer 7 

Odocoileus virginianus costaricensis . . Central American white-tailed 3 

deer. 

Giraffidae: 

Giraffa camelopardalis Nubian giraffe 6 

Giraffa reticulata Reticulated giraffe 1 

Antilocapridae: 

Antilocapra americana Pronghorn antelope 1 

Bovidae: 

Ammotragus lervia Aoudad 19 

Anoa depressicornis Anoa 2 

Bibos gaurus Gaur 5 

Bison bison American bison 8 

Bos indicus Zebu 2 

„ . /West Highland or Kyloe cattle. _ 4 

Bos taurus \British Park cattle 10 

Bubalus bubalis Water buffalo 2 

Capra aegagrus cretensis Agrimi goat 1 

Cnpra hircus Domestic goat 8 

Cephalophus maxwellii Maxwell's duiker 1 

Cephalophus nigrifrons Black-fronted duiker 2 

Hemitragus jemlahicus Tahr 1 

Ovis musimon Mouflon 1 

Poephagus grunniens Yak 5 

Pseudois nayaur Bharal or blue sheep 1 

Syncerus caffer African buffalo 3 

Taurotragus oryx Eland 4 

BIRDS 

SPHENISCIFORMES 

Sphcniscidae: 

Spheniscus demersus Jackass penguin 2 

Spheniscus humboldti Humboldt's penguin 4 

STRUTHIONIFORMES 

Struthionidae: 

Struthio camelus Ostrich 1 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 119 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1954r-Continued 

BIRDS— Continued 

RHEIFORMES 

Scievfific name Common name. Number 
Rheidae: 

Rhea americana Common rhea 2 

CASUARIFORMES 

Casuariidae: 

Casuarius unappendiculatus occip- Island cassowary 1 

ilalis. 

Casuarius unappendiculatus unap- One-wattled cassowary 1 

pendiculatus. 
Dromiceiidae: 

Dromiceius novaehollandiae Common emu 4 

TINAMIFORMES 

Tinamidae: 

Cryplurellus cinnamomeus Sall4's tinamou 2 

Crypturcllus soui Little tinamou 1 

PELECANIFORMES 

Pelecanidae: 

Pelecanus erythrorhynchus White pelican 8 

Pelecanus occidentalis occidentalis Brown pelican 2 

Pelecanus onocrolalus Old World white pelican 2 

Phalacrocoracidae: 

Phalacrocorax auriius albocilialus Farallon cormorant 1 

CICONIFORMES 

Ardeidae: 

Ardea herodias Great blue heron 2 

Leucophoyx Ihula Snowy egret 3 

Notophoyx noiioehollandiae White-faced heron 1 

Nycianassa violacea Yellow-crowned night heron 1 

Nycticurax nyclicorax hoactli Black-crowned night heron 44 

Tigrisoma linealum Tiger bittern 3 

Balaenieipitidae: 

Balaeniceps rex - Shoebill 1 

Cochleariidae: 

Cochlearius cochlearius Boat-billed heron 1 

Ciconiidae: 

Ciconia alba WTiite stork 1 

Dissourn episcopus Woolly-necked stork 1 

Ibis cinerexis Malayan painted stork 1 

Jabiru mycLeria Jabiru 1 

Leploptilus crumeniferus Marabou 1 

Leploplilus javanicus Lesser adjutant 2 

Mycleria americana Wood ibis 1 

Threskiornithidae: 

Ajaia ajaja Roseate spoonbill 3 

Eudocimus albus White ibis 3 

Eudocimus ruber Scarlet ibis 3 

Threskiornis melanocephala Black-headed ibis 1 

Phoenicopi oridae: 

Phoenicnptcrus anliquorum Old World flamingo 2 

Phoenicopicrus chilensis Cliilean flamingo 6 

Phoenicopterus ruber Cuban flamingo 1 



326511 — 55- 



120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1954— Continued 

BIRDS— Continued 

ANSERIFORMES 

Scientific name Common name Number 
Anhimidae: 

Chauna torquata Crested screamer 6 

Anatidae: 

Aix sponsa Wood duck 6 

Anas acuta Pintail 4 

Anas discors Blue-winged teal 2 

. 7 . I, I. /Mallard duck 22 

Anas platyrhynchos jwhite mallard duck 6 

Anas platyrhynchos X A. acuta Hybrid, mallard duck X pintail 1 

duck. 

Anas platyrhynchos domestica Peking duck 80 

Anas poecilorhyncha Indian spotted-bill duck 1 

Anas rubripes Black duck 3 

Anas spinicauda Chilean pintail 1 

Anser albifrons White-fronted goose 3 

Anser albifrons subsp Greenland white-fronted goose. _ 1 

Anser anser domesticus Toulouse goose 4 

Anseranas semipalmata Australian pied goose 1 

Aythya affinis Lesser scaup 2 

Ayihya americana Red-headed duck 2 

Aythya collaris Ring-necked duck 1 

Aythya valisineria Canvasback duck 2 

Branta canadensis Canada goose 10 

Branta canadensis occidentalis White-cheeked goose 27 

Branta canadensis X Chen caerules- Hybrid, Canada goose X blue 1 

cens. goose. 

Branta hutchinsii Hutchins's goose 11 

Branta hutchinsii minima Cackling goose 8 

Cairina moschata Moscovy duck 3 

Cereopsis novaehollandiae Cape Barren goose 2 

Chen atlantica Snow goose 12 

Chen caerulescens Blue goose 2 

Chen hyperborea Lesser snow goose 2 

Chen rossii Ross's snow goose 4 

Chenopis atrata Black swan 3 

Chloephaga leucoptera Upland goose 2 

Coscoroba coscoroba Coscoroba 1 

Cygnopsis cygnoides Domestic swan-goose 1 

Cygnus columbianus Whistling swan 6 

Dendrocygna autximnalis Black-bellied tree duck 46 

Eulabeia indica Bar-headed goose 6 

Mareca americana Baldpate 2 

Netta rufina Red-crested pochard 1 

Nettion carolinense Green-winged teal 2 

Plectropterus gambensis Spur-winged goose 1 

Tadorna tadorna Shelldrake 2 

FALCONIFORMES 

Cathartidae: 

Cathartes aura Turkey vulture 4 

Coragyps atratus Black vulture 2 

Gyps rueppellii Ruppell's vulture 2 

Sarcoramphus papa King vulture 2 

Vultur gryphus Andean condor 2 

Sagittariidae: 

Sagittarius serpentarius Secretarybird 2 

Accipitridae: 

Aquila chrysaetos canadensis Golden eagle 1 

Buteo fuscescens Red-backed buzzard 1 

Buteo jamaicensis Red-tailed hawk 6 

Buteo lineatus lineatus Red-shouldered hawk 2 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 121 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1954— Continued 

BIRDS— Continued 
FALCONIFORMES — Continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Accipitridae — Continued 

Btdeo platypterus Broad-winged hawk 1 

Buteo poecilochrous Buzzard eagle 1 

BiUeo swainsoni Swainson's hawk 2 

Haliaeetus leucocephalus Bald eagle 8 

Haliaeetus leucogaster White-breasted sea eagle 1 

Haliastur Indus Brahminy kite 3 

Harpia harpy ja Harpy eagle 1 

Milvago chimango Chimango 3 

Milvus migrans parasitus African yellow-billed kite 2 

Pandion haliaeius carolinensis Osprey 3 

Spizaetus ornatus Ornate hawk eagle 1 

Falconidae: 

Falco mexicanus Prairie falcon 1 

Falco rusticolus obsoletus Gyrfalcon 1 

Falco sparverius Sparrow hawk 4 

Polyborus plancus South American caracara 3 

GALLIFORMES 

Megapodiidae: 

Alectura lathami Brush turkey 2 

Cracidae: 

Crax alherti Blue-cered curassow 4 

Crax rubra Yellow-cered curassow 3 

Ortalis niotmot Chachalaca 1 

Penelope boliviana Crested guan 2 

Phasianidae: 

Argusianus argus Argus pheasant 1 

Chrysolophus pictus Golden pheasant 1 

^ ,. ... fBobwhite 1 

Cohnus virginianus jp^^ bobwhite 1 

Colinus virginianus ridgwayi Masked bobwhite 2 

Crossopiilon auritnm Blue-cered pheasant 1 

Cyrlonyx montezuviae mearnsi Mearns's quail 1 

fBantam fowl 26 

Gallus gallus <Fighting fowl 7 

[Red jungle fowl 1 

Gennaeus leucomelanus Nepal kaleege 2 

Hierophasis sivinhoii Swinhoe's pheasant 1 

Lophortyx calif ornica California quail 2 

Lophortyx gambeli Gambel's quail 2 

Odontophorus gujanensis marmoratus. Marbled Guiana quail 1 

Pavo cristatus Peafowl 13 

Pha-iianu^ toravatu^ fRing-necked pheasant 2 

l-hastanus torquatus \ White ring-necked pheasant 1 

Numididae: 

Guttera plumifera schubotzi Uele crested guinea fowl 2 

Numida meleagris White guinea fowl 5 

CRUIFORMES 

Gruidae: 

Anthropoides virgo Demoiselle crane i 

Balcarica pavonina West African crowned crane 1 

Balearica regidorum gibbericeps East African crowned crane 1 

Grus canadensis Sandhill crane 1 

Grus leucogeranus Siberian crane 1 

Psophiidae: 

Psophia crepitans Gray-backed trumpeter 1 

Psophia leucoptera White-backed trumpeter 2 

Psophia viridis Green-backed trumpeter 1 



122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1954— Continued 

BIRDS— Continued 
GRUIFORMES — Continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Rallidae: 

Aramides cajanea Wood rail 3 

Fulica americana American coot 3 

Gallinula chloropiis cachinnans Florida gallinule 4 

Laterallus leucopyrrhus Black-and-white crake ] 

Porphyrio poliocephalus South Pacific swamp hen 2 

Cariamidae: 

Cariama cristata Cariama or seriama 2 

Otidae: 

Chlamydotis undulaia macqueenii MacQueen's bustard 2 

CHARADRIIFORMES 

Recurvirostridae : 

Himantopus mexicanus Black -necked stilt 1 

Burhinidae: 

Burhinus bistriatus South American thick-knee 1 

Haematopodidae: 

Haematopus ostralegus European oystercatcher 2 

Charadriidae: 

Charadrius vociferus Killdeer 1 

Laridae: 

Larus argentatus Herring gull 1 

Lams delawarensis Ring-billed gull 2 

Larus dominicanus Kelp gull 2 

Larus novaehollandiae Silver gull ^ 8 

COLUMBIFORME8 

Columbidae: 

Chaemepelia minuta Plain-breasted ground dove 1 

Columba livia Domestic pigeon 15 

Colu mba nigrirostris Short-billed pigeon 1 

Gallicolumba luzonica Bleeding-heart dove 1 

Goura victoria Victoria crowned pigeon 2 

Sireptopelia decaodo Ring-necked dove 30 

Strcptopelia tranquebarica Blue-headed ring dove 10 

Zenaida asiatica White- winged dove 3 

Zenaidura rnacroura Mourning dove 8 

PSITTACIFORMES 

Psittacidae: 

Amazona aesliva Blue-fronted parrot 1 

Amazona auropalliata Yellow-naped parrot 5 

Amazona ochrocephala Yellow-headed parrot 3 

Atnnzona oratrix Double yellow-headed parrot 5 

Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus Hyacinthine macaw 1 

Ara arararina Yellow-and-blue macaw 5 

Ara chloropiera Red-and-blue macaw 2 

Ara macao Red, blue, and yellow macaw 3 

Arntinga perlinax Rusty-cheeked parrot 2 

Callocephalon fimhrialum Gang-gang cockatoo 7 

Calyptorhynchus magnificus Banksian cockatoo 1 

Domicclla garrula Bed lory 1 

Ecledus pectorolis Bed-sided eclectus 1 

Forpus cynnopugius Bittle green parakeet 1 

Kakatoe alba.li White cockatoo 1 

Knkaloe du crops Solomon Islands cockatoo 2 

Kakatoe galertta Large sulphur-crested cockatoo__ 11 

Kakatoe leadbeateri Leadbeater's cockatoo 13 

Kakatoe moluccensis Great red-crested cockatoo 1 

Kakatoe sanguineus Bare-eyed cockatoo 7 

Melopsittacus undulalus Grass parakeet 12 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 123 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1954^Continued 

BIRDS— Continued 
PSITTACIFORMES — continued 

Scienlific name Common name Number 

Psittacidae — Continued 

Nestor notabiUs Kea 1 

Nyviphicvs hollandicus Cockatiel 1 

Pionvs mensiruus Blue-headed conure 1 

Polytelis swainsoni Barraband's parakeet 6 

Psittacula eupatria Bed-shouldered parakeet 1 

Psittaculu krameri Kramer's parakeet 1 

CUCULIFORMES 

Cuculidae: 

Eudynamys scolopacea Koel 1 

Musophagidae: 

Taurnco corythaix South African turaco 1 

Tauraco donaldsoni Donaldson's turaco 1 

Tauraco persa Purple turaco 3 

STRICIFORMES 

Tytonidae: 

Tylo alba praiincola Barn owl 5 

Strigidae 

Bubo virginianus Great horned owl 8 

Bubo virginianus elutus Colombian great horned owl 1 

Kelupa kctupu Malay fishing owl 1 

Otns asio Screech owl 1 

Sirix varia varia Barred owl 17 

TROGONIFORMES 

Trogonidae: 

Prionotelus temnurus Cuban trogon 7 

CORACIIFORMES 

Alcedinidae: 

Dacelo gigas Kookaburra 1 

Bucerotidae: 

Anthracoceros coronalus Pied hornbill 2 

Bucorims abyssinicus Abyssinian ground hornbill 1 

Momotidae: 

Baryphlhengus martii Great rufous motmot 1 

Momolus lessoni Lesson's motmot 2 

PICIFORMES 

Capitonidae: 

Megalaima asiatica Blue-throated barbet 1 

Ramphastidae: 

PteroglcKsiis torquatus Ringed toucanet 8 

Ramphastos ariel Ariel toucan 1 

Ramphastos bicolor Southern red-breasted toucan — 1 

Ramp/mstos corinatus Sulphur-breasted toucan 1 

Ramphastos culminatus White-breasted toucan 1 

Ramphastos innominatus Todd's toucan 1 

Ramphastos toco Toco toucan 2 

Ramphastos vitelUnus Northern red-breasted toucan — 1 

PASSERIFORMES 

Cotingidae: 

Chasmorhynchus nudicollis Bellbird 1 

Rupicola rupicola Orange cock-of-the-rock 3 

Rupicola sanguinolenta Scarlet cock-of-the-rock 1 



124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1954— Continued 

BIRDS— Continued 
PASSERiFORMES — Continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Corvidae: 

Corvus brachyrhynchos American crow 4 

Corvus corax principalis Northern raven 2 

Corvus insolens Indian crow 2 

Cyanocitia cristata Blue jay 3 

Cynnocorax chrysops Urraca jay 3 

Pica nuttallii Yellow-billed magpie 1 

P7ca pica hudsonica American magpie 2 

Urocissa caerulea Formosan red-billed pie 2 

Ptilorhynchidae: 

Ptilonorhynchus violaceus Bowerbird 6 

Paradiseidae: 

Diphylloides magnificus Magnificent bird-of- paradise 1 

Paradisea rubra Red bird-of -paradise 1 

Paradisornis rudophi Prince Rudolph's bird-of-para- 

dise 1 

Schlegelia wihoni Wilson's bird-of-paradise 1 

Timaliidae: 

Garrulax bicolor White-headed laughing thrush__ 2 

Pycnonotidae: 

Heterophasia capistratra Black-headed sibia 1 

Pycnonotus leucogenys White-cheeked bulbul 1 

Mimidae: 

Mimus polyglottos leiicopterus Western mockingbird 1 

Mimus polyglottos polyglottos Eastern mockingbird 1 

Turdidae: 

Geokichla citrina Orange-headed ground thrush 1 

Hylocichla mustelina Wood thrush 1 

Plaiycichla flavipes Yellow-footed thrush 1 

Turdus migratorius Eastern robin 7 

Nectariniidae: 

Cinnyris venustiis Yellow-breasted sunbird 2 

Nectannia johnstoni Dark malachite sunbird 4 

Sturnidae: 

Acridotheres tristis Common mynah 1 

Gr acuta religiosa Wattled mynah 3 

Gracula religiosa robusta Nias wattled mynah 2 

Lamprocalius purpureus Glossy starling 3 

Spreo superbus Superb starling 1 

Sturnia malabarica Gray-headed mynah 1 

Coerebidae: 

Cyanerpes cyaneus Purple honeycreeper 6 

Dacnis cayana ultramarina Ultramarine dacnis 4 

Parulidae: 

Icteria virens Yellow-breasted chat 1 

Ploceidae: 

Aegintha temporalis Sydney waxbill 7 

Aidemosyne modesta Plum-headed finch 1 

Alisteranus cinctus Parson finch 1 

Amadina fasciata Cut-throat weaver finch 1 

Aniandava amandava Strawberry finch 2 

Diatropura procne Giant whydah 3 

Emblema picta Painted finch 1 

Estrilda astrild Red-eared waxbill 5 

Estrilda cinerea Common waxbill 2 

Euplectes franciscana Bishop weaver 1 

Euplectes orix Red bishop weaver 4 

Lonchura leucogastroides Bengali finch 3 

Lonchura malacca Black-throated munia 5 

Lonchura punctulata Spice finch 2 

Padda oryzivora Java finch 28 

Passer domesticus House sparrow 2 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 125 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1954-Continued 

BIRDS— Continued 

PASSERIFORMES — continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Ploceidae — Continued 

Ploceus baya Baya weaver 19 

Ploceus viteUinus Vitelline masked weaver 1 

Poephila acuticauda Long-tailed finch 1 

Poephila gouldiae Gouldian finch 3 

Quelea quelea Red-billed weaver 1 

Sporaeginthus melpodus Orange-cheeked waxbill 7 

Steganopleura bichcnovii Bicheno's finch 1 

Steganura pradisea Paradise whydah 2 

Taeniopygia castanolis Zebra finch 30 

Uracginthus bengalus Cordon-bleu finch 1 

Icteridae: 

Icterus giraudi Giraud's oriole 3 

Icterus icterus Troupial 1 

Molothrus ater Cowbird 2 

Notiopsar curaeus Cliilean blackbird 1 

Ouiscalus quiscula Purple grackle 1 

Xanthocephalus xanlhocephalus Yellow-headed blackbird 1 

Thraupidae: 

Calospiza ruficapilla Brown-headed tanager 1 

Piranga rubra Summer tanager 1 

Ramphocelus carbo Silver-beaked tanager 3 

Ramphocelus dimidiatus Crimson tanager 2 

Ramphocelus flammigerus Yellow tanager 1 

Ramphocelus passerinii Passerini's tanager 4 

Thraupis cana Blue tanager 1 

Thraupis palmarum Black-winged palm tanager 1 

Fringillidae: 

Carpodacus mexicanus Mexican house finch 3 

Cayleyna picta Painted finch 1 

Cyanocompsa argentina Argentine blue grosbeak 1 

J unco hyemalis Junco 1 

Lophospingus pusillus Black-crested finch 1 

Paroaria cucullata Brazilian cardinal 1 

Paroaria gularis nigro-genis Black-eared cardinal 1 

Passer ella iliaca Fox sparrow 1 

Passerina ciris Painted bunting 1 

Passerina cyanea Indigo bunting 1 

Pheucticxis aureoventris Black-and-yollow grosbeak 1 

Poospiza torquala Ringed warbling finch 2 

Richmondena cardinalis Cardinal 2 

Serinus canarius Canary 26 

Serinus icterus Green singing finch 1 

Sicalis luteola Saffron finch 9 

Sporophila gutluralis Yellow-billed seedeater 11 

Sporophila melanocephala Black-headed seedeater 2 

REPTILES 

RHYNCHOCEPHALIA 

Sphenodon tidae : 

Sphenodon punctatum Tuatara 1 



LORICATA 

Crocodylidae: 

Alligator mississipiensis Alligator 26 

Alligator sinensis Chinese alligator 2 

Caiman sclerops Spectacled caiman 20 

Crocodylus acutus American crocodile 4 

Crocodylus cataphr actus Narrow-nosed crocodile 1 

Crocodylus niloticus African crocodile 2 

Crocodylus porosus Salt-water crocodile 1 

Osteolaemus tetraspis Broad-nosed crocodile 3 



126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1954— Continued 
REPTILES— Continued 

SQUAMATA 

SAURU 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Gekkonidae: 

Tarentola cubana Gecko 1 

Tarentola mauritanica Egyptian gecko 2 

Agamidae: 

Amphiholurus barbatus Bearded lizard 1 

Gerrhosauridae : 

Gerrhosaunis major Greater African plated lizard 7 

Zonnsaurus ornatus Ornate lizard 1 

Iguanidae: 

Anolis carolinensis Anolis, or false chameleon 5 

Anolis equeslris Giant anolis 1 

Conolophus suhcristatus Galapagos iguana 2 

Cyclura macleayi Cuban iguana 3 

Iguana iguana Common iguana 2 

Phryvosoma cornutum Horned lizard 1 

Sceloporus clarkii Clark's spiny lizard 2 

Sceloporus undulatus Pine or fence lizard 3 

Helodermatidae : 

Heloderma horridum Mexican beaded lizard 2 

Heloderma suspectum > Gila monster 2 

Varan idae: 

Varanus indicus East Indies monitor 2 

Varanus niloticus African monitor 1 

Varanus varius Lace monitor 3 

Teiidae: 

Tupinambis nigropunclaius Black tegu 2 

Tupinambis teguixin Yellow tegu 2 

Scincidae: 

Chnlcides ocellatus Skink 1 

Chalcides sepsoides Tliree-fingered skink 1 

Egernia cunninghami Cunningham's skink 1 

Egernia luctvnsa Mourning skink 4 

Egernia whilii White's skink 11 

Eremias mucrnnata Mucronate sand lizard 2 

Eumeces faf^cialus Blue-tailed skink 2 

Scincus officinalis Shovel-nosed skink 37 

Tiliqua scincoides Blue-tongued skink 1 

Trachysaurus rugosus Stump-tailed lizard 1 

Chamaeleontidae: 

Chamaeleon jacksoni Three-horned chameleon 7 

Chamaeleon taitensis Hornless chameleon.. _ 1 

Anguidae: 

Gerrhonotus multicarinatus webbi Alligator lizard 3 

Ophisaurus apus Old World legless lizard 3 

SERPENTES 

Boidae: 

Boa canina Green tree boa 1 

Constrictor constrictor Boa constrictor 2 

Constrictor imperator Central American boa 10 

Epicrates cenchria Rainbow boa 4 

Eryx jaculus Blunt-tailed sand boa 7 

Eryx thebaicus Egyptian sharp-tailed sand boa.. 10 

Eunectes murinus Anaconda. 15 

Python 7nolurus Indian rock python 2 

Python regius Ball python 5 

Python reticulatus Regal python 5 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 127 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1954— Continued 

REPTILES— Continued 

SERPENTES — Continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Colubridae: 

Acrochordus javanicus Elephant trunk snake. 1 

Carphophis amoena Worm snake 1 

Chrysopelea ornaia Gliding tree snake 3 

Coluber constrictor Black snake 4 

Coluber diadema Diadem coluber 2 

Coluber florulenta Egyptian racer 2 

Diadophis punctatus Ring-necked snake 1 

Drijmarchon corais couperi Indigo snake 5 

Elaphe guttata Corn snake (Albino) 1 

Elaphelongissirna Aesculapian snake 2 

Elaphe obsoleta confinis Southern pilot snake 1 

Elapht obsolela obsolela Pilot black snake 10 

Lampropt'ltis doliala doliaia Scarlet king snake 1 

Larnproptliis gitalus californiae Boyle's king snake 2 

LampropeUis getulus getulus Chain or king snake 1 

Lampropeltis getiilus hidbrooki Speckled king snake 1 

LampropeUis getulus splendida Sonoran king snake 2 

Leplddeira annulata Cat-eyed snake 1 

Nntrix nntrix European grass snake 2 

Natrix sipedon sipedon Water snake 9 

Oxyhelis acuminatus Pike-head snake 1 

Psammuphis sibilans Father-of-stripes 1 

Plijas mucosus Indian rat snake 1 

Thamnophis elegans Arizona garter snake 1 

Elapidae: 

Micruriis fulvius Coral snake 2 

Naja haje Egyptian cobra 1 

Naja hannah King cobra 1 

Naja melanoleuca West African spitting cobra 1 

Naja naja Indian cobra 6 

Naja nigricollis. Black-necked spitting cobra 1 

Crotalidae: 

Ancistrodon piscivorus Cottonmouth moccasin 2 

Crotalus horridus Timber rattlesnake 1 

Crotalus viridis oreganus Northern Pacific rattlesnake 16 

TESTUDINATA 

Chelvdidae: 

Batrachemys nasuta South American side-necked tur- 2 

tie. 

Chelodina longicollis Australian long-necked turtle 3 

Chelys fimbriata Matamata turtle 3 

Hydraspis sp Cagado or South American snake- 1 

necked turtle. 

Hydromedusa tectifera Small snake-necked turtle 2 

Phrynops geoffroyana Geoffrey's snake-necked turtle. - 1 

Phrynops hilarii ._ Large snake-necked turtle 15 

Platemys platycephala Flat-headed turtle 1 

Kinosternidae: 

Kinosternon subrubrum Mud turtle 10 

Sternotherus odoralus. Musk turtle 10 

Chelvdridae: 

Chelydra serpentina Snapping turtle - 10 

Emydidae: 

Batagur baska _- Indian fresh-water turtle 1 

Chrysemys picta Painted turtle 17 

Clernmys guttata _. Spotted turtle 20 

Clernmys insculpta Wood turtle 3 

Cyclemys amboinensis Kura kura box turtle 1 



128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1954^Continued 

REPTILES— Continued 
TESTUDiNATA — Continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Emydidae — Continued 

Emydura krefftii KrefTt's turtle 3 

Emydura macquariae Murray turtle 9 

Emys orbicularis European pond turtle 1 

Graptcmys barbouri Barbour's turtle 7 

Graptemys geographica Map turtle 9 

Graptemys pseudogeographica False map turtle 2 

Malademys centrata Diamond-back turtle 5 

Peliisios nigricans African black water turtle 2 

Pseudemys concinna Cooter 1 

Pseudemys elegans Mobile turtle 12 

Pseudemys floridana Florida water turtle 8 

Pseudemys ornata Central American turtle 3 

Pseudemys rubriventris Red-bellied turtle 2 

Pseudemys scripta Red-lined turtle 10 

Pseudemys troostii Cumberland turtle 2 

Terrapene Carolina Box turtle 50 

Terrapene triunguis Three-toed box turtle 6 

Testudo ephippium Duncan Island turtle 1 

Pelomedusidae: 

Pploynedusa galeata African water turtle 1 

Pelusios nigricans African water turtle 8 

Pelusios sinuatus Yellow-bellied water turtle 8 

Testudinidae: 

Gophcrus polyphemus Gopher turtle 3 

Testudo porteri Seymour Island turtle 1 

Testudo tabulata South American turtle 1 

Testudo vicina Albemarle Island turtle 5 

Trionychidae: 

Trionyx ferox Soft-shelled turtle 9 

Trionyx triunguis West African soft-shelled turtle. _ 2 

AMPHIBIANS 

CAUDATA 

Salamandridae: 

Diemictylus viridescens Red-spotted newt (of the United 1 

States). 

Triturus pyrrhogaster Red Japanese newt 11 

Amphiumidae: 

Amphiuma means Congo "eel" 1 

Ambystomidae: 

Ambystoma maculatum Spotted salamander 1 

Cryptobranchidae: 

Megalohatrachus japonicus Giant Japanese salamander 3 

SALIENTIA 

Dendrobatidae: 

Atelopus varius zeteki Yellow atelopus 13 

Dendrobates tintoria Arrow-poison frog 9 

Bufonidae: 

Bufo americanus Common toad 30 

Bufo marinus Ma rine toad 9 

Bufo paracnemis Rococo toad 2 

Bufo quercicus Oak toad 1 

Bufo viridis European green toad 6 

Discoglossidae: 

Alytes obstetricans Midwife toad 3 

Bombina variegata Yellow-bellied toad 1 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 129 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1954— Continued 

AMPHIBIANS— Continued 
SALiENTiA — continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Leptodactylidae : 

Cerotophrys calcarata Colombian horned frog 2 

Ceratophrys ornata Argentine horned frog 2 

Pipidae: 

Xenopus mUlleri Muller's clawed frog 5 

Ranidae: 

Rana adspersa African bull frog 13 

Rana catesbeiana Bull frog 3 

Rana clamitans Green frog 2 

Rana palustris Pickerel frog 2 

Rana pipiens Leopard frog 10 

FISHES 

Aequidens pulcher Blue acara 1 

Alepidomus evermanni Cuban glassfish 6 

Anahas tesludineus Climbing perch 3 

Anopiichthys jordani Blind characin 2 

Apistogrammaramirezi Butterfly cichlid 1 

Astronotus ocellatus Peacock cichlid 10 

Barbus everetti Clown barb 2 

Barbus oligolepis 2 

Barbus tetrazona 2 

Brachydanio albolineatus Pearl danio 7 

Brachygobius xanthozonus Bumblebee-fish 5 

Corydoras sp South American catfish 1 

Elassoma evergladei Pygmy sunfish 2 

Eledrophorus electricus Electric eel 1 

Haplochromis strigigena. Egyptian mouthbreeder 1 

Heterandria formosa Mosquitofish 2 

Hyphessobrycon innesi Neon tetra 3 

Lebistesreticuiatus {LySigupp'y:::::::::::::::: ^lo 

Lepidosiren paradoxa South American lungfish 1 

Otocinclus ajfinis 2 

Platypoecilus maculatus Red moon 5 

Pristella riddlei 2 

Protopterus annedans African lungfish 2 

Plerophyllum eimekei Scalare or angelfish 1 

Quintana atrizona Cuban mosquitofish 3 

Serrasalmus ternetzi Piranha 1 

Sternarchella schotti Knife-fish 2 

Tanichthys albonubes White Cloud Mountain fish 7 

Trichopsis pumilus 2 

xiphophorushdieri {llSrdtaii::::::::::::::::: 3 

ARACHNIDS 

Eurypelma sp Tarantula 1 

Latrodedus madans Black-widow spider 2 

INSECTS 

Blabera sp Giant cockroach 100 

MOLLUSKS 

Achatina achatina Giant land snail 1 



130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

STATUS OF THE COLLECTION 



Class 



Mammals... 

Birds 

Reptiles 

Amphibians. 
Fish 



Spedos or 
subspecies 



231 

305 

127 

22 

32 



Individuals 



792 
1,163 
596 
130 
195 



Class 



Arachnids- 
Insects 

MoUusks.. 



Total. 



Species or 
subspecies 



723 



Individuals 



3 

100 
1 



Animals on hand July 1, 1953 

Accessions during the year 



2,741 

2,250 



Total number of animals in collection during the year 4, 991 

Removals for various reasons such as death, exchanges, return of animals 
on deposit, etc. (This includes a total of 302 miscellaneous animals 
enumerated on page 96.) 2,011 



In collection on June 30, 1954 2, 980 

Kespectfully submitted. 



W. M. LIann, Director. 



Dr. Leonard Carmicitael, 

Secretary^ STnithsonian Institution. 



Report on the Canal Zone Biological Area 

Sir : It gives me pleasure to present herewith the annual report of 
the Canal Zone Biological Area for the fiscal year ended June 30, 
1954. 

About mid-August 1953 the resident manager became critically ill 
and was obliged to be absent from the island until the middle of 
March 1954. It was most fortunate that he was able to secure the 
aid of his former associate, Mrs. Adela Gomez, who was well in- 
formed regarding the island set-up and routine, scientists, and visi- 
tors. Mrs. Gomez took over, despite demanding home and family 
duties, and through her ability and thorough understanding of the 
work, she did a heroic job. 

It was also most fortunate for all concerned to have the assistance 
of Cleveland C. Soper, in charge of Eastman Kodak Company's 
Tropical Research Laboratory. Not only was he most generous with 
his time, but his advice was invaluable. Had it not been for his 
technical knowledge, the island would have been blacked out and 
there would have been no refrigeration for lack of current when the 
two diesel units were overhauled. In recognition of his invaluable 
help, the Smithsonian Institution tendered him an appointment as 
research associate. 

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT 

The two 15-kv. diesel generators received, in addition to routine 
maintenance inspections and adjustments, an annual overhaul. 

Posts for the overhead electric-current distribution line were in- 
stalled. Two wires strung to these furnish 110 volts, 60 cycles. A 
third wire will provide 220 volts 24 hours daily. All posts with 
feeders for the various buildings have fuse boxes installed. 

The new large concrete water tank west of the new laboratory 
building, which receives water from the roof of this building, has 
been finished and is in use. Water is pumped from it into the large 
tank on Snyder-Molino from which there is a good gravity flow. A 
new 2-hp. motor was purchased for the old water pump, which is 
still serviceable. 

Each year the island dock has had to be extended because of in- 
creased silting. Plans have been made and preliminary work started 
to remedy this situation by making a trail along the south shore of 
the cove to deep water. 

131 



132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Minor repairs were made to the two launches and their engines. 

All buildings except the old Chapman house were gone over, and 
all except the trail-end houses are in good shape. Of the latter, only 
the Drayton and the Fuertes houses are in good condition. The Chap- 
man house, if repaired, can be used for five more years. The iron 
beds in all dormitories should be repainted. All trails were gone 
over and fallen markers replaced. The trails are in good condition. 

MOST URGENT NEEDS 

Completion of the new large building is imperative. This will 
house laboratories, a dark room, the library, herbarium, indexes, 
microscopes, cameras, sterilizers, laboratory chemicals, reagents, and 
glassware. Some progress has been made, but there is still much to 
be done. Electric wiring and fixtures must be installed, water piped 
in, and sinks provided. Tables, shelves, and chairs should be fur- 
nished, metal bookcases purchased for the library, and six dehumidi- 
fiers must be obtained. Plans provide for a large enough dry room 
to dry out mattresses periodically. Another dry room is needed on 
the upper floor of the old large building to keep laundry and bedding 
from mildewing. 

Wlien the library is moved into the new building, the Haskins 
fireproof building will be converted into a kitchen and kitchen store- 
room, which will eliminate the fire hazard ever present in the wooden 
structure now housing the kitchen. A new electric stove has been 
purchased and will be installed as soon as the 220-volt line is avail- 
able. An electric water heater will be purchased when funds are 
available. 

SCIENTISTS AND THEIR STUDIES 

The primary purpose of the Canal Zone Biological Area is to pro- 
vide a safe and accessible area for scientific research in the lower 
humid tropics in the Americas. Probably nowhere else in the world 
can be found the combination of unspoiled tropical jungle and health- 
ful laboratory surroundings. Here scientists find a profusion of 
plants and animals and are able to carry on a wide variety of special 
studies. 

During the fiscal year 1954, 22 scientists came to the island. The 
high cost of transportation prevents many from coming, and also, in 
many cases curtails the length of stay. A list of the season's 22 in- 
vestigators, with a brief summary of their special interests, follows: 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



133 



Investigator 

Ansley, Dr. Hudson, Johns Hopkins 
University. 

Carr, Dr. Archie, University of Florida. 
Elliott, Dr. Alfred, University of Michi- 
gan. 

Everest, F. Alton, Moody Institute of 
Science, Los Angeles, Calif. 



Grinnell, Dr. and Mrs. Laurence I., 
Ithaca, N. Y. 

Hodgson, Dr. Edward S., Barnard Col- 
lege. 

Lundy, William E., Panama Canal 
Company. 

Luti, Ricardo, Argentina. 
Mena, Anselmo, Canal Zone. 
Morris, Robert C, Gulfport Station of 
U. S. Forest Service. 



Pierson, Dr. and Mrs. H. L., Hampton, 

N. H. 
Soper, Cleveland C, Tropical Research 

Laboratory, Eastman Kodak Co. 
Treichel, Dr. George W., University of 

California. 
Udey, Edwin C, Moody Institute of 

Science, Los Angeles, Calif. 



Wagner, Dr. and Mrs. Richard, Cam- 
bridge, Mass. 

Weatherwax, Dr. Paul, Indiana Uni- 
versity. 

Wetmore, Dr. and Mrs. Alexander, 
Smithsonian Institution. 

Woodring, Dr. and Mrs. W. P., U. S. 
Geological Survey. 



Principal {nterest or special study 

Preservation of material for spermato- 
genesis studies of certain pentato- 
mids, scutigerids, and related forms. 

Herpetology and tropical ecology. 

Extensive collections of fresh-water 
ciliates {Tctrahymena pyriformis) 
for possible biological mutants. 

With Edwin C. Udey, to study and ap- 
praise the broad features of the 
photographic program to be developed 
by Udey. 

Ecological studies of birds, with long 
series of photographs. 

Studies for Office of Naval Research. 

Detailed studies of mammals, birds, and 
insects, for future accounts in the 
magazine Natural History. 

Plant ecology. 

Assistance to Dr. W. P. Woodring. 

Periodic examination of the interna- 
tional and other tei-mite tests started 
by Snyder and Zetek, and those by 
Kowal and Morris. 

Photography of plant and animal life 
and natural-history studies. 

Deterioration and corrosion of photo- 
graphic equipment and supplies. 

Geographical and botanical field work 
and mapping. 

Motion and still photography, both color 
and black and white, covering the 
behavior of the island animal and 
plant life, documented for a lecture 
film on Barro Colorado Island. 

Photographic study of plants, birds, 
mammals, and habitats. 

Study of the grasses of Barro Colorado. 

Inspection of the physical plant, and 
continuation of studies of the birds 
of the island. 

Stratigraphic relations of the fossilifer- 
ous beds of early Tertiary age in 
Gatuu Lake near Barro Colorado, and 
new fossil deposits of the island ; 
progress on a new map of the island, 
and manuscript on the geology of 
Barro Colorado. 



134 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



VISITORS 

The number of visitors dropped to about three- fourths that of last 
year. Most of them came in small groups, and quite a number stayed 
overnight or for a few days. Among these were Boy Scouts, Girl 
Scouts, and photography clubs ; groups from schools in Panama City, 
Colon, and elsewhere; from colleges, and from the University of 
Panama. There were also a number of groups from the Armed Forces, 
the United States Embassy in Panama, many technical and specialized 
missions, and branches of the Point 4 Program. There were many 
scientists returning from other missions and who had only a day or 
two on Barro Colorado. Among the most distinguished and enthu- 
siastic visitors were King Leopold and his wife, Her Royal Highness 
Princess Liliane, of Belgium. 

RAINFALL 

In 1953, during the dry season (January to April) rains of 0.01 
inch or more fell on 48 days (165 hours) and on 194 days during the 
8 months of the wet season. 

Rainfall was 1.90 inches below the 29-year station average, as com- 
pared to 9.26 inches last year — an excess of 5.37 inches for the 4-month 
dry season, and a deficiency of 7.27 inches for the 8-month wet season. 
February was the driest month, 0.69 inch, and November the wettest, 
19.28 inches. 



Table 1. — Annual rainfall, Barro Colorado Island, C. Z. 



Total 

Year incites 

1925 104.37 

1926 118.22 

1927 116.36 

1928 101.52 

1929 87.84 

1930 76.57 

1931 123.30 

1932 113.52 

1933 101.73 

1934 122.42 

1935 143.42 

1936 93.88 

1937 124.13 

1938 117.09 

1939 115.47 



Station 
average 


Year 
1940 - 


Total 
inches 

86.51 


station 
average 

109. 43 


113. 56 


1941 


91.82 


108. 41 


114.68 
111. 35 


Hi42 

1943 


111.10 

120.29 


108. 55 
109.20 


106. 56 


1944-_ -_ - . 


111.96 


109.30 


101. 51 


1945 - - - 


120.42 


109.84 


104.69 
1 05. 76 


1946 

1947 


87.38 

77.92 


108. 81 
107. 49 


105. 32 


1948 


83.16 


1 06. 43 


107. 04 


1949-. _ -. 


114.86 


106. 76 


110.35 
108. 98 
1 1 0. 1 2 


1950 

1951 

1952 --. 


114.51 

112.72 

97.68 


107.07 
107.28 
106.94 


110. 62 


1953 


._. 104.97 


106. 87 


110. 94 









SECRETARY'S REPORT 



135 



rABLE 2. — Comparison of 1952 and 19')S rninfall, Barro Colorado Island, G. Z. 

(inches) 



Month 



Total 



1952 



Station 
average 



Years of 
record 



Excess or 
deficiency 



Accumu- 
lated ex- 
cess or 
deficiency 



January 

February 

March 

April 

May... 

June 

July 

August- 

September 

October 

November. 

December 

Year 

Dry season 
Wet season 



2.40 
.39 
.11 

5.46 
12.39 
11.76 

6.01 

9.11 
11 13 
16.96 

9.50 
12.46 



4.30 

.69 

1.20 

6.04 

9.21 

3.81 

15.93 

15.60 

5.70 

18.27 

19.28 

4.34 



1.S6 
1.24 
1.20 
3.16 
10.83 
11.14 
11.44 
12.28 
9.91 
13.08 
19.11 
11.02 



97.68 



104.97 



106. 87 



8.36 
89. 32 



12.83 
92.14 



7.46 
99.41 



+2.44 
-0.55 



+3.48 
-1.62 
-7.33 
+4.49 
+3. 32 
-4.21 
+4. 59 
+0.17 
-6. 68 



+2.44 
+1.89 
+1.89 
+5.37 
+3.75 
-3.58 
+0.91 
+4. 23 
+0.02 
+4. 61 
+4.78 
-1.90 



The maximum yearly rainfall of record on the island was 143.42 
inches and the minimum 76.57 inches. The maximum of record for 
short periods were as follows: 5 minutes, 1.30 inches; 10 minutes, 1.65 
inches ; 1 hour, 4.11 inches ; 2 hours, 4.81 inches ; 24 hours, 10.48 inches. 

During 1953 the maximums were: 5 minutes, 0.52 inch; 10 
minutes, 1.01 inches; 1 hour, 2.65 inches; 2 hours, 3.32 inches; 24 
hours, 4.85 inches. 

FINANCIAL SUPPORT 

The rates for scientists and visitors now in effect are $3 a day per 
person for 1-day visitors, $4 a full day for scientists from institutions 
that support the laboratory through table subscriptions, and $5 a full 
day for all others. A 1-day visit includes the use of the launch to and 
from the island, the noon meal, and the guide in the morning. A 
full day for scientists includes three meals and lodging. 

The following institutions contributed their support to the 
laboratory through the payment of table subscriptions or grants : 

Research Corporation ,$15, 000 

Eastman Kodak Co 1,000 

New York Zoological Society 300 

American Museum of Natural History 300 

Smithsonian Institution 300 

[The Institution provides other funds as needed.] 

It is most gratifying to report again donations from Dr. Eugene 
Eisenmann of New^ York and Dr. Herbert F. Schwarz of the American 
Museum of Natural History. 

Those contemplating a visit to this unique spot of the Americas 
should cominunicate with the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu- 



326511—55- 



-10 



136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

tion, Washington 25, D. C, or with the Eesident Manager of the 
Canal Zone Biological Area, Drawer C, Balboa, Canal Zone. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

Thanks are due to the Panama Canal Company, particularly the 
Dredging and Commissary Divisions and the Storehouses ; the Canal 
Zone Government, especially the Police Division ; the officials and em- 
ployees of the Panama Eailroad for their wholehearted cooperation ; 
and also to Mr. Soper, Dr. Paul Swift, and the staff of the Tropical 
Kesearch Laboratory of Eastman Kodak Co. Without their generous 
and unfailing assistance, the Area could not function so successfully. 

Respectfully submitted. 

James Zetek, Resident Manager, 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the International 
Exchange Service 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities 
of the International Exchange Service for the fiscal year ended June 
30,1954: 

The Smithsonian Institution is the official United States agency 
for the exchange with other nations of governmental, scientific, and 
literary publications. The International Exchange Service, initiated 
by the Smithsonian Institution in the early years of its existence for 
the interchange of scientific publications between learned societies 
and individuals in the United States and those of foreign countries, 
serves as a means of developing and executing in part the broad 
and comprehensive objective, "the diffusion of knowledge." It was 
later designated by the United States Government as the agency for 
the transmission of official documents to selected depositories through- 
out the world, and it continues to execute the exchanges pursuant to 
conventions, treaties, and other international agreements. 

Although the weight of the packages received during the year for 
transmission decreased by 57,782 pounds to the total of 797,320 
pounds, the number of packages decreased by only 1,429 to the total of 
1,020,509. The average weight of the individual package was only 
12.49 ounces, an indication that the publications now being trans- 
mitted are current publications rather than large lots of accumulated 
publications. 

The publications received from foreign sources for addressees in 
the United States and from domestic sources for shipment abroad are 
classified as shown in the following table: 



Classification 


Packages 


Weight 


United States parliamentary documents sent abroad 


Number 
523, 314 


Number 


Pounds 
255, 597 


Pounds 


Publications received in return for parliamentary documents 


11, 148 


17, 040 


United States departmental documents sent abroad 


241, 139 


185, 943 


Publications received in return for departmental documents 


12, 287 


24, 785 


Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad. _ 


174, 033 


215, 652 




Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from 
abroad for distribution in the United States 


58,588 


98,303 










Total. 


938, 486 


82, 023 


657, 192 


140, 128 






Grand total 


1, 020. 509 


797, 320 













137 



138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

The packages of publications are forwarded to the exchange 
bureaus of foreign countries by freight or, where shipment by such 
means is impractical, to the foreign addressees by direct mail. Dis- 
tribution in the United States of the publications received from 
foreign exchange bureaus is accomplished primarily by mail, but by 
other means when more economical. The number of boxes shipped to 
the foreign exchange bureaus was 3,566 or 917 more than for the 
previous year. Of these boxes 942 were for depositories of full sets of 
United States Government documents, these publications being fur- 
nished in exchange for the official publications of foreign governments 
which are received for deposit in the Library of Congress. The 
number of packages forwarded by mail and by means other than 
freight was 209,865. 

There was allocated to the International Exchange Service for 
transportation $49,600. "With this amount it was possible to effect 
the transportation of 924,018 pounds. This figure represents 126,698 
pounds over the weight of the publications received during the year 
and comprised publications that could not be shipped in the previous 
fiscal year owing to lack of funds. 

Slight increases occurred in both freight and postal rates during 
the year. 

Total outgoing correspondence was 2,454 letters, exclusive of infor- 
mation copies. 

No shipments are being made to China, North Korea, or Rumania. 
Publications intended for addresses in Formosa and formerly sent 
through the Chinese Exchange Bureau at Nanking are now forwarded 
by direct mail. 

Regulations of the Bureau of Foreign Commerce, Department of 
Commerce, provide that each package of publications exported bear 
a general license symbol and a legend, "Export License Not Required,'' 
and the International Exchange Service accepts for transmission to 
foreign destinations only those packages of publications to which 
the general license symbol and legend have been applied by the 
consignor. 

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS 

The niunber of sets of United States official publications received 
by the Exchange Service for transmission abroad in return for the 
official publications sent by foreign governments for deposit in the 
Library of Congress is now 105 (62 full and 43 partial sets), listed 
below. Changes that occurred during the year are shown in the 
footnotes. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 139 

DEPOSITOKIE8 OF FULL SETS 

Argentina: Division Biblioteca, Ministerio de Relacioces Exteriores y Culto, 

Buenos Aires. 
Australia: Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra. 

New South Wales : Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney. 

Qlt;ensland: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane. 

South Australia: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide. 

Tasmania : Parliamentai'y Library, Hobart. 

■Victoria : Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne. 

Western Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth. 
Austria : Administrative Library, Federal Chancellery, Vienna. 
Eflgium : Biblioth^que Royale, Bruxelles. 
Brazil: Biblioteca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro. 
Bulgaria : Bulgarian Bibliographical Institute, Sofia. 
Burma : Government Book Depot, Rangoon. 
Canada : Library of Parliament, Ottawa. 

Manitoba: Provincial Library, Winnipeg. 

Ontario : Legislative Library, Toronto. 

Quebec : Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec. 
Ceylon : Department of Information, Government of Ceylon, Colombo. 
Chile: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago. 
China: Ministry of Education, National Library, Nanking, China.^ 

Peiping : National Library of Peiping.^ 
Colombia : Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota. 
CosTA Rica : Biblioteca Nacional, San Jos6. 
Cuba : Ministerio de Estado, Canje Interuacional, Habana. 
Czechoslovakia : National and University Library, Prague. 
Denmark : Institut Danios des Exchanges Internationaux, Copenhagen. 
Egypt: Bureau des Publications, Minist^re des Finances, Cairo, 
Finland: Parliamentary Library, Helsinki. 
France: Biblioth^que Nationale, Paris. 
Germany: Offentliche Wissenschaftliche Biblothek, Berlin. 

Parliamentary Library, Bonn. 

Free University of Berlin, Berlin. 
Great Britain : 

England : British Museum, London. 

London : London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository 
of the London County Council.) 
Hungary : Library of Parliament, Budapest. 
India : National Library, Calcutta. 

Central Secretariat Library, New Delhi. 
Indonesia : Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Djakarta. 
Ireland : National Library of Ireland, Dublin. 
Israel: Government Archives and Library, Hakirya. 
Italy : Ministerio della Publica Istruzione, Rome. 
Japan : National Diet Library, Tokyo.' 
Mexico : Secretarla de Relaciones Exteriores, Departmento de Informaci6n para 

el Extranjero, M(5xico, D. F. 
Netherlands : Royal Library, The Hague. 
New Zealand: General Assembly Library, Wellington. 
Norway : Utenriksdepartmentets Bibliothek, Oslo. 



^ Sbipment suspended. 
^^ Receives two sets. 



140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Peett: Secci6n de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex- 

teriores, Lima. 
Philippines : Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila. 
Poland : BibliotliSque Nacionale, Warsaw. 
Portugal : Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon. 
Spain : Biblioteca Nacional, Madrid. 
Sweden: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm. 
Switzerland: Bibliotheque Centrale F6d§rale, Berne. 

Turkey : Department of Printing and Engraving, Ministry of Education, Istanbul. 
Union of South Africa : State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal. 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics : All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow 115. 
United Nations : Library of the United Nations, Geneva, Switerland. 
Uruguay : Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo. 
Venezuela : Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas. 
Yugoslavia: Bibliografski Institut, Belgrade.'^ 

depositories op partial sets 

Afghanistan : Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul. 

Anglo-Egyptian Sudan : Gordon Memorial College, Khartoum. 

Bolivia: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz. 

Brazil : 

MiNAs Gerais : Directoria Geral de Estatistica em Minas, Belo Horizonte. 
British Guiana: Government Secretary's Office, Georgetown, Demerara. 
Canada : 

Alberta : Provincial Library, Edmonton. 

British Coulmbia : Provincial Library, Victoria. 

New Brunswick : Legislative Library, Fredericton. 

Newfoundland: Department of Provincial Affairs, St. John's. 

Nova Scotia : Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax. 

Saskatchewan : Legislative Library, Regina. 
Dominican Republic : Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Ciudad 

Trujillo. 
Ecuador : Biblioteca Nacional, Quito. 
El Salvador: 

Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador. 

Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador. 
Greece : National Library, Athens. 
Guatemala : Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala. 
HAITI : Bibliotheque Nationale, Port-au-Prince. 
Honduras : 

Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa. 

Ministerio de Relacioties Exteriores, Tegucigalpa. 
Iceland : National Library, Reykjavik. 
India : 

Bihar and Obissa: Revenue Department, Patna. 

Bombay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Depart- 
ment, Bombay. 

United Provinces of Agra and Oudh : 

University of Allahabad, Allahabad. 
Secretariat Library, Uttar Pradesh, Lncknow. 

West Bengal: Library, West Bengal Legislative Secretariat, Assembly 
House, Calcutta. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 141 

Iran : Imperial Ministry of Education, Tehran. 
Iraq : Public Library, Bagtidad. 
Jamaica: Colonial Secretary, Kingston. 

University College of the West Indies, St. Andrew. 
Lebanon : American University of Beirut, Beirut. 
Liberia: Department of State, Monrovia. 

Malaya : Federal Secretariat, Federation of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur. 
Malta : Minister for the Treasury, Valleta. 
Nicaragua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua. 
Pakistan : Chief Secretary to the Government of Punjab, Lahore. 

Central Secretariat Library, Karachi.' 
Panama: IMinisterio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama. 

Paraguay : Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Secci6n Biblioteca, Asuncion. 
Scotland : National Library of Scotland, Edinburgh. 
SiAM : National Library. Bangkok. 

Singapore : Chief Secretary, Government Offices, Singapore. 
Vatican City: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticaua, Vatican City, Italy. 

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNALS 

There are now being sent abroad 90 copies of the Federal Register 
and 104 copies of the Congressional Record. This is a decrease from 
the preceding year of 2 copies of the Federal Register and an increase 
of 2 copies of the Congressional Record. The countries to whicli these 
journals are being forwarded are given in the following list : 

depositories of congressional record and eedekal register 

Argentina : 

Bil)lioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires. 

Biblioteca del Poder Judicial, Mendoza.* 

Boletin Oficial de la Repiiblica Argentina, Ministerio de Justica e Finstruc- 
ci6n Publica, Buenos Aires. 

Camara de Diputados Ofieina de Iuformaci6n Parlameutaria, Buenos Aires. 
Australia : 

Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra. 

New South Wales : Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney. 

Queensland: Chief Secretary's Office, Brisbane. 

Victoria : Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.* 

Western Australia : Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth. 
Brazil : 

Biblioteca da Camera dos Deputados, Rio de Janeiro. 

Secretaria de Presidencia, Rio de Janeiro." 

Amazonas : Archivo, Biblioteca e Imprensa Publica, Manaos. 

Bahia : Governador do Estado da Bahia, Sao Salvador. 

EspiBiTo Santo : Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria. 

Rio Grande do Sul : Imprensa Oficial do Estado, Porto Alegre. 

Sao Paulo : Imprensa Oficial do Estada, Sao Paulo. 

Sergipe : Biblioteca Publica do Estado de Sergipe, Aracajii. 
British Honduras: Colonial Secretary, Belize. 



» Reduced from full to partial depository during year. 

* Federal Register only. 

* Congressional Record only. 



142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Canada : 

Library of Parliament, Ottawa. 

Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa. 
Ceylon : Ceylon Ministry of Defense and External Affairs, Colombo." 
China : 

Legislative Yuan, Taipei, Taiwan.' 

Taiwan Provincial Government, Taipei, Taiwan. 
Cuba: 

Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habaua 

Biblioteca Pliblica Panamerieana, Habana.* 

Biblioteca Marti, Cumara de Representantes, Habana. 
Czechoslovakia: Library of the Czechoslovak National Assembly, Prague.' 
Egypt: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, EgyiJtian Government, Cairo.'* 
El Salvador : Library, National Assembly, San Salvador. 
Fbance: 

Biblioth&que Assembl^e Nationale, Paris. 

Bibliothfeque Conseil de la Republique, Paris. 

Library, Organization for European Economic Cooperation, Paris.' 

Publiqiies de I'lnstitut de Droit Compare, Uuiversite de Paris, Paris.* 

Research Department, Council of Europe, Strasbourg." 

Service de la Documentation Etrang^re, Assemblee Nationale, Paris.' 
Germany : 

Amerika-Institut der UuiversitJit Miinchen, Miinchen.'' 

Archiv, Deutscher Bundesrat, Bonn. 

Bibliothek der Instituts f iir Weltwirtschaf t an der Universitat Kiel, Kiel-Wik. 

Bibliothek Hessischer Landtag, Wiesbaden.' 

Der Bayrische Landtag, Munich.' * 

Deutscher Bundesrat, Bonu.^ 

Deutscher Bundestag, Bonn.' 
Gold Coast : Chief Secretary's Office, Accra.' ' 
Great Britain : 

Department of Printed Books, British Museum, London.' 

House of Commons Library, London.' 

Printed Library of the Foreign Office, London. 

Royal Institute of International Affairs, London ' 
Greece : Biblioth6que, Chambre des D^put^s Hell^nque, Athens. 
GtTATEMAiji.: Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala. 
Haiti : Biblioth&que Nationale, Port-au-Prince. 
Honduras : Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa. 
India : 

Civil Secretariat Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.^ 

Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi.' 

Jammu and Kashmir Constituent Assembly, Srinagar." 

Legislative Assembly, Government of Assam, Shillong."'' 

Legislative Assembly Library, Lucknow, United Provinces, 

Legislative Assembly Library, Trivandrum.' 

Legislative Department, Simla. 

Parliament Library, New Delhi.' 

Servants of India Society, Poona.' 



" Three coplea. 

• Added during year. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 143 

Ireland: Dail Eireann, Dublin. 

ISBAEi^: Library of tbe Knesset, Jerusalem. 

Italy : 

Biblioteca Camera dei Deputati, Rome. 

Biblioteca rJel Seuato della Republica, Rome. 

European Office, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 
Rome.* 

International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, Rome.' 
Japan: Library of the National Diet, Tokyo. 
Korea : Secretary General, National Assembly, Pusan. 
LuxEMBOUKQ : Assemblee Commune de la C. E. C. A., Luxembourg. 
Mexico : 

Direcci6n General Informaci6n, Secretaria de Gobernacion, Mexico, D. F. 

Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, Mexico, D. F. 

Aguascalientes : Gobernador del Estado de Asuascalientes, Aguascalieutes. 

Baja California : Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali. 

Campeche : Gobernador del Estado de Cainpeche, Cam^jeche. 

Chiapas : Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tnxtla Guti(_Vrez. 

Chihuahua : Gobernador del Estado de Ciiihuahna, Chibuabua. 

Coahuila : Pei'iodico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, I'alacio de Gobieruo, 
Saltillo. 

CoUMA : Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima. 

DURANGO : Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango. 

Guanajuato: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato. 

GuEERi!.R0 : Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpanciugo. 

Jalisco: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara. 

MEXICO : Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca. 

MiCHOACAN : Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de MichoacAn, 
Morelia. 

MoRELOs : Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca. 

Nayarit : Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic. 

NuEvo Leon : Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey. 

Oaxaca : Periodico Oficial, Palacia de Gobierno. Oaxaca. 

Pttebla: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla. 

QuERETARo: Secretarfa General de Gobierno, Secci6n de Archive, Queretaro. 

San Luis PotosI : Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi. 

SiNALOA : Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacan. 

SoNOBA : Gobernador del Estado de Souora, Hermosillo. 

Tabasco: Secretaria de Gobierno, Session 3a, Ramo de Prensa, Villahennosa. 

Tamautjpas : Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria. 

Tlaxcala : Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala. 

Veracruz: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departamento de Gober- 
naci6n y Justicia, Jalapa. 

YucatAn : Gobernador del Estado de Yucati^n, I\K'rida. 
Netherlands: Kouinklijke Bibliotheek, The Hague.* 
New Zealand: General Assembly Library, Wellington. 
Norway: Library of the Norwegian Parliament, Oslo. 
Pakistan : Punjab Legislative A.ssembly Department, Lahore. 
Panama : Biblioteca Nacional, Panama City." 
Peru: CSmara de Diputados, Lima. 
Poland : Ministry of Justice, Warsaw.* 
Portugal: Secretaria de Assembla National, Lisbon.' 
Portuguese Timor: Repartigao Central de Administracao Civil, Dili.* 



144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

SwiTzEEi^AND : Bibliothfeque, Bureau International du Travail, Geneva/ 

International Labor Office, Geneva/ " 

Library, United Nations, Geneva. 
Union of South Africa : 

Cape of Good Hope : Library of Parliament, Cape Town. 

Tbansvaal: State Library, Pretoria. 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics : Fuudamentarniia Biblioteka Obschest- 

vennykh Nauk, Moscow." 
Uruguay : Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo. 
Venezuelas Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas 

FOREIGN EXCHANGE SERVICES 

Exchange publications for addresses in the countries listed below 
are forwarded by freight to the exchange services of those countries. 
Exchange publications for addresses in other countries are forwarded 
directly by mail. 

LIST OF exchange SERVICES 

Austria: Australian National Library, Vienna. 

Belgium : Service des iSchanges Internationaux, Bibliothfeque Royale de Belglque, 

Bruxelles. 
China : Bureau of International Exchange, National Central Library, Nanking.^ 
Czechoslovakia: Bureau of International Exchanges, National and University 

Library, Prague. 
Denmark: Institut Danois des iSchanges Internationaux, Biblioth^que Royale, 

Copenhagen K. 
Egypt : Government Press, Publications Office, Bulaq, Cairo. 

Finland: Delegation of the Scientific Societies, Snellmaninkatu 9-11, Helsinki. 
France: Service des ^changes Internationaux, Biblioth&que Nationale, 58 Rue 

de Richelieu, Paris. 
Germany : Notgemeinschaft der Deutschen Wissenschaft, Bad Godesberg. 
Great Britain and Ireland : Wheldon & Wesley, 83/84 Berwick Street, London, 

W. l." 
Hungary : National Library, Sz^ch^nyi, Budapest." 
India : Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay. 
Indonesia : Department of Cultural Affairs and Education, Djakarta. 
Israel : Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem. 
Italy: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero della Publica Istruzione, 

Rome. 
Japan : Division of International Affairs, National Diet Library, Tokyo, 
Netherlands: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Li- 
brary, The Hague. 
New South Wales : Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney. 
New Zealand : General Assembly Library, Wellington. 
Norway : Service Norv^gien des iSchanges Internationaux, Biblioth&que de I'Uni- 

versit^ Royale, Oslo. 
Philippines : Bureau of Public Libraries. Department of Education, Manila. 
Poland : Service Polonais des ^changes Internationaux, Bibliothfeque Nationale, 

Warsaw. 



* Two copies. 

» Between the United States and England only. 

"Changed from Hungarian Libraries Board. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 145 

PoBTUGAL : Seccao de Trocas Internacionais, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon. 

Queensi^nd: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre- 
tary's Office, Brisbane. 

South Australia : South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern- 
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide. 

Spain : Junta de Intercambio y Adquisici6n de Libros y Revistas para Bibliote- 
cas Publicas, Ministerio de Educacion Nacional Aveuida Calvo Sotelo 20, 
Madrid. 

Sweden : Kungliga Bibliotcket, Stockholm. 

Switzerland: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaus, Bibliotheque Cen- 
trale F6d6rale, Palais Federal, Berne. 

Tasmania : Secretary of the Premier, Hobart. 

Ttjekey: Ministry of Education, Department of Printing and Engraving, 
Istanbul. 

Union or South Africa : Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape Town, 
Cape of Good Hope. 

union of Soviet Socialist Republics : Bureau of Book Exchange, State Lenin 
Library, Moscow 19. 

Victoria : Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne. 

Western Australia : Public Library of Western Australia, Perth. 

Yugoslavia: Bibliografski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade. 

Respectfully submitted. 

D. G. Williams, Chief. 
Dr. Leonard Carmichael. 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the National Gallery of Art 

Sir : I have the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees, 
the seventeenth annual report of the National Galleiy of Art, for the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 1954. This report is made pursuant to the 
provisions of section 5 (d) of Public Resolution No. 14, Seventy-fifth 
Congress, first session, approved March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51). 

ORGANIZATION 

The statutory members of the Board of Trustees of the National 
Gallery of Art are the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secre- 
taiy of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution, ex officio. The five general trustees continu- 
ing in office during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1954, were Samuel 
H. Kress, Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Duncan Phillips, Chester Dale, 
and Paul Mellon. The Board of Trustees held its annual meeting 
on May 4, 1954. Samuel H. Kress was reelected President and Ferdi- 
nand Lammot Belin Vice President, to serve for the ensuing year. 
Donald D. Shepard resigned on July 20, 1953, as Adviser to the Board. 
The Board of Trustees of the National Gallery of Art accepted Mr. 
Shepard's resignation at a meeting held on October 20, 1953. 

Col. Harry A. McBride retired as Administrator of the Gallery on 
June 30, 1953, and Ernest R. Feidler was elected and appointed 
Administrator, effective July 1, 1953, to succeed Col. McBride. Mr. 
Feidler took office on January 1, 1954. The four other executive 
officers of the Gallery continued in office during the year. The execu- 
tive officers of the Gallery as of June 30, 1954, are : 

Huntington Cairns, Secretary-Treasurer. 
David E. Finley, Director. 
Ernest R. Feidler, Administrator. 
Huntington Cairns, General Counsel. 
John Walker, Chief Curator. 
Macgill James, Assistant Director. 

The three standing committees of the Board, as constituted at the 
annual meeting May 4, 1954, were as follows : 

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 

Chief Justice of the United States, Earl Warren, Chairman. 

Samuel H. Kress, Vice Chairman. 

Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. Leonard Cannicliael. 

Paul Mellon. 

146 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 147 

FINANCE COMMITTEE 

Secretary of the Treasury, George M. Humphrey, Chairman. 
Chester Dale, Vice Chairman. 
Samuel H. Kress. 
Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 
Paul Mellon. 

ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE 

Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Chairman. 
Duncan Phillips. 
Chester Dale. 
Paul Mellon. 
David E. Finley. 

PERSONNEL 

On Jmie 30, 1954, full-time Government employees on tlie staff of 
the National Gallery of Art numbered 306, as compared with 302 
employees as of June 30, 1953. The United States Civil Service regu- 
lations govern the appointment of employees paid from appropriated 
public funds. 

APPROPRIATIONS 

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1954, the Congress of the United 
States appropriated for the National Gallery of Art $1,275,000 to be 
used for salaries and expenses in the operation and upkeep of the 
Gallery, the protection and care of works of art acquired by the 
Board of Trustees, and all administrative expenses incident thereto, 
as authorized by U. S. Code, title 20, sec. 74 (a) , that is, section 4 (a) 
of the Public Resolution approved March 24, 1937 (60 Stat. 51) . The 
following expenditures and encumbrances were incurred: 

Personal services $1, 135, 520. 00 

Printing and reproduction 5, 693. 04 

Electricity, supplies, equipment, etc 133,2(50.25 

Eeserve - 140. 00 

Unobligated balance 386. 71 

Total 1, 275, 000. 00 

ATTENDANCE 

During the fiscal year 1954 there was a daily average of about 2,444 
visitors to the Gallery. Since March 17, 1941, when the Gallery was 
opened to the public, to June 30, 1954, there have been 22,818,696 
visitors. 

ACCESSIONS 

There were 1,010 accessions by the National Gallery of Art as gifts, 
loans, or deposits during the fiscal year. Most of the paintings and a 
numl:>er of the prints were placed on exhibition. 



148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



GIFTS 

PAINTINGS 



The Board of Trustees on July 1, 1953, accepted from Edgar Wil- 
liam and Bernice Chrysler Garbisch 142 paintings from their collection 
of early American works of art. On October 20 the Board accepted 
the gift of a painting from Mr. and Mrs. Cornelius Vanderbilt 
Whitney entitled "The Biglen Brothers Racing" by Eakins. The gift 
of two paintings from Mrs. A. V. Tack entitled "Violet" and 
"Portrait of a Lady," both by George Fuller, was accepted by the 
Board on October 20. The Board, on December 2, ratified the accept- 
ance of a gift from an anonymous donor of a portrait of James 
Forrestal by Albert K. Murray, which will be held for a National 
Portrait Gallery. The gift of a portrait of Andrew W. Mellon by 
Gari Melchers, offered by Donald D. Shepard, was accepted by the 
Board on December 2, 1953. On this same date the Board accepted 
a painting entitled "Coast of Naples" by William Haseltine, the gift 
of Mrs. Helen Plowden. The Board accepted from Lewis Einstein a 
"Portrait of a Young Woman" by Boucher, on December 28. The 
gift of a painting by George Luks entitled "The Miner" from 
Chester Dale was accepted by the Board on January 26, 1954. On the 
same date the Board accepted the following paintings from The A. W. 
Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust : 

Artist Title 

Benbridge James De Lancey. 

Earl, Ralph William Shepard. 

Eichholz Henry Leman. 

Lambdin Daniel Webster. 

Morse Levi Lincoln. 

Pelham 'fohn Gushing. 

Courier Lincoln and his Son, Tad. 

Stuart Lt. Robert Calder. 

Stuart William Constable. 

Stuart Sir John Dick. 

Stuart James Massy Dawson. 

On May 4, the Board accepted the following paintings from Chester 
Dale : "The Artist's Garden" by Blakelock, "New York Street Scene 
in Winter" by Henri, "The Laundresses" by Steinlen, and "Moon- 
light" by Weir. At the same meeting, the Board accepted the gift 
of a portrait of Queen Victoria by Winterhalter from the children of 
the late William H. Donner. On the same date, the Board accepted 
from INIrs. A. V. Tack a Self-Portrait by her father, George Fuller. 
On May 19, the Board accepted from Miss Alice Preston a painting 
by Angelica Kauffman of the Countess Frangoise Krazinska. The 
gift of a painting by Corot entitled "Italian Girl" was accepted from 
the Avalon Foundation by the Board of Trustees on June 10, 1954. 
In a letter received June 22, 1954, Mrs. Kobert Homans gave the 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 149 

Gallery two portraits by Stuart, "John Adams" and "Mrs. John 
Adams." The Board of Trustees had accepted this gift on May 6, 
1952. 

SCULPTURE 

On October 20, 1953, the Board of Trustees accepted from Lessing J. 
Rosenwald two bronzes by Daumier, "Figure" and "Le Defenser 
Officier." 

DECORATIVE ARTS 

On December 28, 1953, the Board of Trustees accepted from Lewis 
Einstein the gift of a porphyry vase with base. 

PRINTS AND DRAWINGS 

On October 20 the Board of Trustees accepted 246 prints and draw- 
ings from Lessing J, Rosenwald to be added to his gift to the Gallery. 
In December, George Matthew Adams transferred to the Gallery 56 
etchings by Alphonse Legros as his gift for 1953. His collection of 
prints by Legros was accepted by the Board on May 10, 1946. 

OTHER GIFTS 

Gifts of books on works of art and related material were made to 
the Gallery by Harold K. Hochschild and others. Gifts of money 
were made during the fiscal year 1954 by the Old Dominion Founda- 
tion and the Avalon Foundation. 

EXCHANGE OF WORKS OF ART 

On July 1, 1953, the Board approved Lessing J. Rosenwald's offer 
to exchange the engraving "Death of the Virgin" by Lucantonio degli 
Uberti for a superior impression of the same work. 

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN 
During the fiscal year 1954 the following works of art were received 
on loan by the National Gallery of Art : 

From — Artist 

Chester Dale, New York, N. Y. : 

Landscape with Sail Boat Beckwith. 

Portrait of Beckwith Carolus Duran. 

Portrait of a Woman Flemish, XVI Century. 

Portrait of a Girl German, XVI Century. 

Portrait of a Woman Pisanello, style of. 

Still Life with Fish Carlsen. 

Mrs. Chase in Prospect Park Chase. 

Sweet Tremulous Leaves A. B. Davies. 

Flecks of Foam Dearth. 

Indian Maiden Wright, Joseph. 

The Seine at Giverny Monet. 

Early Scholar Johnson, Eastman. 

Arthur Sachs, Paris, France : 

The Bullfight Goya, attributed to. 



150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN— Continued 
From — Artist 

Edgar William and Bernice Chrysler Garbisch, 
New York, N. Y. : 

182 early American paintings. 
Robert Woods Bliss, Washington, D, C. : 
72 objects of Pre-Columbian art. 

LOANED WORKS OF ART RETURNED 

The following works of art on loan were returned during the fiscal 

year 1954 : 

To — Artist 

Chester Dale, New York, N. Y. : 

Madame G Sargent. 

The Communicant Carrifere. 

Basket Duty. 

View of Fez Duty. 

Marigolds and Tangerines Vallotton. 

Vendor of Ices Gromaire. 

Nude De La Fresnaye. 

Landscape with Sailboat Beckwith. 

Portrait of Beckwith — Carolus Duran. 

Copley Amory, Washington, D. 0: 

The Copley Family Copley. 

John Wiley, Washington, D. C. : 

Russian Icon. 
Paul Rosenberg & Co., New York, N. Y. : 

Madame Fantin-Latour Degas. 

Edgar William and Bernice Chrysler Garbisch, 
New York, N. Y. : 

John Hart O. P. Polk. 

Mrs. John Hart and Daughter C. P. Polk. 

Lucy Windsor . Hathaway. 

John Cruger Unknown. 

Anna Cruger Unknown. 

Off to the Front Unknown. 

Cabinet Maker with Folding Rule Unknown. 

Little Girl in Pink with Rose Unknown. 

Young Man with Yellow Vest Unknown. 

Young Girl with Yellow Dress Unknown. 

WORKS OF ART LENT 
During the fiscal year 1954 the Gallery lent the following works of 
art for exhibition purposes : 

To Artist 

Albrigbt Art Gallery, Buffalo, N. Y. : 

Mrs. Richard Yates - Stuart. 

Chicago Art Institute, Chicago, 111.: 

White Girl Whistler. 

Mrs. Endicott Sargent. 

Blair-Lee House. Washington, D. O. : 

The Bersaglieri Luks. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 151 

To— Artist 

U. S. Capitol, Architect's Office, Washington, D. C. : 

Daniel Webster Lambdin. 

Lincoln and his Son, Tad Courter. 

The White House, Washington, D. C. : 

The Windmill C3azin. 

The Rialto Bridge Guardi. 

Landscape with Boatman Rousseau. 

Los Angeles County Museum, Los Angeles, Calif. : 

Two-volume choir book known as the "Geesebook." 
De Young Memorial Museum, San Francisco, Calif. : 

Two-volume choir book known as the "Geesebook." 
University of Arizona, Tucson, Ariz. : 

Two-volume choir book known as the "Geesebook." 
Philbrook Art Center, Tulsa, Okla. : 

Two-volume choir book known as the "Geesebook." 
Metroi>olitan Museum of Art, New York, N. Y. : 

The White Girl Whistler. 

Mrs. Endicott Sargent. 

Montreal Museum, Montreal, Canada : 

Costume Study (drawing) DUrer. 

Ohio University, Athens, Ohio: 

Henry Pratt Sully. 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. 

(For exhibition at the Cooper Union, New York, N. Y., 
and in Europe) : 

La Toilette (print) Cassatt. 

Weary (print) Whistler. 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. 
(For exhibition in Europe) : 

The Steamer St. Lawrence James Bard. 

Portrait of a Boy Waters, 

attributed to. 

Mr. Bradley Phillips. 

Mrs. Bradley Phillips. 

Regatta near Sandy Hook Unknown. 

White Farm House Unknown. 

Harness Racing Unknown. 

Christ and Rebecca at the Well Unknown. 

John Stone Unknown. 

Eliza Welch Stone Unknown. 

Winter Scene in Maine Unknown. 

Sophia Mead Unknown. 

EXHIBITIONS 

The following exhibitions were held at the National Gallery of Art 
during the fiscal year 1954 : 

French Paintings since 1870. From the Maurice Wertheim Collection. July 
1 through September 13, 1953. 



326511—55 11 



152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

American Paintings from the Collection of the National Gallery of Art. July 
22 through September 20, 1953. 

Water Colors and Drawings by Gavarui. From the Walters Art Gallery and 
the Lessing J. Rosenwald Collections. October 4 through November 1, 1953. 

Contemporary American Indian Painting. Organized in cooperation with Miss 
Dorothy Dunn, founder of the Department of Painting, U. S. Indian School, 
Santa Fe, N. Mex. November 8 through December 6, 1953. 

Masterpieces of Graphic Art. From the Lessing J. Rosenwald Collection. 
December 20, 1953, to February 7, 1954, and from March 17 to April 25, 1954. 

Masterpieces of Pre-Columbian Gold. From the Gold Museum of the Banco de 
la Republica, Bogotil. January 20 through February 18, 1954. 

Drawings and Water Colors by Flemish and Dutch Masters. From the De 
Grez Collection and lent by the Musses Royaux des Beaux-Arts de Belgique. 
February 14 through March 14, 1954. 

American Primitive Paintings. From the Collection of Edgar William and 
Eernice Chrysler Garbisch. Opened May 9, 1954. 

TRAVELING EXHIBITIONS 

Rosenwald Collection. — Special exhibitions of prints from the 
Kosenwald Collection were circulated to the following places during 
the fiscal year 1954 : 

Birmingham Museum of Art, Birmingham, Ala. : 

Old Master Etchings and Engravings. 

October 1953. 
Smith College Museum of Art, Northampton, Mass. : 

Renaissance Portraits. 

October 1953. 
Andrew Dickson White Museum of Art, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. : 

Masterpieces of Graphic Arts. 

November 1953. 
Cosmopolitan Club, Philadelphia, Pa.: 

Scherzi from the Age of Reason. 

November 13-December 4, 1953. 
Los Angeles County Museum, Los Angeles, Calif. : 

Medieval Manuscripts. 

Nuremberg and the German World. 

November-December 1953. 
Lowe Gallery, University of Miami, Coral Gables, Fla. : 

Masterpieces of Graphic Art. 

November 1953. 
Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pa. : 

Whistler Prints and Drawings. 

November 1953. 
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Richmond, Va. : 

Daumier lithograph. 

November 1953. 
The Dayton Art Institute, Dayton, Ohio: 

Flight, Fantasy, Faith, Fact. 

December 1953-February 1954, 
American University, Washington, D. C. : 

German Expressionists — Prints and Drawings, 

February 1954, 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 153 

Howard University, Washington, D. C. : 

Negro Subjects. 

February 1954. 
Pierpont Morgan Library, New Yorli, N. Y. : 

Blake engravings for the Fiiseli Exhibition. 

February 1954. 
Lowe Gallery, University of Miami, Coral Gables, Fla. • 

Toulouse-Lautrec Exhibition. 

March 1954. 
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. : 

Cassatt and Whistler Drawings. 

Abroad from March through September 1954, 
Columbia Museum of Art, Columbia, S. C. : 

Toulouse-Lautrec Exhibition. 

April 1954. 
Telfair Academy of Arts and Sciences, Savannah, Ga. : 

Toulouse-Lautrec Exhibition. 

May 1954. 
Tyler School of Art, Elkins Park, Pa. : 

Prints for Hobby Show. 

May 1954. 

Index of American Design. — During the fiscal year 1954, 37 travel- 
ing exhibitions of original watercolor renderings of this collection, 
with 69 bookings, were sent to the following States and countries : 

Number of 
State or conntry exhihitions 

Alabama 1 

Arkansas 1 

Colorado 12 

Delaware 1 

District of Columbia 5 

Florida 1 

Georgia 1 

Illinois 3 

Indiana 1 

Iowa 8 

Maryland 1 

Massachusetts 3 

Michigan 2 

Nebraska 1 

New Hampshire 1 

New Jersey 3 

New York 6 

North Carolina 3 

Ohio 1 

Pennsylvania 5 

South Carolina 1 

Tennessee 1 

Virginia 4 

Wisconsin 1 

Western Germany 1 

Palestine 1 



164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES 

The Curatorial Department accessioned 476 gifts to the Gallery 
during the fiscal year 1954. Advice was given regarding 290 works 
of art brought to the Gallery for expert opinion, and 38 visits to 
other collections were made by members of the staff for either expert 
opinion or in connection with offers of gifts. About 1,500 inquiries 
requiring research were answered verbally and by letter. John 
Walker gave an address at the Philbrook Art Center, Tulsa, on the 
occasion of the opening of the Samuel H. Kress Collection in that 
museum. Mr. Walker also gave a talk on the X-raying of paintings 
during the intermission period of the regular Sunday evening con- 
cert broadcast at the Gallery. A recording was made of an inter- 
view with Mr. Walker and a member of the staff of the Columbia 
Broadcasting System regarding the Edgar William and Bernice 
Chrysler Garbisch Collection and this interview was broadcast na- 
tionally. Perry B. Cott gave a lecture on Renaissance Portrait 
Medals at Smith College. Charles M. Richards conducted two 
courses in art history under the auspices of the Department of Agri- 
culture. He also gave lectures to six different local groups on 
"Bruegel," "Van Eyck," and the subjects "Taste" and "Contempo- 
rary Art." Miss Elizabeth Mongan assisted with seminar courses 
for Beaver College and Swarthmore College. She gave a lecture on 
medieval manuscripts and one on "Scherzi from the 18th Century" 
to two clubs. She also served on a panel discussion of modern art 
at the Springside School. Perry B. Cott and William P. Campbell 
were judges of an art exhibition at St. John's Church, Glyndon, Md. 

Erwin O. Christensen, as a representative of the Gallery, attended 
the annual meeting of the American Association of Museums at Santa 
Barbara, Calif., in the spring. Miss Katharine Shepard, as secre- 
tary of the Washington Society, Archaeological Institute of America, 
was a delegate to the general meeting of the Institute in New York. 
At the invitation of the Cultural Division of the Bonn Government, 
Mr. Richards went to Germany in February for six weeks. He also 
visited museums, private collections, and universities and discussed 
problems of exhibition and installation with the personnel of the 
various institutions. 

Mr. Richards mounted an exhibition at Arden House in connection 
with Columbia University's 200th Anniversary. Mr. Campbell se- 
lected and supervised the installation of some 850 reproductions of 
Gallery paintings in the new domiciliary building of the U. S. Sol- 
diers' Home, Washington, D. C. 

Special installations were prepared for the exhibition of Pre- 
Columbian gold, from the Museum of the Bank of Bogota, under 
the direction of Mr. Cott. He also supervised the installation of new 
vitrines for the Robert Woods Bliss Collection of Pre-Columbian art. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 155 

Mr. Walker served as trustee for the American Federation of Arts 
and the American Academy in Rome. He also served on the follow- 
ing committees: Dumbarton Oaks Visiting Committee and the Art 
Committee of the New York Hospital. He was also a member of 
the United States National Commission for UNESCO. Mr. Cott 
served on the Fine Arts Committee of the Washington Cathedral and 
the Interdepartmental Committee for the Protection of Cultural 
Property (UNESCO). He was elected president of the Washington 
Society, Archaeological Institute of America. 

RESTORATION AND REPAIR OF WORKS OF ART 

Necessary restoration and repair of paintings and sculpture in the 
Gallery's collection were made by Francis Sullivan, resident restorer 
to the Gallery. 

PUBLICATIONS 

Jolin Walker wrote a series of articles on paintings in the Chester 
Dale Collection which appeared in the Ladies Home Journal. 

Miss IMongan wrote an article on modern prints for the College Art 
Journal. 

Mr. Campbell prepared the text of the sixth edition of the catalog, 
French Paintings from the Chester Dale Collection. He also com- 
posed the catalog American Primitive Paintings from the Collection 
of Edgar William and Bernice Chrysler Garbisch. 

Mrs. Shapley continued the preparation of a new catalog of 
paintings. 

A monograph on Giovanni Bellini's "Feast of the Gods" is being 
revised by Mr. Walker. 

During the fiscal year 1954 the Publications Fund added 12 new 
11- by 14-inch color reproductions to the list available. Twenty-eight 
new monotone postcards and five new Christmas-card color plates were 
also added. Eight large collotype reproductions of paintings in the 
permanent collection as well as six reproductions of paintings from 
the twentieth-centuiy French paintings in the Chester Dale loan col- 
lection, distributed by a New York publisher, were placed on sale. 

At the Christmas season a new Portfolio No. 3, entitled "Portraits 
of Children in the National Gallery of Art," was published. In the 
spring of 1954 a catalog of "American Primitive Paintings from the 
Collection of Edgar William and Bernice Chrysler Garbisch" was 
issued. The Mellon and original Dale catalogs, the latter in a some- 
what enlarged edition, were reprinted during the year. 

Exhibition catalogs of the Flemish and Dutch Drawings and Water- 
colors, Gavarni, Pre-Columbian Gold, and Contemporary American 
Indian Painting shows were also made available to the public. 



166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM 

The attendance for the general, congressional, and special tours and 
the "Picture of the Week" totaled 41,906, while the attendance at 38 
auditorium lectures on Sunday afternoons was approximately 10,600 
during the fiscal year 1954. 

Tours, lectures, and conferences arranged by appointment were given 
to 146 groups and individuals. The total number of people served 
in this manner was 3,456. These special appointments were made for 
such groups as representatives from leading universities and mu- 
seums, other governmental departments, high schools, colleges, 
women's clubs, and a number of foreign visitors. This service also 
included two training programs, one for the Washington Junior 
League volunteers who thereafter conducted tours for art students 
in the Washington high schools, and the other for members of the 
Arlington branch of the American Association of University Women 
who conducted tours in the Gallery for all the Arlington public-school 
children in grades 2 to 6. 

The staff of the Educational Office delivered 13 lectures in the 
auditorium on Sunday afternoons, while 25 were given by guest 
speakers. During April and May Sir Herbert Read delivered the 
Third Annual Series of the six A. W. Mellon Lectures in the Fine Arts 
on the theme "The Art of Sculpture." 

During the past year 200 persons borrowed 5,457 slides from the 
lending collection, and 16 copies of the National Gallery of Art fihn 
have been placed in distribution centers throughout the country. Ar- 
rangements were made with each center to serve certain States so 
that every State in the Union has a copy of the film available nearby. 
The slide lecture "The Christmas Story in Art" was popular again, 
having been shown to approximately 5,894 people. Members of the 
Educational Office prepared and gave 28 broadcasts to accompany the 
Sunday night concerts over Station WGMS. 

The printed Calendar of Events announcing all Gallery activities 
and publications is distributed monthly to a mailing list of more than 
4,000 names. 

LIBRARY 

The most important contributions to the Library during the fiscal 
year 1954 were 8,767 books, pamphlets, periodicals, subscriptions, and 
photographs purchased from funds made available for tliis purpose. 
Gifts included 479 books, pamphlets, and periodicals, while 812 books, 
pamphlets, and bulletins were received from other institutions. 

Although the Library is not open to the public it is possible for 
students of art and persons with art questions to use the services of 
the Library. During this fiscal year the Library staff handled 630 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 167 

reference questions and served 350 readers otlier than the Gallery 
staff. 

The Library is the depository for photographs of the works of art 
in the collections of the National Gallery of Art, and is the base for 
circulation activity, maintaining a stock of reproductions for the spe- 
cific purposes of research, exchange, publicity, and sale. During the 
year approximately 500 individuals other than members of the Gallery 
staff purchased prints from the Library and about 250 mail orders 
were filled. 

INDEX OF AMERICAN DESIGN 

During the fiscal year 1954, there were 37 traveling exhibitions of 
original watercolor renderings of this collection with 69 bookings, rep- 
resenting an increase over last year. The Index material was used 
during the year by 440 persons doing special research, seeking mate- 
rial for publication, exhibitions, slides, and for use by designers. 

A total of 533 photographs of Index material were sent out of the 
Gallery on loan, for publicity, and purchase. Thirty sets (consisting 
of 1,310 slides) of 2- by 2-inch slides circulated in 16 States and in 
Italy. 

MAINTENANCE OF THE BUILDING AND GROUNDS 

The usual work in connection with the care of the building and its 
mechanical equipment and the grounds was maintained throughout 
the year. 

The stonemason opened the joints and repointed the marble floors 
in the garden courts and the Fourth Street lobby where spalling of 
the marble was occurring owing to the rising of the phantasia marble 
borders. It is the opinion of marble experts that this should prevent 
further damage to the floors in these areas. 

Flowering and foliage plants were grown in the moats and used in 
the garden courts ; and a new overhead sprinkler system was installed 
in the northwest moat, thereby reducing labor costs in maintaining 
these plants. 

One of the two white pines near the building at the west fountain 
died ; therefore it and its companion tree opposite were removed and 
replaced by two Magnolia grandi-fiora^ thus balancing the magnolia 
planting at the east fountain, where the pines died and were replaced 
a number of years ago. The dead boxwoods at the Fourth Street 
entrance were replaced by specimen Taxus {mispidata) , and plants 
were replaced in the Taxus hedges as necessary. 

A contract was entered into with Lord and Bumham on May 17, 
1954, for supplying materials for a gi^eenhouse in the southwest moat. 
Upon receipt of the materials the greenhouse will be erected by the 
Gallery staff. 



158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

Thirty-seven Sunday evening concerts were given during the fiscal 
year 1954 in the West Garden Court. The National Gallery Orches- 
tra, conducted by Richard Bales, played eight concerts at the Gallery 
with additional performances at the United States Naval Academy at 
Annapolis, Md., and at the Community Center in Middleburg, Va. 
One of the orchestral concerts at the National Gallery was made pos- 
sible by the Music Performance Trust Fund of the American Federa- 
tion of Musicians. During April and May, five Sunday evenings were 
devoted to the Gallery's Eleventh American Music Festival. All the 
concerts were broadcast in their entirety by Station WGMS, Wash- 
ington, D. C, and the Good Music Network. The intermissions, dur- 
ing these broadcasts, featured discussions by members of the cura- 
torial staff on major aspects of the National Gallery as well as on 
musical subjects by Mr. Bales. 

During September 1953, the National Gallery Orchestra assisted by 
the Church of the Reformation cantata choir and soloists recorded 
for Columbia Mast^rworks the long-playing record of "The Con- 
federacy" by Mr. Bales. This record is scheduled for release during 
the fall of 1954. 

The photographic laboratory of the Gallery produced 12,180 prints, 
386 black-and-white slides, 708 color slides and 101 color transparen- 
cies, in addition to 2,106 negatives, infrared and ultraviolet photo- 
graphs. 

During the fiscal year, 1,682 press releases were issued in connection 
with Gallery activities, and 202 permits to copy paintings and 184 
permits to photograph in the Gallery were issued. 

AUDIT OF PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY 

An audit of the private funds of the Gallery has been made for the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 1954, by Price Waterhouse & Co., public 
accountants, and the certificate of that company on its examination of 
the accounting records maintained for such funds will be forwarded 
to the Gallery. 
Respectfully submitted. 

Huntington Cairns, Secretary. 
Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 
Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the Library 

Sir : I liave the honor to submit the following report on the activi- 
ties of the Smithsonian Library for the fiscal year ended June 30, 
1954: 

The receipt of a grand total of 69,484 publications was recorded in 
the receiving room of the libraiy during the past year. The largest 
number of them came, as usual, from the scientific, technical, educa- 
tional and other cultural institutions all over the world with which 
the Smithsonian Institution has exchange relations. 

In all, 515 new exchanges were arranged for the library, and 6,527 
publications, chiefly numbers of periodicals needed to fill gaps in the 
collections, were obtained either in exchange or as gifts, by making 
special requests for them. Purchases included 578 books and sub- 
scriptions for 436 indispensable periodicals not obtainable by 
exchange. 

The recorded number of gifts of books, periodicals, and pamphlets 
received from many different generous friends of the Institution was 
21,604. To this number will be added the recent gift from Gerrit S. 
Miller, Jr., of several hundred publications on zoology, not yet counted 
by items. Mr. Miller had kept this personal collection in the Museum 
while he was curator of mammals, and when he retired, some years ago, 
he very kindly left it in the division of manmials for the use of the 
staff. His generosity in giving formal assurance to the Institution 
of the continued use of these books and papers is most gratifying. An 
especially important part of the gift is a set of 13 bound volumes of 
Mr. Miller's own collected writings. 

The library added 5,836 publications to the Smithsonian Deposit in 
the Library of Congress, most of them parts of foreign serial publica- 
tions. Other publications sent to the Library of Congress included 
6,409 foreign and state documents, 1,803 doctoral dissertations chiefly 
from European universities, and 14,231 miscellaneous publications of 
other sorts. 

Incoming publications known to be in the immediate fields of the 
special interests of other agencies of the Government, such as medical 
dissertations and publications on agricultural economics, were sent to 
the libraries of the agencies, and 4,924 were so transferred, principally 
to the Armed Forces Medical Library and to the Department of Agri- 
culture Library. 

There was little opportunity to work on the duplicate collection, but 
it was profitably reduced by the selection of 71,063 pieces, which were 

159 



160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

sent for credit to the United States Book Exchange in the Library of 
Congress. Incoming publications found to be unneeded duplicates 
were disposed of as promptly and as usefully as possible. 

By agreement with the Library of Congress, some hundreds of pub- 
lications, forming part of the Langley Aeronautical Library that had 
been sent as part of the Smithsonian Deposit to the Library of Con- 
gress in 1930 and later, were returned to the Institution for incorpora- 
tion in the library of the National Air Museum. 

Records of the catalog section show that 4,234 books were cataloged 
and that 22,473 periodicals were entered. There were 31,156 new 
catalog cards filed. A good deal of further progress was made in the 
work of combining into a single comprehensive dictionary catalog 
the formerly separately maintained Smithsonian union catalog and 
the Museum catalog. More than 172,000 cards were handled in the 
process of revising, reconciling discrepancies, and integrating the 
records. It is hoped that this important work may be finished during 
the coming year. 

There is no arrearage in the cataloging of the routine inflow of cur- 
rent acquisitions, but the arrearage in the cataloging of special collec- 
tions mounts with each such acquisition. Not increasing, but also not 
being reduced, is the arrearage of cataloging of many hundreds of 
other volumes in bureau and sectional libraries throughout the insti- 
tution, which badly needs to be done. In all, there are estimated to 
be about 153,000 volumes that are either not represented in the main 
library catalog at all, or of which the records, made many years ago, 
are now so obsolete as to make their exact identification and present 
location uncertain. The library staff must have more help before 
these conditions can be rectified. 

Circulation records show that 11,654 publications were borrowed 
for use outside the library. This figure does not include 6,219 new 
books and current numbers of periodicals assigned to sectional 
libraries for circulation and filing. 

So large a part of the library's collections are decentralized among 
unstaffed bureau and sectional libraries, housed in many different 
parts of four separate buildings, that no statistical records can be 
kept of the very intensive use made of these thousands of books on 
highly specialized subjects. There is direct access to the stacks in the 
main library, too, and readers make large use of this privilege, but 
no count of the number of persons entering the stacks or of how many 
books they consult there is attempted. 

That the services of the library are by no means limited to the 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 161 

staff of the Institution is well attested by the many research workers 
from other agencies of the Government and by visiting scientists and 
other scholars, from abroad as well as from institutions in this country, 
who make reference use of the library's resources. 

By interlibrary loans, too, the library's resources are further 
extended, and 1,431 publications were borrowed by 90 different 
libraries during the year. The library, in turn, borrowed 1,482 
jjublications from the Library of Congress — many of them Smith- 
sonian Deposit copies — and 441 from other libraries, chiefly from 
the Department of Agriculture, the Geological Survey, and the Armed 
Forces Medical Library. 

More than 15,000 reference questions were answered in the reference 
and circulation section. The chief of the section cooperated with the 
Library of Congress in making a comparative check and relisting 
of the semipermanent loan records of Smithsonian Deposit and other 
publications borrowed from the Library of Congress for continued 
use by the Institution. These records covered many years, discrepan- 
cies in them were numerous, and the revision and corrected listing 
of the many different items was an important piece of work. 

Funds permitted the binding of 1,917 volumes for the library. A 
large binding backlog still exists. 

Most welcome relief to the very severe overcrowding of the shelves 
in the main library in the Natural History Building was afforded 
by the erection of a deck in room 28, and the installation of steel stacks 
providing shelf room for about 17,000 volumes. This made it possible 
to do away with the double shelving, use of tops of cases, window 
sills, and other makeshift means of keeping the overflow of the shelves 
off the floor. The improved appearance of the library is conspicuous. 
Overcrowding in other units of the library was not affected, and the 
over-all housing problem continues to be serious. The National Col- 
lection of Fine Arts library, especially, is acutely in need of relief. 

TJnderstaffing continued to keep the bureau libraries closed to all 
but staff members of the bureaus, except by special arrangement. The 
Bureau of American Ethnology was perhaps the greatest sufferer from 
lack of full-time reference and custodial library service, for its collec- 
tions on the Indians of North America are unique in many respects, 
and they are much depended upon by other agencies of the Govern- 
ment, as well as by independent scholars, for authoritative informa- 
tion on many matters, sometimes involving very important legal 
decisions. 



162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

SUMMARIZED STATISTICS 

ACCESSIONS 





Volumes 


Total recorded 
volumes, 1954 


Smithsonian Deposit at the Library of Congress 

Smithsonian main library (includes former Office 
and Museum branches)— - __-. 


295 

3,470 

119 

162 

17 

171 


584, 590 
293, 257 


Astrophysical Observatory (includes Radiation 
and Organisms) __ _ __ - 


14, 221 


Bureau of American Ethnology _ - 


35, 512 


National Air Museum __ _ __ 


323 


National Collection of Fine Arts _ . 


13, 455 


National Zoological Park _ __ _ . 


4, 204 








Total - - _ _-_ 


4,234 


945, 562 







Cataloged volumes only have been counted in these records of 
current accessions and no incomplete volumes of serial publications 
or separates and reprints from serial publications, of which there are 
many thousands, are included in any of the totals. 

EXCHANGES 

New exchanges arranged 515 

192 of these were for the Smithsonian Deposit. 
Specially requested publications received 6, 527 

1,031 of these were obtained to fill gaps in Smithsonian Deposits sets. 

CATALOGING 

Volumes cataloged 4, 234 

Catalog cards filed 31, 156 

PERIODICALS 

Periodical parts entered 22,473 

5,541 were sent to the Smithsonian Deposit. 

CIRCULATION 

Loans of books and periodicals 11, 654 

Circulation of books and periodicals in sectional libraries is not counted, 
except in the Division of Insects. 

BINDING 

"Volumes sent to the bindery 1, 917 

Volumes repaired in the library 613 

Respectfully submitted. 

Leila F. Clark, Librarian. 
Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary^ /Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on Publications 

Snj : I have the honor to submit the following report on the publica- 
tions of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches for the year 
ended June 30, 1954: 

The publications of the Smithsonian Institution, comprising eight 
regular series and six others appearing from time to time, are issued 
partly from federally appropriated funds (Smithsonian Reports, 
publications of the National Museum and the Bureau of American 
Ethnology) and partly from private endowment funds (Smithsonian 
Miscellaneous Collections, publications of the Freer Gallery of Art, 
and some special publications) . This past year there has been added 
the series known as Ars Orientalis, which will be edited by 
the Smithsonian Institution under the auspices of the Freer Gallery 
and will appear under the imprint of the University of Michigan and 
the Smithsonian Institution. The first number of this series was 
in press at the close of the year. The Institution also publishes a 
guide book, postcards, photo albums, color slides, and picture books 
for sale to visitors. Through its publication program the Smithsonian 
endeavors to carry out its founder's expressed desire for the diffusion 
of knowledge. 

During the year the Institution published 14 papers in the Smith- 
sonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 Annual Report of the Board of 
Regents and pamphlet copies of 17 articles in the Report appendix, 
1 Annual Report of the Secretary, and 1 special publication. 

The United States National Museum issued 1 Annual Report of the 
Director, 13 Proceedings papers, 1 Bulletin, and 2 papers in the series 
Contributions from the United States National Herbarium. 

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued 1 Annual Report and 
3 Bulletins. 

The National Collection of Fine Arts issued 1 catalog, and the 
Traveling Exhibition Service published catalogs for 3 of the circulat- 
ing exhibits. 

There were distributed 468,600 pieces of printed matter — 141,953 
copies of the publications and 326,647 miscellaneous items. Publica- 
tions: 54 Contributions to Knowledge, 31,243 Smithsonian Miscella- 
neous Collections, 10,527 Annual Report volumes and 15,811 Report 
separates, 1,367 War Background Studies, 3,920 special publications, 
27 reports and 105 pictures of the Harriman Alaska Expedition ; 44,095 
publications of the National Museum, 21,229 Bureau of American 
Ethnology publications, 7,589 National Collection of Fine Arts cata- 

163 



164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

logs, 11 Freer Gallery of Art publications, 5 Annals of the Astro- 
physical Observatory, 5,912 Reports of the American Historical 
Association, and 58 publications not published by the Smithsonian 
Institution. Miscellaneous : 18 sets and 38 prints of North American 
Wild Flowers, and 5 Pitcher Plant volumes; 83,761 Guide Books; 
223,173 postcards; 4,218 photo packets; and 15,434 picture pamphlets. 
The 1954 allotment from Government funds of $92,320 for printing 
and binding was entirely obligated at the close of the year. 

SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS 

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS 
VOLUME 120 

Smithsonian Physical Tables. Ninth Revised edition. Prepared by William 
Elmer Forsythe. 827 pp., 36 figs. (Publ. 4169.) [June] 1954. (Cloth-boimd, 
$10.00; paper-bound, $9.00.) 

VOLUME 121 

No. 12. The Pleistocene fauna of Wailes Bluff and Langleys Bluff, Maryland, 
by S. F Blalce. 32 pp., 1 pi., 1 fig. (Publ. 4129.) Aug. 11, 1953. (40 cents.) 

VOLUME 122 

No. 2. New and inadequately Isnown North American species of the copepod 
genus Diaptomus, by Mildred Stratton Wilson. 30 pp., 58 figs. (Publ. 4132.) 
Aug. 4, 1953. (35 cents.) 

No. 4. Solar variation, a leading weather element, by C. G. Abbot. 35 pp., 
22 figs. (Publ. 4135.) Aug. 4, 1953. (40 cents.) 

No. 5. Silver-disk pyrheliometry, by W. H. Hoover and A. G. Froiland. 10 pp., 

I pi., 2 figs. (Publ. 4136.) Aug. 4, 1953. (20 cents.) 

No. 6. The external morphology of the dragonfly OnycJiogomphus ardens Need- 
ham, by Hsiu-fu Chao. 56 pp., 50 figs. (Publ. 4137.) Sept. 15, 1953. (60 
cents.) 

No. 7. The geology of Chaco Canyon, New Mexico, in relation to the life and 
remains of the prehistoric peoples of Pueblo Bonito, by Kirk Bryan. 65 pp., 

II pis., 3 figs. (Publ. 4140.) Feb. 2, 1954. (90 cents.) 

No. 8. Further additions to the birds of PanamS. and Colombia, by Alexander 

Wetmore. 12 pp. (Publ. 4142.) Dec. 17, 1953. (15 cents.) 
No. 9. Insect metamorphosis, by R. E. Snodgrass. 124 pp., 17 figs. (Publ. 

4144.) Apr. 1, 1954. ($1.20.) 
No. 10. Two silicified carboniferous trilobites from West Texas, by Harry S. 

Whittington. 16 pp., 3 pis., 1 fig. (Publ. 4146.) Apr. 22, 1954. (35 cents.) 
No. 11. A revision of the sea-stars of the genus Tethyaster, by Ailsa M. Clark 

and Austin H. Clark. 27 pp., 12 pis., 2 figs. (Publ. 4147.) Apr. 8, 1954. 

(45 cents.) 
No. 12. The reproduction of cockroaches, by Louis M. Roth and EdwLn R. 

Willis. 49 pp., 12 pis. (Publ. 4148.) June 9, 1954. (80 cents.) 
No. 13. Washington, D. C, precipitation for 1953 and 1954, by C. G. Abbot. 

4 pp., 1 fig. (Publ. 4170.) Apr. 20, 1954. (10 cents.) 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 165 



VOLUME 123 



No. 1. Songs and stories of the Ch'uan Miao, by David C Graham. 336 pp., 
24 pis., 1 fig. (Publ. 4139.) Apr. 8, 1954. ($4.00.) 

ANNUAL REPORTS 

Report for 1952. — The complete volume of the Annual Keport of 
the Board of Kegents for 1952 was received from the printer Septem- 
ber 24, 1953 : 

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution showing 
the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year 
ended June 30, 1952. 461 pp., 43, pis., 24 figs. (Publ. 4111.) 

The general appendix contained the following papers (Pubis. 4112- 

4128) : 

Radio astronomy, by J. A. Ratcliffe, 

The sun, the moon, and the tides, by Leo Otis Colbert. 

Engineering and pure science, by W. F. G. Svpann. 

Man's synthetic future, by Roger Adams. 

Phosphorus and life, by D. P. Hoplvins. 

The ice age In the North American Arctic, by Richard Foster Flint. 

The 1944 eruption of Usu, in Hokkaido, Japan, by Takeshi Mlnakami, Toshio 
Ishikavpa, and Kenzo Yagi. 

iSnails and their relations to the soil, by Harley J. Van Cleave. 

The ecology, evolution, and distribution of the vertebrates, by Austin H. Clark. 

Grasshopper Glacier of Montana and its relation to long-distance flights of grass- 
hoppers, by Ashley B. Gurney. 

Recent advances in the study and techniques of anatomy, by Paul G. Roofe and 
Samuel W. Lesher. 

Livestock parasitology in the United States, by Benjamin Schwartz. 

Botanizing with the Okinawans, by Egbert H. Walker. 

Bromeliad malaria, by Lyman B. Smith. 

Pharmacology of antibiotics, by Henry Welch. 

An anthropologist looks at Lincoln, by T. D. Stewart. 

The use of music in the treatment of the sick by American Indians, by Frances 
Densmore. 

Report for 1953. — The Report of the Secretary, which will form 
part of the Annual Report of the Board of Regents to Congress, was 
issued January 15, 1954 : 

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and financial report of 
the Executive Committee of the Board of Regents for the year ended June 30, 
1953. 165 pp., 7 pis. (Publ. 4141.) 1954. 

SPECLVL PUBLICATIONS 

The Smithsonian Institution. 32 pp., 15 pis. (Publ. 4145.) 1954. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

The National Museum issued 1 Annual Report of the Director, 13 
Proceedings papers, 1 Bulletin, and 2 papers in the series Contribu- 
tions from the United States National Herbarium, as follows: 



166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

ANNUAL REPORT 

The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30, 
1953. vii+97 pp. [January 12, 1954.] 

PROCEEDINGS 
VOLUME 100 

Title page, table of contents, list of illustrations, and index. Pp. i-viii, 553-584. 
Mar. 23, 1954. 

VOLUME 101 

Title page, table of contents, list of illustrations, and index. Pp. i-ix, 611-639. 
Mar. 23, 1954. 

VOLUME 103 

No. 3323. Review of the Indo-Paciflc anemone fishes, genus Amphiprion, vrith de- 

scriptions of two new species, by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 187-201, pis. 9, 10. 

July 3, 1953. 
No. 3324. Marine polychaete worms from Point Barrow, Alaska, with additional 

records from the North Atlantic and North Pacific, by Marian H. Pettibone. 

Pp. 203-356, figs. 26-39. May 21, 1954. 
No. 3325. The relationships of Old and New World melanians, by J. P. E. Mor- 
rison. Pp. 357-394, pi. 11. Apr. 20, 1954. 
No. 3326. Preliminary analysis of the fossil vertebrates of the Canyon Ferry 

Reservoir area, by Theodore E. White. Pp. 395-438, figs. 40-51. May 28, 1954. 
No. 3327. A review of the labrid fish genus Wetmorella with descriptions of new 

forms from the tropical Indo-Pacific, by Leonard P Schultz and N. B. Marshall 

Pp. 439-447, figs. 52-54, pi. 12. Apr. 21, 1954. 
No. 3328. Review of the Atlantic periwinkles, Nodilittorina, Echininus, and 

Tectarivs, by R. Tucker Abbott. Pp. 449-464, figs. 55-57. Mar. 23, 1954. 
No. 3329. Mammals of northern Colombia, preliminary report No. 7; Tapirs 

(genus Tapirus), with a systematic review of American species, by Philip 

Hershkovitz. Pp. 465-496, figs. 58-62. May 18, 1954. 
No. 3330. A revision of the goatflsh genus Vpeneus with descriptions of two 

new species, by Ernest A. Lachner. Pp. 497-532, pis. 13, 14. May 18, 1954. 
No. 3331. Studies in neotropical Mallophaga, XI: Bird lice of the suborder 

Amblycera, genus Dennyus Neumann, by M. A. Carriker, Jr. Pp. 533-549, 

figs. 63, 64. May 21, 1954. 
No. 3332. Nearctic flies of the family Periscelidae (Diptera) and certain An- 

thomyzidae referred to the family, by A. H. Sturtevant. Pp. 551-562. June 16, 

1954. 
No. 3333. North American triclad Turbellaria, XIII: Three new cave pla- 

narians, by Libbie Hyman. Pp. 563-573, figs. 65-68. June 14, 1954. 

BULLETINS 

202. Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas Islands, by Leonard P. Schultz and 
collaborators, xxxii-f 685 pp., 74 pis., 90 figs. Dec. 15, 1953. 

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL HERBARIUM 
VOLUME 29 

Part 11. Studies in the Bromeliaceae, XVII, by Lyman B. Smith. Pp. i-vi+ 
521-543, figs. 77-94. Feb. 19, 1954. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 167 

VOLUME 81 

Part 2. The Acantliaceae of Colombia, II, by Emery O. Leonard. I-vili 4-119-322 
pp., figs. 41-118. Nov. 10, 1953. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

During the year the Bureau issued 1 Annual Report and 3 Bulletins, 
as follows : 

ANNUAL REPORT 

Seventieth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1952-1953. 
ii+33pp. 1954. 

BULLETINS 

152. Index to Schoolcraft's "Indian Tribes of the United States," compiled by 

Frances S. Nichols, vi+257 pp. 1954. 
154. River Basin Surveys Papers : Inter-Agency Archeological Salvage Pro- 
gram. Nos. 1-6. xviii-f 336 pp., 56 pis., 40 figs. 1953. 
No. 1. Prehistory and the Missouri Valley Development Program : Summary 
report on the Missouri River Basin Archeological Survey in 1948, by 
Waldo R. Wedel. 
No. 2. Prehistory and the Missouri Valley Development Program : Summary 
report on the Missouri River Basin Archeological Survey in 1949, by 
Waldo R. Wedel. 
No. 3. The Woodruff Ossuary, a prehistoric burial site in Phillips County, 

Kansas, by Marvin F. Kivett. 
No. 4. The Addicks Dam sites : 

I. An archeological survey of the Addicks Dam Basin, Southeast Texas, 

by Joe Ben Wheat. 
II. Indian skeletal remains from the Doering and Kobs sites, Addicks 
Reservoir, Texas, by Marshall T. Newman. 
No. 5. The Hodges site : 

I. Two rock shelters near Tucumcari, New Mexico, by Herbert W. Dick. 
II. Geology of the Hodges site. Quay County, New Mexico, by Sheldon 
Judson. 
No. 6. The Rembert Mounds, Elbert County, Georgia, by Joseph R. Caldwell. 
Appendix. List of River Basin Surveys reports published in other series. 
156. The Iroquois Eagle Dance, an offshoot of the Calumet Dance, by William 
N. Fenton, with an analysis of the Iroquois Eagle Dance and songs, by 
Gertrude Prokosch Kurath. vi+324 pp., 28 pis., 36 figs. 1953. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 

Catalog of American and European paintings in the Gellatly Collection. (Fourth 
Edition.) 19 pp., 14 pis. (Publ. 4143.) 1954. [January 1954.] (35 cents.) 

Watercolors and drawings by Gavarni. (Smithsonian Institution Traveling 
Exhibition Service catalog. ) [ September 1953. ] 

Fuseli drawings. (Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service cata- 
log.) [January 1954.] 

Carl Bodmer paints the Indian frontier. (Smithsonian Institution Traveling 
Exhibition Service catalog.) [February 1954.] 



326511—55 12 



168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION 

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are 
transmitted by the Association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution and are by him communicated to Congress, as provided by 
the act of incorporation of the Association. The following report 
volumes were issued during the year : 

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the year 1951. Volume 

2. Writings on Ajnerican History, 1949. 
Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the year 1952. Volume 

1. Proceedings. 

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN 

REVOLUTION 

The manuscript of the Fifty-sixth Annual Keport of the National 
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to 
Congress, in accordance with law, on March 17, 1954. 

ORGANIZATION 

Lester E. Commerf ord, chief of the division of publications, retired 
at the end of December after 48 years of service with the Institution, 
all in the division of publications. 

Effective April 8, 1954, the editorial division and the publications 
division were combined under a new designation, the editorial and 
publications division. All the Institution's editorial, publication dis- 
tribution and sales, and duplicating functions are now centralized 
under the direction of Paul H. Oehser, chief of the division, who also 
serves as public relations officer; John S. Lea, assistant chief of the 
division. Mrs. Eileen M. McCarthy is in charge of publication dis- 
tribution; William D. Crockett, illustrations and layouts; and Al- 
phonso Jones, duplicating. The Smithsonian's printing section (a 
branch of the Government Printing Office) continues under this 
division. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Paul H. Oehser, 
Chiefs Editorial and Publications Division. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 
Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution, 



Report of the Executive Committee 

of the Board of Regents of the 

Smithsonian Institution 

For the Year Ended June 30, 1954 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution: 

Your executive committee respectfully svibmits the following report 
in relation to tlie funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with 
a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government 
bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution: 

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND 

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s. 6d. — 
$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the claim, 
freights, insurance, and other incidental exi)enses, together with pay- 
ment into the fund of the sum of £5,015, which had been withheld 
during the lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the fund to the 
amount of $550,000. 

Since the original bequest, the Institution has received gifts from 
various sources, the income from which may be used for the general 
work of the Institution. These, including the original bequest, plus 
savings, are listed below, together with the income for the present year. 

ENDOWMENT FUNDS 

(Income for the unrestricted use of the Institution) 

Partly deposited in the United States Treasury at 6 percent and partly 
invested in stocks, bonds, and other holdings 



Fiind 



Investment 



Income 
present year 



Parent Fund (original Smithson bequest, plus accumulated savings) 

Subsequent bequests, gifts, and other funds, partly deposited in the U. S 
Treasury and partly invested In the consolidated fund: 

Abbott, W. L., special fund .-. 

Avery, Robert S., and Lydla, bequest fund... 

Endowment fund 

Habel, Dr. S., bequest fund. 

Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline, bequest fund 

Hamilton, James, bequest fund 

Henry, Caroline, bequest fund. 

Hodgkins, Thomas O. (general gift) 

Porter, Henry Kirke. memorial fund 

Rhees, William Jones, bequest fund 

Sanford, George H., memorial fund. 

Wltherspoon, Thomas A., memorial fund ._ 

Total 

Qrand total 



$729,001.82 



$43, 725. 93 



9,908.29 


379. 83 


68, 0G2. 83 


3,025.35 


394,273.93 


19, 654. 66 


600.00 


30.00 


4,486.41 


222.49 


2, 950. 32 


172.32 


1,349.15 


66 87 


149, 792. 24 


8, 635. 97 


319, 482. 17 


15, 846. 16 


1,117,74 


61.56 


2, 093. 04 


115.25 


143, 900. 04 


7, 139. 88 


1,087,976.16 


55, 249 24 



1,816,977.98 



98, 975. 17 



169 



170 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the in- 
come of each being restricted to specific use. These, plus accretions 
to date, are listed below, together with income for the present year. 



Fund 



Abbott, William L., fund, for investigations in biology __ 

Arthur, James, fund, for Investigations and study of the sun and annual lec- 
ture on same 

Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for traveling scholarship to investigate fauna of 
countries other than the United States - 

Baird, Lucy H., fund, for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird 

Barney, Alice Pike, memorial fund, for collection of patntlngs and pastels and 
for encouragement of American artistic endeavor 

Barstow, Frederick D., fund, for purchase of animals for Zoological Park 

Oanfleld Collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfield collection of 
minerals.. 

Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection and promo- 
tion of researches rebtlng to Coleoptera.- 

Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of Isaac Lea col- 
lection of gems and mollusks 

Dykes, Charles, bequest fund, for support in financial research 

Elekemeyer, Florence Brevoort, fimd, for preservation and exhibition of the 
photographic collection of Rudolph Eickemeyer, Jr 

Hillyer, Virgil, fund, for increase and care of Virgil Hiilyer collection of light- 
ing objects 

Hitchcock, Albert S., library fund, for care of the Hitchcock Agrostological 
Library 

Hodgklns fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact knowledge 
In regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air 

HrdliCka, Ales and Marie, fund, to further researches in physical anthropol- 
ogy and publication in connection therewith 

Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove 

Loeb, Morris, bequest fund, for furtherance of knowledge in the exact sciences 

Long, Annette and Edith C, fund, for upkeep and preservation of Long col- 
lection of embroideries, laces, and textiles 

Maxwell, Mary E., fund, for care and exhibition of Maxwell collection 

Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works of art for use 
and benefit of the National Collection of Fine Arts 

Nelson, Edward W., fund, for support of biological studies 

Noyes, Frank B., fund, for use in connection with the collection of dolls 
placed in the U. S. National Museum through the Interest of Mr. and Mrs. 
Noyes 

Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane Pell col- 
lection 

Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund, for general use of the Institution when 
principal amounts to $250,000. - • 

Rathbun, Richard, memorial fund, for use of division of U. S. National Mu- 
seum containing Crustacea 

Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair In biology. In memory of Asher 
Tunis 

Roebling Collection fund, for care, improvement, and Increase of Roebling 
collection of minerals 

Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics and chem- 
istry..- 

Smithsonian employees' retirement fund.. 

Springer, Frank, fund, for care and increase of the Springer collection and 
library.. 

Strong, Julia D., bequest fund, for benefit of the National Collection of Fine 
Arts 



Investment 



$116, 735. 16 

44,614.04 

55, 889. 26 
26, 858. 54 

31,995.41 
1,115.30 

42, 6G5. 99 

13, 982. 02 

31,414.07 
48, 033. 83 

12, 125. 61 

7, 331. 51 

1, 760. 24 

100, 000. 00 

37,141.61 
21,352.84 
97, 222. 19 

605.70 
21, 880. 76 

21,145.78 
9, 887. 88 

1,071.75 

8,268.85 

166,480.45 

11,864.80 

31, 733. 87 

134, 632. 03 

104, 746. 00 
29, 772. 26 

20,004.71 

11,153.62 



Income 
present year 



$6, 768. 38 

2, 212. 67 

2,771.89 
1,332.04 

1,421.51 
55.31 

2, 116. 04 

693. 47 

1, 557. 97 
2,381.97 

601.35 

363. 61 

87.28 

6, 000. 00 

1,755.02 
1,059.01 
3, 234. 01 

30.01 
1, 085. 17 

1,048.70 
267. 19 

53.13 

410. 08 

8, 130. 99 

588.42 

1,690.11 

6, 677. 22 

5, 195. 00 
1.526.41 

992. 14 

553.16 



REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 



171 



Fund 


Investment 


Income 
present year 


Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, researcb fund, for development of geo- 


$501, 991. 73 

64, 573. 03 

67,094.47 

1,068.16 


$24, 743. 49 


Walcott, Mary Vaux, fund, for publications In botany 


3, 202. 58 


Younger, Helen Walcott, fund, lield in trust ... . 


3, 491. 90 


Zerbee, Frances Brinckl6, fund, for endowment of aquaria - -. 


52.48 






Total 


1,898,204.07 


93, 149. 71 







FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND 

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave 
to the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects 
of art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by 
Whistler, Thayer, Dew^ing, and other artists. Later he also gave 
funds for construction of a building to house the collection, and finally 
in his will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and securi- 
ties to the estimated value of $1,958,591.42, as an endowment fund 
for the operation of the Gallery. 

The above fund of Mr. Freer was almost entirely represented by 
20,465 shares of stock in Parke, Davis & Co. As this stock advanced 
in value, it was sold and the proceeds reinvested so that the fund 
now amounts to $6,936,185.15. 



SUMMARY OF ENDOWMENTS 

Invested endowment for general purposes $1, 816, 977. 98 

Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer en- 
dowment 1, 898, 204. 07 

Total invested endowment other than Freer 3, 715, 182. 05 

Freer invested endowment for specific purposes 6, 936, 185. 15 

Total invested endowment for all purposes 10, 651, 367. 20 

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS 

Deposited in the U. S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as au- 
thorized in the U. S. Revised Statutes, sec. 5591.. $1, 000, 000. 00 

Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or market value 
at date acquired) : 

Bonds $961, 522. 64 

Stocks 1, 679, 015. 88 

Real estate and mortgages 5, 981. 00 

Uninvested capital 68, 662. 53 

2, 715, 182. 05 

Total investments other than Freer endowment 3, 715, 182. 05 



172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS— Continued 

Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market value at date 
acquired) : 

Bonds.. $4, 016, 765. 54 

Stocks 2,666,410. 11 

Uninvested capital 253, 009. 50 

$6, 936, 185. 15 



Total investments. 10, 651, 367. 20 

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING FISCAL 

YEAR 1954 » 

Cash balance on hand June 30, 1953 $533, 830. 34 

Receipts, other than Freer endowment: 

Income from investments $213, 033. 23 

Gifts and contributions 263, 265. 56 

Books and publications 37, 361. 68 

Miscellaneous 12, 494. 54 

Proceeds from real estate 90. 00 

Payroll withholdings and refund of advances 

(net) 1, 250. 83 

U. S. Government and other contracts 

(net) 8,815. 16 

Proceeds from sale of securities (net) 91, 083. 76 

Proceeds from sale of cash securities (net) 1, 786. 57 



Total receipts other than Freer endowment 629, 181. 33 

Receipts from Freer endowment: 

Income from investments 324, 659. 98 

Total 1, 487, 671. 65 

Disbursements other than Freer endowment: 

Administration $93, 554. 50 

Publications 22, 030. 31 

Library 34L 08 

Custodian fees and servicing securities 4, 208. 75 

Miscellaneous 948. 09 

Researches 212, 466. 51 

S. I. Retirement System 2, 531. 04 



Total disbursements other than Freer endowment 336, 080. 28 

Disbursements from Freer endowment: 

Salaries $119,018. 53 

Purchases for collection 131, 452. 25 

Custodian fees and servicing securities 11, 752. 58 

Miscellaneous 21, 696. 91 



Total disbursements from Freer endowment 283, 920. 27 

Total disbursements 620,000. 55 

Cash balance June 30, 1954 867, 671. 10 

Total 1,487,67L 65 

> This statement does not inclade Qovornment appropriations under the administrative charge of the 
Institution. 



REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 173 

ASSETS 
Cash: 

United States Treasury cur- 
rent account $695, 472. 72 

In banks and on hand 172,198.38 

867, 671. 10 
Less uninvested endowment 

funds 321,672.03 

$545^ 999. 07 

Travel and other advances 8, 274. 82 

Cash invested (U. S. Treasury 

notes) 705, 260. 92 

• $1, 259, 534. 81 

Investments — at book value: 
Endowment funds: 
Freer Gallery of Art: 

Stocks and bonds $6, 683, 175. 65 

Uninvested cash 253, 009. 50 

6, 936, 185. 15 

Investments at book value other 

than Freer: 

Stocks and bonds 2, 571, 670. 69 

Uninvested cash 68, 662. 53 

Special deposit in U. S. 

Treasury at 6 percent 

interest 1, 000, 000. 00 

Other stocks and bonds 68, 867. 83 

Real estate and mortgages. . 5, 981. 00 

3, 715, 182. 05 

10, 651, 367. 20 

11,910,902.01 
UNEXPENDED FUNDS AND ENDOWMENTS 

Unexpended funds: 

Income from Freer Gallery of 

Art endowment _ $526, 109. 19 

Income from other endow- 
ments: 

Restricted $262, 673. 44 

General 172, 917. 79 

435, 591. 23 

Gifts and grants.. 297, 834. 39 

1, 259, 534. 81 
Endowment funds: 

Freer Gallery of Art $6,936, 185. 15 

Other: 

Restricted 1, 898, 204. 07 

General - _. 1, 816, 977. 98 

10,651,367.20 

11, 910, 902. 01 



174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

The practice of maintaining savings accounts in several of the Wash- 
ington banks and trust companies has been continued during the past 
year, and interest on these deposits amounted to $1,480.60. 

In many instances, deposits are made in banks for convenience in 
collection of checks, and later such funds are withdrawn and deposited 
in the United States Treasury. Disbursement of funds is made by 
check signed by the Secretary of the Institution and drawn on the 
United States Treasury. 

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts and grants from the 
following : 

Laura D. Barney, additional gift for the Alice Pike Barney memorial fund. 

Wenner-Gren Foundation, grant for La Venta exploration. 

Edward W. Nelson Estate, to support biological studies. 

National Geographic Society, for publication of "The Material Culture of Pueblo 

Bonito." 
Morris Loeb Estate, for the furtherance of knowledge in the exact sciences. 
Johns Hopkins University, for publications on Arctic research. 
Link Foundation, for publication of a National Air Museum booklet. 
E. A. Link, Link Aviation, Inc., additional gift for historical research (marine 

archeology). 
Aircraft Industries Association of America, Inc., and Air Transport Association 

of America, for an architectural survey for the new proposed Air Museum. 
Pan American Sanitary Bureau, for publication of manuscript by Herbert 

T. Dalmat on Guatemalan black flies. 
Herbert Sondheim and the Washington Fashion Group, for research on historic 

dresses. 
Agnes Chase, for copying the index to grass names. 
Grene M. Stirling, for work on archeology and ethnology of Florida. 
Time, Incorporated, for si)ecial paleontological work. 
Guggenheim Foundation, for wax metabolism fund. 
Rose Banon. 
Robert M. de Calry. 
Deere & Company, for E. C. Kendall. 
Atomic Energy Commission, additional gift for studies on the regulation of 

plant growth by radiation. 
Atomic Energy Commission, for study of mechanism of action of ionizing 

radiation. 
United States Information Agency, for exhibition of "American Primitive 

Paintings." 
United States Information Agency, for exhibition of "American Indian 

Paintings." 
United States Information Agency, for five exhibits to be circulated abroad. 
Frank Wilbert Stokes fund, for acquisition of certain paintings, sketches, and 

other artistic compostions. 
For support of the Bio-Sciences Information Exchange: 

Atomic Energy Commission 

Department of the Air Force 

Department of the Army 

Department of the Navy 

National Science Foundation 

Public Health Service 

Veterans Administration 



REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 175 

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the 
Institution. 

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the Gov- 
ernment bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smithsonian 
Institution for the fiscal year 1954 : 

Salaries and expenses $3, 000, 000. 00 

National Zoological Park 625,000.00 

In addition, funds were transferred from other Government agen- 
cies for expenditure under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution 
as follows: 

Working fund, transferred from the District of Columbia government, 
for the National Zoological Park $35, 000. 00 

Working funds, transferred from the National Park Service, Inte- 
rior Department, for archeological investigations in river basins 
throughout the United States 71,495.00 

The Institution also administers a trust fund for partial support of 
the Canal Zone Biological Area, located on Barro Colorado Island in 
the Canal Zone. 

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds follows : 

Washington, D, C, August 26, 1954. 

To THE BOABD OF EeGENTS, 

Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington 25, D. C. 
We have examined the accounts of the Smithsonian Institution relative to its 
private endowment funds and gifts (but excluding the National Gallery of Art 
and other departments, bureaus or operations administered by the Institution 
under Federal appropriations) for the year ended June 30, 1954. Our examina- 
tion was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and 
accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and such other audit- 
ing procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. 

The Institution maintains its accounts on a cash basis and does not accrue 
income and expenses. Land, buildings, furniture, equipment, works of art, 
living and other specimens and certain sundry property are not included in the 
accounts of the Institution. 

In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly the position 
of the private funds and the cash and investments thereof of the Smithsonian 
Institution at June 30, 1954 (excluding the National Gallery of Art and other 
departments, bureaus or operations administered by the Institution under 
Federal appropriations) and the cash receipts and disbursements for the year 
then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied 
on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year. 

Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. 
Respectfully submitted. 

Clarence Cannon 
Vannevar Bush 
Robert V. Flemenq 
Executive Committee. 



GENERAL APPENDIX 
to the 

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1954 



177 



ADVEETISEIVIENT 

The object of tlie General Appendix to the Annual Report of the 
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis- 
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by 
staff members and collaborators of the Institution ; and memoirs of a 
general character or on special topics that are of interest or value to 
the numerous correspondents of the Institution. 

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonion Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual 
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more 
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological 
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations 
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this 
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such papers 
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress. 

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum- 
mary of progress whicli for 30 years previously had been issued by 
well-known private publishing firms, the Secretary had a series of 
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the 
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology, 
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and 
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether 
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888. 

In the report of 1889, a return was made to the earlier method of 
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original) 
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus- 
sion. This method has been continued in tlie present report for 1954. 

Reprints of the various papers in the General Appendix may be 
obtained, as long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Edi- 
torial and Publications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washing- 
ton 25, IX C. 
178 



The Nature of the Upper Atmosphere' 



By H. S. W. Massey 

Department of Physics 
University College, London 



Three yita-l functions are performed by the atmosphere — thermal 
insulation, removal of lethal ultraviolet light from solar radiation, 
and the volatilization of meteors. The ultraviolet absorption takes 
place mainly at an altitude between 20 and 40 km., where there is a 
concentration of ozone. The volatilization of meteors, on the other 
hand, takes place at about 100 km. The thermal effects of the atmos- 
phere depend on its properties over a wide range of altitude. This 
is because a number of processes are involved — absorption of the 
short-wave solar radiation, which takes place at great heights, its 
degradation to long wavelength heat radiation, and the subsequent 
effects of these heat waves. 

There are a number of other important upper atmospheric phe- 
nomena, and it is perhaps best to start by summarizing them as they 
would be encountered in the course of ascent from the ground (fig. 1). 
After one passes through the troposphere, the stratosphere is reached 
at a height of about 12 km. At about the same altitude the primary 
cosmic rays, consisting mainly of very energetic protons as well as 
other nuclei, are strongly absorbed, producing the bewildering mul- 
titude of secondary particles the study of which forms one of the main 
branches of fundamental research in physics. The next region of 
importance is the ozone layer. At 70 km. an unexpected constituent 
becomes apparent, namely sodium. Although present in only minute 
concentration this sodium makes an important contribution to air- 
glow effects. Some 10-15 km. higher there are encountered for the 
first time regions in which there is an appreciable concentration of 
ions and electrons; that is to say, the concentration is large enough 
to influence the propagation of radio waves. This ionized region, 
known as the D region, can be a source of radio fadeouts at times, 
especially during periods of intense solar activity, when the ioniza- 
tion in the region is much enhanced. 



' Reprinted by permission from Endeavour, vol. 13, No. 50, April 1954. 

179 



180 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



At 100 km, the threshold of several important regions is reached ; 
at this height the pressure is only about 10"^ of that at ground level. 
The temperature, having passed through two peaks and a trough, 
ranging from 180° K. at 80 km. to 270° K. at 50 km., is here about 
240° K. The composition of the air, as far as the major constituents 
are concerned, is still much the same as at ground level ; about four- 
fifths consists of molecular nitrogen and most of the rest of molecular 
oxygen. 

At a slightly greater altitude an important change rapidly sets in — 
the oxygen becomes predominantly atomic. This produces consider- 
able changes in the absorbing power of the oxygen for solar radiation, 
and also makes possible certain light-emission processes which are 
important in determining the color of the night air-glow. 



220 r 
200 
180- 
160- 



J 140 



120- 



F2 Ionized 
layer 

F, Ionized 
layer 



]E Ionized 
layer 
Oxygen transition 

region "1 D Ionized 

. -J -I region 

J Sodium layer 



Dynamo 
currents 



Meteor 
n destruction 
level 



Aurora 
and air- 
glow 



Ozone layer 
• Everest 



Stratospliere 
Troposphere 



2, 100 

V 

•5 80 
< 60 

40 

20 



Figure 1. — Schematic representation of the high atmosphere exhibiting the main regions 
of interest. (Note that the Fi and Fj ionized layers are shown separately. They are so 
only in daytime,, merging at night.) 

Another technically important ionized layer is located between the 
100 km. and 120 km. levels. It is a relatively thin (5-6 km.) one, 
known as the E layer. Its electron concentration is considerably 
higher than that of the D region and the absorption very much less, 
so that the reflection of radio waves from the E layer plays an im- 
portant part in long-distance radio propagation. 

It seems probable that the main atmospheric currents that are re- 
sponsible for the so-called steady lunar and solar magnetic variations 
flow in, or just below, the E layer. These currents result from the 



UPPER ATMOSPHERE — MASSEY 181 

effect of atmospheric tidal motions on the E-region ionization, and 
they demonstrate the periodicity of these tides. 

Many of the most interesting atmospheric light-emission phenomena 
arise from levels in the neighborhood of 100 km. The night air-glow 
occurs throughout the year and shows little variation with latitude. 
It consists largely of the green and red line emission from atomic oxy- 
gen, and band emission from molecular nitrogen and from hydroxyl. 
The height of the emitting regions is probably not far from 100 km. 

A more spectacular optical phenomenon is the aurora. This is much 
more intense than the night air-glow, and is concentrated in the so- 
called auroral latitudes — there is a maximum frequency of occurrence 
for the aurora borealis in a magnetic latitude of 67°, with a corre- 
sponding maximum in the southern hemisphere for the aurora 
australis. The auroral light includes strong emission at the wave- 
lengths of the green and red oxygen lines, as in the air-glow, but the 
strong band emission is from ionized, not neutral, molecular nitrogen. 
In the latitudes of most frequent occurrence the main light emission 
is from altitudes close to 100 km. At lower latitudes the much less 
frequent aurorae often occur at higher altitudes, some as high as 600 
km. Magnetic storms are usually associated with auroral displays, 
and radio propagation is disturbed. 

As pointed out earlier, the 100-km. region is also the crematorium of 
most meteors. So many of them are volatilized near the same level 
that they produce a considerable concentration of ionization, often re- 
ferred to as the sporadic, as distinct from the normal, E layer, which 
is at a slightly lower altitude. 

There is still sufficient atmosphere well above 100 km. to be of im- 
portance in many ways. Above 120 km. the concentration of electrons 
and ions forming the E layer falls off, quite rapidly at first, but then 
begins to increase again, and by day reaches a new and larger maxi- 
mum at about 160-170 km. This corresponds to the Fi layer. 

After passing above this altitude, the ionization soon ceases to de- 
crease, and then increases again to form the very broad Fg layer in 
which the electron concentration is ten times as great as the maximum 
in the E layer. At night the Fi layer merges with the Fg, and there is 
an upward movement of the ionization to form the F layer which plays 
a vital part in long-distance radio propagation. At 160 km. the atmos- 
pheric pressure is about 3 X 10"^ of that at ground level, while the tem- 
perature is perhaps 750° K. This upward trend in tem.perature almost 
certainly continues, so that well within the Fg layer it probably ex- 
ceeds 750° K. 

Our knowledge about the upper atmosphere has been gained by a 
combination of direct and indirect observation. Until the last few 
years no direct methods were possible, but the recent remarkable de- 



182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

velopments in rocket propulsion have made it possible to carry instru- 
ments up to heights of as much as 200 km. to make direct measurements 
of local conditions in the high atmosphere.^ Because of the peculiar 
difficulties associated with use of rocket-transported instruments, the 
methods of observation often have to be very different from those that 
would normally be used in a laboratory measurement. Considerable 
ingenuity has been exercised in the design of rocket experiments and 
very important new results are now emerging. It is interesting and en- 
couraging to note that, at least below 100 km., direct observations made 
by the use of rockets has largely confirmed the deductions from the 
indirect methods. The technique developed by Paneth and his co- 
workers for the microanalysis of gases (Endeavour, vol. 12, p. 5, 1953) 
has proved very useful in investigating samples of air recovered from 
rockets sent to great heights. 

PRESSURE, TEMPERATURE, AND COMPOSITION 

If the composition of the atmosphere is known at any altitude, meas- 
urements of any two of the three quantities pressure (p), density (p), 
and temperature (T) enable the third to be deduced. Up to about 100 
km. it is probable that there is no appreciable change of composition 
from that at ground level, and this is consistent with the observations 
of p, p, and T by various methods. 

The pressure and density have been measured directly up to altitudes 
as high as 200 km. The pressure is determined by suitable pressure 
gages (bellows gages for low altitudes and ionization gages for the 
high ones) inserted on the sides of a rocket near the tail fins. Wind- 
tunnel tests have confirmed that such gages measure the ambient pres- 
sures. The density is determined from the stagnation pressure, meas- 
ured by a suitable pressure gage at the nose of the rocket. The mean 
values of results obtained to date are given in figure 2. 

The temperature variation has been determined by several methods. 
If the velocity, v, of sound can be obtained, the temperature can be 
calculated from the relation 

V^ = yRT/M 

where R is the universal gas constant, M the average molecular weight 
of the air, and y the ratio of the specific heats of the gas. The first way 
in which this possibility was utilized concerned the so-called anomalous 
propagation of sound. Intense sounds, such as those of gunfire, are 
often heard at great distances from the source, beyond an intervening 
zone of silence. This is because sound waves traveling at large inclina- 
tions to the horizontal are reflected by a high-temperature region, in 



' A detailed account of investigations of this kind will be found in the Proceed- 
ings of the Oxford Conference on Rocket Exploration of the Upper Air, Pergamon 
Press, London, 1954. 



UPPER ATMOSPHERE — MASSEY 



183 



which their velocity is increased, and thus return to earth at a distant 
point. The phenomenon is essentially similar to long-range radio 
propagation (see fig. 3) . The distance from the source to the point 
where the reflected rays, returning from different directions, are re- 
ceived gives the height of the reflecting high-temperature layer. Re- 
cently a more precise sound-ranging method has been introduced for 
use with rockets. At suitable heights grenades Avere ejected from a 




200 300 400 

Temperature (° absolute) 



500 



Figure 2. — Pressure and temperature in the atmosphere as a function of height. The full 
line is obtained directly from the mean rocket observations made at White Sands, N. Mex. 
Above 100 km. there is uncertainty in deriving the temperature from the pressure and 
density, owing to changes in composition. The dotted lines indicate two results obtained 
on two extreme assumptions. 

rocket in flight and exploded. The explosions were photogi-aphed and 
the arrival of the sound pulses at each of five ground stations was ac- 
curately timed. From these observations the location of the explosion, 
the velocity of sound at different levels, and the distribution of atmos- 
pheric winds could be determined. An alternative method for measur- 
ing the speed of sound by rocket is from determination of the ratio of 
the pressures measured by two gages located on the side of the rocket at 

326511—55^—13 



184 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



different distances from the nose. This gives the Mach number of the 
flow past the rocket, and hence the speed of sound. 

Indirect evidence about the temperature distribution has been ob- 
tained from a study of atmospheric tides. It has been found from 
radio observations (see below) that the amplitude of the lunar tidal 
oscillations is greatly enhanced at the level of the E layer. The am- 
plitude and phase of these oscillations at high levels are quite sensitive 
to the temperature distribution, and Weekes and Wilkes [1] ^ were able 
to show theoretically that up to 100 km. the general form must be that 
shown in figure 2. 

High-temperature layer 




Gunfire 



Ionized layer 



V/////////////A 




Figure 3. — Illustrating the long-range propagation of radio and sound waves. 

Finally, it has been possible to obtain information about the tem- 
perature in the E and F layers by determination, by means of radio, 
of the variation of electron density with height. The scale height H^ 
which is the distance above a given level at which the pressure has 
fallen to \/e of its value at that level, is given by n=RT/Mg, where 
R, r, and M are as previously defined and g is the acceleration due to 
gravity. Assuming the atmospheric composition, the temperature T 
may be deduced if H is known. Allowance must be made for dissocia- 



' Numbers in brackets Indicate references at end of text. 



UPPER ATMOSPHERE — MASSET 185 

tion of the oxygen above 100 km. and possibly of the nitrogen also at 
higher levels. 

Figure 2 illustrates our present knowledge about the temperature 
variation at different heights. Above 100 km. there is considerable 
uncertainty due to uncertainty about the degree of dissociation of 
nitrogen. No direct measurements are yet available at these great 
heights. 

THE IONIZED LAYERS 

A great deal of research on the properties of the atmosphere in the 
E and F layers has been carried out by radio methods. The mecha- 
nism of long-distance propagation of radio waves is roughly as illus- 
trated in figure 3, which shows a reflecting ionized layer. Further- 
more, when radio waves of wavelength A enter an ionized layer nor- 
mally they are totally reflected at a level where the electron concentra- 
tion n attains the value 7rmc-/e'^X^, where e is the charge and m the mass 
of an electron and c is the velocity of light. By measuring the time 
delay between vertical transmission of a ray of given wavelength and 
reception of the reflected wave, it is possible to determine the varia- 
tion of n with height in a particular level until the observed wave- 
length is that for which n attains its maximum value in the layer. 
Further increase of wavelength then leads to complete penetration of 
the layer. Rocket methods now make it possible to trace the variation 
beyond this maximum. The method is to measure the local velocity of 
a radio wave by observation of the Doppler effect, due to the velocity 
of the rocket, on a radio signal transmitted from the rocket. The pro- 
portional Doppler shift in frequency is given by v/V, where v is the 
velocity component of the rocket in the direction of observation and V 
the phase velocity of the radio wave transmitted from the rocket in 
the atmosphere round the rocket. V is given by 






where c is the velocity of light (total reflection occurs effectively 
where V-* " ) .' 

For a long time data of great accuracy have been obtained by radio 
methods using many ground stations distributed over a wide range C'f 
latitude; rocket observations, on the other hand, have hitherto been 
limited. 

As mentioned earlier, radio-sounding methods have given informa- 
tion about the temperature distribution and the tidal motions at great 
heights. The latter observations depend on careful studies of fluctua- 



* This formula neglects the effect of the earth's magnetic field, which modifles 
the situation considerably. 



186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

tions observed in signals from the ionized layers. These layers are far 
from uniform. They have a granulated structure, and the motion of 
the granules, which are quite large, may be deduced from analysis of 
signal irregularities. 

The ionized layers are produced by electromagnetic radiations from 
the sun. A given ionizing radiation will produce electrons at an in- 
creasing rate per unit volume as it penetrates into denser and denser 
atmospheric regions, until absorption begins to be large; after this 
point it will decrease to zero, when the absorption is complete. The 
particular radiations responsible for the main ionized layers are still 
not identified with certainty. It is of interest to note, however, that by 
sending up in rockets counters sensitive to X-rays, definite evidence 
has been obtained that, at E-region levels, there are sufficient soft 
X-rays in the solar radiation to produce the E-region ionization. It 
was suggested some time earlier by Hoyle and Bates [2] that X-rays 
emitted from the solar corona might be responsible for the E layer. 
The F ionization may be due to ionization of atomic oxygen by short 
ultraviolet radiation, but this is far from certain. There is no doubt, 
however, from evidence obtained by observing the delay between ob- 
scuration of the solar disk and the onset of ionospheric changes during 
a solar eclipse, that the main layers are due to radiations traveling 
from the sun with the velocity of light. 

The tidal motion of the upper atmosphere exerts dynamical forces 
on the electrons and ions in the ionized layers, producing a current sys- 
tem, the nature of which is complicated by the earth's magnetic field. 
According to the dynamo theory, first suggested by Balfour Stewart 
[3] as early as 1883, the tidal flow across the field produces a current 
in a direction perpendicular to each. The magnetic field at ground 
level includes a contribution from the field of this current system, and 
this will vary periodically with the tidal motion. These magnetic 
variations exhibit components varying with the lunar and solar tidal 
periods. Recent theoretical work has produced strong confirmation 
of the dynamo theory. Singer, Maple, and Bowen [4] performed a 
remarkable experiment with a rocket carrying a total-field magne- 
tometer so that the variation of field with altitude could be measured. 
In passing through a current layer there should be a sudden decrease 
in field. Such a decrease was found to occur at an altitude of 93 km. 
(fig. 4), about the expected altitude of the base of the dynamo current 
layer. 

THE AURORA AND AIR-GLOW 

There is a clear correlation between the onset of an auroral display 
and the occurrence of disturbed conditions on the sun. However, 
unlike the ionospheric-solar relation, there is a time lag of one or two 
days between the onset of the solar disturbance and that of the aurora. 



UPPER ATMOSPHERE — MASSET 



187 



This rules out solar electromagnetic radiation as the direct causative 
agency. The alternative is a stream of corpuscles. This cannot con- 
sist of charged particles of one sign, as their nnitual repulsion would 
disperse the stream long before the earth was reached. It is supposed 
that the stream is an ionized one containing protons and electrons in 
equal concentration. Strong evidence for the presence of protons in 
the incident stream has been afforded by the observations of Gartlein 
[5] and of Meinel [6] of broad hydrogen lines in the auroral spectrum. 
The broadening is due to a Dopj)ler effect which would be expected 
if the lines were produced by fast incoming protons capturing elec- 
trons from atmospheric atoms, and if some of these electrons were 
captured into excited states. Radiation due to transitions from these 
states would account for the observations. 




Altitude above sea level (km) 

Figure 4. — Observed decrease of magnetic field with height off the coast of Peru, using a 
rocket-borne magnetometer. The sudden increase in the rate of fall of the field at 93 
km. indicates the presence of a current layer at that altitude. 

There are a great number of problems still unsolved concerning 
auroral phenomena. In some way the protons in the corpuscular 
stream must be speeded up near the earth; if they had throughout 
their journey the speed calculated from the time delay of auroral 
onset they would not be energetic enough to penetrate to the levels at 
which the auroral hydrogen lines are observed. The reason for the 
concentration of auroral effects in a narrow belt of latitude in each 
hemisphere is also far from clear. 

The night air-glow is a more or less steady emission of light from 
the sky during the night, apart, of course, from starlight and any 
moonlight. It is much weaker than the aurora and involves much less 
energy. It is almost certainly due to transfer of some of the energy 
stored up from sunlight during the day into radiation in the far 



188 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

infrared, visible, and near ultraviolet. Thus, during the day the sun- 
light dissociates molecular oxygen. Partial recombination of tlie re- 
sulting atoms during the night will involve processes in which light 
may be emitted. It is of interest to note that the yellow D lines of 
sodium are quite prominent in the air-glow spectrum, even though the 
proportion of sodium at its maximum concentration is less than 10"* of 
the main atmospheric constituents. The intensity of emission is so 
high that Bates has suggested that an observable enhancement might 
be achieved by conveying a can of sodium to the required altitude by 
rocket and dispersing the metal there. A day air-glow has been ob- 
served by rocket methods at altitudes above 40 km. where scattered 
light from the lower atmosphere is sufficiently weak. Detailed spec- 
troscopic observation of this air-glow has not yet been carried out. 

REFERENCES 

1. Wekkes, K., and Wilkes, M. V., Proc. Roy. Soc, A, vol. 192, p. 80, 1947. 

2. HoYLE, F., and Bates, D. R., Terr. Magn. Atmos. Electr., vol. 53, p. 51, 1948. 

3. Stewaet, Balfoue, Encyclopedia Britannica, 9th ed., vol. 16, p. 181. 

4. SiNGEB, S. F., Maple, E., and Bovpen, W. A., Joiirn. Geophys. Res., vol. 56, 

p. 265, 1951. 

5. Gartlein, C. W., Phys. Rev., vol. 81, p. 463, 1951. 

6. Meinel, a. B., Phys. Rev., vol. 80, p. 1096, 1950. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as 
long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Pub- 
lications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, 25, D. C. 



Solar Influence on the Earth ^ 



By John W. Evans 

Superintendent, Upper Air Research Observatory 

Air Force Cambridge Research Center 

Sacramento Peak 

Sunspot, N. Mex. 



Although the sun is the great provider of the necessities for life, 
most of us know rather little about it simply because it is so thoroughly 
reliable. We do not have to worry about whether we shall receive 
our daily quota of solar energy tomorrow. A very long history of 
unfailing performance justifies the belief that we shall. In fact, an 
astronomer friend recently offered to bet me a dollar at odds of 10 to 
1 that the sun would still be shining 1 billion years from now. He 
made the proviso that he should hold the stakes. After computing 
the interest on $1 for 1 billion years, I decided that this was a mere 
swindle. The winning of the bet pales into insignificance compared 
to the compound interest on a dollar for a billion years — a figure so 
large that even our Government has not found a name for it. 

Since the sun is so reliable we devote our worries to more worthy 
problems, such as whether it will rain in Texas, or whether the Sen- 
ators can beat the Yankees, since these matters are highly uncertain. 
There are, however, a few peculiar sun worshipers residing on moun- 
tain peaks and at other odd places, surrounded by telescopes and spec- 
troscopes and radio gadgets, who take the sun very seriously. They 
are finding that in some things the sun is very capricious and quite 
unreliable. Until recently this had so little effect on our daily lives 
that we were not even aware of it. But with the rising complexity 
of our teclinology and our dependence on delicate devices that are 
\Tilnerable to small disturbances, we are becoming increasingly aware 
of the effects of these minor solar variations, although most of us do 
not recognize the sun as the root of our troubles. It is these minor 
solar variations and their terrestrial effects that concern us here . 

I am sure you are familiar with the effect of fading on your radios. 
Usually stations come in strong and clear from tremendous distances, 



' Twenty-first James Arthur lecture, given under the auspices of the Smith- 
sonian Institution on May 27, 1954. 

189 



190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

but once in a while the signal fades out and all you can get are local 
stations within 100 miles or so. While parents of teenage youngsters 
may regard this as a blessing, the pilot of a transatlantic airplane is 
apt to disagree. Whether we like it or not, this fading-out of distant 
radio stations is traceable to the sun. What happens is something 
like this : 

Radio waves are like light. If not disturbed they go in straight 
lines, and if nothing interfered, we could not receive them any farther 
away than we can see. In fact, the short high-frequency waves of 
television have this property, which is the reason a given television 
station can serve only a small area within 25 or 30 miles. The longer 
waves of the broadcast band however, can be transmitted to the other 
side of the world. To get there, they have to travel around the curve 
of the earth in anything but a straight line-of-sight path. This is 
possible because the ionosphere serves as a highly reflecting mirror to 
long radio waves, which bounce back and forth between it and the 
ground and are thus conducted around the curve of the earth. 

That word "ionosphere" is very important in any explanation of 
solar terrestrial effects. In broadest terms, the ionosphere is that 
portion of our upper atmosphere which is capable of conducting 
electricity. Its normal lower limit is some 60 miles above the ground, 
where the density of the air is less than a millionth of that at ground 
level, and it extends upward to about 130 miles. 

The atmosphere at all heights is composed of myriads of tiny par- 
ticles known as molecules. There are so many of them that when 
you take a good deep breath you can be quite sure of inhaling a couple 
of hundred that were breathed out by Patrick Henry in uttering the 
words "Give me Liberty or give me death," and have since been thor- 
oughly mixed with the whole atmosphere of the earth. The thought 
would perhaps be a little unappetizing if Patrick Henry had not 
used that breath so effectively. Its significance is simply that there 
are about 200 times as many molecules in a single breath as there are 
lungfuls of air in the whole of the earth's atmosphere. What I am 
trying to say is that the molecules of the atmosphere are tiny and 
numerous. Furthermore they are complicated. They are made up 
usually of two atoms of oxygen or nitrogen, held together by electric 
bonds. AVlien one of these molecules is given a sufficient jolt it comes 
apart. Sometimes the two atoms are separated. Wlien this happens 
one of the atoms may steal an electron from the other, and both then 
have an electric charge. Sometimes the jolt merely removes an elec- 
tron without otherwise disturbing the molecule. Either of these 
processes is called ionization. The particles resulting from ionization 
are known as ions and free electrons. Their important property is 
that they carry a small electric charge and therefore can be pushed 
around by electric forces, unlike normal molecules. 



SOLAR INFLUENCE ON EARTH — EVANS 191 

The ionosphere gets its name and its electrical conductivity from 
the fact that it contains an appreciable fraction of ions and free elec- 
trons. As many as one molecule in every 10,000 may be ionized. It 
is actually the free electrons that reflect long radio ^Yaves. The process 
of reflection is too complicated to explain here, but I will ask you to 
endure a crude analogy. Think of the electrons in the ionosphere as 
an ionospheric screen, like a window screen. The fineness of the mesh 
of our screen is proportional to the number of electrons per cubic 
inch in the ionosphere. Wlien radio waves hit the screen, they are 
caught and thrown back if they are larger than the mesh, but if they 
are smaller they pass through between the electrons, so to speak, to 
outer space. Thus the long waves of the broadcast band are re- 
flected, and can be received over long distances around the curve of 
the earth, while the short TV waves are not reflected, but penetrate 
through the ionospheric screen, for the benefit of inhabitants of arti- 
ficial earth satellites and the moon. The ionospheric screen has one 
other property that is directly responsible for radio fading. Under 
normal conditions there is good reflection from it when it is in the 
high atmosphere where the electrons have room to shake themselves 
without too much interference from neighboring molecules. But if 
for some reason the screen is pushed down to low levels where there 
may be a hundred times as many molecules per cubic inch, the screen 
gets clogged and the radio waves are neither reflected nor trans- 
mitted. They are absorbed, and distant stations fade out. The energy 
of the radio waves stops right there and goes into warming the air. 
I am sure this fact is not generally known in the halls of Congress. If 
it were, and our legislators realized that under special conditions they 
could warm the air of the upper atmosphere while warming that in 
their immediate vicinity, the condition of the ionosphere would be fixed 
by law, since any presidential veto would surely be overridden. 

While the fading of radio signals is the most familiar solar effect, 
whether we recognize it as such or not, there are others which I shall 
discuss presently. The noteworthy fact is that all of them can be 
traced to disturbances in the ionosphere, and we may justly conclude 
that the primary solar terrestrial effect from which all observable 
effects stem, is the influence of the sun on the ionosphere. Now, just 
what is this influence ? 

The thing that counts in the ionosphere is the concentration of ions — 
the number of ions per cubic inch — at various heights above the 
ground. Normal concentrations vary from about 1 to 3 million ions 
per cubic inch at different heights. 

I have already mentioned that ions are formed when air molecules 
are subjected to sufficiently large jolts. In ordinary terms, the re- 
quired jolt is very small. In climbing an inch up the wall a fly 
expends enough energy to ionize a thousand billion molecules. But 



192 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

it is not altogether easy to ionize a molecule in spite of this. The 
trick is to concentrate the little bit of energy required on a single 
molecule. You cannot do it by swinging a baseball bat. The energy 
is there all right, but it gets spread around among billions of billions 
of molecules, and no single one of them gets enough to break it in two. 
The only two things that possess the required energy in sufficiently 
compact packages to be concentrated on single molecules are the bul- 
lets of ultraviolet light known as quanta, and fast-traveling atomic 
particles of several types, which are known collectively as corpuscles. 
The very existence of the ionosphere is sure evidence that the earth 
is being showered continuously with ultraviolet quanta or corpuscles 
or both. Until recently neither of these agents could be observed 
directly. They are completely absorbed in the process of forming 
the ionosphere and never reach the ground. To them the upper at- 
mosphere is like a brick wall, and both ultraviolet quanta and cor- 
puscles expend their energy on it in the process of forming ions. How- 
ever, even though they were unseen, there were several good reasons 
for supposing that both corpuscles and quanta were involved in the 
formation of the ionosphere and that they all came from the sun. It 
did not take a Sherlock Holmes to pin it on the sim. There simply 
is no other likely source handy. Furthermore, it was observed that 
certain events on the sun were often followed by sudden large changes 
in the ionosphere with such perfect timing that there could be no 
doubt of a connection. The timing also gave the clue to the nature 
of the disturbing agents. When a flare flashed up on the solar sur- 
face, the ionosphere on the daylit side of the earth responded instantly. 
In other words, the disturbing agent had made the trip from the sun 
to the earth along a straight-line path and with the same speed as 
the light by which we saw the flare, and must therefore be ultraviolet 
quanta. Then about a day later a second and more prolonged iono- 
spheric disturbance would set in all over the world long after the flare 
had died out and disappeared. The one-day time lag was interpreted 
as the time required for a shower of material corpuscles to travel the 
93,000,000 miles from the sun. They were electrically charged and 
guided in to all parts of the earth by the earth's magnetic field. 
Hence, both quanta and corpuscles were involved. All this is a 
nice example of the power of careful step-by-step reasoning to ex- 
plain phenomena that cannot be directly observed. First it was 
observed that radio waves were transmitted around the world, and 
Kennelly and Heaviside explained this by assuming the existence 
of the ionosphere. Then radio experiments were devised to spe- 
cifically test this assumption — and it proved correct. It was realized 
that the ionosphere can be maintained only by incoming ultraviolet 
quanta or corpuscles; and again it was assumed that the sun must 



SOLAR INFLUENCE ON EARTH — EVANS 193 

be the source of these. Finally this was confirmed by observation of 
disturbances on the sun and corresponding disturbances in the iono- 
sphere. Having got this far we have the main outlines of the 
activity without ever having seen it. As I have described it, it 
appears much less complicated than it actually was. The scientific 
method rarely runs smoothly. A theory is advanced. Investigators 
think it over and give it up, and think some more and give it up some 
more, until some key discovery convinces them that it is a good idea, 
or quite impossible. Then they are ready for the next step. 

In the case of the ionosphere, theory has received brilliant observa- 
tional confirmation in the last few years. Scientists of the Naval Re- 
search Laboratory and of the University of Colorado have sent rockets 
into the ionosphere from the Wliite Sands Proving Grounds. They 
unequivocally recorded the ultraviolet radiation from the sun for the 
first time. A year or so earlier the incoming corpuscles were also ob- 
served directly at the Yerkes Observatory and at Cornell by spectro- 
scopic means, and their velocities were found to vary from a few hun- 
dred to more than 2,000 miles/sec. 

I think that by now you have anticipated me in seeing how the 
ionosphere is disturbed by the sun. Its existence is due to a steady 
stream of ultraviolet quanta and corpuscles from the sun. The in- 
tensity of this stream frequently varies violently. These variations 
cause changes in the density of ions at different heights in the iono- 
sphere. To go back to our analogy, the height and mesh of the 
ionospheric screen is drastically altered, and detectable effects imme- 
diately follow. Wlien the ionosphere is pushed downward into the 
denser regions of the atmosphere it becomes clogged and absorbs all 
radio signals, and we have fading. 

Radio fading, however, is by no means the only result of abnormal 
ionospheric conditions. I have discussed it in detail because it prob- 
ably affects more people than any of the others. The others are equally 
interesting, and usually result from some other kind of change than 
a depression of the ionospheric net into the gummy denser air of the 
lower levels. 

The magnetic field of the earth is often affected, quite independently 
of radio fading. The compass needle points a trifle off its normal di- 
rection, and the strength of the field increases or decreases slightly. 
This is referred to as a magnetic storm. Without delicate magnetom- 
eters we would be quite unaware of the most violent magnetic storms 
because they stimulate none of our five senses. One manifestation 
of a magnetic storm, however, is often beautifully visible. This is 
the aurora. Ordinarily the aurora is confined to a narrow zone around 
the earth in the polar regions. It is a glow high in the ionosphere 
produced by corpuscular bombardment from the sun, like the bom- 



194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

bardment of neon in a neon sign by electrically propelled ions. The 
solar particles consist mostly of free protons and electrons, and are 
therefore electrically charged. As they approach the earth they en- 
ter its magnetic field which guides them in and concentrates them 
in the auroral zones around the north and south magnetic poles. Their 
collisions with air molecules excite the molecules to luminescence, 
which we see as the aurora. This is the normal state of affairs. When 
some disturbance on the sun sends out corpuscles at higher speed, they 
are less easily controlled by the terrestrial magnetic field, and strike 
the ionosphere in lower latitudes. Thus occasionally the aurora 
borealis will be seen from the latitude of Washington. Wlien that 
happens you can be quite sure that a vigorous magnetic storm is in 
progress. 

The exact ionospheric mechanism responsible for magnetic storms 
is still a matter of debate. However, we can say this much. Just as 
the earth's field exerts forces on the incoming solar corpuscles, equal 
and opposite forces are exerted on the field. This is an example of a 
very fundamental physical law which is so strikingly used in rocket 
propulsion. Next time you swing a cat by the tail, note that the cat 
pulls on you as hard as you pull on him. It is the same thing. The 
earth's magnetic field is quite elastic, and when the solar corpuscles 
give it a shove it gets pushed out of shape. If you will picture the 
earth's field as a vast framework of invisible elastic wires held to- 
gether by the mysterious bonds that we call a field, it will not be too 
difficult to see that a distortion of this framework at one point will 
mean accommodating distortions throughout the whole, and at any 
one place the direction and tension of the wires will be changed. You 
would get a similar effect if you dropped a stone on a drumhead of 
balloon rubber. The distortion is greatest near the stone, but the 
shape of the drumhead is changed at every point. This distortion 
in the earth's field is what we detect as a magnetic storm and, like 
the rubber of the drumhead, it is different at different locations on 
the earth although all locations are affected simultaneously. Since 
the magnetic storms and abnormal aurorae are apparently caused by 
the same solar particles, the two always occur together. I hope there 
are no representatives of the Department of Terrestrial Magnetism 
present tonight. If there are, I fear for my scientific scalp, after such 
a simplification of a very complex matter. 

One other solar effect is worth our attention. Occasionally when 
we have an especially intense disturbance in the ionosphere, it pro- 
duces such powerful electric fields at ground level that wire communi- 
cations fail. Transcontinental teletypes go completely crazy, and 
the messages received are nothing but a meaningless jumble of letters, 
which sometimes come through when no message is being sent at all. 



SOLAR INFLUENCE ON EARTH — EVANS 195 

Fortunately such spectacular disturbances are fairly rare and quite 
short-lived. 

Because of the practical importance of ionospheric disturbances, 
particularly to radio communication, many agencies of the Govern- 
ment and industry are intensely interested in doing something about 
them. A few years ago I could have remarked that you cannot con- 
trol the ionosphere any more than you can control the weather, but 
that would be an anachronism in this day of cloud-seeding experi- 
ments. The next best thing to making the ionosphere behave itself 
is to be able to predict its fits of misbehavior. This takes us directly 
to the cause of all ionospheric disturbances, the sun. 

It is for this reason that the geophysics directorate of the Air 
Force Cambridge Research Center has just built a modern solar ob- 
servatory at Sunspot, N. Mex., on Sacramento Peak, at 9,000 feet alti- 
tude. "We know a lot about the sun, but the more we learn, the more we 
find that we ought to know and do not. In particular, we have learned 
of a few isolated kinds of solar activities that are associated with 
ionospheric storms, but so far no one has advanced an acceptable 
theory of how these activities produce the ultraviolet radiation and 
blasts of corpuscles that affect the earth. We are like the puppy who 
observes that the baby's explorations in the clothes closet are often 
followed by corporal punishment for Fido, an innocent bystander, 
with no apparent causal connection. 

In order to save myself numerous small digressions later, I shall 
indulge in a long one now to describe the general characteristics of the 
sun. It is the central body of the solar system, at a distance of 93 mil- 
lion miles from the earth. It contains 99.8 percent of the material of 
the whole solar system, and to the outside observer the planets and 
comets revolving around it would appear as interesting but inconse- 
quential trifles in comparison. The sun's diameter is over a hundred 
times that of the earth and its weight is 332,000 times as great. It is 
composed entirely of gas, because the temperature of even its coolest 
parts is so high that the most refractory materials are vaporized. Al- 
though it contains oxygen, no combustion takes place because of the 
same high temperature. Combustion is the chemical combination of 
atoms of oxygen with other atoms. The hot atoms of the solar gas 
move so fast and collide so violently that any two that happen to stick 
together are instantly knocked apart. Hence the heat and light of the 
sun are not due to any burning process. Instead, the source of energy 
is a thermonuclear reaction in the deep interior, which converts 4 mil- 
lion tons of the solar mass into energy every second. If this seems 
like an alarming rate of expenditure of solar material, I can only advise 
a relaxed attitude. The sun has enough expendable material to keep 
going at the same rate for a number of billions of years. 



196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Although the ultimate source of energy is deep inside the sun, it is 
the leakage of this energy through the surface that interests us tonight 
in considering solar terrestrial effects. The surface has a temperature 
of about 10,000° F. It radiates a remarkably steady flow of light, the 
measurement of which has been a major part of the distinguished 
career of Dr. Abbot of the Smithsonian. He found that, within 1 or 
2 percent, the solar energy that can be observed from the ground is 
constant. This is in marked contrast to the invisible ultraviolet radia- 
tions which maintain and are absorbed in the ionosphere. 

If we look at the sun through a telescope at almost any time we 
find its surface pocked with sunspots, great dark circular patches that 
may be anything up to 100,000 miles in diameter. We know that they 
are cooler than the surrounding regions and they are the seats of stu- 
pendous magnetic fields, but their cause is a mystery. The most re- 
markable thing about the sunspots is the cyclic variation in their 
numbers. The sunspot cycle averages about II14 years. At maxi- 
mum, many spots are always visible on the solar disk, but at sunspot 
minimum no spots will be seen for days at a time. 

When we equip our telescope with various spectroscopic devices, we 
can detect other solar features otherwise invisible. I have already 
mentioned the flares. They are especially important to students of 
solar terrestrial effects, because, of all solar activities, they are most 
clearly connected with the most violent and troublesome of iono- 
spheric disturbances. A flare is a very impressive sight. Somewhere 
near a sunspot it suddenly appears as a small bright point of light on 
the solar surface. In a matter of minutes it flashes up to its maximum 
size and brightness, and then slowly fades away to invisibility in half 
an hour or so. Its full size is about like that of the sunspots, and may 
be anything from the smallest detectable up to 100,000 miles across. In 
visible light a flare is a puny thing, which cannot be seen at all without 
special optical aids that reject most of the light except that of the 
flare. This appearance, however, grossly belies the true potency of 
a flare, as the visible tip of an iceberg projecting above the sea belies the 
great bulk below the surface. It is clear that the great bulk of flare 
energy consists of ultraviolet quanta and corpuscles. This is evident 
from the reaction of our ionosphere. When a flare appears a new 
ionospheric screen very suddenly develops at a height of only about 
40 miles, where the interference of air molecules becomes so great that 
no reflection of radio waves is possible. We have a radio f adeout. An 
estimate of the energy required shows that the ultraviolet output of a 
large flare, which might have an area of one-thousandth of the visible 
hemisphere of the sun, is comparable with the output of the whole nor- 
mal sun. We conclude that each square inch of the flare would be 
1,000 times as bright as a square inch of the normal solar surface, if 
we could see it in ultraviolet light. 



SOLAR INFLUENCE ON EARTH — EVANS 197 

We can draw a further conclusion. The low-level ionization pro- 
duced by flare radiation appears without any serious changes in the 
normal ionosphere above 60 miles. In other words, the normal iono- 
sphere, which is completely opaque to the ultraviolet of the normal 
sun, fails to absorb the quanta from the flare. They penetrate it quite 
freely and are absorbed in the process of producing ions at the 40-mile 
level. Hence there must be something different about flare quanta. 
The difference can only be a difference in wavelength of the radiation. 
If we were talking about visible light we would simply call it a dif- 
ference in color, and I am going to refer to this wavelength difference 
as a difference in ultraviolet color. 

The atmosphere of the earth contains many different kinds of mole- 
cules, and the percentage abundance of the different kinds varies with 
height above the ground. Each kind is an efficient absorber of some 
particular ultraviolet color. It absorbs this color and becomes ionized 
in doing so. The ultraviolet radiation from the normal sun encoun- 
ters molecules of a kind that absorb its particular color at levels above 
60 miles. They are not the kind of molecules that absorb radiation 
of the different ultraviolet color emitted by flares, however. There- 
fore this radiation penetrates to a lower level where it finds molecules 
of another kind, which forthwith absorb it and produce ions. Just 
which kinds of molecules and which colors are involved is still rather 
uncertain. 

In addition to terrific bursts of ultra\aolet quanta, flares emit equally 
impressive showers of corpuscles, consisting largely of free protons 
and electrons. They travel along at a rate of 1,000 miles/sec, and 
arrive at the earth about a day after the flare outburst. As they 
impinge on the earth's magnetic field they twist it slightly out of 
shape, and some of them are guided down into the ionosphere. We 
then have a lively magnetic storm, and aurorae appear in lower-than- 
normal latitudes. 

Although the most spectacular of solar disturbances, flares are not 
the only ones to affect the ionosphere. The sunspots themselves appear 
to emit corpuscles that induce magnetic storms. At least we blame 
the sunspots because the magnetic storms tend to occur a couple of 
days after a large spot has rotated past the center of the solar disk. 
However, we have to be careful here, since we cannot actually see the 
corpuscles leaving the spots. A sunspot is only the most visible feature 
of a much broader disturbance which we simply call an active solar^ 
region. It is the fever thermometer which indicates a deep-seated dis- 
order. Refined observations show the presence of flares, active prom- 
inences (which I shall describe presently), regions of intense bright- 
ness in the immediately overlying corona, and brighter-than-normal 
patches on the solar surface known as faculae and plages. All these 
features share in the 11-year sunspot cycle. Wliether it is the sunspot 



198 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

itself that showers us with corpuscles, or some other member of the 
retinue, remains to be determined, and for the present we should 
perhaps just attribute the resulting magnetic storms to the active 
regions. 

More mysterious are the periodic magnetic storms that are clearly 
solar in origin, but seem to have nothing to do with any distinguishable 
solar feature. They come in series, starting with a small magnetic 
disturbance. Twenty-seven days later comes a larger disturbance, 
and others at 27-day intervals. Successive storms build up in inten- 
sity and then gradually die out. The whole series will include per- 
haps a dozen recurrences at 27-day intervals. Yet the most refined 
observational techniques have revealed nothing on the sun that 
appears to accompany these storms. The evidence for their solar 
origin is difficult to avoid, however. The 27-day period is exactly the 
rotation period of the sun. It appears, therefore, that every time a 
certain patch on the solar surface rotates into a position facing the 
earth, we are treated to a shower of corpuscles. Just to have a name, 
we call such a patch an M-region. If the equality of the solar-rotation 
period and the recurrence of M-region storms were the only evidence 
we might put it down to a remarkable coincidence. But this is not 
all. The frequency of M-region storm sequences unmistakably shares 
in the sunspot cycle. The odd thing about it is that we have most of 
these magnetic storms around sunspot minima. It appears that the 
M-regions on the sun do not get along well with sunspots or active 
regions. We have specific confirmation of this. If we arbitrarily as- 
sume that the M-region is the j)atch of solar surface that was squarely 
at the center of the solar disk when the corpuscular shower started on 
its trip from sun to earth, we find that the M-regions avoid the neigh- 
borhoods of sunspots like the plague. Furthermore if a sunspot de- 
v'elops in the M-region, the corresponding series of magnetic storms 
abruptly ends. So we have learned that an M-region is a portion of 
the solar surface that appears perfectly normal in every other respect 
to our definitely limited perceptions. One of our efforts at Sacra- 
mento Peak is to sharpen our perception enough to identify the 
M-regions. 

I have mentioned prominences in active regions. Of all the objects 
of astronomy the solar prominences are to me the most beautiful. In 
variety and form they resemble the clouds of our own atmosphere, 
but they are, of course, a very different animal indeed. We see them 
best at the edge of the sun, where they stand up like scarlet flames 
above the solar surface in beautiful contrast against the dark sky. 
Aside from their esthetic appeal, they are fascinating objects from 
the scientific point of view, largely because they are so hard to 
understand. 



SOLAR INFLUENCE ON EARTH — EVANS 199 

A prominence is a great cloud of hydrogen and helium with small 
impurities of iron, sodium, magnesium, etc. It is usually between 
20,000 and 100,000 miles high, with exceptional specimens that rise 
to a million miles. The variety and complexity of their structure and 
motions defy description, although there are a few characteristic 
patterns that serve to classify them. They are too faint to be seen in 
an ordinary telescope because the glare of scattered light in our atmos- 
phere next to the edge of the sun is so intense that it drowns out the 
prominences. Fortunately the prominences resemble radio stations in 
emitting only light of a specific wavelength, while the scattered light 
is composed of all wavelengths. Just as we can pick out one radio 
station by tuning to its wavelength and rejecting all others, we can 
see the prominences through an appropriate filter tuned to their wave- 
length. In rejecting the other wavelengths, we reject 99.9 percent 
of the scattered light, and the prominences become visible. The par- 
ticular red wavelength we usually use is that emitted by hydrogen 
atoms, so, strictly speaking, we see only the hydrogen in the 
prominences. 

The most puzzling thing about the prominences is their motion, or 
sometimes their lack of motion. At first sight you may not be sur- 
prised to see a motionless prominence apparently floating above the 
solar surface. You are used to seeing clouds floating around overhead 
without feeling impelled to report them to the newspapers. The 
startling thing about the prominences is that there is no air for them 
to float in. They appear to stay there with nothing whatever to hold 
them up against the sun's gravity, which is 27 times stronger than 
terrestrial gravity. The prominences have every appearance of com- 
plete ignorance of gravity, whether they are stationary clouds or 
rapidly moving streamers. We can measure prominence motions quite 
accurately, and we can calculate how the material ought to move in 
the sun's gravitational field. Almost invariably the observed motion 
has no resemblance whatever to the calculated motion. 

For explanation we have two choices. We either sacrifice the uni- 
versal validity of Newton's law of gravitation, or we assume that 
there are other forces on the sun that oppose gravitation, and some- 
times exactly balance it. The first alternative is extremely repug- 
nant. It would mean that in prominences we have found the only 
example of matter in the known universe that is not subject to New- 
ton's law that every particle attracts every other particle in the uni- 
verse. The second alternative seems difficult, but we think we are 
making progress. 

The matter composing prominences is highly ionized. Not just 1 
atom out of every 10,000, as in our ionosphere, but more like 99 out of 
every 100. From where we sit on the earth we may regard this as a 

326511—55 14 



200 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

peculiar condition, but if we look at the universe as a whole we realize 
that it is not peculiar at all. Fully half of the material universe is 
just as highly ionized. We just do not realize what an odd place we 
live in, or that it is this oddity that makes life possible. The ioniza- 
tion in prominences greatly changes the character of the forces that 
can act on them, other than the action of gravity, which is a function 
only of mass or weight, regardless of ionization. Ionized materials 
are conductors of electricity, which means that they are subjected to 
forces in changing electric and magnetic fields. It is this property of 
conductors that accounts for the power of an electric motor. 

Now we know that the sun is a place of very strong magnetic fields. 
They have perfectly measurable effects on the spectrum by means of 
which we can determine their strength. The fields are especially 
strong and active near the sunspots, and it is precisely here that we 
find the most active prominences. We can say quite definitely that the 
solar magnetic fields must have a profound effect on the motion of 
ionized prominence material. The problem now is to determine 
whether the fields could account for the observed motions. It turns 
out to be a very complicated problem about which there is still a great 
deal of lively controversy among astronomers. The general conclu- 
sion at present is that solar magnetism almost certainly controls the 
motion and support of prominences, but the details of how it is done 
will not be unraveled very soon. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as 
long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Pub- 
lications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D. C. 



Fifty Years of Flying Progress* 



By Grover Loening 

Member, Advisory Board 
National Air Museum, Smithsonian Institution 



[With 13 plates] 



Fifty years is, actually, not a very long time in the development of 
one of humanity's greatest means of transportation, but when we stop 
to appraise aircraft development in this period, and compare the first 
machine to fly successfully, the Wright "Kitty Hawk," with our latest 
supersonic airplanes, we see the most striking progress in speed. A 
gain of well over 1,200 miles an hour in 50 years would average about 
24 miles an hour faster each year. Curiously enough, this is approxi- 
mately the rate of progress that actually did take place for several 
years after 1909. The Wright Model B and the original Curtiss with 
a speed of about 40 miles an hour in 1909 were outclassed in 1910 when 
Leblanc in a Bleriot raised the record to 68 milees an hour. In 1911 
the Nieuport did 82 miles an hour. In 1912 the Deperdussin raised 
this to 108. And so on through the years. The official records today 
are, of course, not yet inclusive of the actual speeds made by super- 
sonic aircraft because of the secrecy that is maintained. But this 
much we can say — that if the ever-increasing speed records of the years 
continue, by the year 2003 aircraft will be flying at 2,400 miles an hour ! 
While it is true that the present supersonic aircraft are merely research 
airplanes of very small load capacity, more practical load-carrying 
airplanes will quickly catch up with the initial record-breaker. For 
example, when subsonic jet aircraft single-seater fighters of recent 
British and American development, like the Meteors and the Lockheed 
Shooting Stars, arrived at the 500-mile-an-hour class, it was not very 
long before the Comet airliner carrying over 36 passengers was doing 
the same thing. So it will only be a few years before load-carrying 
aircraft will be equaling and exceeding the speed of the present super- 
sonic airplanes. 



* Reprinted, with some revisions, by permission from the Journal of the Frank- 
lin Institute, vol. 256, No. 6, December 1953. 

201 



202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

SLOWER LANDING SPEED 

"Wliile speed gain is the outstanding evidence of our great progress 
in these 50 years, the lack of attainment of low speed for landing is 
our outstanding failure. The very early Wright airplanes had so much 
parasite drag resistance, so much area with accompanying skin fric- 
tion, and yet so light a total weight that they could literally be almost 
dived at a landing spot and then flared out. So it was possible for 
landings to be made in very restricted areas with high obstacles. One 
of the outstanding feats in this category was accomplished when Harry 
Atwood landed his Wright Model B on the south lawn of the White 
House in 1912. 

Early Wright, Curtiss, and Bleriot exhibition teams flew constantly 
and with great ease off racetracks and even ball parks throughout those 
exciting exhibition years (1909 to the beginning of World War I) — 
when the public was being entertained by aircraft to so great a degree, 
and when the real business of the industry was chiefly building for 
exhibition work and racing and only in a minor way for military 
usage. Of course, the wing loadings of aircraft in those days were 
around 2 to 4 pounds a square foot for biplanes and 3 to 6 pounds a 
square foot for monoplanes, and the light loading had much to do with 
this early small-field landing ability. But we have a great loss in 
aircraft value as of today in having failed to maintain this ability, and 
failing to such an alarming extent that 10,000-foot runways are now 
considered too short. Landing speeds of 200 miles an hour are seri- 
ously talked of, and the aircraft engineering fraternity, in too large 
measure, ignores the heavy burden on practical progress and usage 
that aircraft development is placing on itself by not realizing that we 
have failed miserably in advancing the technique of slower landing 
speeds and shorter-field usage. The Wrights showed a way we seem 
loath to follow. 

To be sure, there has been some development of high-lift devices, 
a very useful development of wing flaps and air brakes without which 
even the present fast airplanes would be so hopelessly handicapped 
that there would not be enough real estate around to take care of them. 
Also, of course, we have the development of the helicopter of recent 
years to offset somewhat our failure to extend downward the speed 
range of fixed-wing aircraft. But the helicopter has the very serious 
deficiency of being a slow aircraft — very useful to be sure, but by no 
means the final answer until it can carry loads very much faster. 

The economics of air transport show that the requirements for large 
landing areas cannot possibly be increased with the growth that air- 
craft usage should have in the coming years. This would impose too 
great a burden on the operator who pays a landing fee, or on the tax- 
payer for fields built with Government funds. We must reverse the 



FIFTY YEARS OF FLYING PROGRESS — LOENING 203 

trend and endeavor to reduce landing speeds every time we increase 
flying speeds. 

Interestingly enough, one of the later activities of Orville Wright 
around 1923 to 1925, when he had more or less retired, was to spend a 
good deal of time testing in his wind tunnel the various series of flaps 
and high-lift devices, which are now exhibited at the Franklin Insti- 
tute. The ordinary split flap was patented by Orville Wright in 1924, 
though very few people realize that he was the inventor of this device. 
The Guggenheim Aircraft Competition came along in 1929 and was 
designed to be a great stimulus to the progress of more useful and 
slower-landing aircraft. At least two very advanced aircraft, the Cur- 
tiss Tanager and the Handley-Page, very convincingly demonstrated 
their short-field abilities on both landing and takeoff, and yet for almost 
10 years the aeronautical engineering fraternity took only a slight in- 
terest in what these demonstrations had shown. The early develop- 
ment and progress of the Fowler Flap were also delayed and stretched 
out over many more years than was necessary by this curious blindness 
in judgment or delay in appreciation by aircraft engineers and their 
customers of the supreme necessity of doing everything to reduce land- 
ing speeds. 

VERTICAL FLYING 

At the present time it appears that this need in aircraft development 
is receiving an increasing amount of serious attention, and there are 
several areas in which activity may result in quite striking develop- 
ment. The term "vertical flying" is at last coming into serious use 
in technical discussions. Designs for vertical takeoff merely on the 
basis of Jet, rocket, or turboprop thrust being greater than the weight, 
are actively being worked on. Then, too, there is a field of promise 
in a configuration using an "induced" high- velocity flow over the wing 
by a disposition of jet-engine intakes and exhaust to give an artificial 
flow in the slow-speed regime which would greatly increase the lift, 
even while standing still, greatly reduce the length of takeoff and 
the landing speed, and yet be readily converted from "lift flow" to pure 
"thrust flow" for very-high-speed flying. 

It was Henry Ford, Sr., who, when discussing aircraft design almost 
30 years ago, criticized aircraft engineering very severely for failing to 
realize that aircraft would really not attain their full development until 
their power "was used to land with." 

SPEED RANGE BY BETTER WING SECTIONS 

During this first era of aviation progress, wing sections have been 
much improved in the range between high lift and low lift and low 
drag, but there is still much that could be achieved. Speed range (the 



204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

ratio of high speed to landing speed) in the first 10 years of flying de- 
velopment was considered extremely good if it got as high as two-to- 
one. In the course of the ensuing 20 years, owing to improvement in 
wing sections and finally in the addition of wing flaps, slots, and other 
high-lift developments, there finally resulted a raising of the speed 
range to about six- or seven-to-one. In further developments, our fig- 
ures are somewhat obscured by having to pass through the sonic range. 
However, an interesting development of the last few years, which can- 
not yet be sufficiently appraised, is the Delta wing configuration. The 
range between low-speed high-lift and high-speed low-drag appears to 
be materially further extended with this new design. 

There are other developmental areas in which the extension of the 
speed range to higher speeds for usefulness and still lower speeds for 
practicality, are being worked on. 

ASSISTED TAKEOFF, AND SKIS 

Only recently have we begun to hark back to one of the original con- 
ceptions of the Wrights. 

The 1903 Wright plane was launched into the air from a small cart, 
riding on a rail, with no assist to the takeoff, thus saving the weight of 
a landing gear and the expense of fixing a smooth field. Later, partic- 
ularly in the many 1905 flights, the Wrights used a catapult to assist 
on the takeoffs, and eventually added wheels to their planes. A long 
and painful development of landing gears followed through the ensu- 
ing 40 years, but today, interestingly enough, we are beginning to 
return to the Wrights' concept of assistance in takeoff with the use 
of the catapult or rocket "jato." There is even being contemplated the 
use of jet engines of small sizes to give an assist in takeoff and, in re- 
verse, to give a retarding influence on landing. So we see a deter- 
mined effort being made in aviation engineering to develop a com- 
promise between the highest possible flying speed for utility and the 
lowest possible landing speed for practicality. 

The importance of high speed in aircraft has been proved. There 
is nothing more useless than a slow airplane. The slow cruising speed 
of the helicopter is a serious drawback to the success of this type of air 
transport and must in some way be overcome if this craft is to be of 
practical use. The economics of air transport, the efficiency of the 
military plane, and the practical usefulness of the privately owned 
plane demand the development of ever higher speeds. And yet, as 
pointed out, this development is hampered by the takeoff and landing 
limitations of our present-day planes. A realization of this is dawn- 
ing on our brilliant aircraft engineers, with the result that more atten- 
tion is being given to assisted takeoffs and catapults. When we look 
into this field we find some very surprising conditions. 



FIFTY YEARS OF FLYING PROGRESS — LOENING 205 

For example, the Air Force (particularly in the operation of attack 
and assault planes), requires very short takeoffs and landings. And 
yet, in spite of the successful development by the Navy of catapult 
launching and the deck-landing hook and wire-engaging retarding 
mechanisms, it has only lately occurred to the air force of any nation to 
adopt these devices on the ground instead of worrying about long, clear 
runways. If there was ever an argument for a united air force, it is 
this one. On the other hand, if we had had a united air force, we prob- 
ably never would have had the carriers with their landing traps and 
catapult takeoffs. 

Now several advanced designers are beginning to think in terms of 
fast aircraft of much lighter weight (because they carry no landing 
gear to speak of) that will take off on a field from either a catapult or 
a powered launching car and v»^ill land on simple skis that will have no 
extensive roll and no need for brakes, which get too hot. Thus we see 
the 50-year cycle reverse itself and return to the original concept of the 
Wrights. 

WATER-BASED AIRCRAFT 

While the familiar concrete runway is accepted with a certain 
finality by everyone, the history of aviation development raises a ques- 
tion as to its necessity. We have prospects, as indicated above, of de- 
veloping characteristics in aircraft that will allow the fastest load- 
carrying plane to land more or less vertically in restricted areas. But 
in the past few years we have seen the development of the jet engine, by 
vrhich we have ceased to require the use of a propeller. And this has 
reopened the entire question of whether we should not use water sur- 
faces for aircraft takeoff. In 1907 the Wrights had the same idea, and 
in preparation for some flying around Norfolk over a fleet review, 
which they were then contemplating, they began work on pontoons to 
carry their plane. One of the difficulties they encountered was the in- 
compatibility of propeller tips and spray. The necessity of having 
the propellers clear the water has plagued seaplane designers ever 
since. It is the one item that has caused seaplanes always to be so 
heavy and ungainly, and to have greater head resistance, and therefore 
at a disadvantage in comparison to land planes. 

With the advent of the jet engine all this has changed, and water- 
based aircraft have gained certain advantages over land-based air- 
craft. The jet-engine seaplane does not need any great water clear- 
ance for propellers, merely a configuration in which the jet intake is 
reasonably free of spray. The jet exhaust is no problem at all. As a 
result, the configuration of a jet-driven water-based airplane can not 
only be fully as streamlined as a land airplane, but is lighter in weight 
because of not having to carry the heavy landing gear — so difficult to 
stow, anyhow, in the thin wings required by high speed. In addition. 



206 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

the development of retractible flexible skis for water landing is achiev- 
ing a practicality that is very evident, as they enable seaplanes to alight 
on and take off from rough water. This was previously difficult to ac- 
complish with rigid alighting gear. Demonstrations of the success 
of this concept have been given in a most convincing manner by 
the first public flights of Earl Osborn's Edo ski amphibian, the 
Convair Sea Dart XF2Y-1, and the AU-American ski-equipped land 
planes. 

Lest we get too set in our ways of thinking that airplane usage means 
land-field usage, let us look back into history for a moment and realize 
that there were two or three eras in which the speed records of the 
world could only be won by airplanes that were launched off the water. 
This was importantly emphasized in the Schneider Cup ^ races, the 
international events that were held in the late 1920's and early 1930's, 
in which the speed of land planes was far outclassed by seaplanes 
because of their ability to take off from and land on the water surface 
under conditions of loading and distance that no land area would 
permit of. Very much the same thing exists today. If our wing sec- 
tions and high-lift devices were still to limit us to a speed range of 
somewhere around 6 or 7 to 1 between flying speed and landing speed, 
and if we wished to build the very fastest airplane to win a race from 
a surface takeoff (not air launching) , we should have to design a plane 
that would land and take off at 300 miles an hour and would achieve 
1,800 to 2,000 miles an hour in the air. This admittedly would be a 
difficult achievement on a land-field, noncatapult takeoff; but, inter- 
estingly enough, it would not be difficult for a water-ski seaplane take- 
off and landing. The only reason that this concept is not as sure-fire 
as it would have been 25 years ago is that a plane achieving any such 
high velocity would probably have a thrust greater than the weight 
and therefore could take off vertically. But it would still have to 
land; and the vertical takeoff would be considerably easier on the 
water and much less dusty for the observers. We can only sum up 
this aspect of our 50 years of progress by pointing out that there is 
still much thinking, devising, and developing to be done on the funda- 
mental problem of how we take off from the earth and how^ we get 
back to it. 

WING STRUCTURES 

The configuration of the wing structures of aircraft, from the origi- 
nal Pratt-truss Wright biplane, has gone through quite a cycle of de- 
velopment, befogged by an enormous amount of prejudice, misunder- 
standing, stubbornness, and lack of sound engineering foresight. In- 

' This trophy was established in 1913 by Jacques Schneider, of France, as an 
incentive for high-speed seaplane development. 



FIFTY YEARS OF FLYESTG PROGRESS — LOENING 207 

stead of facing the problem of efficient lift and how it could best be 
obtained, aviators and constructors, from the very start to well into 
the 1930's, got themselves wound up in so much argument as to the rela- 
tive merit of biplanes and monoplanes that it took no less than 40 years 
to clear up what was very obvious from the beginning. The reason 
the Wrights went to the biplane was perfectly sound and had to do 
with the question of bracing, weight limitations, and a good deal of 
engineering convenience. But with the development of higher speeds 
and more power, the reason for the biplane vanished. But the biplane 
did not ! And throughout the era from 1918 to over a score of years 
thereafter, the biplane form of wing structure stubbornly persisted. 
Finally, however, this gave way to the situation we have today — no 
biplanes in the air in the world except a few old-time crates towing 
advertising banners ! The author derives a very distinct gratification 
from this because in 1918 he was convinced of the correctness of the 
monoplane type, but was almost alone in this country in advocating it. 
He found the acceptance of the monoplane by the aircraft industry's 
customers so difficult and so surrounded with prejudice that in 1923 
he was forced to make the Loening amphibian a biplane for no other 
reason than to sell it. The greater lift of the monoplane owing to the 
lack of interference of one wing with another, the considerably lower 
head resistance, and the lighter weight, won out in the end over the 
fancied objections that had been harped upon for so long. The unten- 
able antimonoplane sales talk was that a monoplane was unstable, 
structurally weak, and too "tricky" in maneuvers. The simplicity of 
the monoplane structure insured its survival — particularly of the type, 
referred to above, with a simple strut bracing, which type 20 years 
later came into very general usage and still is seen in the Cessnas, Cubs, 
Beavers, and others. Of course, eventually the struts have been super- 
seded by the cantilever monoplane structure that is now so nearly uni- 
versal. A quotation is given here from a treatise on this subject by 
the author, "Revival of the Monoplane," written in 1919, which per- 
haps has a message to give : 

Aeroplane designing is merely a series of extraordinary compromises that have 
to be hit upon with a rare judgment because in general all aeroplane features 
fight each other — weight needed for strength reduces flying performances, roomi- 
ness for convenience requires a sacrifice to head resistance, etc., so that the com- 
petent engineer must constantly balance these opposing features. If he brings 
out a triplane, let us say, just for the sake of making it a triplane because other 
machines are biplanes, without having very clear and logical reasons for doing 
so, he fails in his true mission. The ideal features that we are looking for in 
the aeroplane structure itself are (1) light weight — the most important of all — 
(2) the combination on a machine of stability (meaning ability of the plane to 
stay where it is put along its course), combined with easy controllability (which 
means a quick, positive response to all controls) — this is perhaps the hardest 
feature to develop in a new plane; (3) the desirability of simplicity of construe- 



208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

tion, which almost always brings light weight with it, and finally (4) we seek 
a low head resistance, obviously, so as to get our best performances. 

No matter what purpose an aeroplane is designed for, be it a large bomber or 
a small scout, a waste of weight is little short of criminal in aeroplane design, 
and complication, it is well known, is usually evidence of bad engineering. In 
fact, the whole essence of really good engineering is simplicity. 

But it took the aircraft industry almost 30 years to learn the above 
lessons in the configuration of wing structures. And yet such lessons 
and precepts were exactly what Orville Wright taught. 

ENGINE LOCATION 

Engine location was, of course, another problem of configuration for 
aircraft designers, which followed prejudices and fashion a good deal 
more than sound engineering sense should have allowed in these 50 
years. The pusher installations at the beginning were convenient 
structurally and supposedly more efficient. In the case of the single- 
propeller direct-drive installations like Curtiss, this was later to be 
proved wrong, because the efficiency lost by the added resistance of the 
faster tractor slipstream on the fuselage was regained by added lift 
on the wings. This had apparently been appreciated much earlier in 
Europe than in this country, because in the 1907- to- 1914 era the de- 
velopment of the tractor fuselage airplane in Europe was far ahead 
of what we had in this country. It is remarkable that in the case of 
both Wright and Curtiss we persisted so long in this unsatisfactory 
pusher type because, of course, of the great danger apparent in many 
minor accidents resulting in fatalities. The engine often fell out on 
the crew, owing to the light weight structures that were then needed 
in order to get into the air at all. Probably one of the reasons for this 
"pusher" persistence was that for exhibition flying there was great 
merit in the public's being able to see the aviator completely exposed, 
sitting on his perch at the leading edge of the wing with no protection 
from the wind whatever. Even Orville Wright succumbed to the 
tractor configuration when in 1916 he brought out his INIodel H en- 
closed-fuselage tractor type, which Howard Kinehart flew around the 
country so successfully. In seaplanes, the pusher type quickly suc- 
cumbed because of the spray thrown into the propeller, and the tractor 
type was even more advantageous there. Then, of course, as we pro- 
gressed, we got to multimotored aircraft with tlie engines at first 
mounted between the biplane wings (a most inefficient configuration), 
and then finally with the engines as we see them today mounted inte- 
gral on the monoplane wing. It is interesting to note that this effi- 
cient, correct, and simple type has survived as an element of configura- 
tion on aircraft for almost 30 years. In this country, of course, the 
early Boeing 247-D and the Martin bombers of the early 1930's were 
the eminently successful forerunners of this later-to-become-universal 



FIFTY YEARS OF FLYING PROGRESS — LOENING 209 

twin-engine configuration. Before the arrival at this final type we also 
went through a trimotor period, notably the ubiquitous Ford trimotor 
and the Fokker. But this type did not last except for the Ford, which 
was more widely used and was probably one of the most successful 
airplanes in history. 

STABILITY AND CONTROLS 

Fifty years have done much to the airplane's control surface, 
stability, and tail configuration. Reexamining the early Wright plane 
from the standpoint of our present-day knowledge, we must first pay 
tribute to the acrobatic balancing skill necessary in order to keep the 
airplane flying straight. The "Kitty Hawk" was controllable but 
completely devoid of any natural stability. This applied also to the 
early Curtiss planes. And while on the subject of controls and sta- 
bility, we should make it clear that it was in this area that the Wright 
invention really counted so effectively. 

To begin with, the Wrights, and Spratt who aided them, made a 
discovery in their early gliding experiments for which ample credit is 
never given. They were definitely and distinctly the first ones in the 
art, here or in Europe (and this included Lilienthal and, of course, 
Langley), who found out and verified by test that the center of pres- 
sure on a curved surface moves hachward when the angle of incidence 
is decreased. All other experimenters had thought that the center of 
pressure acted as it did on flat plates and moved forward. The 
Wrights also verified this in their wind-tunnel experiments, and inci- 
dentally Wilbur Wright mentions this in his famous paper before the 
Western Society of Engineers in 1901. Center of pressure location 
enters with fundamental importance into the question of stability, 
because the knowledge of this enabled the Wrights to balance their 
plane correctly and to arrange their longitudinal up-and-down con- 
trol to operate properly. Then, of course, the basic Wright invention 
on which they received their patent was their lateral control of roll. 
They put into practice the realization that up-and-down control and 
side-to-side control by rudder were not enough for successful flying, 
and that a third control was needed to balance laterally in roll. 

The Wrights first incorporated lateral control in their airplanes 
by the well-known lateral twisting or warping of the wings. When 
they did this, of course, the side that had the greater angle of inci- 
dence, and would therefore raise up, would at the same time have a 
greater drag and therefore would require compensating rudder action. 
This was where the Wrights combined the directional yaw and the 
lateral-roll control into one movement, although in later types of other 
constructors like Curtiss, pilots learned to do tliis as part of their train- 
ing. As we progressed into the tractor type with a fuselage, the fuse- 



210 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

lage gave considerable directional fin area, and the very earliest 
enclosed-fuselage types like the Nieuport had a very low, small, bal- 
anced rudder at the end, so that they still required a great deal of 
coordinating of the lateral and directional controls. But as our 60 
years progress, we find the combined rudder and fin area becoming 
larger and higher, until finally in the modern airplane of today it is 
so high that much lateral balance is obtained from the rudder and fin 
alone, and the necessity for coordination has more or less ceased to 
exist. We have excellent planes that turn very nicely on ailerons and 
equally good ones that are corrected laterally on fin and rudder alone. 
Tail structure has also gone through an ever-lengthening develop- 
ment. The "Kitty Hawk" was very short-tailed. Of course, it had 
the front elevator, a questionably stable layout, which was in short 
order replaced by a horizontal tail in the rear with a much greater 
lever arm. But as we come down through the years we find tails of 
good aircraft becoming longer and longer, and larger and higher, and 
as we are about to wonder when this will stop, along comes the Delta 
plane design and brings us abruptly to a halt. Of course modern 
wing sections have been developed that have a very much smaller and 
more stable center- of -pressure movement. And this makes the shorter 
Delta wing configuration much more feasible. The Delta wing still 
looks as if it will continue to have large fin and rudder areas with con- 
siderable leverage around the center of gravity. 

There have been two body configuration developments through 
these years slightly different from the natural growth of the covered 
fuselage into the enclosed cabin, and into the large, roomy interior 
bodies of the airliners of today. One, of course, is the Burnelli and 
Northrup project of carrying the loads in a very thick wing. In the 
case of the Northrup, this was carried even further into the "flying 
wing" type where there was no tail at all. But as the "flying wing" 
developed, what amounted to tails began to be added to the wing 
tips, giving lateral and directional control leverage around the center 
of gravity, introducing the complication of added surfaces and weight 
of controls and their stresses. Whether for this or other reasons, the 
tailless airplane has not survived, and not even in the case of the Delta 
wing can we consider that it has survived because the successful Deltas 
have such large fin and rudder tails. The other differing configura- 
tion is the twin-boom holding tail structures such as in the Fairchild 
Packet and the new Nord Atlas in France. There is a sound rea- 
son for this twin-boom design that has nothing to do with either con- 
trols or stability. It is the excellent way in which this configuration 
allows for a cargo-carrying body with accessible doors very conven- 
iently arranged for loading or parachute load dropping. The excel- 
lence of this configuration is all the more accentuated when one 



FIFTY YEARS OF FLYING PROGRESS — LOENING 211 

contemplates other cargo types that have a large swept-up fuselage 
with a very high tail, the strength of the fuselage being tremendously 
weakened by the cutting out of a large door right in the center where 
torsional strength is needed. To resist tail flutter and carry the high- 
tail-twisting loads, a very heavy fuselage framing is needed to make up 
for the door-hole weakening. 

As soon as the wing-warping lateral-control system used by the 
Wrights and by Bleriot disclosed how it weakened the wing structure 
and what heavy loads it put on the control system, it gave way to the 
use, at first, of separate surfaces in between the two wings, like the early 
Curtiss ailerons and the ailerons that Glenn Martin mounted on his 
first and very successful tractor airplane. In the first few years of 
flying development, even the elevators and the rudders were quite 
widely used in a balanced single-surface form. Then when these gave 
way to the fixed stabilizer and trailing elevator and to the fixed fin and 
trailing rudder, it was not long — about 1909— before Moore-Brabizon 
in England, Farman in France, and several others both in Europe and 
America obtained their lateral control from hinged flaps cut out of the 
wing tip. These controls have survived ever since, and had every 
right to continue to survive as they were eminently correct and prac- 
tical and were easily modified to have mass or aerodynamic balances so 
that they could grow to large size and still be workable. 

However, as soon as we entered the transsonic and supersonic area 
of flight, aircraft controls by movable hinged-surface areas became 
open to a great deal of question. Lateral control had already been 
toyed with in the form of spoilers that would reduce the lift on one 
side only. But the problem of control in the supersonic region still 
remains. It is fairly certain now that control by hinged flap is apt 
to be superseded by something else. 

Although we are principally concerned here with our 50 years of 
fixed-wing aircraft development, control and stability problems are 
plaguing helicopter development to a very considerable degree. It 
may be that helicopters will have to adopt a three-rotor system giving 
three points of control, like the two wings and the fixed tail of the 
Wright airplane, and then merely vary the thrust of the rotors against 
each other to get any combination of control forces around the three 
axes. 

LANDING GEARS 

The landing gears of aircraft have gone through a complete cycle in 
these 50 years. The Wrights started with skids alone, and the classiest 
new designs of aircraft today again look like skids alone. The story 
of this metamorphosis is about like this : The Wrights started with 
skids alone, because their feeble craft could not carry the added weight 
of wheels, nor had it enough horsepower to overcome the wheel friction, 



212 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

and the landing on skis was simple and effective and short. Then, 
as their power grew greater and the Model B developed from the 
original 12-horsepower to the 30-horsepower class and their power 
loading went down to 40 pounds a horsepower, wheels were feasible 
and were merely added to the then-existing skids. Then for many 
years landing gears of airplanes all over the world, with one out- 
standing exception, were always a combination of wheels and skids, 
the theory being that if the wheels failed, the skids would save the 
works. The one outstanding exception was Bleriot in France who 
never had any use for skids. In those early days we soon discovered 
that many a landing resulted in an accident, not because the wheels 
failed, but because the skids broke, dug into the ground, and turned 
the airplane over. So some of us here proposed and put into effect 
the simple 2-wheel and tail-skid landing gear which was lirst intro- 
duced at North Island by the author in 1913 and incorporated with a 
great saving in weight on several then-existing Army training planes. 
By placing the wheels reasonably forward, nosing-over tendencies 
were avoided, skids ceased to break, and this type of landing gear be- 
came standard for the next 30 years. Then there started to come into 
wider usage the presently widely used 3-wheel gear with nose wheel 
forward and the two main wheels aft of the center of gravity. This 
"level" type is of course very practical and effective and will continue 
to last for some time. But meanwhile advances continue, and the next 
step in landing gears is going to be either a catapult track or a dolly 
truck for takeoff with the airplane equipped only with skids to land 
on. To be sure, these skids will wear out after many landings, but so 
do tires. By doing away with the wheel and the tire we not only 
shorten the landing, but we do away with complicated braking sys- 
tems and with the heavy weight of wheels and, what is even more 
serious, the difficulty of stowing wheels in the thin wings that our 
higher-speed regimes now demand. Of course there is another ad- 
vantage — the ski landing gear can take off from water, can land 
on snow, can land on mud, and if we finally do get to vertical-take- 
off aircraft, as we are very likely to soon and in great quantities, the 
wheel gear will disappear except for small rollers for convenience in 
handling on the ground. And thus we will get back to the ski-equipped 
airplane that the Wrights started with 50 years ago. 

During the landing-gear development of this era, it is surprising to 
note how tardy and stubborn and backward most aircraft constructors 
were in adopting retractible landing-gear configurations to improve 
their performance. It is safe to say that had it not been for the de- 
velopment of the amphibian, which showed the ease with which land- 
ing gears could be retracted, the progi'ess in this area would have been 
even slower. 



FIFTY YEARS OF FLYING PROGRESS — LOENING 213 

POWER-PLANT FORMS 

Engines have gone through many stages of development, with many 
changes in form, until we have finally come to the jet engine — a totally 
different type. Propellers, which may be considered part of the power 
plant, have also undergone many alterations. The Wrights' original 
design was little less than inspired. Even with our present knowledge 
of propellers — our materials of construction, technical skills, and 
methods of manufacture — the Wrights' solution of the problem of 
turning B. t. u.'s of gasoline into effective driving thrust for flying 
cannot be improved upon. Their approach from the correct stand- 
point of considering their blades rotating airfoils, and their calcula- 
tions and method of design are an outstanding tribute to their scien- 
tific knowledge and engineering ability. In this field of design they 
really had very little to go on, except some marine screw-propeller 
theory, much of which they quickly discarded. While they of course 
had a power loss between the engine and the propellers, owing to the 
chain drives and sprockets and extra shaft-bearing frictions, this was 
all more than made up for by the fact that their two large propellers 
were given a very high order of efficiency at their flight speed of 30 to 
40 miles an hour. This they could never have obtained if there had 
been only one small direct-drive propeller on their little 12-horsepower 
engine. Also, the Wrights had the good sense to eliminate torque as 
an added complication to their stability and control problems by hav- 
ing their propellers turn in opposite directions. As the years passed, 
however, and the power of engines became ever greater — and the 
power of controls also increased — torque was not too great a problem 
other than on takeoff. But from the efficiency standpoint, the value of 
geared-down, large-diameter propellers is becoming increasingly im- 
pressed upon us even today by such advanced planes as the Helioplane 
of Koppen and Bollinger. 

It was years before the efficiency of variable pitch was recognized 
and adopted in the design of propellers because of the strange unwill- 
ingness of aircraft engineers to see the direction progress was taking, 
even though the signposts were so clear. The propeller construction 
of the Wrights was of wood with fabric covering to protect the wood 
from splitting too easily when hit with stones from a field. These 
wooden propellers were soon found to suffer from humidity and other 
variables so they were gradually succeeded by metal, first a steel hub 
with aluminum blades, and then steel blades; and lately there have 
been some new plastic developments of great interest. The Wrights 
started out with an engine in a flat pattern. Then they put their four 
cylinders into an upright model with the crankshaft low. In Europe 
a start was being made on the first radial air-cooled engine. Next 
came the tremendously successful Gnome rotary engine, and then, 



214 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

both in Europe and in America, the large radial air-cooled engine, 
pioneered in America by Charles L. Lawrance. During development 
in the use of the water-cooled upright engine, like the Liberty, it 
became increasingly apparent that whereas the Wrights had good 
reason for the upright engine in order to have their chain-drive mount 
on the wing, the later water-cooled tractor types of aircraft should 
have started out right then and there as inverted engines with the 
crankshaft high, in order to give maximum propeller clearance for 
minimum body height. 

The problem of radiator cooling was not solved until the advent 
of the air-cooled engine. The disadvantage of the liquid-cooled engine 
was especially evident in war planes ; one bullet hitting the radiator 
could wreck the whole mechanism, whereas several cylinders of an air- 
cooled engine could be damaged without causing the engine to stop at 
once. Through the years radiators assumed all manner of shapes, 
sizes, and configurations; they were placed in front of the engine, 
behind the engine, above the engine, slung underneath, formed into 
wing surface contours, and so on. The Wrights started out with a 
simple vertical combination of standpipes that had a large cooling 
area for the water volume and — a very important item — a large gravity 
head over the water pump. The weight of the water-cooling system 
was mitigated somewhat in later years by the use of chemicals for 
cooling, but the extra plumbing and the extra drag always remained. 
There were many sighs of relief when air-cooled engines came into 
use, and an even greater sense of relief now that we have entered into 
the jet era, with a simple, easy-to-install power plant. 

MATERIALS AND CONSTRUCTION 

The materials used in construction of aircraft have, of course, varied 
considerably through the years. At first silver spruce was used by 
the Wrights and others in wing spars, struts, ribs, etc. ; ash was used 
for the skids as it was a much harder wood. But the generally unsatis- 
factory nature of wood — the difficulty of getting pieces of the same 
weight and even of the same strength that could be relied on, and 
weather changes — all affecting the strength or alignment of the struc- 
ture, were headaches that quite naturally led, both in Europe and in 
this country, to the consideration of metal construction. At first this 
was thought to be too heavy, but it was not long before it was discov- 
ered that very thin high-alloy steel tubings gave a weight ratio to their 
strength that was satisfactory. At first the joints were made with 
fittings, and later were brazed and soldered ; then the Fokker type of 
welded-tube construction came into wide usage, particularly in the 
framework of fuselage and tail surfaces. Wing surfaces were covered 
with oiled silk or rubberized fabric, but both of these materials were 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Loening 



Plate 1 




I. I III' \\ri,i.'lu "Kittv Haw L M) inik's an luuii in l'''()3. 




2. Tlie Douglas "Skyrocket"- — 1,230 miles an hour 50 years later. 
(Photograph courtesy of Douglas Aircraft Co.. Inc.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Loening 



Plate 2 




1. The Wright Model A of 1909, with canoe attached for Hudson-Fulton flights over New 
York harbor. Skid landing gear, no wheels, no rear horizontal tail. 




"->()'> Curtiss biplanr. JMijine back of pilot, interplane ailerons, : 
controls, three-wheel and skid landing gear, and rear elevators. 



loke 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Loening 



PLATE 3 




1 I I.: r'li" i\\ri:..l , 



Tractor engine location, vvaipiiiy wuil 
rear elevators and tail. 




2. The Curtiss Tanager, winner of the Guggenheim Safc-Aircral't Conipelitinn of 1929. 
Outboard ailerons on lower wings, complete slots and flaps. This plane had b\' tar the 
best speed range up to that time. 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Loening 



Plate 4 




1. The world's-rccord supermarinc seaplane (l':>2'>). Necessary propeller clearance and 
high center of gravity made this a heavy, awkward plane, with greatly added head 
resistance. 




2. Convair Sea Dart. Jet engines and skis accuinplish this change from an awkward Huat 
seaplane to a sleek supersonic design that suffers no disadvantage from being water-based, 
and has many advantages. 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Locning 



Plate 5 




1. 'I'lu' 1 ,1 icinii'j 111! nil ipiaiic 1 1\ 



i'Ms. riic first rigid strut-braced wiiiL.' structure, nrit widely 
used until 20 \ears later. 




2. 'I'hc Loenintr Air Yacht of 1921, Collier 'rrophy winner. The nioimplane structure was 
Strong, simple, and efficient, but not popular enouyh iov acceptance at the time. 



Smithsonian Report. 1954.— Loening 



Plate 6 




1. The Loening 0L8 amphibian. This widely used biplane was typical of accepted wing 
structure in the decade 1920-1930. It weighed 200 pounds more than a monoplane would 
have, and had a speed of 15 miles an hour less. 




2. The 1909-1912 Curtiss pusher. The engine and radiator were aimed directly at the 

pilot in case of a crash. 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Loening 



Plate 7 




1. The early Wright Model A (1S09), with engine to the side of the pilot, and vertica 

radiator. 




2. An early French nino\-atiun that marked the start of an era, the Astra tractor of 1911, 
with Wright biplane wings on a covered fuselage, and Renault tractor engine and 
propeller. 



Smithsonian Reoort, 1954. — Loening 



Plate 8 



■ 


1 

\ 

in 


^ 


■ 

• 


*N II M 1^, 


^ 


r 




::sJsB^^^^K^^Ki *^^B^K I 1 


■n 


!^0W^wHIHP 




1 


j 





1. America's first lii_'lil;. Micussliil ir.iLicii- t\pr. llir (ilniii Mailiii iiaiinir- pl.iiir -li I'M 
Note useless skids and nose wheels on the landing gear; also ailerons between the wings. 




2. The Uandley-Page of World War 1. 'I'his widely used twin-engine plane typifies the 
configuration of engine between the wings at this early stage. 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Loening 



Plate 9 




1. Engine location gone mad. 'I'lu; l)(J.\ Dornicr 12-ciii,'liir ll\ mil 1.,,ji .,1 ili, ruv\\ 1930's. 




2. Farman 1910-1912 puslicr biplane showing the trailing-edge ailerons (instead ui warpini 
wings), forward and aft elev'ator. Note also skid landing gear. 



Smithsonian Report. 1954.- Loening 



Plate 10 




1. An earlv Boeing trainint; plaiK'. XmuImw naUln . sin.ill liii,>li. mi i all UmikiIi, iu> stabilizer. 
This was typical of the 1910-1914 era. 




m 




[Ws 



^\r^^ 



■^IS^fS^ 



2. This 1913 Curtiss tractor had a t\pical landing gear of skids and wheels. On a hard 
landing, the skids woiiKl break and turn the plane over. 



Smithsonian Report. 1934. — Loening 



Plate 1 1 





Typical of tail-surface control developnicnt arc these views of the Eoeiiij; 1j-17 bomber. 
The upper one shows the original, and the lower one the final model at the end of World 
War II, 6 years later — a constant increase in the fin area and rudder height. 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Loening 



PLATE 12 




1. The first American simple two-whccl, no-forward-skid landing gear shown licre was built 
by the author in San Diego in late 1913, and was later adopted for all Army aircraft. 




2. The practical nn 



of this feature on land planes. 



■1 .Ul.ip 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Loening 



PLATE 13 




1. The Junkers all-melal aircraft 



if 1920-1930 was the direct forerunner of present-day- 
plane construction. 




2. Forty years ago this highly streamlined cantilever-wing Antoinette was a forerunner of 
present-day construction, but at the time, the design was ignored. 



FIFTY YEARS OF FLYING PROGRESS — LOENENG 215 

unsatisfactory as they were subject to tension variations under differ- 
ent weather conditions, so doped linen or cotton was tried. Then ply- 
wood entered the field, the beautiful Antoinette monoplane, built in 
France, being an outstanding example of fine workmanship in the use 
of this material. Whereas plywood was used for the covering of fuse- 
lages, as introduced in the monocoque by Deperdussin in 1912, it was 
not until toward the end of the First World War that Fokker pro- 
duced cantilever wings of thick section with wooden beams and ply- 
wood covering that took the torsional strains. This was a good deal 
of an innovation in aircraft structure and pointed unerringly toward 
the future, but at the time was not adopted very widely. 

These wooden cantilever plywood wings w^ere also subject to 
weathering effects — drying out in the sun, and inability to stand too 
much moisture — and the strength of the glued joints when subjected 
to extensive weathering or vibration was questionable. The fore- 
runner of things to come in aircraft structures was the Junkers all- 
metal cantilever-wnng monoplane made in Germany around 1921 and 
later adopted throughout the world. This was the death knell of the 
wood-frame, wire-braced box kite of the Wrights and their contem- 
poraries like Farman in Europe. But for a period of almost 20 years 
the aircraft industry, at the insistence of their customers, continued to 
build this unsatisfactory type of aircraft, thus delaying the process of 
developing the Strato-Clipper of 1951 from the Junkers of 1921. 

The prejudice against aluminum in structural parts of aircraft was 
very great in the early 1920's. The aluminum alloy Dural was rela- 
tively new, and faith in its characteristic of having the strength of 
steel for one-third of the weight was slow in taking hold. But grad- 
ually it crept into more and more extended use until finally in the vast 
production era of World War II, all-metal Dural riveted and welded 
aircraft construction proved itself in the tool room, in the production 
line, and in combat, so that it eventually became universal. This type 
of construction is threatened today by the advent of magnesium, still 
lighter than aluminum and with many other qualities in its favor ; by 
several different kinds of glass and plastic resin materials that have 
much to recommend them for aircraft structures; and finally by the 
advent of that great new metal, titanium, which lias all the qualities 
needed, but is too scarce for general use. There is no doubt that alloy 
metals for aircraft will, from now on, be subjected to great improve- 
ments and modifications, which might even include some mutation of 
crystalline structures by virtue of atomic radiation or isotope appli- 
cation. 

It is hoped that in the next two or three decades we may see as great 
advancement in the development of light metals for aircraft con- 
struction as has been achieved in the past 30 years. 

326511—55 15 



216 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

CONCLUSION 

Is the development from the Wright "Kitty Hawk" to the airplane 
of today likely to continue, to bring about as great a change in the 
airplane of tomorrow ? With supersonic flight there is the problem 
of the generation of heat which will vitally affect the structure of 
aircraft. 

Many scientific developments in the fields of electronics and gyro- 
scopics that have affected our progress in aeronautics will continue 
to grow in importance. Automatic devices will supplant the human 
skills now required of aviators, and will reduce the fastest and most 
difficult flying to such simplicity that a less highly trained operator 
can handle an airplane as efficiently as the most expert stunt flyer of 
today. The autopilot and automatic stability machinery can fly a 
plane far more accurately than even the best human pilot can. 

We now recognize two objectives in aviation — the short takeoff and 
landing at reduced speed and the highest possible flying speed. With 
the development of vertical rising of aircraft, the need for increasingly 
large and expensive landing fields is done away with. 

One item that has been more or less ignored during the past 50 
years, but which has become a serious problem today, is the outrageous 
noisiness of modern aircraft. The piston-engine airplanes are bad 
enough, but the present jet configurations are even worse. Unless 
something can be done to overcome this, the future development of 
aviation, particularly in the private-vehicle field — will be greatly 
restricted. 

The concept of the Wrights has grown to full stature. It has en- 
dowed mankind with a mobility that was undreamed of. To be sure, 
it has not changed human nature, but it gives promise — by virtue of 
its very terrible potentialities in war — of forcing the peoples of the 
world to find peaceful means of getting along together. In the end, 
the Wrights' hope that this invention might not always be dedicated 
to war may be realized, and the value of their contribution to man's 
progress proved by ever-increasing use of aircraft for peacetime 
pursuits. 



Tektites and the Lost Planet 



By Ralph Stair 

National Bureau of Standards 



[With 4 plates] 



Tektites, or small glass objects from out of the sky, have long been 
of great interest to scientists in many fields. Found in great quantities 
(literally by the million) and in many places over the earth's surface, 
they have often been overlooked or else casually collected and used 
for such things as weapon points by the cave dw^ellers of paleolithic 
times. In Australia during the early gold-rush days, and in Texas, 
where they were popularly known as black diamonds (Barnes, 1940), 
they were widely distributed for use as jewels and ornaments. 

These little glass objects, known as australites in Australia, riza- 
iites in the Philippines, bediasites in Texas, moldavites in Bohemia, 
billitonites in Borneo, and by other names, including Darwin and 
Libyan Desert glass, usually vary in size from a fraction of an ounce 
to almost a jDound in weight. In shape they range from irregular to 
such symmetric forms as buttons, spheres, ovals, pears, dumbbells, 
teardrops, winged bodies, rods, and disks. In color, although the re- 
covered object uually varies from black to a dark shade of green, thin 
polished sections range from nearly clear through various shades of 
green to amber or brown. The specimens found in each locality, usu- 
ally spread over an extended area, as the south half of Australia and 
a number of adjacent islands in the case of the australites, have common 
characteristics that indicate original association or common source. 
Similarly, the chemical and physical resemblances among tektites 
(Suess, F. E., 1914) found in other localities justify their being 
grouped into similar subfamilies such as the moldavites of Bohemia. 

THE COMPOSITION AND ORIGIN OF TEKTITES 

Studies of the compositions and other characteristics of tliese glasses 
have revealed many facts that form the basis for interesting deduc- 
tions regarding their origin. They have a high silica content with 
the major secondary constituents being the oxides of aluminum, iron, 
magnesium, calcium, sodium, and potassium (see table 1) and re- 

217 



218 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 






S 



&Q 





»^ O «H 


■^ 


to 


-fJ a -tJ 


00 <N 


OS 


OO-^r-HCO (^'^OO'H 


05 O CO 


"5) 


iOiO'-<(N fOOO^r-HIN 


Tti (N '^ 


flic 

>> 


n: ,-; ■ ■ 


d (N <-< 


05 


o 

1-4 


JO 












l^ 






to 
CO 


^ 


O ■*! 


^ 


rtH(NCOOO(MiOlOt^OC<l'3 


lO C71 t-- 


fl , 


COQOCOOOlO'-iOO^iO 


Ci (M -* 

oi (N •-; 


CD I> ■ (N 


.y -* 


00 


a> 


^ 






t-i 






<A 






P 






M 




CO t^ 


«^ 


CO^ If005C0t^O(>1(Nt^ 


I^ ■* 00 


-1-2 
1- 


l-^CO lOliOr-HCOOOCOO 


CO CO -^ 


O Oi 1 1-; T-i C^ ■ CO 


d ci rA 


S""* 


00 1 


o 


"o 






s 










t^ (N 


CO 

Is 


OOt^C001->*'-(t^(MO— < 


a lo Oi 


t^cococ0'-io-*ajoi>o 


■-< CO Tf 


I>^ CO ■ CO >-! ■ '-^ i-H 


d <m' ^ 


1> r-i 


o 


^ 




T-H 


0) 






pq 






to 

.1 




CO 




O CO 




OCO iNiOC^COiOOOO 


o ■* -^ 


'3 


(N-H lC0T-HTj<-*ll-HC<ia3'-l 


(M ^ UO 


2cc 






(N CO 1 lO (N <N rH (N 


d (N T-J 


o 


t^ ■-< 1 


o 


-« 




r— < 


c 






1— 1 






to 




CO 1 


<u 


OC^050JC0005'^CO<NCO 


05 CO 1 




C^iOiOOOC^-^iOOOCCOO 


05 Tf 1 


-H CO ■ CO c4 CO 1-5 <-< 


d (N 1 


.S"^ 


t^ ■-I 


05 1 








•r-( 






^ 






fU 






to 




■^ 1 


a> 


(M00i0-^tNait^(Nt-O(N 


CO lO 1 


OSOO 


O'^OO-'ti'^OCaiMOCT)'* 


t^ '^f 1 


O CO ■ Tf C^ CO rH (N 


d (N 1 


^^ 


r^ —1 


C3 1 


to 






3 






<5 






to 




t^ 


OJ 


ot^coco-^t^cooooooco 


r-H 00 (N 


+3 


eot^iCTt<t>.cot^-*0'0'-i 


N Tt< U5 


d IN * lO CO IN •-h" (N 


d im' 1-! 

o 




















W 










+i 1 1 






CI 1 1 






a> 1 1 






O 1 1 






f-* 1 1 






<u 


to 




Oh I 1 


03 




1 1 J 






c3 1 1 


O 








^^ rZ^ tD (D i_j raw '=^ . «' •« fc-3 


>4 1 



TEKTITES AND THE LOST PLANET — STAIR 219 

semble in composition neither any igneous rock structure (Barnes, 
1940) of the earth (they differ radically from obsidian) nor that of 
any glass produced since the beginning of glass manufacture. Al- 
though certain sedimentary rocks within the earth's crust approxi- 
mate their composition it is generally agreed that no natural heat 
source has existed upon this earth within recent geologic time capable 
of producing temperatures sufficiently high to fuse this type of glass, 
since its melting point is nearly 200° C. above that of presently manu- 
factured Pyrex glasses. 

These facts, together with the many special shapes encountered, 
definitely indicate but do not prove a flight through the earth's atmos- 
phere at a velocity sufficient to ablate their surfaces. Although it 
has been noted that "The meteoric theory of the origin of tektites is 
certainly one that appeals to the imagination, but in reality there 
is not a single item of fact that can be adduced in its favor" (Spencer, 
1933), the winged types, in particular, present an unchallengeable 
proof that the glass surface has been heated to the liquid phase and 
simply blown off the rear of the specimen to form a circular apron 
at its base. Plate 1, figure 1, shows a fragment of such a tektite picked 
up in Australia. Many stony meteorites also show a glasslike flow 
over their surfaces. Hence, tektites must also be travelers from out 
of space. The big questions are : where did they come from ? and how 
and when and where were they formed ? 

Ordinary meteorites arrive at the earth's surface in all manner of 
sizes and shapes. They arrive at various speeds not exceeding about 
50 miles per second, and hence must be following elliptical paths 
(McKinley, 1951) and are a part of our solar system. Their com- 
positions vary in unbroken sequence from that of nickel-iron to stone 
that is similar to certain types of terrestrial rocks. (No meteorite, 
however, is anything like a granite or the acidic volcanic rocks.) 
These and other observations made during the past century support 
the suggestion made by Roisse in 1850 (see reference) that a study 
of meteorites should result in an understanding of the earth's structure 
and composition (Brown and Patterson, 1948), since they possibly 
came from a former planet having physical and chemical character- 
istics similar to that of the earth. Today few scientists doubt the hy- 
pothesis that meteorites were once a part of a parent planet (or 
planets) which circulated around the sun in a fashion similar to the 
observed motions of the remaining planets of our solar system, 

Tektites differ from other meteorites in two important ways. First, 
they are of glass — a very special glass — having a high melting point, 
a low coefficient of expansion, and a high durability, therefore they 
differ markedly in composition from other meteoric material. Sec- 
ond, they are found only in small pieces and usually in special shapes. 



220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Let US try to answer the question of their formation first — that is, 
how and where. Studies of the many meteorites that have landed 
upon the earth, many of which may be observed in various museums 
throughout the world, support the hypothesis that they were once a 
part of a planet. In the development of this parent planet as the 
cosmic dust collected into a body, heat would gradually develop as 
the planet's mass increased (Weizsacker, 1943, 1949). Heating would 
result not only from the dissipation of potential energy in the con- 
traction process and from radioactivity, supplemented by radiant en- 
ergy from the sun, but especially from chemical reactions within the 
planet's body. As a result the planet would become a molten mass 
with an estimated temperature near 3,000° C. (Klotz, 1949; Brown, 
1949) and in which boiling and/or settling processes would result in 
the concentration of the heavier materials in the planet's core with 
lighter and lighter material tending to attain chemical and physical 
equilibrium at higher levels as the various chemical reactions were 
concluded. Thus the lightest substances, the glasses and glassy sili- 
cates, would become concentrated in layers or pools on or near the 
surface of the planet. If the planet had been small, that is of the order 
in size of our moon or the planet Mars, the materials composing it 
would have solidified without appreciable chemical separation (Urey, 
1951a, b), as has been the case with those members of the solar sys- 
tem. Hence, to account for the resulting temperatures and separa- 
tions of the different metal and stony phases (illustrated by the dif- 
ferent types of meteorites) a planet approximating the earth in size 
and general physical and chemical characteristics is required (Brown 
and Patterson, 1948). 

From the above picture we have a planet with a nickel-iron core 
surrounded with troilite (principally ferrous sulfide) and olivine (a 
magnesium and iron silicate) and topped with the glassy silicates and 
glasses. The glasses should be uppermost, that is on or near the sur- 
face. As the planet cooled, the surface would solidify first. After the 
outer crust had been formed volcanic processes similar to those within 
the earth would be expected to be operative. Indeed meteorites in 
various museums clearly show that the process by which they were 
formed was very complex. There was extensive mixing, crushing, 
melting, segregation and remelting. In fact no theory has yet been 
proposed that will account for many of the different structures dis- 
played by polished surfaces of meteorites. 

No sedimentary rocks, such as shales, limestones, etc., nor structures 
proving the presence of any type of plant or animal life have ever 
been observed in any meteorite. That is, no water erosion or organic 
chemical reactions have left traces within any meteoric material. Al- 
though traces of organic acids have been reported in certain carbo- 



TEKTITES AND THE LOST PLANET — STAIR 221 

naceous chondrites, carbon in meteorites is always found to be in the 
inorganic forms of carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, graphite, dia- 
mond, or as amorphous carbon. If this meteoric planet was originally 
located between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter, temperature condi- 
tions would have been such that any water present would necessarily 
have been in the solid state (ice). Therefore surface glass forma- 
tions should have remained somewhat in their original state. The 
fact that some of the sedimentary material near the earth's surface 
approximates the tektite glasses in composition may indicate that 
the surface layer of the earth was once of similar glassy structure 
which became eroded and transformed into sedimentary rocks. 

Tektite glasses, which must have been located somewhere on or near 
the surface of the meteoric planet, have fusing or melting points and 
general physical characteristics in the form of striae, strain, and 
inhomogeneity, which call for a forming temperature between about 
1,500 and 2,500° C. It should be noted at this point that glasses of 
this type are not producible as flash products resulting from a collision 
or short-period heating by any other means. Long periods of time are 
required for the different oxides composing the glass to properly fus'i 
and mix into a more or less homogeneous glass product. During this 
time the temperature must be well above the melting point of the glass. 
Temperatures too high, on the other hand, would vaporize certain 
components of the glass. How^ever, the general character of all the 
tektite glasses indicates incomplete mixing as is to be expected under 
conditions wherein new materials are being constantly added to the 
glass batch. The fact that certain of the alkalies remain within the 
glass is an important consideration in any study of the temperature 
conditions under which the tektites were formed. The presence of 
oxygen in combination with the various metals forming the basic 
structure of the glass serves as conclusive evidence of the existence of 
that element in considerable amount on the meteoric planet at the time 
the tektite glasses were formed. Simulated laboi'atory tests in the 
making or melting of glasses of similar composition (or, better, with 
some of the tektite glasses) should result in very useful information 
regarding the conditions under which they were formed. If the glass 
were heated to higher and higher temperatures certain of the oxides 
would be expected to successively boil off leaving glass of such com- 
positions as to make possible a correlation between the glass composi- 
tion and the temperature conditions under which it was made. 

A study of the spectral transmission of thin slices of tektite glass 
offers a convenient means of obtaining certain information concerning 
their physical and chemical constitution. Many other avenues of in- 
vestigation are awaiting exploration. The transmission curves in the 
ultraviolet, visible, and infrared for some of the tektites are given in 



222 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



figures 1 to 4. The ultraviolet and visible transmissive properties of 
a number of australites (fig. 1) and of a group of bediasites (fig. 2) 




300 



380 



460 540 620 700 

WAVELENGTH, MILLIMICRONS 



780 



860 



Figure 1. — Spectral transmittance of five australites. Sample A from South Australia 
Museum; others from H. H. Nininger. 




300 380 460 540 620 700 

WAVELENGTH, MILLIMICRONS 



780 



860 



Figure 2. — Spectral transmittances of six bediasites from Texas: No. 3, near Muldoun, 
Fayette County; No. 4, eastern portion of Lee County; Nos. 5a, Sb, 5c, and 5d, near 
Bedias, Grimes County. Courtesy of Virgil E. Barnes, University of Texas. 

illustrate the family character of specimens of this glass picked up at 
scattered locations in the Uxo cases. The curves of figures 3 and 4 illus- 
trate the types of variations in transmissive properties which may be 



TEKTITES AND THE LOST PLANET — STAIR 



223 



expected between samples from different tekite falls. An examination 
of these transmission data in relation to the values for chemical com- 
position given in table 1 is an example of just one method of scientific 
investigation into the physical and chemical properties of these glasses. 



100 




300 



380 



460 540 620 700 

WAVELENGTH, MILLIMICRONS 



780 



860 



Figure 3. — Spectral transmittances of seven tektites from various sources: No. 9, a Libyan 
Desert glass from Egypt; No. 8, a moldavite from Radolvibix, Bohemia; No. 6, from 
Empire, Ga.; the others from Texas (see fig. 2). 

DISRUPTION OF THE METEORIC PLANET 

Now that we have the tektite glasses, as well as the other glassy 
silicates, together with the other meteoric material located within a 
planet (or planets) possibly between Mars and Jupiter, what next? 
That is the $64 question. But the planet, if it existed, did break up 
for some reason — but how ? Not because of an atomic or superbomb 
made by intelligent beings — there were none. There could have been 
an atomic explosion, or even a collision with a stray planet from out- 
side our solar system. It is believed, however, that the answer is to 
be found elsewhere. Suppose, for example, that two similar planets 
existed within this region of the solar system — two similar planets 
(rather than dissimilar) because all meteorites indicate a formation 
at the various levels of temperature and pressure that would be ex- 
pected in a single planet wherein equilibrium conditions were attained 
(Brown, 1948; Palmer, 1951) at a single high value at the center. 
These planets would have been acted upon by the giant planet Jupiter 
in such a way that their individual orbits would have been constantly 
changed (Kuiper, 1951) relative to each other and to Jupiter. Under 



224 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



such a situation anything might happen — for example, a collision 
between them would ultimately result, given enough tune. Since the 
solar system had its beginning some 4,000 million years ago, and since 
tests on meteorites and tektites, through a study of their helium and 
argon contents, generally indicate an age for them of less than 100 
million years (Martin, 1953; Paneth, 1952; Suess, Hans E., 1952), it 
appears that at least 3,900 million years were required to produce such 
a collision. During this time the planets would have made hundreds 
of millions of revolutions about the sun and thus would have had an 
opportunity to suffer great orbital changes if only slightly perturbed 
each time the vicinity of Jupiter was approached. 



100 




1000 



2000 3000 

WAVELENGTH, MILLIMICRONS 



4000 



5000 



Figure 4. — Spectral infrared transmittances of five tektites from various sources: No. 8, a 
moldavite; No. 6, a Georgia tektite; Nos. 5a and 5b, Texas bediasites; No. 1, a Philippine 
rizalite. 

Or take another possibility, for example. Suppose there was only 
one planet within this region of the solar system. Again perturba- 
tions by Jupiter would constantly change the planet's path through 
changes in the eccentricity or inclination of its orbit in a manner sim- 
ilar to that in the example for the two planets. Since Jupiter has 
numerous moons (no doubt originally there were many more than at 



TEKTITES AND THE LOST PLANET — STAIR 225 

present, as indicated by the retrograde direction of the outer ones), 
a collision with one of them would have been a reasonable possibility, 
especially since they are distributed over distances many millions of 
miles from the parent planet. Thus in possibly one of tliese ways 
we could have the meteoric planet smashed and its pieces sent flying 
off at various speeds in all directions. Some of the material would be 
expected to become diverted into hyperbolic paths and to leave our 
solar system forever. Other fragments, together with possible moons 
originally associated with the lost planet, would continue to circle 
the sun as meteors, comets, and asteroids in orbits of various sizes, 
eccentricities, and inclinations. Those portions of the planet that 
were thrown into orbits extending to great distances from the sun 
might be expected to collect quantities of various frozen gaseous mate- 
rials such as carbon, nitrogen, ammonia, carbon monoxide, and carbon 
dioxide. Those fragments that were significantly crushed, or even 
shattered, and more or less held together by their mutual gravitational 
attraction, might be expected to collect large amounts of the frozen 
gases and thus be welded into a solid mass which, when it returned 
to the vicinity of the sun, would become a brilliant comet. If suffi- 
cient amount of the frozen gaseous material were volatilized during 
the passage by the sun, the solid portions of the comet might fall apart 
if originally shattered. Such seems to have been the case with a 
number of comets, in particular the brilliant comet of 1882 which left 
the region of the sun as four smaller comets. 

From time to time chunks of the shattered planet would be expected 
to (and do) collide with the earth, the moon, and, presumably, with 
the other planets and satellites of our solar system. The present orbits 
of the meteors, the comets, and the asteroids cannot be expected to 
give any reasonable indication of the original path of the parent planet. 
Although all the components may be assumed to have been at a single 
location within the solar system at the time of the collision, perturba- 
tions by Jupiter and the other bodies of the solar system have changed 
and rechanged their orbits so many times that about the only safe 
assumption to be made is that the original planet (or planets) was in 
an orbit of some shape between Mars and Jupiter. 

Meteor Crater in Arizona is a good example of what happens when 
a meteor (or comet) composed of chunks of nickel-iron collides with 
the earth. The craters on the moon, visible through a small telescope, 
are a pictorial record of such collisions (Baldwin, 1949) through the 
ages on that body. Not all the craters on the moon, however, should 
be credited to collision with fragments of the lost planet which is 
responsible for the meteors, comets, and part or all the asteroids now 
a part of our solar family. Since the age tests on meteorites and 
tektites indicate that these objects have been subjected to tlie cosmic- 



226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

ray intensity in our part of the Millcy Way (our galaxy) for a period 
not exceeding about 100 million years as indicated above, then only 
the newer craters — in general the smaller ones — could have been pro- 
duced by this material. It is suggested that the larger lunar craters, 
which, incidentally, were made during the period when the moon was 
still partly or mostly liquid — that is, during the early history of its 
formation nearly 4,000 million years ago — must have been made by 
the impact of large objects from some other source. A possible and 
logical source of such objects could have been a family of small moons 
once circulating around our earth. Such a hypothesis seems reasonable 
from a number of points of view. Such small moons were not only 
possible, but many were actually formed in the condensation of the 
cosmic dust within our solar system. For example, one of the moons 
of Mars is barely 5 miles in diameter. Other moons are quite small. 
We do not know how many small ones may be circling some of the 
outer planets. There is ample reason to think Jupiter may have lost 
a number of her moons as indicated above, because capture by the sun, 
or collisions, would be more probable in the case of the nonretrograde 
traveling ones. On the other hand, if there should be capture of 
moons, by Jupiter, from the material scattered in a planetary collision 
in the region between Mars and Jupiter, a retrograde direction of revo- 
lution would be expected to be the more probable. In the case of the 
earth's possible original system of moons, the capture of the smaller 
ones by our present satellite would account nicely for its giant size 
relative to that of the earth as compared with the sizes of other moons 
relative to their parent planets. Furthermore, little evidence exists to 
indicate that the earth suffered the extensive bombardment with large 
objects as was the case with the moon, at least during the last 100 
million years since the time the meteoric planet ended up in some 
sort of major catastrophe. However, since at that time the moon 
was apparently in a semiliquid state, the earth was probably still in- 
tensely hot so that any collisions with it would simply result in the 
addition of material which would be integrated throughout the 
earth's structure. Hence, the old and very large craters on the moon 
(the seas) might indicate the accumulation of a vast number of plane- 
toids (Urey, 1951a, b) by the earth in its early history. If such were 
the case (and it is highly possible and even probable), and since these 
could not have come from the lost planet as indicated above, their 
source must have been from an early group of captured moons (by 
the sun) from Jupiter and the other planets, or else from a multitude 
of small planetoids once a part of our solar system and which might 
have been distributed with all sorts of orbital eccentricities more or 
less throughout its limits. 



TEKTITES AND THE LOST PLANET — STAIR 227 

FLIGHT OF THE TEKTITES 

New, how do wc get the millions of small glass tektites from the 
debris of the lost meteoric planet? Why not a few large chunks of 
glass? Well, glass is a fragile article, especially when not well an- 
nealed. It readily breaks upon mechanical or thermal shock. Take, 
for example, a chunk of such material traveling at 40 to 50 miles per 
second, the usual speed of many meteors. When it hits the earth's 
atmosphere an immense amount of heat is developed at its surface. 
The glass suffers both a terrific thermal and mechanical shock. Wliat 
happens? It necessarily flies apart and is scattered in many small 
pieces (Hubbard, Krumrine, and Stair, MS.) over a wide area, usually 
elliptical in shape. The sizes of the many small pieces depend upon 
the coefficient of expansion, the degree of annealing, and other phys- 
ical properties of the material. Indeed, tektites having variations in 
composition are found to vary in size in general accordance with their 
physical characteristics. For example, Libyan Desert glass may be 
found in pieces up to 10 pounds, while a moldavite, having an inter- 
mediate coefficient of expansion, may weigh up to a pound or two, but a 
tektite of relatively high temperature coefficient of expansion, for ex- 
ample an australite or rizalite, is found only in very small pieces us- 
ually weighing not more than an ounce or two. 

A study of other physical characteristics of the various tektites re- 
covered also supports the above deductions. Striae, strain patterns, 
and inhomogeneities indicate that the small pieces were once a part of 
a larger body, since there is a lack of any appreciable distortions near 
the surfaces. Plates 3 and 4 show this characteristic of a number of 
the tektites. This rules out the formation of these glass specimens 
by a fusion of meteoric material while passing near the sun in their 
orbit before landing on the earth. The time of flight through the 
earth's atmosphere is too short for the conduction of sufficient heat 
to melt or soften the specimen deeper than a surface film which, for 
the greater part, is swept away as it is formed. Only in the case of 
some of the australites (whose prehistoric fall was geologically re- 
cent) does any evidence remain to show the two distinct phases (Fen- 
ner, 1949) in the formation of the glass specimen: the central core 
of glass whose structure indicates a more or less annealed condition 
indicating that the glass cooled slowly, and an outer surface having 
high strain and other characteristics indicative of having undergone 
softening at a later stage. All traces of double melting of all the other 
tektites, which fell during various earlier ages, have long since been 
eroded away. As noted above, and shown in plate 1, figure 1, an apron 
is often left on australite specimens that apparently did not rotate 
while in flight. Those that rotate may be expected to assume one of 
the natural forms such as spheres, ovals, buttons, dumbbells, or the 



228 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

like, as the rough edges are smoothened in flight. Additional sculptur- 
ing effects, such as smooth lines and grooves, result from the removal 
of glass in an uneven manner, presumably in part by the particular 
aerodynamical forces brought into play with the object traveling 
at such a high velocity, assisted by a more rapid melting of the 
softer striae within the glass, but later modified greatly by weather- 
ing and chemical reactions and resulting in the removal of quantities 
of glass where the more solvent material or other inhomogeneities oc- 
curred. Plates 1, figure 2, and 2, figure 1, illustrate beautifully the 
character of some of these surface features. Some of them are worm- 
like grooves and navels, often completely interlacing the surface of 
the specimen. This feature is more pronounced in some of the billi- 
tonites (pi. 1, fig. 2) which have probably been buried in moist soil 
for a long time. When examined under low-power magnification 
(about 10) numerous fine surface lines and figures, probably corre- 
sponding with the internal striae (see pis. 3 and 4) of the specimen, 
may be observed both on the outer surface and within the pittings. 

It has been noted that the tektite glasses do not contain inclusions 
of other materials such as are found in many ordinary types of mete- 
orites. Suppose inclusions did occur within the glass. Such material, 
if of fine structure, would have been completely melted and have be- 
come a part of the glass body. If not of fine structure, it would prob- 
ably have had a temperature coefficient of expansion so much differ- 
ent from that of the glass that when the slab of glass containing the 
foreign material hit the atmosphere rupture would occur along the 
dividing surfaces. Furthermore, greater shattering would probably 
result so that the smaller pieces of material would probably either be 
completely disintegrated in flight or else land with all surfaces origi- 
nally containing the two kinds of material being completely obliterated. 
Glass meteorites, composed of softer glasses, which would have a lower 
content of silica and higher amounts of potassium or some of the other 
oxides having high coefficients of thermal expansion, would be expected 
to shatter into much smaller fragments and then to be completely fused, 
possibly vaporized, before landing. Hence, recovery of any soft, low- 
melting type tektite glasses would at best be rather improbable. 

It has been suggested by Nininger (1952) that the tektites are glassy 
material splashed from the moon during the course of a meteoric col- 
lision ( and the resulting explosion ) . The splashing of the moon mate- 
rial cannot be denied, and some of it no doubt eventually reaches the 
earth, but it is thought that its composition, while glassy (Stair and 
Johnston, 1953), could not possibly correspond to the near-perfect 
glass of tektites because of the lower temperatures under which the 
moon was formed. Nor could glass of this type result in a flash 
reaction for the reasons noted previously. 



TEKTITES AND THE LOST PLANET — STAIR 229 

TEKTITES, A KEY TO COSMOLOGICAL PROBLEMS 

Scientific study of the tektite glasses has been somewhat neglected 
in meteoric investigations, principally because it was only recently 
that their true origin had been established. It was long contended 
that, as the glass tektites were so far removed from other meteorites in 
composition, they could not be of the same origin. However, since 
their durability greatly exceeds that of the softer glasses and their 
geological associations indicate that they have landed on the earth in 
showers during the past 50 million years (neither tektites nor other 
meteorites have been found in any of the ancient geological forma- 
tions), it appears reasonable to assume that only the more durable 
types of glass could have survived the weathering of the ages. On the 
basis of such an assumption, it would be possible for all types of glassy 
meteorites, from the tektites to ordinary stony ones containing only 
traces of glass, to exist. It might also have a bearing upon the abun- 
dance of tektite material relative to that of other meteorites, which, 
within certain areas, exceeds in tonnage that of all other types 
combined. 

The complicated structure of tektite glasses still holds many of the 
secrets relating to their formation in the parent lost planet. The study 
of their physical and chemical characteristics together with research 
in the production of similar glasses should, therefore, furnish valuable 
information and thus become the key (the Rosetta stone) to the solu- 
tion of some of the cosmological problems facing the astronomers, 
geologists, and meteoriticists today by adding not only to our knowl- 
edge of the origin of these glassy meteorites but to better understanding 
of the formation of the solar system — even of the universe itself. 

REFERENCES 

Bai-dwin, Ralph E. 

1949. The face of the moon. Chicago. 
Baknes, Virgil E, 

1940. North American tektites. Univ. Texas Publ. No. 3945, pp. 477-582. 
BoissE, A. 

1850. Recherches sur I'histoire, la nature et origlne des aerolithes. 180 pp. 
Brown, Harrison. 

1948. Meteorites, relative abundances, and planet structures. Sci. Month., 

vol. 67, pp. 383-389. 

1949. The composition of meteoric matter and the origin of meteorites. 

Science, vol. 109, pp. 251-254s 
Brown, Harbison, and Patterson, Claire. 

1948. The composition of meteoric matter. III. Phase equilibria, genetic 

relationships and planet structure. Journ. GeoL, vol. 56, pp. 85-111. 
Fenner, Charles. 

1949. Tektites in the South Australian Museum, with some notes on theories 

of origin. Trans. Roy. Soc. South Australia, vol. 73, pt. 1, pp. 7-21. 



230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

HuBBABD, Donald ; Kbumrine, Elizabeth M. ; and Stair, Ralph. 

Australite (meteoric) glass. (MS. being prepared for publication in 
Sci. Month.) 
KlAiTZ, I. M. 

1949. On the calculation of planet temperatures from the composition of 
meteoric matter. Science, vol. 109, pp. 248-251. 
KUIPEK, G. P. 

1951. On the origin of the solar system. Astrophysics (ed. J, A. Hynek), 
p. 399. New York. 
Mabtin, G. R. 

1953. Recent studies on iron meteorites. IV. The origin of meteoritic helium 
and the age of the meteorites. Geochim. et Cosmochim. Acta, vol. 
3, pp. 288-308. 
McKlNLEY, D. W. R. 

1951. Meteor velocities determined by radio observations. Astrophys. 

Journ., vol. 113, pp. 225-249. 

NiNINGER, H. H. 

1952. Out of the sky. Denver, Colo. 
Palmer, P. S. 

1951. Composition and structure of the depths of earth derived from mete- 

orites. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., vol. 62, No. 12, pt. 2, p. 1557. 
Paneth, F. a. ; Reasbeck, P. ; and Mayne, K. I. 

1952. Helium 3 content and the age of meteorites. Geochim. et Cosmochim. 

Acta, vol. 2, pp. 300-303. 
Spencer, L. J. 

1933. Origin of tektites. Nature, vol. 131, January 28, p. 117 ; June 17, p. 876. 
Stair, Ralph, and Johnston, Russell G. 

1953. Ultraviolet spectral radiant energy reflected from the moon. Nat. 

Bur. Standards Journ. Res., vol. 51, pp. 81-84. 
SuEss, F. B. 

1914. Riickschau und Neueres iiber die Tektitfrage. Mitt. Geol. Ges. Wien, 
Band 7, Heft 1 und 2, pp. 51-121. 
SuEss, Hans E. 

1952. Gas content and the age of tektites. Geochim. et Cosmochim. Acta, 
vol. 2, pp. 76-79. 
Ubey, H. C. 

1951a. The planets, their origin and development. New Haven, Conn. 
1951b. The origin and development of the earth and other terrestrial planets. 
Geochim. et Cosmochim. Acta, vol. 1, pp. 209-277. 
Weizsacker, C. F. von. 

1943. Uber die Entstehung des Planetensystems. Zeitschr. Astrophysik, 

Band 22, Heft 5, pp. 31^355. 
1949. The history of nature. Chicago. 



Smithsonian Report, 1954.— Stair 



PLATE 1 








'^^: 












2 6^ 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Stair 



Plate 2 





<u 


T 


B 


_rt 




-^ 


(U 


O 


CO 






!>. 


L- 




JJ 


G 




3 



PUO 



-^ cc 



c 1- u s 

G n! OJ 



ii G. 






>;^V;|f| 




■r; -r o 



:^ & 



a. > 



a 


-14 


m 


o 


^ 


C 


rt 


o 


u 




cS 


-a 


u 


c 


tS 


;3 


Cl, 


^ 


e 


c 



H 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Stair 



Plate 3 




'\--- 


















V 



SV V 



>\ 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Stair 



Plate 4 






.B o 



o c 



Q-S 




O 



On Comparing the Brain with Machines^ 



By D. M. MacKay 

Kin^s College, University of London 



In discussing this subject, three questions must be distinguished: 
How far does the brain resemble existing mechanisms, such as elec- 
tronic computing machines ? How far would it be possible to imitate 
human behavior with a suitably designed artificial mechanism, or 
"artifact"? How far is it possible to envisage a model that would 
imitate human behavior, and also work internally on the same princi- 
ples as the brain ? 

Only the third question is here discussed in detail. The first 
is of trivial interest. The second may be answered by saying that 
as soon as the required behavior has been specified by an adequate 
statistical test, a simple logical process can convert the test into a de- 
scription of at least one possible mechanism that will meet it. The 
chief difficulty lies not in meeting the test, but in knowing enough to 
frame it. It is only here that philosophical issues arise ; these will not 
be discussed in this article. 

The brain is unique in offering two kinds of clues as to its function : 
through physical experimentation and through psychological study. 
The language of information and control belongs to both fields, and 
a theoretical model is best designed in these terms. The first step in 
its construction is to summarize the conditions that it must meet ac- 
cording to present knowledge; these are regrettably broad. Next, a 
model meeting these conditions must be invented, and its theoretical 
characteristics checked against observation of the brain in action. 
Any discrepancies should yield information toward refining or replac- 
ing the model, and so the cycle continues. 

Progress was at first represented more by elimination of invalid 
models than by the development of a valid one ; but the lines on which 
a valid model may be sought are becoming gradually clearer. It is 

* This article Is based on a discussion by the author before Sections .T, A, and 
I of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, September 8, 1953. 
Copyrighted, 1954, by the Society of the Sigma Xi and reprinted from the Amer- 
ican Scientist, vol. 42, No. 2, April 1954, by permission of the copyright owner. 
326511—58 16 231 



232 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

suggested that a probabilistic model, capable of altering its statistical 
rules of activity according to experience, offers good prospects of suc- 
cess as a research tool. 

A good model is judged not only by its predictive power, but by the 
clarity with which its failures offer constructive interpretations. Un- 
derstanding is to be distinguished from ability to predict. Even a 
complete mathematical equation for the nervous system would con- 
tribute little to the understanding we require, and the useful role of 
conventional mathematics is likely to be small. 

Perhaps the major aim of this work is to provide a working bridge 
between the languages of psychiatry and physiology, for the better 
coordination of attacks on mental disease. 

Such studies are sometimes attacked as "debimking man." This 
appears to be a misconception. I shall suggest (a) that ethical re- 
sponsibility in no way hangs on physical indeterminacy in the brain, 
and (h) that physical description and mental description reveal 
complementary aspects of one and the same human activity, which in 
its full nature combines and transcends both. 

COMPARING THE BRAIN WITH MACHINES 

Wlien we speak of comparing the brain with machines we may mean 
one of three things, according to which one of three quite different 
questions we may have in mind. 

We may want to know to what extent the brain resembles existing 
mechanisms, such as electronic computing machines. The short an- 
swer to this question is that electronic computers are not designed to 
resemble the brain : in fact they are explicitly designed not to resem- 
ble the brain in most of its important functions. A computer that 
developed esthetic preferences and had occasional ideas of its own 
would have a limited field of usefulness — or at least an unusual one ! 
Any resemblances there may be are for our present purpose trivial. 

The second question we might have in mind is whether an artificial 
mechanism, or "artifact," could ever be designed to imitate all human 
behavior. Could such an artifact frame novel hypotheses or write son- 
nets, for example ? 

This question is slightly more interesting from some points of view. 
By imitation, of course, we should mean much more than the sort of 
imitation provided by a phonograph or even a walking, talking robot. 
In fact, we are entitled to demand that the artifact would have to meet 
every functional test which the brain — or the nervous system as a 
whole — can meet. 

But the answer to this question also is fairly straightforward. Any 
test that we can specify exactly, or even statistically, in terms of the 
behavior to be expected in given circumstances, can in principle be met 
by an artifact built only of mechanisms that are now available to us. 



COMPARING THE BRAIN WITH MACHINES — MacKAY 233 

The reason is that by a simple logical process we can turn any such 
precise test into a description of at least one mechanism that will meet 
it. It may be an inordinately bulky mechanism, but we shall be unable 
to distinguish its performance from the behavior that has been 
specified. 

It follows that all arguments that begin : "You'll never get a ma- 
chine to do such-and-such," are foredoomed as soon as the speaker has 
been induced to say precisely what behavior he would regard as 
satisfactory. What is doubtful, of course, is whether we shall ever be 
clever enough to specify, even in principle, an exhaustive test for 
humanlike behavior. It is this aspect of the problem, rather than the 
mechanical difficulty, that I believe is of more than trivial philosoph- 
ical interest (Wisdom et al., 1952) . 

The third question I have raised is actually the one of greatest prac- 
tical importance : How far is it possible to envisage an artificial mecha- 
nism that would not only imitate human behavior, but work internally 
on the same principles as the brain ? It is this possibility that I want 
chiefly to discuss. How do we set about comparing the brain with ma- 
chines in this sense? How far have we progressed, how far can we 
hope to go — and what is the point of it all anyway ? 

METHODS OF APPROACH 

The brain is unique in offering two kinds of clues as to its function, 
in physical observation on the one hand and psychological study on the 
other. Each of these methods requires a very different language, and 
the problem is to find a common language in which to associate the two. 
Fortunately, the language of information and control theory turns out 
to be just what is needed, since it belongs in a sense to both fields. 

The first step, therefore, in designing a theoretical model must be to 
sum up what we know of the way in which the brain handles informa- 
tion, at all levels from the nerve cell up to the complete organism. This 
provides less positive guidance than one might think, but it does set 
certain negative limits on the kind of model we may envisage (see, for 
example, Grey-Walter, 1953). 

We next ask : Within these limits, what mechanisms are there that 
could handle and respond to information in the same way ? Again we 
can tackle this question at various levels. The exponents of what is 
called "nerve-net theory" start with an idealized model of the nerve 
cell, and develop from it theoretical networks capable of complex func- 
tions.^ My own preference is for a statistical model of the whole 
system, with a flexible structure that may be brought gradually to re- 
semble the large-scale structure of the nervous, and humoral, system 
(MacKay,1952). - . 

' Most of this work has appeared in Bull. Math. Biophys. from 1943 to date. 



234 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Now, of course, even in our present state of ignorance, a fair number 
of models might be designed to meet these conditions, although an 
increasing number are being ruled out. So the next step must be to 
study in detail how such a model would work, and how it would go 
wrong ; then to go back to the brain to discover whether it does likewise. 
The discrepancies we find can, if we are lucky, suggest the lines along 
which we should refine or redefine our model for the next comparison. 

Let me give you an example. No one knows how the visual system 
enables us to recognize the shape of an object in^espective of its size. 
One hypothesis suggested a model in which the visual map in the cortex 
was rhythmically magnified and diminished in size about ten times per 
second, in step with the electrical rhythm of the same frequency which 
can sometimes be detected at the back of the head. 

There are, of course, anatomical and other tests of this type of model, 
and I do not think that it meets them very satisfactorily ; but one way 
of testing such a model would be to ask : Is there any way in which the 
mechanism could be tricked ? If so, can we trick the brain in the same 
way? 

One obvious trick might be to present the model with a pattern whose 
size was fluctuating at the same rate as its internal magnifier. In the 
simplest form of model this could either prevent the pattern from being 
recognized, or at least give rise to perceptual anomalies. It is not diffi- 
cult to try this experiment on a human subject. A television tube can 
draw a square or triangle whose size fluctuates at the same rate as the 
electrical potential on the subject's scalp. But in several such tests I 
have never found any evidence of anomalous perception (MacKay, 
1953). 

A null result of this sort does not, of course, prove that rhythmic 
"scanning" does not occur. It proves only that the hypothetical model 
of the process was wrong in at least one respect. I think there are 
other grounds for believing that scanning, in the engineer's sense, is 
unlikely to occur, but that is another story. 

PROGRESS AND PROSPECTS 

From the example just given, you may get the impression that our 
model making is still at a very rudimentary stage ; you will be correct. 
There are still far too many possible models that cannot yet be ruled 
out on the evidence at hand.^ Some, like the digital-computer model, 
will fall gradually by the wayside as other models are evolved which 
beg fewer questions. The choice of a model is much more a matter of 
intuitive judgment than of strict deduction. 

* Readers may consult the eight pages of references given by F. L. Stumpers in 
"A Bibliography of Information Theory," Massachusetts Inst. Techn. Rep., Feb. 
2, 1953. 



COMPARING THE BRAllSr WITH MACHINES — ^MacKAT 235 

Among the less explicit, thougli nonetheless important, restrictions 
on modelmaking is the requirement that the brain as modeled must 
have been capable of growing that way. This has led some of us to in- 
vestigate the possibilities of self-organizing statistical, or "proba- 
bilistic," models. By a statistical model may be meant («) one whose 
elements function deterministically but whose detailed interconnec- 
tions are assumed to form more or less randomly (Ashby, 1952), or 
(h) one whose elements function indeterministically, to some control- 
lable extent (MacKay, 1952). 

The model that promises to be most useful is statistical in both these 
senses (Wisdom et al., 1952; MacKay, 1952). Its basic feature is the 
ability to adjust the rules of its own activity according to the degree 
of success it attains; but it does this, not by throwing switches, but 
by adjusting the relative probabilities of dili'erent patterns of activity. 
Its rules, in other words, are grown statistically as a result of its own 
trials and errors. The interconnections between elements are not hard 
and fast, but each link has an adjustable probability of functioning, 
which will in general depend on the location and the timing of all 
neighboring activity. 

You might picture a typical element in such a model as something 
like a gun with a rather uncertain trigger. The farther the trigger is 
pulled, the greater the probability that the gun will go off. If we sup- 
pose that when a gun goes off, its firing alters the tension in the trigger 
of another gun, without necessarily firing it, we have the basic model 
of a mechanism that can alter the probabilities of its own activities. 

I wish it were possible to go into more detail. But perhaps you can 
see roughly how a network of such elements, if supplied automatically 
with signals to indicate success or failure, could use them to alter prob- 
abilities so as to grope its way more and more quickly into a pattern 
of activity to "match" any incoming patterns that persisted in recur- 
ring. Its good guesses, so to speak, could be made to persist, and its 
bad ones to drop out. But because its activity would never be unique- 
ly determined by the input, there would always be room for occasional 
spontaneous attempts to try something new as a "matching response" 
to the flux of events. With a hierarchical structure, these attempts 
could include guesses about the relative probabilities of other guesses, 
so that abstractions of any order could be evolved (Wisdom et al., 
1952). 

Such a model is sufficiently general to be capable of any activity we 
may care to specify, and it bears promising resemblances to the human 
nervous-and-humoral system. But if it is fortunate enough to survive 
the next 20 years, our only reasonable certainty is that the model will 
have grown almost out of recognition. If it has not, it will have been 
of small service. 



236 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

This brings us to the third question : What do we hope to achieve by 
all this? 

THE FUNCTION OF THEORETICAL MODELS 

A theoretical model of the type we have been discussing is intended 
to serve as a tool of research. We can think of it as a kind of adjust- 
able template which we construct on some hypothetical principles, 
and then hold up against the real thing in order that the discrepancies 
between the two may yield fresh information. 

This in turn should enable us to modify the template in some respect, 
after which a fresh comparison may yield further information, and so 
on. The model, as it were, "subtracts out" at each stage what we think 
we understand, so that what is not yet understood is revealed more 
clearly. 

You will see at once that we shall judge a good model for this pur- 
pose not so much by the success with which it imitates or predicts, but 
rather by the clarity with which its failures enable us to infer what to 
modify next. To be sure, our aim is to approximate more and more to 
the real thing. But we may easily be misled into an approximation 
process that doesn't converge. It may even pay us to discard one 
model for another which offers us fewer numerical predictions to start 
with, if the first model shows signs of requiring one or more additional 
hypotheses for each phenomenon it encounters ! It is worth remem- 
bering, in these days when predictive ability is so often confused with 
understanding, that the epicyclic "theory" of planetary motion would 
have been less at a loss to account predictively for the anomalous mo- 
tion of Mercury than Kepler's theory which displaced it ! 

Our second criterion of a good research model is that it should not 
only function normally like the brain, but also that it should go wrong 
in the same ways. As we have seen, our model is tested most severely, 
and is of greatest potential value, in the study of cerebral disorders 
rather than of normal function — difficult though it is to draw the 
line between the two areas. 

It is possible that some mathematicians may feel that no theory is 
worthy of the name until it has produced some equations. But I want 
(if I dare) to emphasize that what we wish to understand in such 
multidimensional problems would be very little illuminated even if 
we could produce a gigantic equation relating all the variables that 
we should never measure. 

Understanding, here as always, means knowing as far as possible 
what to expect in given circumstances, and what to infer when the 
expected doesn't happen. The difficulty is that the data, on which 
we want to organize our expectations by means of our theory, are 
mostly not measurable variables but qualitative abstractions from 
function. So it is only a small part of our aim to develop equations 



COMPARING THE BRAIN WITH MACHINES — MacKAY 237 

leading to numerical predictions. This satisfaction we must cheer- 
fully leave to folk with a different type of problem. 

But behind this approach to the study of the brain there lies a more 
general motive. It is the hope of providing a working link between 
the concepts of psj^chiatry and those of physiology and anatomy. Co- 
operation at present between those fields is hampered by the sheer 
difficulty of imagining physiological correlates of some psychiatric 
terms and vice versa. 

Now the language of information and control lies, in a sense, be- 
tween the languages of psychiatry and physiology. In the informa- 
tion-flow diagram of a successful model we may hope to find features 
representing concepts from each language. Some of the data of 
psychopathology even now can be translated into terms of informa- 
tion flow, so as to suggest testable physical hypotheses.* 

I need hardly say that this is rather different from naively assimilat- 
ing mental disorder to the ills of digital computers, a pastime which 
has justifiably irritated those more painfully close to the problem. 

To summarize, the considerable effort going into this theoretical 
modelmaking is justified chiefly by the hope that out of it may come 
a way of describing the thinking process, sufficiently close to psychi- 
atric realties to be useful in diagnosis, yet sufficiently operational and 
objective to allow the physiologist to make his maximum contribution 
to the study and treatment of mental illness. 

You might call it conceptual bridge building — an activity set about 
with pitfalls and attractive to cranks, but withal one of the most 
promising ways of enlarging our understanding of what happens 
when we understand. 

POSTSCRIPT ON PERSPECTIVE 

May I conclude with a word of warning. This kind of inquiry is 
often misconceived — and sometimes attacked — as an attempt to "de- 
bunk man." "If my actions were nothing but the end-product of a 
chain of physical causes, where would things like my decision come 
in?" is a typical question. It may of course be true that people who 
do wish to "debunk man" imagine that a complete physical explana- 
tion of his brain would be grist to their mill. But if so I believe that 
they err in company with their opponents who base their arguments 
on the same premise. The villain of the piece here is usually the 
phrase "nothing but" — the hallmark of what we may call reductionist 
thinking. 

If I say that an electric advertising sign is "nothing but" a certain 
array of lamps and wires, I may mean one of two things: (1) I may 

* I have in mind, for example, those hallucinations that suggest diversion rather 
than absence of signals to correct the internal matching response. 



238 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1964 

mean that an electrician could make a complete catalog of all that is 
there, and have nothing left over, without mentioning "the advertise- 
ment." This is true. (2) Or I may mean that since there is nothing 
left over from the electrician's account, there isn't really an advertise- 
ment there at all. This is the error of reductionism. It consists in 
confusing exhaustiveness with exclusiveness. The electrician's ac- 
count is exhaustive, at least in the sense that a perfect replica could be 
constructed from it. But the electrician's account and the advertiser's 
account of "all that is there" are not mutually exclusive. The adver- 
tisement is not something to be fitted into a gap in the electrician's 
account. It is something that we find when we start all over again to 
describe what is there in another complementary language. 

It is not even possible to defend reductionism by the principle of 
Ockham's Razor, for this refers to a choice between alternative descrip- 
tions in the same language system, and not to a choice between 
descriptions in alternative language systems. 

I suggest, then, that to try to find gaps for "my decision" in the 
physical chain of events in my brain is like trying to find gaps for "the 
advertisement" in the electrical description of the sign. "My decision" 
should find no place because it belongs to a different language, defined 
not from the observer's but from the actor's standpoint. There may 
w^ell be links in the physical chain which have a certain margin of in- 
determinacy ; but merely on linguistic grounds it would seem absurd 
to seek to fit "my decision" into what gaps they provide. "My deci- 
sion" is surely rather my description from my standpoint of the whole 
pattern of activity, determinate and indeterminate. 

It is not because I believe my brain to work indeterministically that 
I judge myself to be responsible. On the contrary, the more physically 
reliable my brain is, the less excuse I have from my responsibility. 
There is an unpredictability that goes with my responsibility, but that 
is something different. It is the unpredictability to you of what I 
shall do if you offer me your prediction. As a little thought will show, 
you would never be able to cope with this by allowing for the effect of 
your prediction on me, since I should always be one jump ahead of the 
data on which you could base your revised prediction. 

To sum up, I believe most seriously that man is "more than" the 
physical organism which we can describe in observer language. But I 
believe that this implies not necessarily that there must be gaps in the 
physical account of his activity, but that he has other aspects that are 
revealed only by using another complementary language to describe 
the same activity, which in its full nature transcends and combines 
what can be said in both. 

To explore the implications of this complementarity may throw 
some light on the age-old paradox that though we are but dust, we are 



COMPARING THE BRAIN WITH MACHINES — ^MacKAY 239 

held responsible in the sight of our Creator. But of this responsibility, 
whatever our attitude to it, no increase in our understanding of the 
brain can relieve us. 

REFERENCES 

ASHBY, W. R. 

1952, Design for a brain. London. 
Grey -Walter, W. 

1953. The living brain. London. 
MacKay, D. M. 

1952. In Proc. Eighth Conf. on Cybernetics, 1951. New Yorlt. 

1953. Perception of patterns modulated at the alpha-frequency. Electro- 

encephalography and Clinical Neurophysiology, vol. 5, pp. 559-562. 
Wisdom, J. O. ; Spilsbxjby, R. J. ; and MacKay, D. M. 

1952. Symposium on mentality in machines. (3 papers.) Proc. Arist. Soc. 
Suppl. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as 
long as the'supply'lasts, on'request addressed to the Editorial and Pub- 
lications^Division/ Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.^C. 



A Glimpse of Incomprehensibles 



By George W. Corner 

Director, Department of Embryology 
Carnegie Institution of Washington 



One of the most interesting projects now under way at our 
laboratory is an experimental study of the behavior of uterine muscle. 
Dedicated as we are to the study of embryology, we are bound to 
consider the enviromnent in which the embryo lives, and in particular 
that remarkable muscular organ, the uterus, in which every one has 
his first home. A visitor who steps into the rooms of Dr. Arpad 
Csapo, the leader of this particular research, sees him facing a mass 
of apparatus, tubing and Avires, all of which is focused upon a small 
vial housing a strip of rabbit's uterus, three centimeters long. This 
bit of living tissue is kept at body temperature in physiological salt 
solution. It is supplied with oxygen and with energy in the form of 
dextrose. Its environment is thus made as much as possible like that 
within the intact animal. One end of the strip is fastened to a lever, 
so that when it contracts, as any involuntary muscle will do of its own 
accord when so prepared, its rhythmic contractions are recorded on a 
drum. Watching the lever move up and down, watching the muscle 
itself shorten and then relax, the fascinated observer realizes with a 
start that what he is watching is an engine, as much an engine as 
those which run our motorcars. Like them it has its own firing sys- 
tem by which the energy on which it operates is turned into mechan- 
ical work b}^ a kind of explosion. Dr. Csapo chooses to supplant this 
natural "spark-plug" mechanism by mild electrical shocks from a 
mechanical timer; thus gaining somewhat smoother timing, he finds 
that he is indeed running an engine in the most literal sense. The 
experiment becomes quantitative, like an engineer's test of any steam 
or gasoline engine. The energetics of operation can be calculated. 
The work done is precisely related to the amount of contractile pro- 
tein in the sample and of the fuel used. The strength of the contrac- 

^ Reprinted by permission from the American Scholar, vol. 23, No. 3, Summer, 
1954. 

241 



242 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

tions (i. e., isometric tension) can be predicted from the size and 
physiological state of the muscle sample, and Dr. Csapo has even 
found a way, by the use of the ovarian hormones, to alter the mechan- 
ical performance in much the same way as when the pressure of steam 
supplied to a steam engine or the rate of carburetion of a gasoline 
motor is changed. 

Thus far I have spoken only of isolated muscle tissue under fully 
controlled laboratory conditions ; but we know also from very recent 
experiments by Dr. Brenda Schofield that the whole uterus in the 
rabbit's body operates on the same principle and would behave as 
uniformly except that it is affected by other complex regulatory fac- 
tors, such as the nervous system and the ovarian hormones. 

The nerves of the uterus apparently come into play chiefly for 
regulatory purposes on critical occasions ; that is to say, the impulses 
they carry coordinate one part of the uterus with another when the 
fertilized eggs are to be received and accurately positioned in the 
uterus, and again when the infants are to be delivered. These nerve 
impulses are known to consist of ionic reactions ; they and the blood 
flow that transports carbohydrate fuel to the uterus, in fact all the 
operative controls, are physicochemical processes. The whole organ 
must be regarded as a mechanism, no less than the isolated strip, 
although the intact uterus in situ is of course a more complicated 
mechanism and less uniform in its activity under experimental 
observation. 

The investigator, for hours silently watching and controlling these 
experiments, inevitably asks himself, Is not then the whole rabbit 
also a mechanism, and if so, why not the man who watches? His 
muscles and nerves and brain that devised the experiment, his curiosity 
that asked the questions, the energy that drives him to answer them — 
is not all this the product of biochemical reactions under fixed laws 
of the physical world? 

This is an old question, as old as philosophy itself, to which in the 
past an answer has often been given one way or the other by scientist 
or theologian. It was put again to me, not long ago, by one of Amer- 
ica's eminent scholars. This friend of mine, a professor of literature, 
has a doctor son who works alongside of us; perhaps it was the 
younger man's enthusiastic talk of biophysics that disturbed the 
father. Perhaps also the professor, who is expert in the history of 
eighteenth-century thought, is still irked by the brash statements 
of mechanistic philosophy given two centuries ago by men like La 
Mettrie, author of books entitled "Man a Machine" and "Natural 
History of the Soul." At any rate, he asked me in all seriousness 
whether the advance of science and particularly of human biology 
does not threaten to reduce all human activity to physicochemical 



INCOMPREHENSIBLES — CORNER 243 

terms and thus to destroy the humanities and do away before long 
with the arts and all learning, except physics. 

In reply to the professor's question, I say in the first place that we 
anatomists, physiologists, and biochemists are for practical reasons 
bound to work on the assumption that the animals and parts of ani- 
mals we study are indeed mechanisms. We must try as hard as we can 
to bring all animal and human behavior under observation and meas- 
urement. If the premature acceptance of nonphysical "vitalistic'- 
forces leads us to abandon physical and chemical investigation, we 
shall only wander in a no man's land of conjecture. 

In the second place, the progress of these sciences brings into the 
realm of materiality much that was once thought to be immaterial. 
One example of this will suffice. The phenomenon of vision was a 
great enigma to the ancients. Aristotle himself cried out in wonder- 
ment, "Wlio would believe that so small a space (as the eye) could 
contain the images of all the universe? What skill can penetrate 
such a wonderful process? This it is that leads human discourse to 
the consideration of things divine!" Since then we have marched 
steadily toward understanding human seeing as a physical and chemi- 
cal activity. In Aristotle's time and in the Middle Ages, all existing 
knowledge was encompassed in a vague concept of the eye as the lan- 
tern of the soul. Wliat we now call the lens was believed to be the 
central receptor of things seen, passing visual images inward to the 
soul itself. That the eye is a camera working on strict optical prin- 
ciples, and the retina its photoreceptor, became clear in the seventeenth 
century. In another hundred years, discovery of the optical nerve 
fibers made known that the brain is involved in the process of vision. 
The actual areas of the brain concerned in seeing, and the exact path- 
ways from the retina to the cortex, were worked out in the nineteenth 
century ; the biochemistry and biophysics of nerve conduction are the 
work of our own age. In view of all this progress toward a physico- 
chemical concept of the visual process from eye to brain cortex, should 
the biologist be thought too daring if he now expects that biophysics 
will one day explain the conversion of cortical optic responses into 
conscious thought, and trace all the channels over which they rever- 
berate throughout the body, causing the seer to stare or tremble or soar 
in ecstasy at what he sees ? 

We are indeed daring, I admit, when we predict that consciousness 
will be explainable in physicochemical terms, but nowadays even those 
who doubt the possibility of such understanding usually base their 
doubts not on grounds of vitalism or of piety, but on a materialistic 
argument involving a sort of uncertainty principle which states that 
a thinking machine is necessarily incapable of perceiving how it 
thinks. 



244 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Meanwhile, experimenters are attacking the citadel of the mind, the 
subconscious mind at least, by the study, for example, of conditioned 
reflexes. A clear description of one such investigation appeared in a 
recent number of the Scientific American, in an article by Professor 
Liddell of Cornell University on his experimental production of 
anxiety states in sheep and goats. By the simplest physical means, 
namely the continuous administration of slight painless electrical 
shocks on a monotonously regular schedule, he produced long-con- 
tinued disorders of emotional behavior. Again, anyone who has ob- 
served the effect on human patients of drugs like desoxyamphetamine 
has seen how high-level mental phenomena, that is to say, elaborate 
apprehensions, conscious fears, and disorders of judgment, can be al- 
tered for the time being by a physical agent that can only be hasten- 
ing or retarding, somewhere in the brain, some such purely biophysical 
action as the passage of ions across the borders of specific nerve cells. 

Rather, however, than to carry this line of argument for the ma- 
terial nature of human thought to the length of saying outright, 
with La Mettrie, that man is a machine and even his highest activi- 
ties are the product of physical reactions, let us go back and look again 
at the small living mechanism with which we started, the muscle strip 
studied by my colleague. Simple as it seems, this little engine is ac- 
tually much more complicated than a man-made motor. It is not made 
of metal, but mostly of complex, unstable proteins. It is not able to 
burn ordinary hydrocarbons like wood, coal, or oil, but only one very 
special and elaborate substance, adenosine triphosphate. It has to 
make this fuel for itself from sugar brought by the blood stream, step- 
ping up the chemical structure through at least a dozen enzyme proc- 
esses until it has built what it can burn. It is not controlled by a 
throttle but by ion movements across a semipermeable barrier mem- 
brane. I have by no means stated all the complexities; if we could 
look inside this muscle when in action, w^e would see in each of its 
microscopic cells more ions, atoms, molecules, and larger aggregates 
going systematically about their business than all the people and auto- 
mobiles in the city of Philadelphia. I once made a calculation that 
one cell of an endocrine gland, the corpus liiteum, produces in one day 
more than a thousand billion molecules of its internal secretion. 

The muscle machine is not only very complex; it is also very un- 
stable. It runs well only within a narrow range of temperature ; 60 
degrees centigrade will cook it; one crystal of cyanide will stop it 
quicker than a monkey wrench in a crankcase. The protein mole- 
cules of which it is chiefly composed are held in a precarious state 
of teetering equilibrium by interacting tensions, like the gymnasts 
in a human pyramid. Such is life at the level of the cell. At the 
level of the organs — heart, lungs, liver — and at the level of the body, 
life consists of the interaction of such complex and unstable, there- 



INCOMPREHENSIBLES — CORNER 245 

fore sensitive, tissues and their coordination by equally complex and 
unstable tissues such as nerves and blood vessels. At the level of the 
mind, the structure in which thinking is done is no less complicated. 
Dr. Karl Lashley, in a pioneering essay "In Search of the Engram," 
on the physiological basis of learning, closely estimated the number 
of nerve cells in the visual apparatus of the white rat from retina to 
brain cortex, and got a total of thirteen millions. With these neurones 
the rat is able to retain (says Lashley) scores, perhaps hundreds of 
visual habits involving discrimination of complex figures. The rhesus 
monkey has about a hundred times as many visual neurones ; man, we 
may conjecture, a thousand times thirteen millions. A student read- 
ing his textbooks instantly distinguishes any one of ten thousand pat- 
terns presented by the printed words before him. 

This enormous, overwhelming, almost inconceivable complexity of 
the human structure and mental function forces us, if we are to be 
materialists, into materialism of a new sort. "Wlien La Mettrie said 
that man is a machine, a machine to him meant something like a clock 
or the primitive Newcomen steam engine. He must have realized that 
the human machine is more complicated than that, but still it was to 
him, figuratively, a thing of cogs and levers. If, however, I say that 
man is a machine, I have to think of an apparatus much more com- 
plicated than the biggest electronic computing machine, and also much 
less stable, much more sensitive than any piece of man-made automatic 
hardware. The difference between old and new concepts of the living 
machine is so great, so fundamental, that twentieth-century scientific 
materialism is bound to be very different from that of the past. My 
variety of it, you may say when I fijiish, is not materialism at all. 

Mention of electronic calculating machines brings us to the most 
recent aspect of mechanistic thought, the kind of analysis called cyber- 
netics. This stems from the observation of certain similarities between 
electronic circuits and the structure and functioning of the nervous 
system. Not only is the transmission of the nerve impulse analogous 
to the electric current; not only are the synapses or nerve junctions 
analogous to electrical connections, and the primary reflex arc merely 
a doorbell circuit ; more than that, something much like feedback wir- 
ing and regenerative circuits can be seen in the brain, suggesting the 
existence of stages of amplification like those of a radio set. On the 
contrary, some of the mental activities of men and animals can be 
imitated by machines built on these principles : for example, simple 
remembering, simple discriminations, even choice between alternatives 
simply presented. Some of these operations are fairly impressive. 
Everyone has heard what the great computing machines can do, for 
example, in solving complicated differential equations in a fraction of 
d second. Wlien a wartime committee under my direction was study- 
ing devices for the blind, the engineer Zworykin of the Radio Corpora- 



246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

tion of America built us a machine that recognizes the individual 
letters of a printed alphabet and calls them off vocally. Another less 
serious engineer made a mechanical bug that knows when it is hungry 
for more juice in its little battery, trots off to the proper socket, con- 
nects itself and gets a recharge. If there is radio interference in the 
neighborhood, I suppose the gadget might develop a simple sort of 
nervous prostration like Professor Liddell's sheep and goats. 

This jest of mine reflects the feeling of conservative anatomists and 
physiologists that cybernetic concepts fall far short of explaining the 
workings of the nervous system, partly, I admit, because we have by 
no means worked out a complete description of the animal machine 
for engineers to imitate. There are a lot of circuits and connections 
still to be traced. Yet the parallel onward march of neurology, bio- 
physics, and electronic engineering makes it probable that all the 
operations of the animal mind result from the flow of electrical charges, 
that is to say, the transfer of ions in the cells of the body. When an 
experimenter produces neurosis in the sheep, or (to take a more agree- 
able example) when a hunting dog is conditioned to stand and point 
to a pheasant, I have no difficulty in supposing that the whole condi- 
tioning process occurs entirely on the material level. If asked whether 
I suppose this to be true also of more complex mental performances 
involving intricate choice of alternatives on the basis of a large stock 
of stored information, say, a fullback running through a broken field 
or Shakespeare writing a sonnet, I have to say I do not know. Even 
what I just said about the hunting dog is a hypothesis. We biologists 
are bound to work on such hypotheses, even if we do not expect that 
a good sonnet will ever be written by a man-made machine. 

But suppose, just for the argument, that it is so, that all the higher 
activities of the mind — all that raises man above the unreflective beast 
and leads him to create arts, sciences, and humane learning — suppose 
that this is entirely the result of ionic shifts in our cells for which we 
may some day calculate the equations : what then ? Do we scrap our 
libraries and colleges? Is my humanist friend whose question started 
me on this essay to discontinue teaching the history of literature and 
philosophy ? 

What I now reply is not the utterance of mystics or metaphysicians ; 
it is the word of the histologist looking up from his microscope, the 
physiologist from his oscillograph. We see that the human thinking 
mechanism, if it is a mechanism, is utterly complex and multifariously 
sensitive beyond any conceivable instrument of metal and glass, and 
therefore its individual reactions will always be in large part un- 
predictable. Let me reinforce this statement by quoting again Karl 
Lashley, one of the most thoughtful of o\ir neuropsychological experi- 
menters. In this essay on the mechanism of learning, he writes : 



INCOMPREHENSIBLES — CORNER 247 

The trace of any activity is not an isolated connection between sensory and 
motor elements. It is tied in w ith the whole complex of spacial and temporal 
axes of nervous activity. Tlie space and time coordinates can, I believe, be main- 
tained by . . . rhythmic discharges which pervade the entire brain, influencing 
the organization of activity anywhere. Within a functional area the cells acquire 
the capacity to react in certain definite patterns. . . . The characteristics of the 
nervous network are such that when it is subjected to any pattern of excitation, 
it may develop a pattern of activity, reduplicated throughout an entire functional 
area by spread of excitations. . . . x\ll the cells of the brain must be in almost 
constant activity, either firing or actively inhibited. . . . The learning process 
must consist of the attunement of the elements of a complex system in such a 
way that a particular combination of cells responds more readily than before the 
experience. 

The mental patterns of learning and of directed response, of which 
Lashley writes, are set up in an apparatus which in man consists of 
billions of neurones, interconnected through innumerable channels. 
The organ in which these patterns are stored is subject to excitation 
from outside through five senses, each of them so critically sensitive 
that a touch, a whiff of odor, can suddenly revive a whole chapter of 
the past — one chapter for me, another for you ; one syllable heard may 
set off a torrent of emotion or activity. The mechanism is also sensitive 
to stimulation from within itself by stored memories, by organic sen- 
sations, by local subthreshold fluctuations of physical states through- 
out the body. Surgeons sometimes have an opportunity to stimulate 
the brain directly in a patient who is conscious and cooperative during 
an operation under local anesthesia. Dr. Wilder Penfield thus found 
that electrical stimulation at a single point of the cortex can elicit 
elaborate memories of things seen or heard. A big electronic com- 
putor has a bank of keys like a pipe organ; who can estimate the 
number of keys to the human mind, within the body and on the sur- 
face of its sensorium, through which impulses are thrown into one 
circuit or another, to start who knows how many oscillations in the 
next circuit, and the next? Nervous and mental operations involve, 
however, more than mere spread and flow of impulses. There are 
slowing and blocking resistors ; there are shunts and diversions. There 
are circuits that operate to cut out other circuits, or to cut them in, 
or steady their oscillations. The elements of these circuits, moreover, 
are not copper wires, metal switches, and electronic tubes. The con- 
ducting threads, as well as the whole organism they interconnect, are 
made up of elaborate and unstable chemical substances, very critically 
responsive to changing conditions. 

Their hookup into a vast network is also unstable and critically 
responsive. Integration of an organism so that this multiplex sys- 
tem will behave in a measurably constant way calls for all sorts of 
internal controls — the homeostatic regulators that Walter Cannon 
wrote about — and in higher animals on the behavioral level it demands 

326511— B5 17 



248 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

intensive habit formation by experience, training, and education. 
Even when such patterning of response is well established, the richness 
of internal comniimication is so great that a small resistance here, a 
sudden surge of mental current there, in the network may channel the 
impulses in a new direction. 

It is these uncertainties that create individual differences in be- 
havior and capacity. They direct and redirect for good or bad what- 
ever is passing through our heads. They must in some way account 
for the mystery of original thinking and artistic composition. They 
will forever keep education from being a routine business. 

The complexity of human thought and behavior is of course nothing 
new ; my point is that science has caught up with that fact and now 
perceives that the bodily mechanism possesses a similar order of 
complexity and therefore may be assumed capable of conducting very 
complex and subtle operations. A recent experiment illustrates per- 
fectly what I am trying to say. One subject of Liddell's investigation 
at Cornell was a nursling goat, three weeks old. When it was given 
the routine treatment of painless but unceasingly recurrent electric 
shocks, it developed tlie usual neurosis. This animal was one of twins. 
The other of the pair of kids was subjected to the same experimental 
treatment, except that its mother was left with it in the large stall 
where it lived during the period of exposure to emotional trauma. 
This second kid did not become neurotic at all. The presence of its 
mother had done something inside the little animal that kept its nerves 
from jangling. If its unprotected brother's neurosis was a mechanistic 
disturbance, from which the twin was protected by the comforting 
presence of a mother, then — at least in the case of these particular 
goats, under experiment by Liddell in a barn near Cayuga Lake — it 
looks as if the benefit afforded by the nanny's presence was also a 
biophysical phenomenon. But the scientist must admit that a mecha- 
nism that needs its mother is indeed a special kind of mechanism. 

By such means as this, by the intercommunication of companion- 
ship, of mood, of sympathy and solace, individuals are integrated into 
still more complex organizations of flock and herd, family, tribe, 
and race. In this gift of communication, living organisms greatly 
excel the machines. We have all been astonished by Von Frisch's 
discovery of the signal language of honeybees. Certain man-made 
automatic control systems perhaps approach that achievement of the 
bees; but at a higher level how infinitely varied is the ability of human 
beings to transmit complex eddies of thought and emotion to one 
another ! 

Thus we have just about reached a truce in the old quarrel between 
vitalism and mechanism. Both sides perceive that whatever our re- 
spective hypotheses may be about the way things work inside us, we 



INCOMPREHENSIBLES CORNER 249 

too are creatures subject to repeated shocks, born to trouble, yet capa- 
ble of adjustment. More complexly organized even than other crea- 
tures, we can go beyond mere mental adjustment, on to new accom- 
plishments and achievements; but all the more do we need the 
influences that come through human kinship and the experience of 
our race, all that is learned at a mother's knee and at the feet of alma 
mater, and in the world of arts and letters. 

When I mentioned the experiments at Cayuga Lake, son:ie readers 
may have thought of a shepherd who once tended flocks beside another 
inland sea, who experienced in his own person both frustration and 
adjustment, and who being a poet saw the parallel between his own 
trials and joys and those of his sheep. Lifting his eyes to heaven, he 
said as of a greater Sheplierd, '*Iie leadeth me beside the still waters. 
Pie restoreth my soul." I have not chosen to carry, here, my concept 
of the new mechanistics into the field of religion. Science and theology 
tend to get heavy-handed with each other when discussing this subject. 
La Mettrie was banished and his books were burned because of his 
materialism. I think I do not risk any such fate because of mine. The 
biologist realizes that the mechanism is so sensitive to outward influ- 
ences and to stimuli so subtle that current science is not able to define 
the limits of its sensitivity ; and therefore, while in the laboratory he 
must base his own working hypothesis upon what he can see and meas- 
ure, he will not in the present state of knowledge banish from the com- 
pany of scholars any man whose personal hypothesis, or faith, takes 
him all the way with the high-hearted old scientific humanist Sir 
Thomas Browne, who bade us, "Have a glimpse of incomprehensibles; 
and thoughts of things which thoughts but tenderly touch. Lodge im- 
matorials in thy head ; ascend into invisibles ; fill thy spirit with spir- 
ituals, with the mysteries of faith, the magnalities of religion, and 
thy life with the honour of God." 

Biophysics will not soon measure the wavelength of exaltation like 
that; but even so, we shall go on exploring the body and brain. Let 
not my learned friend be troubled; if and when all the circuits are 
traced, when the last equation is written for the ionic movements that 
run the works in eye, ear, nerve, muscle, and viscera, the mechanism, 
however fully we then understand it, will still be complexly excitable 
and still sensitive to all the subtleties of a subtle universe. New combi- 
nations of neurones will go on being formed. Individuals will still be 
unpredictable. Patterns of behavior will still have to be established 
by training and education. Pluman history will not cease being made 
nor poetry to be written. If all the nerve cells are to be kept firing in 
the most effective sequence, some of the keys of the human mechanism 
will still have to be operated by the professors of languages and litera- 
ture, by artists, and by philosophers. 



The Electron Microscope in Biology^ 



By Ralph W. G. Wyckoff 

Science Attache, American Embassy, London 



[With 2 plates] 

Two RECENT DEVELOPMENTS ill tliG humaii mind have contributed to 
produce modern natural science. One is a more acute sensory per- 
ception and objective awareness of the outer world. The other is an 
equally striking enlargement of the intellectual ability and willingness 
of many men to deal with these clearer perceptions of Nature, to relate 
them logically one to another, and to devise from these relationships 
a consistent pattern of outer happenings. This enhanced sensory 
awareness of external reality expressed itself in the painting and 
sculpture of the Renaissance; and more or less simultaneously there 
arose, sometimes in the same individual, that closer and more purpose- 
ful observation of natural phenomena which was a root of modern 
science. In art this clearer perception enriched immeasurably the 
world of human values that art serves ; in science it began to furnish 
that basis of external fact which must underlie any sound understand- 
ing of the meaning of human existence. 

Only a rudimentary natural science could, however, have arisen 
from such unaided observation, no matter how acute, or how care- 
fully it was analyzed. The intimate knowledge we now possess of 
the texture of the universe is the direct result of the invention and use 
of instruments to extend and render ever more quantitative the limited 
information our senses can supply. 

Vision is, of course, the sense that has taught us most about Nature ; 
and it is therefore natural that instruments that extend its range 
will have been most actively sought and most highly valued. It was 
the telescope that gave a first practical demonstration of the essential 
role of instruments ; the microscopes that began to be made soon after 
started the equally important observation of fine structure which has 
now become the chief preoccupation of modern science. Every branch 

' Siibstauce of a Friday Evening Discourse at tlie Royal Institution delivered on 
December 11, 1953. Reprinted by permission from Nature, vol. 173, March 6, 1954. 

251 



252 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

of science seeks first an accurate description of the gross appearance 
and behavior of its segment of Nature ; and this has customarily been 
followed by the attempt to analyze the matter that is present into its 
components, and to ascertain significant relations between these com- 
ponents and the gross properties with which the original description 
was so largely concerned. In chemistry, this analysis has been 
achieved through the interpretation and correlation of elaborate series 
of chemical reactions. For certain other sciences, the microscope has 
been a much more direct analytical tool. Thus, the analytical stage 
for biology may be said to have begun when compound microscopes 
made accessible for study the individual cells that are the unit struc- 
tures of living matter. 

Since then, there has been a steady improvement in techniques of 
microscopy which, though providing very little extension in vision, 
have yielded a steady flow of new knowledge about the cellular level 
of organization. In our day, the electron microscope is of such ex- 
ceptional importance because it does give such an extension, and one 
that allows us not merely to see smaller detail but also to reach in 
biology the deeper and more fundamental level of organization where 
molecules are the units. For the past 25 years we have known that the 
proteins and many other substances extracted from living matter have 
very large molecular particles. A number of these particles have 
already been seen under the electron microscope, and the fact of this 
visibility takes us beyond chemistry's conventional concern with sta- 
tistical molecular aggregates to observations on separate molecules 
and their interactions. It is the principal object of this discourse to 
illustrate some of the more immediate applications we have made 
of this ability to see macromolecules. 

Before doing this, however, I must give some idea of the great ex- 
tension in vision already achieved with this new microscope. The 
limiting resolving power of any optical system defines its ability to 
portray small objects: it depends on the wavelength of the illumina- 
tion we use. Optical theory has demonstrated that no microscope can 
possibly reveal the true shape of an object smaller than about half 
this wavelength. Accordingly, visible light cannot delineate objects 
smaller than about 0.2 micron (about a hundred-thousandth of an 
inch) ; with ultraviolet light we can do little better. Electron micro- 
scopes, though only about 15 years old as scientific instruments, have 
already portrayed objects more than a hundred times smaller than 
this in linear dimensions and hence more than a million times smaller 
in volume and weight. Such tiny particles are only 5 to 10 atoms 
across. The newly visible world having such relatively small mole- 
cules at its lower limit is about as extensive, and as full of unknown 
things, as that aspect of Nature which the optical microscope first 



ELECTRON MICROSCOPE IN BIOLOGY — WYCKOFF 253 

brought to light. It will take a long time to discern all that is here, 
and still longer fully to understand what we are seeing. In the 
meantime, we have all the excitement of seeing what no man expected 
to see, and of using much of the new knowledge thus gained to ap- 
proach with clearer understanding many of biology's essential 
problems. 

An indication of the relationship of the electron microscope to the 
familiar optical microscope may help in interpreting the images it 
produces. Seventy-five years ago, in 1879, Sir William Crookes dem- 
onstrated in the Royal Institution various forms of his new cathode- 
ray tube. The electron microscope is such a tube in greatly elaborated 
form. Like the Crookes tube, it has a source of electrons and a fluores- 
cent screen to show their pattern ; a magnetic field is commonly used 
to change their direction. In the electron microscope there are sev- 
eral of these fields, and they are so arranged that the electrons follow 
paths through the tube that imitate the path of light through the glass 
lenses of an optical microscope. 

From a consideration of what an electron microscope is, it will be 
realized that there is no compelling technical reason why we should 
not have had some form of this instrument many years ago. Probably 
it was not built because its advantages become obvious only when our 
realization of the wave qualities of the electron started people thinking 
about it as an illuminant. Here is, in fact, a rather striking example 
of how our scientific imaginations may be bound by the ideas current 
at any time. 

In science, as in most other fields of human endeavor, we rarely get 
everything we would like, and accordingly, it should not be a surprise 
that there are important limitations to what can be looked at under an 
electron microscope. For the most part these arise from the relative 
impenetrability of matter by electrons ; therefore, the object must be 
extremely thin and, after thorough drying, it must be examined under 
the vacuum of the tube. This is not an overwhelming disadvantage, 
but it makes necessary new methods of specimen preparation that 
will preserve the structures we are interested in, down to their finest 
molecular details. 

To delineate very small objects we must look at their very highly 
magnified images ; this involves magnifications far greater than those 
useful in optical microscopy. The detail seen in the best optical micro- 
scopes becomes increasingly "fuzzy," indistinct, and meaningless when 
viewed at magnifications above about 1,500 X ; but we can now have 
electron micrographs in which detail is sharp at 150,000 X. Occa- 
sional electron micrographs are worth studying at twice this magni- 
fication. These magnifications are so vastly in excess of any in our 
previous experience that most of us find it difficult to have a vivid 
realization of how very small are the objects we are seeing. 



254 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Many novel problems arise when we use the electron microscope to 
see molecular particles. In it, objects are visible by reason of the elec- 
trons they deflect, or scatter ; and a molecular particle is able to deflect 
very few compared with the substrate that must be used to support 
it. This lack of a necessary contrast in the resulting image can be met 
by evaporating a few atoms' thickness of heavj'^ metal obliquely over 
a preparation. Then contrast is enhanced by the little atomic shadows 
cast by molecular and other detail, and these have the added advan- 
tage of giving the image a three-dimensional quality that reveals the 
shapes of what we see. 

There is one very important difference between the practice of opti- 
cal and of electron microscopy, made necessary by the destructive 
effects of powerful electron beams. In general, the optical micros- 
copist does most of his work visually and only occasionally takes a 
picture. The electron microscopist, on the contrary, uses visual images 
mainly to find and to focus on fields of interest. By then taking pic- 
tures on fine-grained i^hotographic film and enlarging them later, he 
is able to obtain very high and useful magnifications without employ- 
ing the destructive electron intensities that would be needed to give 
bright images at these highest enlargements. 

It is impossible to do more here than show what a few typical macro- 
molecular particles are like, and indicate some of the problems dealing 
with them that are now claiming our attention. In essence these 
problems are threefold. They involve recognizing and measuring the 
particles, determining how they are arranged in the structures they 
form, and trying to find out how they are produced in Nature. 

The proteins that occur in solution in a living organism offer many 
examples of approximately spherical macromolecules. When suffi- 
ciently purified, these substances often crystallize well, and we can 
study with the electron microscope various stages in the growth of 
the single crystals they form. The photographs that have been ob- 
tained from a number of proteins and plant virus proteins show the 
beautiful molecular order that characterizes all steps in crystal forma- 
tion (pi. 1, fig. 1). 

Another highly important type of molecular particle is a long fila- 
ment. The thicker among these are relatively stiff and straight, like 
the tobacco mosaic filaments in old solutions or the elementary par- 
ticles of cellulose. Those that are thinner are wavy threads. Solu- 
tions of the muscle proteins, of collagen from connective tissue, and of 
the nucleic acids contain such threads; some that have been photo- 
graphed are less than 10 atoms in diameter. Paracrystalline, rather 
than crystalline, solids composed of these filamentous macromolecules 
are among the important framework structures of plants and animals. 
Their investigation is one of the most rewarding of the current appli- 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Wyckoff 



PLATE 1 




^X 



~3 -^ 



i^Jt^^ 







oo 



X 



.# 



^^1^^ ^^.^- '"' 




# * 



'^ 



'tiU^^/J /£.'': 






.-^* 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Wyckoff 



Plate 2 




1. Section through an union rout tip showing parts uf several resting and one dividing cell 
with its (sectioned) chromosomes. X 8,200. 




2. A mass of influenza virus particles developed from a cell. X 9,000. 



ELECTRON MICROSCOPE IN BIOLOGY — WYCKOFF 255 

cations of electron microscopy. Filaments display a striking tendency 
to assume parallel arrays. Thus, the secondary walls of plants consist 
of stacked sheets of parallel-aligned filaments of cellulose. Striated 
muscle has a parallel alignment of molecular threads as a sort of 
backbone for its other components. Sections cut at right angles to 
a muscle fiber demonstrate many fine details of an ordered packing 
of these threads that in some places is almost crystalline in its per- 
fection. Evidently the kind of knowledge that will result from such 
observations permits an entirely new approach to the problem of mus- 
cular contraction. 

An equally good but very different type of molecular order prevails 
in tendon and other forms of connective tissue. Collagen, for exam- 
ple an Achilles tendon from the heel, has been examined as shredded 
fragments and in sections cut in various directions through an intact 
tendon. At low magnifications not much above those used in optical 
microscopy, one sees the tiny fibrils that are associated together in 
bundles and sheets to form the macroscopic tendons. Higher mag- 
nifications reveal the fine structure of each component fibril. The 
examination of transverse sections suggests that a fibril is enveloped 
by a tube of collagen; preliminary swelling shreds the collagen and 
shows how its macromolccular particles are knitted together to pro- 
duce such a tube (pi. 1, fig. 2). Collagen dissolves in very dilute acids 
and alkalis and can be reprecipitated from its solutions. The electron 
microscope demonstrates tliat under certain conditions these re-formed 
fibrils have the molecular fine structure of the original collagen, but 
that under other conditions of precipitation fibrils of different fine 
structures are produced. Some of these are found in Nature, others 
are not. Such investigations of the various forms of collagen are im- 
portant, not only for their bearing on the nature of paracrystalline 
order, but also because they permit us to study the changes in connec- 
tive tissue that accompany and perhaps may sometimes be responsible 
for arthritis, rheumatism, and similar degenerative diseases of man. 

When we seek to deal with the third broad field of study opened 
up by electron microscopy — how these macromolccular particles arise — 
we immediately realize the need first for an adequate picture of the 
fine structure of the living cells that produce them. Most of what 
we know about the cells that constitute the higher plants and animals 
has been gained from optical microscopic studies on thin sections of 
their tissues. To extend our observations to electron microscopic 
magnifications it has been necessary to learn how to cut sections that 
are about fifty times thinner than those required for this optical work. 
Such wafers of tissue only a few millionths of an inch thick can now 
be cut as a matter of routine. With them we are begimiing to survey 
again some of the problems of bacteriology and many problems of 



256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

histology and embryology from the point of view of the new detail 
that is to be seen. Artifacts formed during specimen preparation 
obviously are more troublesome the finer the structures being studied, 
and new methods must be developed before we can utilize to the full 
the potentialities of the electron microscope. Nevertheless, the prog- 
ress already made has revealed far more than we can yet interpret 
within sectioned tissues. 

Imiumerable questions can be answered from the examination of 
healthy cells. If they are from plants we can, for example, follow 
the growth of tlieir walls and we can examine the line structure of 
their chloropiasts, of their starch grains, and of the many other objects 
to be seen in their cytoplasm. If they are of animal origin, we can 
inquire into the elaborate mitochondrial and other structures that are 
particularly striking in cells of special function such as those in the 
liver or kidney, in the eye or the nervous system. With both plant 
and animal cells we can approach from this liner level of organiza- 
tion the mechanism of cell division (pi. 2, tig. 1) . 

These studies of components of the normal cell and of how they 
develop supply the background requisite for investigathig the ab- 
normalities of cell life that are responsible for man}'^ diseases of living 
matter. Virus diseases are among the first of these to which we 
naturally turn, both because the viruses tliat cause them are too small 
to have been visible before and because, whatever their nature, these 
pathogenic agents stand on the borderline between the animate and 
inanimate and thus offer a unique opportunity of learning more about 
the essence of the living state. 

My laboratory in the United States at the National Institutes of 
Health has been particularly concerned over the past few years with 
this study of virus growth, and we have learned much about how 
several viruses develop within the cells that are their hosts. There 
appears to be no uniform pattern for this development, and one can- 
not briefly describe the various types of virus growth we have seen. 
Nevertheless, I would like in conclusion to indicate what we have 
found about one familiar virus — that of influenza. From an examina- 
tion of purified suspensions, we know that its infectious particles are 
either tiny spheres or filaments of the same diameter. In sections 
through diseased tissues we fuid these virus particles not within the 
infected cells themselves, as many of us would have expected, but 
clustered around their peripheries and developing from them as fila- 
ments that break off and segment into spheres (pi. 2, fig. 2). Such 
observations with the electron microscope demonstrate that the ele- 
mentary infectious units of this virus have not proliferated after the 
fashion of minute micro-organisms but instead are bits of cytoplasm 
of the diseased cells. 



ELECTRON MICROSCOPE IN BIOLOGY — WYCKOFF 257 

The particles of several other viruses, including bacteriophages, 
are derived from the protoplasm of the host cells ; but there are other 
viruses that do not have such an origin. Some appear to arise from 
specialized components of the diseased cell, whereas others may be 
foreign invaders that multiply like micro-organisms, by growth and 
division. Much more observation is needed before the full story of 
virus growth is known; but it is important that we at last have a 
method capable of giving this knowledge. 

At this early stage in our explorations with the electron microscope 
it is not possible to foresee what new insights into the vital process 
it will next give us. Perhaps they will come as we address ourselves 
more and more toward the small viruses, especially those that attack 
nervous tissue; or perhaps we shall find more immediately rewarding 
the closer study of the numerous structures that are steadily being 
found as we examine a widening range of healthy cells. Wliichever 
it is, we may be sure that our visual penetration of the macromolecular 
level of organization will prove steadily more fruitful as experience 
gives us an increasing ability to interpret the new tilings we observe. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as 
long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Pub- 
lications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D. C. 



The Spread of the Cattle Egret' 

(With particular reference to North America) 



By Alexander Sprunt, Jr. 

National Audubon Society 



[With 3 plates] 

There is certainly no one avian species that, in the twentieth century, 
has created the sensation produced by the cattle egret {Bubulcus ibis 
ibis) in the United States. Its presence is at once unique and without 
precedent. At no other time in history has a bird appeared on the 
continent of North America and become established as a breeding 
species without man's assistance. As phenomenal as this fact is, and 
despite the consuming interest created in the bird-minded public of 
this country, it seems proper here to comment on the species in a world 
sense as well as in the Americas. 

The cattle egret, cow heron, or buff-backed heron, as it is variously 
called, occupies an extensive world range and is a wide wanderer. 
Two varieties exist — Bubulcus ibis coromandus and Bubulcus ibis ibis. 
The ranges of the two are as follows : 

Bubulcus ihls coromandus'^ India, Ceylon, Burma, Siam, southern 

China, Korea, soiithern .Japan, Formosa, 
Hainan, Philippines, Sunda Islands, 
Celebes, Ceram, Burn ; occasional in New 
Guinea and Australia. 

Bubulcus ihis ibis Southwest Palearctic, Ethiopian and Ori- 
ental regions. Breeds in southern Spain 
and Portugal; in North Africa from 
Morocco to Egypt and south of the 
Sahara all the way to South Africa ; 
in Asia in southwestern Arabia, Syria, 
Transcaucasia and northern Iran ; also 
in Madagascar, Comoros, Seychelles, and 
Mauritius. Occurs on the coast of the 
Mediterranean and Black Seas, and in 
Iraq. Accidental in Britain, Denmark, 
Hungary, southeastern Russia, the Ca- 
naries, and Madeira. 



^ Valuable assistance in the preparation of this paper was rendered the writer 
by the following: Herbert Friedmann, Willard E. Dilley, Samuel A. Grimes, 
Herbert L. Stoddard, Louis A. Stimsuu, iiichard Bird, and Alexander Wetmore. 

*Lat. Bubulcus, concerning cattle; Gr. ibis, ibis; Lat. coromandus, crown- 
mantle. 

259 



260 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Description. — Breeding plumage: White, with crown, neck, and 
upper back pink to orange buff. Legs yellow to dull reddish; feet 
dark brown. Bill yellow, shading to reddish orange near base ; rather 
stout and blunt. Irides yellow; lores dull orange. Winter and im- 
mature plumage: Almost wholly white, crown sometimes pale buff; 
legs yellowish black to greenish black with soles yellow ; bill yellow. 

OLD WORLD STATUS 

Africa. — Herbert Friedmann, curator of birds in the U. S. National 
Museum, informs me that the cattle egret has increased markedly in 
South Africa in recent years. On his first trip there in 1924 he saw 
only a few individuals and all of them in one locality. In 1950 he 
found them "very numerous in almost all places visited." C. J. Skead 
has recently studied the status of the species in eastern Cape Province 
and has published findings in the Ostrich, vol. 23, No. 3, pp. 186-218, 
December 1952. 

In discussing the definite increase in that region Skead states that he 
has found no explanation for it, nor has he established any directional 
movement which might indicate whence the birds have appeared. 

Australia. — This continent presents some interesting facts regarding 
the cattle egret. All things considered, something of a parallel exists 
there as it does in the Americas in that the bird may have become 
established without man's assistance. However, it is certain that 
one attempt to introduce it was definitely made. Wliether subsequent 
developments stem from that effort seems rather improbable, but one 
must judge from the evidence, and here it is. 

In 1933, 18 birds were introduced into the Kimberly Division 
(Serventy and Whittell, Handbook of birds of western Australia, 
1948). This attempt apparently did not succeed in establishing the 
species. In 1950, Tarr, writing in the Emu, vol. 49, pp. 191-192, was 
not able to find any other attempt at introduction. 

Herbert Deignan, associate curator of birds of the U. S. National 
Museum, added the cattle egret to the known fauna of northern Aus- 
tralia in 1948. He then saw flocks of as many as 100 birds and ob- 
tained two specimens at Oenpelli, Northern Territory. It is his very 
reasonable opinion that the group of 18 birds that were introduced in 
1933 and that disappeared could hardly have been responsible for 
the hundreds he saw at a locality 400 miles away years later. Much 
of the country intervening is totally unsuited to the bird's needs. 
Therefore, he suggests that it must be considered at least that the 
birds in the Northern Territory are the result of a "nonhuman dis- 
persal." The cattle egret is a notorious wanderer ; of that there has 
been, and stiU is, abundant evidence. 



SPREAD OF THE CATTLE EGRET — SPRUNT 261 

England. — The following interesting data are quoted from "Witli- 
erby, Jourdain, et al., Handbook of British birds, vol, 3, p. 144, 1939 : 

A considerable number of . . . coromanda [the Asiatic subspecies of Buhul- 
cus ibis] . . . have been released by the Zoological Society each year since 
1931 at Whipsnade, and a few were also released in 1930 by Mr. A. Ezra at 
Cobham, Surrey. These birds have wandered in all directions and have been 
reported from time to time in many parts of the country as far apart as Devon, 
Somerset, Monmouth, Wiltshire, Leicester, Notts, Merioneth, Kent, Essex, Cam- 
bridge, Norfolk, Lines, Perth, and even Iceland. 

This account very definitely shows the tendency of the bird to scat- 
ter far and wide, a characteristic that should be constantly borne in 
mind. 

NEW WORLD STATUS 

SOUTH AMERICA 

British Guimia. — The first specimen of the cattle egret (African 
form, Bubulcus ibis ibis) in the New World Avas obtained by Emmet 
R. Blake, near Buxton, East Coast, British Guiana, May 27, 1937. 
It was an adult female (Auk, vol. 56, pp. 470-^71, 1939). How the 
species arrived in British Guiana is still a mystery. Reference to this 
is contained in F. Ilaverschmidt's article in Audubon ISIagazine (vol. 
55, No. 5, p. 202, September-October 1953), and is quoted herewith. 

We do not know where the cattle egret landed in South America, nor when. 
. . . Naturally the question arises how did this bird arrive In South America 
and where did it come from? There is in my opinion no reason to doubt that 
its spread is a natural one. I have heard some rumors that some people think 
that some birds were taken as pets by laborers from India into the Guianas. 
This can be rejected at once, however, as in that case the birds must have 
been of the race inhabiting southern Asia which is not the case, as all birds 
obtained in South America are of the race of .southern Europe and Africa. 

A fact is that of late years the cattle egret has increased greatly and also has 
extended its range in Africa, for instance, in the Eastern Cape Province. . . . 
They occur as migrants in the noubreeding season in the Congo, Cameroons, 
etc. . . . Could it not have been possible that a flock of these migrating birds 
were blown to the west, owing to special weather conditions which brought them 
over the Atlantic at some place on the coast of tropical South America? Here 
again, because of the lack of field observers, it could have happened all un- 
noticed. 

We further may ask whether all the cattle egret.s now found (in So. Amer.) 
are the descendants of one single flock which survived the first crossing and 
which settled down in a favorable area. Or does some immigration still regu- 
larly take place? We cannot give an answer to all these interesting questions, 
but the unhappy feeling remains that a wonderful event has occurred about 
which we know very little. 

Any student of this "wonderful event," as Mr. Ilaverschmidt very 
aptly calls it, is urged to read his article in its entirety, for it is a very 
clear picture presented in popular and readable form. 



262 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

In addition to Blake's record may be mentioned a letter written in 
June 1946 by P. S. Peberdy of the Museum at Georgetown, British 
Guiana, to Dr. Alexander Wetmore to the effect that the cattle egret 
occurs in loose groups of from 10 to 40 individuals, chiefly around 
the ricefields and ponds along the coast of Demarara. Although no 
specimens were collected prior to Blake's 1937 example, Peberdy 
claims that Robert Hunter observed large flocks on his hacienda in 
1930. (Letter reproduced (in Spanish) by Phelps and Phelps, Bol. 
Soc. Venez. Cienc. Nat., vol. 10, p. 231, 1946.) 

Venezuela. — The first reference to Buhulcus this ibis from Vene- 
zuela seems to emanate from W. H. Phelps (Auk, vol. 61, p. 656, 
1944) . Therein he discusses the possibility as to whether the specimen 
secured on January 27, 1943, near San Jose de Tiznados, Guarico, by 
Octavio Arleo B., of the Caracas Museum, was a "straggler from 
Spain or North Africa, or whether the specimen in hand was an es- 
caped captive bird." This was the second known specimen collected 
in South America. It was shot from a group of four; the others 
"looked exactly the same" (to Arleo). Apparently the existence of 
the bird in British Guiana was not then known to Mr. Phelps, or at 
any rate he made no mention of such. He did say that "there is a 
passenger line of steamships from there (Spain and North Africa) 
to Venezuela." The specimen was obtained "many hundreds of miles 
from the seacoast" (prairies of the Apure River, in the Orinoco Val- 
ley). It was recorded by Walter Dupouy as the first Venezuelan 
record (Mem. Soc. Cienc. Nat. La Salle, aiio 4, No. 11, pp. 1-11, 1944). 

The second Venezuelan specimen is recorded by Phelps in Bol. Soc. 
Venez. Cienc. Nat., vol. 10, p. 230, 1946. The third, a specimen shot 
at Laguna "La Angulera," approximately 15 kilometers south of Va- 
lencia, state of Carabobo, on February 2, 1947, by Humberto Giugni, 
was reported by Dupouy (Mem. Soc. Cienc. Nat. La Salle, afio 7, 
No. 19, pp. 174-178, May-August 1947). The fourth, reported as the 
third because Dupouy's paper was unavailable to them at the time, 
was a specimen recorded by Herbert Friedmann and Foster D. Smith, 
Jr., under the title "A Contribution to the Ornithology of North- 
eastern Venezuela," in the Proceedings of the U. S. National IMuseum, 
vol. 100, p. 411, 1950. This was a male obtained August 25, 1948, at 
Cantaura, Anzoategui. These authors have written for the Proceed- 
ings (vol. 104, No. 3345, 1955) an account entitled "A Further Contri- 
bution to the Ornithology of Northeastern Venezuela" containing the 
following : 

We recorded a Venezuelan example of this heron in our earlier paper. It 
has since been steadily increasing around the collecting stations. From 1945 
through 1950 only one flock of 4 individuals was seen, that recorded by us. In 
1951 the bird was recorded three times : 2 individuals, February, Caicara ; a 
single, August, Cantaura; a single, October, Caicara. The 1952 records are as 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Sprunt 



PLATE 1 




1. Pair of cattle egrets in willow to]is. Lake Okeechobee, F!a. May 5, 1953. 




2. Bubulcus ibis ibis in King's Bar Rooker}', Lake Okeechobee, Fla. 
(Photographs by Samuel A. Grimes, Jacksonville, Fla.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Sprunt 



Plate 2 




1. Typical posture of Bubukus with grazing steer. Eagle Bay Ranch, Okeechobee, Fla. 




2. Cattle cgret-snowv egret contrast. Bubulcus at lower right. King's Bar, Lake Okeecho- 
bee, Fla. May 5, 1953. 

(Photographs by Samuel A. Grimes, Jacksonville, Fla.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Sprunt 



Plate 3 









^ I- *►; 



ife^ 



-n'^. X 









1. Cattle ecrct on nest amid willows. King's Bar Rooker\-, Lake Okeechobee, Fla. May 5 

1953. 





2. Courtship behavior in the rooker>-. King's Bar, Lake Okeechobee, Fla. May 5, 1953. 
(Photographs by Samuel A. Grimes, Jacksonville, Fla.) 



SPREAD OF THE CATTLE EGRET — SPRUNT 263 

follows : 10, August, about 10 kilometers south of Urica ; a single, September, 
Cantaura ; 5, October, Caicara ; 10, December, Caicara. In January 1953, a 
flock of G was seen at Caicara and a flock of 8 about 10 kilometers south of 
Urica, Anzoategui. 

Surinam. — In the Aul?:, vol. 64, p. 143, 1947, Haverschmidt records 
by sight observation the first instance of the species in Surinam. He 
saw the bird near Nieuw Nickerie, March 10, 1946. On March 30, 
1947, he obtained a male, this specimen being now in the Museum of 
Zoolog}', University of Michigan, Ann Arbor (Auk, vol. 70, p. 364, 
1953). Haverschmidt refers to the above in his article in Audubon 
Magazine as follows : 

lu this country (Surinam, Dutch Guiana) it reaches, as far as we know, its 
present southern limit in South America. . . . By December 1946 it became ap- 
parent to me that the cattle egret was quite a numerous bird in the cultivated 
coastal area of Surinam, wherever cattle were kept. . . . 

Most of them roosted in the bushes along the Surinam River opposite Para- 
maribo. The greatest number of birds that I counted in this roost was about 
GOO. . . . The Hindustani peasants were astonished at this strange fellow who 
came stalking the birds with a gun, and loudly protested against my wish to col- 
lect specimens for the scientific record. ... In the Nickerie district . . . the 
birds have certainly increased since I first saw them in 194G. Here they have 
a large roost in the low bushes bordering the Nickerie River. ... In the late 
afternoon of May 28, 1953, I counted 1,112 birds using this roost. 

Colomhia. — The first cattle egret recorded for Colombia was a fe- 
male secured at Punto Muchimbo, Valle, on the lower Rio San Juan, 
January 3, 1951. It was immature. The specimen was listed as an 
addition to Colombia by Alexander Wetmore (Additional forms of 
birds from Colombia and Panama, Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 117, 
No. 2, p. 1,1951). 

R. M. de Schaunesee (Birds of Colombia, Caldasia, vol. 5, p. 1144, 
1952) records another specimen taken at Chia, Bogota plateau of the 
eastern Andes, at an elevation of 2,562 meters. It was obtained No- 
vember 25, 1951. About a month later a bird was seen near the 
Caribbean coast in the lower Rio Magdalena region (Palmar de 
Varela, Atlantico) , the date being December 30, 1951. 

Dugand (Lozania, No. 8, pp. 1-7, January 1954) has recently sum- 
marized the Colombian records and has added additional cases to the 
ones given above, showing that the bird has increased and spread 
rapidly in northern Colombia. 

Z^ofe'ym.— Niethammer (Journ. Ornithol., vol. 96, pp. 222-223, 1955) 
reports a specimen taken at Irupana, Yungas, 1,950 meters elevation, 
on December 3, 1953. 

Netherlands West Indies. — Wliile in service with the U. S. Navy, 
W. H. Drury, Jr., saw the cattle egret at the island of Aruba in 1944 
(Auk, vol. 70, p. 365, 1953) . 

326511—55 18 



264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



SUMMARY OF SOUTH AMERICAN DATA 



Probably no one has done more, or even as much, work with the 
cattle egret in South America as Haversclmiidt. His published find- 
ings have evidenced wide knowledge of, and great interest in, the 
species, and it might be well here to redigest his opinions and con- 
clusions. 

From the bird's sudden appearance in British Guiana in 1930 and its 
subsequent occurrence in the countries of Surinam, Venezuela, Colom- 
bia, Bolivia, and the Netherlands West Indies, the explanation of its 
actual origin remains unknown. Haverschmidt (Auk, vol. 67, p. 381, 
1950) suggests three possibilities: 

1. The bird was always indigenous but was overlooked. 

2. Birds comprising the present population are descendants of 
escaped birds. 

3. Some birds somehow found their way to South America from 
Africa and, the area where thej landed being suitable to their needs, 
settled there and increased. 

He considers Nos. 1 and 2 extremely unlikely and believes that No. 
3 is the solution. I agree completely. Such behavior has been char- 
acterized as "explosive migi-ation." Considering the bird's spread 
in Africa and to Australia, to say nothing of its normal tendency to 
wander widely, this expression seems appropriate. A good illustra- 
tion of it would be the result of liberation from the Wliipsnade Zoo 
and the subsequent appearance of cattle egrets as far off as Iceland. 

The greatest number of birds checked at one observation was Haver- 
schmidt's count of 1,112 at the Nickerie River roost. One of the most 
surprising statements in all his publications of the bird appeared on 
page 204 of the September-October issue of Audubon Magazine (1953) 
in which he says : 

It is . . . highly unsatisfactory to be aware that the bird has been present 
in South America for more than 20 years, yet there is not a single breeding 
record for it in any of the countries where it now regularly occurs. 

He goes on to say that he has never found it in any regular heron 
rookery and that it is not a bird of the mangroves or coastal mud flats. 
Further, that "The nesting places of the cattle egret must be sought 
in some inland and freshwater marsh." He assumes that the breeding 
season is from April until July. (See below, in connection with the 
North American nesting which, in all details, corroborates Haver- 
schmidt's conclusions.) He concludes his illuminating account by 
saying that he never saw a cattle egret on the back of a cow and he 
doubts that it ever takes "ticks" from the skin of cattle. (See under 
Behavior, below, regarding observations in Florida.) 



SPREAD OF THE CATTLE EGRET — SPRUNT 265 



•WKST INDIES 



(Since the manuscript of this paper was originally written, cattle 
egrets have appeared in Cuba and the Virgin Islands.) 

NORTH AMERICA 

As far as I can ascertain, the first sight record of the cattle egret 
in North America should be credited to Willard E. Dilley, then of 
Clewiston, Fla., now on the staff of the Everglades National Park. 
Though the writer made this statement in his article in Audubon 
Magazine (July-August 1953), the date of Dilley's observation there 
given is erroneous. It was stated to be May 1948, liecent corre- 
spondence with Dilley has provided the following information. Under 
date of May 26, 1954, he writes in reply to my request : 

My wife and I moved to Clewiston in January of 1941. I entered the service of 
the United States Navy during the summer of 1943, so the occurrence was some- 
wliere during tliis period. From memory I would place it as the summer of 1941, 
but it could have been the summer of 1942. 

There were two birds present ; one, a full-plumed bird . . . the other showing 
just a trace of rust on the head. They were in a marshy pasture which lies 
between the sandy ridge of Clewiston and the government dyke. They remained 
in this area for a week. 

Dilley did not record the observation, as he considered the birds 
escapees. There is every reason to believe now that the ones he saw 
were among the first to appear in the United States. The exact time 
and place of the original appearance will probably never be accurately 
known, as the birds were very likely overlooked for some time. Cer- 
tainly there is now evidence that practically proves that they were 
in Florida for some time before coming to the attention of ornitholo- 
gists. An illustration of this is provided in a recent letter to the writer 
from Samuel A. Grimes, of Jacksonville, Fla., who has taken a great 
interest in the species. On a population survey of the cattle egret in 
May 1954, he talked to a man living near Belle Glade (south shore of 
Lake Okeechobee) who told him that he had seen cattle egrets feeding 
"regularly with cattle for two or three years up to the time of the 
flood (hurricane) in 1949." This would place birds there in 1946 
or 1947. 

The gap between Dilley's Clewiston birds (1941 or 1942) and the 
Belle Glade observations is unexplained, as well as the interim suc- 
ceeding and lasting until the summer of 1951 when the species ap- 
peared at Cape May, N. J. This was a single specimen, and where it 
came from and how it succeeded in reaching New Jersey without being 
reported en route are mysteries. 

1952. — It was in the year 1952 that the cattle egret really came into 
prominence and produced the sensation now current. And yet, with 
what is now known, the species had in all probability been present in 
this country for a decade I That seems incredible, but the facts, being 



266 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

what they are, are inescapable. The most reasonable explanation 
would appear to be that there were a few scattered birds seen with 
white herons feeding with cattle — so commonplace that no one thought 
of examining any closely. 

At any rate, the definite establishment of the species in this country 
was by means of photography, but the photographer did not realize 
that history was being made on his film I On March 12, 1952, Richard 
Borden was photographing white herons with cattle on the Eagle Bay 
Ranch, northeastern shore of Lake Okeechobee. He assumed that 
they were snowy egrets. Later in the spring, after returning to his 
home in Massachusetts, he examined this film in detail because of the 
fact that the cattle egret had appeared in that region, and it was found 
tliat Borden had pictures of the species without being aware of having 
taken them. 

Slightly more than a month after he had made tlie film, the first 
cattle egret to be obtained in this country was taken near Wayland, 
Mass., by W. H. Drury, Jr., A. H. Morgan, and R. Stackpole, on 
April 23, 1952 (Auk, vol. 70, p. 364, 1953). These observers saw 
Borden's film and confirmed the fact that some of the white herons 
at Eagle Bay Ranch were Bubulcus ibis ibis. Borden later commented 
on his achievement in the Bulletin of the Massachusetts Audubon 
Society (April 1953, p. 139) under the title "Was My Face Red ?" In 
this interesting article he undertook, with good reason, to needle me 
for not having discovered that the bird was present in the Okeechobee 
area where I was conducting Audubon wildlife tours and passing the 
Eagle Bay Ranch four days each week ! My only explanation lies in 
the above-mentioned fact that white herons feeding with cattle were 
so much a part of the local scenery that they were simply pointed out 
to visitors as such, often at some distance. 

From that time on, records began to multiply and take form. On 
June 1, 1952, Louis A. Stimson, of Miami, Fla., saw 10 cattle egrets 
on the north shore of Lake Okeechobee, 17 miles west of Okeechobee 
City, at the Indian Prairie Canal. Knowing tliat I was then engaged 
in a revision of Howell's "Florida Birdlife," he at once notified 
me of this observation. Stimson has continued to take an active 
interest in the species in Florida, and many of his findings will be 
mentioned later. 

During the summer of 1952, two cattle egrets appeared at Cape 
JMay, N, J., and were seen by numerous observers. Stimson reported 
one bird at Lake Harbor (south shore of Lake Okeechobee) on August 
24, and four at the same place on August 31. The next report was from 
Massachusetts, where one bird was seen near Cambridge (Charles 
River) November 27-28, and one was taken on November 28 at North 
Truro. 

The 1952 records came to a spectacular close when a specimen was 



SPREAD OF THE CATTLE EGRET — SPRUNT 267 

taken "in the autumn" aboard a fishing boat off the Grand Banlis of 
Newfoundland ! Fortunately it was preserved and the skin shown 
to Roger Peterson and James Fisher, in April 1953, by Leslie Tuck, 
Dominion wildlife officer. This constitutes the first record for 
Canada (Audubon Mag., vol. 56, No. 1, p. 6, January-February 1954) . 
Thus, in the year 1952 the cattle egret was seen, or obtained, from 
the extremes of south-central Florida to Newfoundland ! 

1953. — The first birds of 1953 were reported by Stimson who, on 
February 11, saw several near Bear Beach (south shore of Lake 
Okeechobee). The next day Audubon Warden Glenn Chandler, sta- 
tioned at Okeechobee and long since alerted to watch for the species, 
came to my house in Okeechobee with the news that he had just seen 
his first specimen at Eagle Bay Ranch, in the same pasture where 
Borden had taken his photographs. On the 13th Mrs. Sprunt saw 
four birds there. Samuel A. Grimes, who was visiting in Okeechobee 
at the time, saw his first specimen on the 15th at Eagle Bay, and I saw 
my first at the same place later in the day. 

On February 27 Dr. and Mrs. Powell Cottrille, of Jackson, Mich., 
photographed 12 birds near Belle Glade, and from then on, through 
March, the bird was seen by every Audubon wildlife tour group, as 
many as 25 being seen at a time. All these observations occurred in 
the Eagle Bay area. The population of the northern lake shore 
group was, as near as Stimson, Grimes, and I could figure, about 
50 birds. It was known that the numbers on the south shore (Belle 
Glade to Clewiston) were higher, but how much so was uncertain. 

May 5, 1953, was a memorable day in American ornithology. On 
that day Grimes and Glenn Chandler found the first cattle-egret nest 
in North America. It was in a heron rookery on King's Bar, an island 
in Lake Okeechobee, 3 miles off the mouth of the Kissimmee River. 
It held one egg and was photographed by Grimes. Chandler at- 
tempted to show this nest to Roger Peterson and James Fisher a few 
days later, but it had fallen out of the willow in which it had been 
built and crumpled in the water beneath. A snowy-egret nest close 
by was mistakenly pointed out by Chandler as that of the cattle egret 
before the collapse of the latter was discovered. 

On May 30 Grimes returned to the rookery, accompanied by Herbert 
L. Stoddard, and five more nests were found. Stoddard obtained a 
male cattle egret, the first specimen to be taken in Florida. Thus a 
new species was added to the breeding avifauna of a continent. 

It was also in this month (May) that the species appeared in Vir- 
ginia for the first time. Two birds were seen on the Chincoteague 
Wildlife Refuge (eastern shore) on May 13 by J. H. Buckalew, then 
refuge manager. 

^ During the late summer and fall of 1953 Chandler saw very few 
birds on the north shore of Okeechobee, which seems strange. How- 



268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

ever, they were present in numbers on the south shore, Stimson noting 
35 on August 30. Cape May again showed birds that summer. John 
K. Terres, writing under date of August 20, said, "I saw four cattle 
egrets on August 2, 1953, at Cape May." They were in the same pas- 
ture frequented by the birds in 1951 and 1952 (McPherson farm). 

In order to stimulate and facilitate observation in Florida, Stimson 
prepared a "Brief Field Description" of the bird, which appeared 
in the Florida Naturalist, vol. 26, p. 185, October 1953. Under date 
of November 8, 1953, Mrs. Frances Hames of Key West, Fla., wrote 
me as follows : 

I think you will be interested to know that cattle egrets are in Key West . . . 
They are feeding on grasshoppers and dragonflies and occasionally they go to a 
pond (fresh) across the street and get a drink of water. One bird shows a defi- 
nite glow on the crown, otherwise they appear pure white. 

I had not expected to see the cattle egret here because he is supposed to be a 
bird of "open cultivated country and not of the mangroves and mudflats along 
the coast." 

There were four birds under observation by Mrs. Hames, and their 
occurrence brings up interesting speculation. Wliere did they come 
from? This is, of course, the southernmost record for the United 
States, and at the same time these birds were seen in Key West others 
were appearing in the Miami area ! Hitherto, none had been reported 
south of Lake Okeechobee, 75 miles to the north across the Everglades. 
At any rate, from November 8 to November 18 as many as 26 birds 
at a time were noted near Homestead on a farm on IVIowry Drive. 
These were watched for that period by Stimson, Willard Dilley, and 
Joseph Moore of the Everglades Park staff, and others. Groups of 9, 
10, 11, 12, and 18 birds were seen on various days. The smallest group 
was 4 birds, the largest 26. 

Stimson, writing of these birds under date of November 28, 1953, 
asks: "What is going on? Are more birds coming up from South 
America, or are these down here going to South America?" 

On November 21, on a trip from Miami to Clewiston, and from 
South Bay to Bear Beach, west along the southern shore of Lake 
Okeechobee, he had counted 105 cattle egi-ets. Going east of South 
Bay to about Pahokee, he found two groups, one of 15 birds, the 
other of 32. Thus in that day from Bear Beach to Pahokee, he 
counted 152 birds. Knowing what we do now regarding the breed- 
ing of the species on the south shore of Lake Okeechobee (see below) 
it seems certain that the numbers seen by Stimson were simply birds 
that had nested, or had hatched, earlier in the season in that area. It 
seems equally reasonable not to consider that any of these birds were 
migrating southward, or that some had done so. Therefore, the Key 
West and Homestead birds may well have been new arrivals from 
South America. 



SPREAD OF THE CATTLE EGRET — SPRUNT 269 

November brought another new locality into the North American 
scene — the island of Bermuda. Writing under date of November 29, 
1953, Miss Patricia Browne of "Leeholme," Devonshire, reports the 
following : 

I would like to report the presence in these islands of at least three cattle 
egrets. It is the first time that they have been recorded here. ... On November 
12 while passing a field, my attention was drawn to what I thought were im- 
mature little blue herons. I became curious however, as they were feeding very 
close to several cows. I rushed home and re-read the article by F. Haverschmidt 
in the Audubon Magazine. ... I returned to the field and had a careful look. 
The three birds . . . had a heavy, yellow bill and dark legs. ... I was able to 
take photographs of the bird with the cow but only from a distance . . . The 
owners of the cows said that they had noticed three of these birds during the 
past two weeks, always in close association with the cows. One reported seeing 
them perch on the cow's back. 

Miss Browne very kindly sent me several pictures and the bird 
shown is without doubt Buhulcits ibis. 

The year 1953 ended with an astonishing illustration of the wander- 
ing of this species. On December 8, a farmer near Brownfield (near 
Portland), Maine, killed a strange bird which he said was "disturbing 
the chickens." He took it to a Portland taxidermist who mounted it 
and placed it in his window. I was advised of this remarkable inci- 
dent by Christopher M. Packard of the Portland Society of Natural 
History in a letter dated December 18, 1953. The specimen was pre- 
sented to the Gorham State Teachers College by Chief Game Warden 
Elmer Ingraham. 

1954. — I went to Okeechobee early in January and was there until 
the end of April, conducting the twelfth season of the Audubon wild- 
life tours. Cattle egrets were seen this year a month earlier than last. 
Except for the first tour (January 12-13) the species was seen on every 
trip through the month of April. This probably indicates that it is 
now so well established on the north shore of Lake Okeechobee as to be 
a permanent resident. 

Early in 1954 the cattle egret appeared again in the lower Florida 
Keys. Under date of January 26, Harry E. Stiles of Grand Rapids, 
Mich., who had been in Okeechobee earlier that month, wrote me that 
on a subsequent trip to the Keys he had seen and talked to Jack 
Watson, the biologist in charge of the protection of the Key deer. 
Watson had seen and watched three birds in his deer area (Big Pine, 
Torch, and Cudjoe Keys) for several days. No exact date was given, 
except that it had transpired shortly before Stiles arrived in the area. 
The birds had disappeared shortly before, but Watson had found a 
fourth dead on the highway a few days previously. It developed that 
this specimen had been frequenting the shoulders of the road and feed- 
ing on insects disturbed by passing cars until eventually struck and 
killed ! An interesting adaptation to conditions. 



270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

It is possible that the four birds noted by Watson were the same 
reported by Mrs. Hanies at Key West about 2 months earlier. Wat- 
son's area is some 30 to 40 miles east, and the Key West birds were seen 
on November 7, 1953. It may well be that they were wandering east- 
ward along the Key chain in a leisurely manner. Mrs. Hames ob- 
served one bird later in the spring, March 29, 1954, at Key West. 

The cattle egret again nested at King's Bar, Lake Okeechobee, in the 
spring of 1954. Warden Chandler was watching this locality from 
mid-April and reported to the writer late in that month that the birds 
were present in the rookery. A trip was made there on May 1 and 
birds were seen at the nests. Early in May the second nesting locality 
for the species was found about 200 miles north of Lake Okeechobee. 
On May 2, 1954, Dale Eice, of the Department of Biology, University 
of Florida, found an adult feeding three young in a nest at Lake Alice, 
part of the university campus, Gainesville, Fla. He estimated that six 
birds were "using the rookery." He did not state whether this repre- 
sented three pairs, but such is assumed. He had been watching the 
area for some time, knowing that cattle egrets were in the vicinity, and 
believing that they would breed there. He adds that they were not 
there last season ( 1953 ) . ( For further nesting data in 1954 see below. ) 

Before going further in the year it should be noted here that one 
more new locality was established about this time, this being the State 
of New York. On May 20 a single specimen was seen on a turkey farm 
near East Moriches, Long Island, by LeRoy Wilcox. This informa- 
tion was given to the writer by Richard A. Sloss, of Woodmere, Long 
Island, in a letter dated June 7, 1954, which stated in part, "The bird 
had appeared here approximately four days previous to this date (May 
20) and disappeared early the following week. His diet consisted 
mainly of angleworms." 

PANAMA 

There have been several sight records for the Canal Zone by Maj. 
Francis O. Chapelle and Eugene Eisenmann (unpublished) and for 
the Province of Panama by David Fairchild. Reports from a reliable 
native hunter to A. Wetmore indicate that the bird was present in 
considerable numbers in 1954 in the savannas near Pacora. 

NESTING 

From the rather meager data hitherto available, this much can be 
said regarding the nesting of the species in the United States. It 
has congregated with other herons in normal rookery procedure, liv- 
ing in close proximity to snowy egrets, little blue and Louisiana 
herons, anhingas, boat-tailed grackle, limpkin, gallinules, and Florida 
ducks. The nests are the usual platforms of dead sticks hardly more 
substantial than those of its heron neighbors. 



SPREAD OF THE CATTLE EGRET SPRUNT 271 

The eggs number three or four and measure (on an average of four) 
1.80 by 1.35 inches. The writer is in possession of the only set of eggs 
m the country, these being the first collected in North America. They 
are of the same shape as other medium-sized heron eggs but are defi- 
nitely paler, the color being a very light bluish white. No data is as 
yet available on the incubation period but it should hardly vary from 
the usual heron interval. 

The young are fed by regurgitation, as in the case of other species. 
Grimes found, in his investigations of the King's Bar nesting (1953), 
that the food was very largely insect material. No conflict has been 
noted between the cattle egret and native herons in the three rookeries 
where they have thus far nested. The most recent rookery found and 
investigated was examined by Grimes and Stoddard in mid-May 1954 
in a marshy area of Kreamer's Island, southern Lake Okeechobee. 
In a letter dated May 27, 1954, Grimes says : 

The rookery itself contained a rock-bottom minimum of 200 nests and possibly 
double that number . . . there were more cattle egrets than all other herons 
combined . . . there were young in most of the nests (from newly hatched to 
fairly well feathered) but some still held eggs. Young would average three to 
a nest. We saw a number of broods of four and two or three sets of five eggs. 

Both he and Stoddard agreed that the number of nests would be 
nearer 300 than 200, but the latter figure was given in order to be 
ultraconservative. This is, of course, by long odds ilie largest rookery 
of this species and has probably been the source of supply, so to speak, 
for some years. 

BEHAVIOR 

Those familiar with ornithological works of the Old World will, 
of course, be familiar with the general habits of Bvlmlcus ibis. How- 
ever, in an entirely new range such as the United States, it may be well 
to stress some of its habits in general. No bird is better named, 
whether one calls it cattle egret or buff-backed heron. In view of the 
fact that it will probably be known more generally by the former 
designation, it is well to say that such a term is absolutely appropriate. 
Associations between certain birds and animals will come to mind but 
none is more striking than in this instance. 

As Haverschmidt says, it is not a bird of mangroves and mud flats — 
no cattle frequent such habitats and Bubulcus is attracted to cattle 
as filings are to a magnet ! It will be recalled that Mrs. Hames won- 
dered at the presence of the species at Key West because that area is 
mangrove and mud flat. The actions of the bird there, as well as of 
the individual killed along the Overseas Highway (taking insects dis- 
turbed by motor cars), were merely adaptions to immediate environ- 
ment. So the cattle egret is to be looked for where cattle occur. Other 
white herons feed with cattle, sometimes alighting on their backs (I 
have seen both snowy and immature little blues do this) , but thus far, 



272 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

curiously enough, I have not seen a cattle egret do this, though many 
others have. (I have since seen such behavior once.) Mrs. Sprunt 
witnessed a curious incident during the winter of 1954 at Okeechobee. 
She was watching a cattle egret feeding beside a cow that was grazing 
at the side of a canal. The cow started down the canal bank, followed 
closely by the egi^et. The animal entered the water, the bird jumped 
up to its back, rode across the canal thereon, and as the cow climbed 
out dropped off to the ground on the other side I 

The close proximity maintained by the bird to cattle is little short 
of astonishing. It is a positive wonder that they are not stepped on ! 
It keeps pace with the animal continually, usually close by the head 
but sometimes near the fore or hind feet, and occasionally under the 
belly. Wlien an insect is disturbed, the bird darts out, secures it, and 
returns. Now and then, it reaches up and picks off something from 
the body of the cow, or its legs. Whether these tidbits are flies, ticks, 
or what, I do not know, but it is a frequent practice. At times, the 
cow may be seen to push the bird aside with its muzzle, but appears 
not to object otherwise to the immediate closeness of its satellite. 

A very peculiar and, as far as I know, unexplained characteristic 
of the bird is the habit of weaving the head and neck from side to 
side. It is a most interesting bit of behavior to watch. A bird will 
suddenly stop feeding, stand perfectly upright, and weave the upper 
part of the body in a sort of hula-like motion. After a few of these 
movements it resumes feeding. This habit has never been witnessed 
in any native herons of this country in the writer's lifelong experi- 
ence with all of them. 

On one occasion during February 1954, in the Okeechobee area, I 
was informed that cattle egrets had been seen feeding with horses 
in the same manner as cattle. This is not to be wondered at in a cow 
country. 

The standing position of the bird is rather erect. The neck is short 
and thick, compared with a snowy egi-et, and the plumes are much 
shorter and with no recurve at the tip. The flight is performed with 
rapid beats of the wings and the neck is carried in the usual heron 
manner. 

FOOD 

The food of the cattle egret is, of course, an important considera- 
tion in evaluating its status, both present and future, as a new species 
in the New World. Generally speaking, it varies rather widely from 
the usual conception of heron diet (aside from the snowy egret's tend- 
ency to take insects at times). As far as is now known, the following 
can be said with some certainty: 

Grasshoppers figure to a very considerable extent. So, also, do 
crickets. Sloss mentions that the Long Island specimen took angle- 
worms. Mrs. Hames stated that dragonflies figured in the food of 



SPREAD OF THE CATTLE EGRET — SPRUNT 273 

tho birds at Key West. Mrs, Sprunt saw a cattle egret take a frog at 
the Eagle Bay Ranch near Okeechobee; another bird saw it and at- 
tempted to rob the original captor. During the ensuing fracas the 
frog escaped but was recaptured and swallowed by the bird that first 
secured it. Frank W. McLaughlin wrote under date of May 21, 1954, 
that he had seen a bird on May 2 in Burlington County, N. J. (pine- 
barren area) , catch and eat a Fowler's toad {Bufo woodhousii) . After 
sweeping it back and forth through water, it tossed the toad upward, 
then caught and swallowed it head first. Two or three others were 
obtained while he watched. 

In a letter dated December 16, 1953, Roger T. Peterson says, "I was 
interested to learn that you [the present writer] had seen them 
[cattle egrets] take ticks off cows." Actually, as said above, I do not 
know whether what the cattle egret takes off cows are ticks. The birds 
certainly take something off the legs, neck, and belly of cows fre- 
quently. Peterson says that "every author I have read indicates that 
ticks are very unimportant in the diet of the cattle egret." This may 
very well be so elsewhere, and maybe in this country. Ticks have cer- 
tainly been drastically reduced in the cattle ranges of Florida in recent 
years; of that there is no doubt at all. But this needs further study .^ 

COMPETITION WITH OTHER SPECIES 

As far as is now known there is no comjDetition whatever in this 
country with other herons. The diet of the cattle egret is definitely 
different from most of the herons of the United States. The feeding 
territory is, as a consequence, also different. Other than the tendency 
of the snowy egret and little blue heron to feed occasionally along 
with cattle (though never in the close proximity maintained by 
Bubulcus) , there is no parallel. In rookeries there is no lack of nest- 
ing sites. Cattle egret nests are placed within a few feet, or even 
inches, of those of other herons, but this is perfectly normal in any 
rookery. It is rather too soon to say anything about nesting success, 
but all evidence indicates that it is as great as that of any other species 
under similar conditions. The rather rapid increase of the cattle egret 
in only a short time (in Florida) would seem to prove that the majority 
of the eggs are hatched and most of the young are raised. 

CURRENT POPULATION 

The present population of the cattle egi'et is, of course, concentrated 
in Florida. Even there it is rather definitely localized, mostly in the 
area about Lake Okeechobee. Hitherto it has been difficult to be 
anything like precise in estimating the numbers, but the recent work 
of Grimes and Stoddard has added considerably to our knowledge. 



' Since the ab(we was written, I have seen the bird take flies off cattle. 



274 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Small groups have been noted about Hialeali (Miami) in the pastures 
north along State Road 27 and in the Homestead area to the south. 
This is as far south as the bird can be expected to occur, as there are 
no grasslands below this region. The scattered individuals noted in 
the Keys can hardly have been anything but wanderers or perhaps 
new arrivals from the Tropics. 

The group that nested in the Gainesville area in the spring of 
1954 may well settle there and form a nucleus of increasing numbers. 
There is considerable pasturage in the region, providing a conducive 
habitat. The few occurrences of individual birds in such widely 
scattered localities as Sarasota (west coast) and Merritt's Island (east 
coast) are inconsequential. 

The great bulk of the population remains about Lake Okeechobee 
in two general groups. The smallest of these occurs along the north- 
east shore of the Lake from the Kissimmee River to the Eagle Bay 
Ranch, a distance of some 5 miles. The writer covered this area 4 
days a week for nearly 4 months during the winter and spring of 1954 
on the Audubon wildlife tours, and arrived at the conclusion, sup- 
ported by others, that it is frequented by about 50 birds. 

The larger group frequents the southern shore of the Lake from 
about Pahokee on the east to Clewiston on the west. While it has been 
realized for some time that the birds here far exceeded those of the 
north shore, it was not until Grimes and Stoddard discovered the 
Kraemer Island rookery in May 1954 that actual numbers could be 
stated. Quoting again from Grimes' letter of May 27 — 

Right now, counting eggs and young, there are at least 1,100 or 1,200 cattle 
egrets In the rookery, and, if you figure 300 pairs (which we hoth agreed would 
be a more likely estimate) , there are 1,500 to 1,800. 

In the King's Bar rookery (north shore gi'oup) there were about 20 
nests this season, which is practically double the number of 1953. 
The production of young this season should well be 50 ; therefore, the 
northern group may now be placed at 100. The Gainesville birds 
thus far, including young, would hardly number more than a dozen. 
What with a few wandering individuals here and there, it may be 
said with a considerable degree of assurance, that the current popu- 
lation of the cattle egret in this country as of July 1954 is very close 
to, if not quite, 2,000 birds. 

This figure certainly bears out the belief held by Grimes that the 
species has been in Florida much longer than was at first thought. 
Also, it seems clear that the few birds observed in 1941 or 1942 by 
Dilley were the first breeders. As Grimes notes in his letter, "If only 
a single pair came originally, it would have had to be in 1943." Such 
an assumption seems justified. 



SPREAD OF THE CATTLE EGRET — SPRUNT 275 

REACTION TO SPECIES ESTABLISHMENT 

From a commercial point of view, the cattle industry should be 
most concerned with the spread of the cattle egret. The bird is insec- 
tivorous, and its diet consists in large part of destructive insects. Its 
consumption of grasshoppers and other insects injurious to grass is of 
definite benefit to pasturelands. Comparatively few cattlemen are 
aware of the presence of the cattle egret, though they know that white 
"cranes" are a common form of birdlife in the grasslands. Ranchers 
in the Okeechobee region to whom the writer has tallied are glad to 
have the birds in their pastures and would welcome an increase in their 
numbers. 

FUTURE INCREASE AND SPREAD 

Regarding the future increase and spread of the cattle egret, little 
can be said now. That the species is a wide wanderer has been proved 
in this country as well as in the Old World. It is entirely likely that 
Florida will remain the center of population for some time to come. 
Much of that State is eminently suited to the bird's needs, with food 
and nesting sites in abundance; and, the cattle industry being what 
it is, the habitat will probably remain unaltered. Stoddard's opinion 
is that it will come to be the dominant heron in certain areas and that 
both increase and spread will be rapid. 

Occurrence of the species has been recorded, in an over-all sense, 
from Key West to the Newfoundland Banks; the Atlantic seaboard 
States reporting the presence of the bird are Florida, South Carolina, 
Virginia, New Jersey, New York, Massachusetts, and Maine. There 
is also one fairly credible occurrence in the Chicago region. Con- 
sidering that appearances of the cattle egret in New Jersey and 
Massachusetts have exceeded two each, the fact that none have as yet 
been reported from Georgia or North Carolina seems remarkable. It 
is to be presmned that all the northern records are of birds wandering 
fom Florida, though the possibility exists that other i-egions may be 
represented. Secured specimens, however, have all been Buhulcus ibis 
ibis — not coromandus. Additional localities to those above will 
doubtless be visited by ornithologists, perhaps in the near future,* and 
future records obtained. 

FIELD CHARACTERS 

With the ever-increasing number of bird students throughout the 
country and the great interest in the cattle egret, many observers are 

*The farthest-west occurrence of tlie species (except the somewhat indefinite 
Chicago record) has been reported from Bay County, Fhi., near Port St. Joe. 
One bird was seen there May 23, 1953, by Roy C. Hallman. This, and the bird 
seen near Tallahassee on July 9, 1953, by Henry M. Stevenson, are the only 
occurrences thus far west of Tallahassee. 



276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

on the watch for it. Therefore, it might be well to recall certain 
diagnostic field marks which will identify the bird at once. Generally 
speaking, for the benefit of amateur observers, I should say that the 
cattle egret looks like a yellow-billed snowy egret. Any really good 
look at the bird, however, will at once reveal that the beak is short, 
stout, and stubby, in comparison with the slender and longer black 
beak of the snowy egret. The entire plimiage is white, with the adult 
showing the orange-buff on crown, neck, upper breast and back. The 
legs are dark in the immature, yellowish in the adult. 

Note. — Since the above was written, information of the highest im- 
portance has been received in connection with the lack of South 
American breeding records. Rumor reached the writer in an indirect 
way that the nest had been found on that continent by Richard Bird, 
of Regina, Saskatchewan. A letter was sent to him, to which he re- 
plied under date of June 18, 1954, from Banff, Alberta, where he was 
engaged for the summer. He did not have his notes with him there, 
but he gave the following information : 

Fi-om memory, it was in 1950 that we [his wife and himself] were in British 
Guiana and photographed tliese birds in several locations in that British Colony, 
making both motion pictures and stills of the nesting birds. [Italics are the 
writer's.] 

As near as we can remember the dates and locations ... it was in May or 
June and the locations were : some miles up the Berbice River ; on the Demerara 
River a few miles from Georgetown ; in some marshes a few miles west of George- 
town ; up the Abary River some miles from the coast ; and a small colony nested 
In the Botanical Gardens near Georgetown. 

So the distinction of discovering the first known nesting of Biihulcus 
in South America goes to a Canadian ! Haverschmidt is undoubtedly 
in possession of the information now, but of course did not have it 
when he wrote in Audubon Magazine. As he predicted, the nesting 
locations were away from the coast. 



The Migration of Mammals' 



By L. Harrison Matthews 

Director and Permanent Secretary, Zoological Society of London 



[With 1 plate] 



When I was asked to write of the migration of mammals my first 
thought was, "Hardly any of them do" — and compared with birds, 
the proportion of the 8,000 different sorts of mammals that have regu- 
lar migrations is certainly very small. In fact the characteristic thing 
about the majority of mammals is not that they migrate but how near 
home they stay. Many mammals have a home range — a "territory" — 
in which they spend practically the whole of their lives, and from 
which they seldom or never wander. This applies particularly to those 
small mammals that live in burrows, or nests, which form the center 
of their territories. The normal range of the common long-tailed field 
mouse, for example, covers only a trifling area, and it is unusual for an 
individual to travel more than a hmidred yards from the center of its 
territory. Eabbits usually live their whole lives in the warren in 
which they are born, and do not go more than two or three hundred 
yards away for their daily grazing. This attaclmient to territory also 
applies during the breeding season to the more nomadic kinds as well, 
for many animals that may be considerable wanderers for part of the 
year have to become static when their young are born, and have to 
make a home in which they can be reared. 

Carnivorous mammals usually have a hunting territory centered 
upon a home, a den of some sort. They work this territory but do not 
need to go beyond its bounds. Their food is concentrated high-grade 
protein, and they may need to make a kill only at intervals of several 
days. Unlike the herbivorous mammals they are not compelled to be 
always feeding. 

The larger herbivorous mammals — the grazers and the browsers — 
must feed on and otf all day, because the green herbage they eat has 
a comparatively low food value. So the larger sorts must have a wide 
grazing range, and in consequence their territory is often not well 
marked. In Africa, for instance, many of the grazing mammals follow 
the rains and the new grass that springs up afterward ; they thu? un- 
dertake an irregular sort of migration through an extensive but ill- 
defined territory, 

* Reprinted by permission from Discovery, vol. 15, No, 5, May 1954. 

277 



278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

There are, however, mammals that make regular migrations similar 
to those of birds. In these there is a seasonal movement of the whole 
population, with a return at a later date: the movements are either 
to reach good feeding grounds, a more congenial climate, or a suitable 
place for breeding. But unlike the free-flying birds, land mammals 
have to make extensive and possibly difficult journeys on foot — rivers, 
mountains, and arid regions are insuperable barriers to travel, so it is 
not surprising to find that comparatively few land mammals migrate. 
They are mostly the large and long-legged sorts that can travel fast 
and so can protect themselves from predators and other hazards of 
migration. It is especially the mammals that live in a uniform medi- 
um that are able to migrate on a scale comparable with that of birds. 
They are the mammals that live in the sea and can swim, or live in the 
air and can fly : the whales and seals on the one hand and the bats on 
the other. 

Let us consider first the land mammals. The mammals that migrate 
on foot must obviously be those that live on the large continental land 
masses, if their travels are to extend to any considerable distance. 
Land migration, too, must obviously be over ground that is reasonably 
good for traveling ; apart from topographical barriers such as moun- 
tains or deserts, tropical forests are almost impenetrable for anything 
but local movements. 

It is in North America particularly that we find several species of 
land mammals that migrate; by contrast, in Asia, Africa, and Aus- 
tralia there are few. There is good reason for this. It is probably cor- 
related with the topography and climate of the continents. In North 
America there are great differences of climate in different latitudes, 
and in addition the main mountain masses run north to south ; in Asia 
the hotter south is divided from the cooler north by mountain ranges 
running east and west : in Africa the climate varies from subtropical 
to tropical but there are no arctic regions from which a winter migra- 
tion might be necessary. 

In North America the larger migratory mammals traverse lands 
that are open steppe or savannah, or are covered only with compara- 
tively open forests. The American mammal whose migrations have 
attracted most attention is probably the caribou, a species of deer like 
a large reindeer. But the movements of the herds are by no means 
constant and it is therefore very difficult to form a clear idea of their 
migration routes. In some years the herds mass together in great 
numbers so that the migration is an impressive sight; in others the 
herds are broken up and the deer pass by in small bands that give 
the impression of a scarcity. And the herds of different regions take 
different routes, so that they do not appear to obey any uniform rule. 
All that one can say is that in general they seem to follow a circular 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Matthews 



Plate 1 







M^W^" 




Upper, a long-eared bat marked with a numbered aluniiiunn ring. ])i-\(iii "i ,:i\ i.nirn" lia\-e 
ringed over 1,800 bats belonging to seven species. (Photograph by J. 11. D. Hooper.) 
Center and lower, photographs of lemmings, taken by Frances Pitt in Norwa\'. The 
lower animal is an adult; the one in the center is somewhat more than 'half grown. 



MIGRATION OF MAMMALS — MATTHEWS 279 

counterclockwise course during the winter, and then to bear away 
northwest to the barren lands in spring. In the Mount McKinley 
area of the Alaska range, however, the caribou that spend the summer 
on the southern slopes actually move over in the winter to the northern 
side where the snowfall is lighter. The migrations of the caribou are 
connected partly with the food that is available, but they are connected 
to an even larger extent with the appearance of the clouds of mosqui- 
toes that make life a misery for man and beast. Shortly after the 
deer move north the mosquitoes emerge in almost incredible hordes, but 
as soon as the mosquito season is over the caribou return to their winter 
quarters and thus they miss the worst of the mosquito plague farther 
north. 

The other large North American migratory mammal was the bison. 
It was long doubtful whether the bison was a truly migratory mammal, 
but the analysis of a great mass of old records by the American 
naturalist E. T. Seton has plainly shown that it was. But here again 
the migration routes were not simply to and fro from north to south, 
but were more or less in circular clockwise paths, some of the herds 
joining one circuit, others another circuit. And the winter quarters 
of at least one circuit were in the northern part of the range, although 
other herds moved southward from 200 to 400 miles at the approach 
of winter. 

Many other land mammals have similar seasonal migrations, though 
on a much smaller scale. Our own red deer move down from the 
higher hills during the winter to the less severe conditions of the 
valleys, but the distances covered in such movements are trijfling com- 
pared with the journeys performed by birds, some bats, and the aquatic 
mammals. At the other end of the scale a migration to be measured 
in yards rather than miles occurs every year when in the autumn our 
population of feral house mice moves in from the fields to the corn 
stacks. Such local moA^ements of limited extent are commonly found 
in the smaller mammals. 

A kind of population movement that should not be confused with 
true migration, which is essentially an outward journey followed by a 
return, is the periodical emigration that is found in some species. In 
this there is an outward journey, but no return ; the animals that quit 
the land of their birth perish and leave no offspring to come back. 
The most familiar example of an animal that emigrates is the lemming 
of Scandinavia. Lemmings are small mouselike rodents that normally 
live high up on the Norwegian mountains close to the timber line. 
Their numbers, like those of many small rodents, are subject to periodi- 
cal cycles of increase and decrease, which may reach an astonishing 
size; as their numbers increase the population is crowded out of its 
normal range and overflows down the hillsides. Finally, when it 

326511—55 19 



280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

reaches a peak, there is one of the famous "lemming years," when tho 
animals swarm all over the countryside, moving of necessity in a 
westerly direction. Thousands are drowned in the rivers and fjords; 
and then the population crash comes and they die out, leaving com- 
paratively few survivors on the hills to start building up toward the 
next peak. Similar cycles, though on a smaller scale, are known in 
other rodents, for example our own short-tailed vole and the American 
gray squirrel. The journeys of vast hordes of springbok that used to 
occur in the appropriately named "Trekkbok" years in South Africa 
were also emigrations, and not true two-way migrations. 

But none of these terrestrial mammals can undertake migrations 
similar to those that are so well known in birds, where a whole popula- 
tion transfers itself in a few days or weeks over a great distance, often 
hundreds of miles, to a seasonal territory, and where the dates of 
arrival and departure vary only within narrow limits. It is only tho 
mammals whose movements are unrestricted, because they fly in the air 
or swim in the sea, that can make migrations in any way comparable 
with those of birds. 

A few species of small bat make regular migrations from summer 
quarters in the north to winter ones in the south, although most bats 
seem to get over the difficulty of having no winter supply of insects 
to feed upon by giving up the struggle and hibernating. Some, how- 
ever, particularly in America, do not hibernate, but migrate far to the 
south to warmer regions where food is abundant. Two species in 
particular are known to migrate, the red bat and the hoary bat. They 
spend the summer in the northern United States and migrate down 
the Atlantic seaboard of America to the southeastern States in the 
winter. There is no doubt about the southern migration, for the bats 
have been both seen and captured on their passage, not only on land 
near the coast but far out at sea. But hardly any have ever been seen 
on their return journey, and beyond the fact that they are present 
in the north again during the summer, there is little direct evidence 
to demonstrate their northern journey. Some of the European bats, 
too, are said to migrate but the known facts prove only that a local 
movement takes place, and no long-distance travels have been shown 
to occur. None of our British bats migrate to other countries for the 
winter; they all hibernate. But the hibernation of some of them is 
not so complete a winter sleep as has been sometimes thought. Mem- 
bers of the Devon cave club have recently marked a very large number 
of horseshoe bats with aluminum rings so that they can follow up 
their movements. The result of this work shows that although the 
bats hibernate, they keep on waking up at intervals during the winter, 
and sometimes travel distances of many miles from one cave to another 
during these wakeful periods. Horseshoe bats live in caves during the 
winter, but they migrate to other quarters in the summer; no one 



MIGRATION OF MAMMALS — MATTHEWS 



281 



knows quite where, but it is certain that many of them take up resi- 
dence in such places as the roof spaces above the attics of old houses, 
and the roofs of churches. 

In the Tropics there is a well-marked migration in some species of 
large fruit-eating bats, or flying foxes as they are called. In the 
gray-headed bat of Queensland there are regular mass movements of 




Figure 1. — Map illustrating typical movements of greater horseshoe bats in South Devon. 
Figures include mileages; arrows indicate directions of flights. (After J. H. D. Hooper; 
based on observations made by Mr. Hooper and members of the Devon Speleological 
Society.) 

large parts of the population. In Australia, the forest areas where 
they hang up to sleep are known as camps, and flights of many thou- 
sands of bats pass from one camp to another on their journey to the 
extreme southeastern part of Australia where they spend the summer. 
But the extent of these aerial migrations is surpassed by those of 
the mammals that live in the sea, the seals and the whales. The most 
spectacular migration among the seals is that of the fur seal that breeds 
on the Pribilof Islands. The islands lie 200 miles off the coast of 
Alaska north of the Aleutian Islands, and on them the fur seals haul 
out in almost incredible numbers every breeding season. The old bulls 

326511—55 20 



282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

arrive first and take up their territories ; then the cows come and give 
birth to their pups a few days or even a few hours after their arrival. 
Each bull collects a harem of females over which he keeps watch, 
driving away any rivals that may try to poach on his territory. While 
the cows are nursing they go to sea to lish, and return every day or so 
to feed their pups, but the bulls remain at their posts for about 3 
months without feeding. At the end of the season the old bulls move 
off to their winter quarters south of the Aleutians and in the Gulf of 
Alaska, but the cows, the pups, and the young bulls go much farther, 
and winter at sea as far south as the latitude of southern California, 
successfully making a journey of 3,000 miles across the open ocean 
and not by following the coastline. Many other kinds of seals, though 
not all, have similar migrations perhaps on a rather smaller scale, 
though as yet little is definitely known of them. 

Many kinds of whales make regular seasonal migrations over great 
distances. In the southern oceans the gigantic blue whale, the fin 
whale, the humpback and others perform regular journeys during the 
antarctic summer, to the far south, where they feed upon the rich 
plankton that swarms in those cold seas at that time of year. And 
then they depart to the north, and spend the winter in temperate and 
subtropical seas, where they feed very little or not at all while their 
young are born and nursed through the early weeks of life. In these 
migratory journeys whales cover many thousands of miles far away 
from any land so that there is no possibility of obtaining any guid- 
ance by following the lines of a coast. 

The migrations of the sea mammals thus differ from those of ter- 
restrial ones, which are not only limited by topographical features of 
the land but might also be guided by the recognition of landmarks. 
The marine mammals can have no such influences to guide them on 
their journeys. 

How then do they do it? Frankly, we just do not know; none of 
the many theories that have been put forward to explain such migra- 
tions seems to me to be adequate. People w^ere once content to say 
"instinct" and leave it at that, but the expression was no more than a 
confession of ignorance. The invocation of the Coriolis force has 
been shown to be untenable as an explanation of the orientation of 
birds during migration ^ ; it would be even less applicable to the more 
slowly moving migrating mammals. 

Much thought has been given to the possibility that migrating birds 
navigate by observing the position of the sun or other heavenly bod- 
ies ; if birds can navigate by that means, why not mammals ? It seems 
to me that there has been some confusion of thought here. If an 
animal is to navigate successfully it must have a knowledge of where 

* See Matthews, G. V. T., Direction-finding in birds, Discovery, May 1953, 
p. 149. 



MIGRATION OF MAMMALS MATTHEWS 283 

it is, and of where it is going — that is to say it must have some kind 
of geographical knowledge and some kind of mental image that cor- 
responds to a map. If it had this knowledge, it is conceivable that 
the altitude of the sun might give it some rough idea of its latitude 
on its mental map. But it seems to me quite impossible that it would 
in any way be able to determine its longitude, however roughly. I 
do not suggest, of course, that an animal would have any conscious 
conception of these coordinates, but fixing a position on a map of any 
sort implies the use of them, even if it is unconscious. Furthermore, 
any suggestion of navigation implies the knowledge of a destination 
and of its approximate position ; it seems to me very improbable that 
any animal can have that knowledge. And some animals that migrate 
singly and alone certainly cannot have it, for instance the young of 
some birds that migi'ate over routes they have never traveled, to 
places they have never visited, long after their parents have deserted 
them. 

We know that some insects orientate themselves by the position of 
the sun, and that they can do so even when the sun is obscured by 
cloud because they are sensitive to the polarized light impinging on 
them. But this orientation serves only to take them to and fro be- 
tween home and foraging grounds that they have discovered by ran- 
dom search; an experience, if not a knowledge, of both ends of the 
journey is implied, and the distances covered are furlongs at most, 
not thousands of miles. It seems to me improbable that migrating 
mammals can be guided by such means. 

It is of course possible that migratory animals have some sense of 
direction that we have not. The way in which cats and dogs, and some 
kinds of birds, sometimes return to their homes over great distances 
after they have been removed in closed containers so that they can 
have no possible guidance from a memory of the route traveled, lends 
some support to this suggestion. If animals do have a perception that 
is lacking in ourselves, we can no more hope to understand it than a 
man blind from birth can understand what is meant by "color." But 
a sense of direction would presumably need some sense organ for the 
reception of stimuli of some sort — no animal can be aware of its en- 
viroimaent, or even of itself, without the appropriate receptor organs. 
No such receptors are known to us. It is possible, but not probable, 
that animals do have receptors of this nature and that we do not 
recognize them — lacking that sense we overlook them. 

Have we any remains of a sense of direction that might have been 
more highly developed in our remote ancestors? It seems improbable 
that we have any idea of direction if we are cut off from all visual or 
other perception of the route we have traveled. Of course, if you were 
carried blindfold to the middle of England and told to make your way 
across country to London you might succeed in hitting it off roughly 



284 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

by noting the position of the sun, even if there were no signposts and 
no one to tell the way. But that would be because you carry a mem- 
ory of the maps you have seen, and know that you are in England : 
if you were similarly placed in France, but thought you were in Eng- 
land, you would have considerable difficulty in finding your way until 
your knowledge of geography and topography showed you that you 
could not be in the country you thought. There seems to be no evidence 
at all that we have any inherent sense of direction apart from immedi- 
ate experience of our surroundings. If animals have any such sense 
we do not share it. 

There has been some discussion about the possibility that birds may 
be able to orientate themselves on migration in relation to the earth's 
magnetic field, that they have some sense organ that is effectively a 
compass. Some experiments were carried out with homing pigeons ; 
small magnets were fixed to them to find out whether any effect could 
be produced thereby upon their homing abilities. The results were 
entirely negative, and moreover other experiments have shown that 
birds appear to orientate themselves according to the true points of 
the compass rather than the magnetic ones. It is improbable that 
mammals differ in this point. 

We know, therefore, something of the facts about the migrations of 
some mammals, but the means whereby migration is carried out still 
remain completely unknown ; many theories have been tried but none 
of them has been capable of experimental proof. It is all very puz- 
zling; as far as we know the bodies of the other mammals are essen- 
tially similar to our own, and we flatter ourselves that our brains are 
more highly developed. And yet these animals that we classify as 
lower than ourselves can do something, and presumably with their 
brains too, that we cannot ; something so far outside our own experi- 
ence and abilities that we cannot even conceive how they do it. Natural 
selection has no doubt fixed the tendency to migrate in those species 
where it is found, but that does not explain how it is accomplished. 
There is obviously much more to be found out about the migration 
of animals than we have yet discovered. 

REFERENCES 

Cbonwriqht-Schreineb, S. C. 

1925. The migratory springbucks of South Africa. Fisher Unwin Ltd., 
London. 
Duncan, Maetin F. 

1947. Wonders of migration. Samson Low. 
Elton, C. 

1942. Voles, mice and lemmings. Clarendon Press, Oxford. 
Heape, W. 

1931. Emigration, migration and nomadism. HefCer, Cambridge. 



The Flight of Animals' 



By James Gray 



Fellow of King's College 
Professor of Zoology in the University of Cambridge 



[With 10 plates] 



If a kangaroo, say, or a frog, or a flea, or any land-living animal is 
to lift its body off the gi'ound at all and stay in the air even for a very 
short time, we know that it has to exert an intense muscular effort to do 
so. Then how can a bird rise so easily from the ground and stay in the 
air in flight for hours at a time ? 

Flight depends on wings. A wing, we might say, is a limb whose 
movement through the air produces forces that can counteract the 
downward pull of gravity and can also drive the body forward 
through the air. It has long been known that wings can do these 
things, and from time to time adventurous people have tried to design 
mechanical wings capable of lifting a man and carrying him along 
through the air. All these experiments failed; but in the end, for 
good or ill, they led on to the invention of airplanes. Men tried for a 
long time, by watching the birds, to learn how a man could fly ; today, 
quite the opposite, we are trying to understand the flight of birds by 
applying principles which have emerged during the design of air- 
planes. The movements of birds' or insects' wings are extremely 
complicated, and it is easier to feel our way into the very difficult 
problem of animal flight by drawing a distinction between two kinds 
of flight — active flapping flight, and passive gliding flight. 

We can start our inquiry, then, by comparing the motion of a soaring 
eagle with that of a "glider" airplane ; in both, the wings are used as 
fixed and rigid surfaces, and neither glider nor eagle uses an internal 
engine or source of power. From the very start of our study we must 
realize that all flight — whether active or gliding — depends on forces 
set up between the wing and the surrounding air. In a vacuum, an 
airplane or a bird would fall to the ground just as rapidly as a stone. 

* Reprinted by permission from "How Animals Move" (The Royal Institution 
Christmas Lectures 1951), published by the Cambridge University Press, Great 
Britain. 

285 



286 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



We must also understand that the air exerts a force against the wing 
only when there is movement between them — either by the wing mov- 
ing through the air or by the air moving past the wing. 

In its simplest form a wing can be thought of as a flat plate sticking 
out sideways from the body of a bird or from the fuselage of an air- 
plane. If this flat plate be held edgewise in a current of air, the force 
of the current will tend to drag the plate with it downstream ; and 
only an external force tending to pull it upstream can hold it in posi- 
tion. If, however, we slightly raise the edge that faces upstream (or 







due io 







'-'{t..!'^ ^^rodun, three 



Tttlaiwe VJvnd 




Figure 1. — When a wing is held at a slight angle to an air current the air flows faster over 
the upper surface than the lower, thereby creating suction above the wing and pressure 
below the wing; the suction and pressure together cause the "lift." At the same time 
the moving air tends to "drag" the wing backward. The total effect is to lift the wing 
and drag it backward. 

lower the downstream edge) the plate will tend to rise bodily in the 
air, although, at the same time, the force tending to drag it along 
downstream increases. The moving air is thus exerting two forces 
on the inclined plate (fig. 1) : (1) a lift force tending to raise the 
plate; and (2) a drag force pushing it back in the direction of the air 
stream. True gliding flight becomes possible when these two forces 
are so adjusted as to be exactly equal to the weight of the bird or air- 
plane. 



FLIGHT OF ANIMALS — GRAY 287 

Tests witli various sizes and shapes of wings, in winds of various 
speeds, have shown that the lifting effect of the air depends on four 
main factors : the shape of the wing ; its size ; the angle at which it is 
inclined to the direction of the wind; and the speed at which the 
wind is traveling past it. 

The mechanical efficiency of a wing depends largely on its ability 
to develop a large lifting force for a relatively small increase in back- 
ward drag; but, from a practical point of view, the ability to fly de- 
pends on the extent to which the exact balance can be maintained 
between the lift and drag forces of the air on the one hand, and the pull 
of gravity on the other. Stable, continuous flight can happen only 
when the wings are so arranged that any slight accidental disturbance 
of the airflow is automatically compensated. 

We can see these principles in action when a thin sheet of light wood 
or a card is released in the air. A uniform sheet glides for a short 
time toward one side, then changes its direction of motion and falls 
to the ground like a falling leaf. But if a small lead weight is at- 
tached to the leading edge, the sheet glides smoothly downward when 
the size of the weight is so adjusted as to bring the center of gravity 
of the whole wing to a point about twice as far from the trailing edge 
as it is from the leading edge. We can, with a little practice, get the 
same result — a smooth glide downward — by shaping the card itself 
into the outline of a bird with outstretched wings and tail. 

We have now reached a point at which we can say that an animal 
can fly, provided it keeps its wings moving through the air in such 
a way as to ensure that the lift and drag forces exerted by the air 
against the body all combine to form an upward force equal to the 
animal's weight and acting through the center of gravity of its body- 
Now let us look at some of Nature's gliders. 

Broadly speaking, gliding animals may be separated into two 
classes: those that get themselves the necessary motion through the 
air by their own muscular efforts beforehand, and those that keep 
themselves moving by falling under gravity. A flying fish {Exocoetus 
cypsilurus) is a good example of the first kind. Wliat is noticeable 
about a flying fish is the enormous size of its pectoral fins. When 
a flying fish is swimming it keeps those fins furled against its sides, 
but spreads them wide as it leaves the water. Before the takeoff the 
fish drives itself slantingly upward to the surface by vigorously swim- 
ming with its tail ; as it leaves the water its pectoral fins (and sometimes 
also the pelvic fins) are spread, and the fish finds itself airborne just 
above the surface of the sea (pi. 1). 

According to most observers, flight seldom lasts for more than 1 
or 2 seconds and the distance traveled in that time varies from 10-50 
meters. From time to time the fish may regain flying speed by beating 



288 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

its tail against the water, although the rest of its body remains in the 
air. There is, however, some evidence to suggest that much longer 
flights may occur, lasting for 10-12 seconds and covering perhaps 400 
meters without touching the water. All observers agree that the fish 
does not move its pectoral fins in flight, though they may vibrate pas- 
sively as it speeds through the air. About these flights we have much 
to learn, and exact observation is difficult, but there seems little doubt 
that ordinary flights of 1 or 2 seconds and of 50 meters or less are 
maintained by the kinetic energy (the energy of speed) given to the 
body in swimming by the tail striking against the water before the 
fish is airborne. 

The combined lift and drag of the body at various speeds of air- 
flow has been measured in a wind tunnel, and although such observa- 
tions are not yet altogether satisfactory, they suggest that flight could 
be sustained for about 6 seconds and over a distance of 200 feet, if 
the takeoff speed were something like 30-35 miles per hour. This 
speed seems very high compared with that of other fishes, but it may 
be that when the body of the fish is in air and only the tail is in water 
these higher takeoff speeds could be reached. Still, it is difficult to 
believe that the takeoff speed could ever be great enough for the fish 
to fly for 10 or 12 seconds and for distances of 400 meters. If such 
flights really occur, as they are said to do, we can only assume that 
the fish is able to draw on some source of energy other than that given 
to it (when it is in the water) by its tail. It may be that unusual air 
conditions near the surface of the waves make longer flights possible ; 
but all we can say at present is that long-sustained flights offer an 
interesting and difficult problem. 

For the time being, however, we can look upon the normal short 
flight of the flying fish as a typical example of velocity gliding : the 
fish stores kinetic energy in its body by swimming — by moving its tail 
in water — and expends this energy when it is airborne in overcoming 
the drag effect of the air, gaining thereby lift enough to overcome 
gravity. And after all, this is not so very different from the flight 
of a small bird, where periods of passive glide occur between periods 
of active wing beats. 

One member of the frog family is a glider — the only one, so far as is 
known. This frog {Rhacophorus) was discovered in Borneo about 
a hundred years ago, by a Chinese workman employed by the nat- 
uralist Alfred Russel Wallace. The Chinese assured Wallace that "it 
came down, in a slanting direction, from a high tree." Wallace noted 
that the surface of the very large webbed feet was considerably larger 
than that of the body, and there can be little doubt that these frogs 
do launch themselves from trees to glide down to a point 30 or 40 
yards from where they started. The webbed feet and the under sur- 
face of the body act together as a wing, and the energy required to 



FLIGHT OF ANIMALS — GRAY 



289 



drive the animal along in the air comes from gravity in a way which 
we shall consider later. 

Among living reptiles, only one rather doubtful glider is known — 
the so-called flying dragon {Draco volens). This odd lizard has a 
flexible membrane down each side of its body, and it is said to glide, 
like the flying frog, by jumping off trees. It seems strange that there 
are no other living flying reptiles, when one remembers the great 
pterodactyls of prehistoric times. Pterodactyls (meaning wing-fin- 
gers) had enormously enlarged fourth fijigers from which membranes 
spread across to the body and hind legs : their wings sometimes had 
a span of 20 feet (fig. 2). If you want to imagine what they looked 




Figure 2. — The pterodactyl, showing the enormously enlarged fourth fingers, with mem- 
branes extending to the body and hindlcgs to form wings. 

like you camiot do better than read Conan Doyle's *'Lost "World." Un- 
like birds, pterodactyls had poorly developed breast muscles; active 
flapping flight must have been impossible ; how these gliding monsters 
launched themselves, either from trees or from the tops of steep cliffs, 
we do not know. 

And now we come to the greatest of all flying animals, the birds. 
The mastery of birds over air is incomparably greater than that of 
any other group of animals, and we shall have to examine them in 



290 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



detail a little later. Here we need only note that a bird's front limbs 
have been completely specialized for flight ; each wing forms a struc- 
ture of peculiar beauty and complexity (pi. 4, fig. 1). Unlike that of 
any other flying animal, the wing surface in a bird is made up of 
feathers, all fitting together to form an efficient lifting surface and yet 
capable of being neatly furled when not in use. There are two chief 
kinds of gliding birds: the low gliders, such as shearwaters and al- 
batrosses ; and the high soarers, such as eagles and vultures. 




Figure 3. — The flying squirrel (Glaucomys), showing its gliding flight with limbs 

outstretched. 

Of mammals, the best known gliders are the bats. A bat's wing 
surface is probably not unlike that of a pterodactyl, but instead of 
spreading from the fourth finger only, it is spread between the body 
and all the fingers of the hand except the thumb. A bat's flight is not 
very different from a bird's flight; but it differs in this, that bats 
normally rest by day and fly by night. How they do this we shall see 
later on. 

There are also a number of mammals capable of gliding from tree to 
tree: flying phalangers, flying squarrels; all of these have membranes 
of some kind running between their wrists, body, and back legs. When 
such an animal is walking, the membrane is slack, but when it takes 
to the air for a glide, the front and hind limbs are spreadeagled, 



FLIGHT OF ANIMALS — GRAY 291 

stretching the membrane out into a taut and effective wing (pi. 4, 
fig. 2, and text fig. 3). All these animals live in trees; they climb a 
tree, and from there, launching themselves into the air, glide grace- 
fully down, often rising toward the end of their flight and landing 
on a neighboring tree trunk or branch. 

All the flying animals we have examined so far have solved the 
problem of gliding flight only to the extent of being able to stay in 
the air for a few seconds. How do some birds glide or soar as they 
do for many minutes or even hours at a time ? 

Let us start with the type of glide seen when a pheasant or a gull 
is approaching the ground; the wings are stiffly stretched out and 
the bird is slowly losing height all the time. Its speed through the 
air is being maintained by the accelerating effect of gravity, and its 
motion can be likened to that of a sled traveling down a slope. On 
a slope, the weight of a sled acts partly down along the slope, and 
partly downward at right angles to the slope; the force acting down- 
ward at right angles is met by an equal but opposite reaction from the 
slope itself, but the force acting down along the slope speeds up the 
sled and overcomes the friction between the ruimers and the slope. 
Call the force acting down the slope the driving force, and the force 
acting at right angles to the slope the sinking force. How much 
bigger or smaller one of these two forces is than the other depends, of 
course, on the angle of the slope. 

We can apply this picture to a gliding pheasant if we imagine each 
of its wings to rest on a smooth rigid runner sloping downward toward 
the earth (fig. 4) ; as with the sled, the weight of the bird would give a 
driving component and a sinking component. As the bird began to 
slide down the runners, the motion of its stiff wings through the air 
would induce lifting forces against the wings, and because of this tiie 
passive reaction from the rigid runners would decrease ; at the same 
tune, the wings and body would be subjected to a drag force acting 
along the line of the runners in a direction opposite to that of the 
driving force of gravity. As the speed of glide increased, the lift 
would also increase, until a time would come when the lift is equal to 
the sinking force of gravity, and the drag force is equal to the driving 
component. At this moment we might take away the rigid runners 
without making any difference at all to the bird: it would go on glid- 
ing through the air at constant speed. 

A good glider travels a long way horizontally with the smallest pos- 
sible loss of height, and you can judge how good it is as a glider by 
measuring the angle between the track of its motion and the level 
horizon. It is very important to know that this angle does not depend 
on the weight of the bird ; it depends solely on the ratio of the forces — 
the lift force to the drag force — exerted by the air ; that is, it depends 
on the shape of the wings and on the angle which the surface of the 



292 



ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 




HORiZON 



^nny Force 




\,Sinkny Force 



HORtZOIV 



lift. 



^kTotal AeroMpt Force 





'^ ,^ 



HORIZON 



Figure 4.— When gliding steadily in still air the forces (lift and drag) exerted by the air 
against the bird are exactly equal but opposite to the weight of the animal. The condi- 
tions are comparable with those which would exist if a biid were sliding down a pair of 
rigid runners in a vacuum: the reaction from the runners at right angles to their surface 
would be equivalent to the lift of the wing and the friction of the runners to the drag 
of the bird's body. 



FLIGHT OF ANIMALS — GRAY 293 

wings makes with its own direction of motion. The speed of the glide, 
on the other hand, depends partly on the weight of the bird and partly 
on the size of the wings. A heavy bird with small wings for its size 
glides rapidly ; a light bird with large wings glides slowly. 

The distance that can be traveled by a bird when it is gliding 
through still air under its own weight is, of course, limited by the 
height from which the bird starts — sooner or later it must reach 
earth and the glide will come to an end. But if the air is not still, 
but is itself moving over the earth, the story is very different. The 
lift and drag forces exerted by the wings depend solely on the partic- 
ular motion of the wings through air; if the air itself is moving, the 
motion of the bird relative to the earth is the resultant of these two 
motions: the motion of the bird through the air, and the motion of 
the air itself over the ground. For example, if a bird is gliding down 
an air slope losing vertical height at a rate of 5 feet per second, and the 
air itself at the same time is rising from the ground at 5 feet per second, 
then the bird will glide along level above the ground, although it is 
all the time traveling downward through the rising air (fig. 5). And 
if the air is rising from the ground faster than the bird is losing 
height through the air, the bird will keep on getting higher above the 
ground although it makes no wing movement to do so. A horizontal 
wind cannot affect the rate at which a bird loses height above the 
earth — such a wind affects only the rate at which the bird moves 
along horizontally over the ground during its fall. What will happen 
then, when the wind is blowing backward and upward at exactly the 
same speeds as a bird is moving forward and downward along its 
cushion of air? Seen from the ground then, the bird remains fixed 
in space (fig. 6) . In such conditions a bird is not unlike a man who 
is walking down a moving stairway at the same speed as the stairway 
itself is moving upward. 

The extent to which upward currents of air may account for the 
behavior of gliding birds can be judged by watching birds at flight in 
regions where upward air currents are known to exist. There are 
two main causes of upward air currents : first, when a horizontal wind 
meets an obstruction and is deflected upward ; and second, where air, 
warmed by the surface of the earth, moves upward and is replaced 
by colder air from high levels of the atmosphere. Typical cases of 
gliding on upcurrents caused by obstructions may be seen when swifts 
glide along the eaves on the windward side of a building ; or when gulls 
glide up and down a line of cliffs when the wind is blowing onshore; 
or when eagles and buzzards glide on the windward side of mountains. 
When a strong headwind is deflected upward by a mountainside, 
buzzards may hang on the air, fixed in space high above the earth for 
surprising lengths of time. 



294 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 




-4- Movenimt'^ (ird ret^xUve i^-'^ec^rth/ 




, (Bird stationary ) 
* ' A.B.C -^ 




Figures S (upper) and 6. — When gliding in still air a bird is constantly losing height 
relative to the ground, but if the air is rising from the ground as fast as the bird is falling, 
it is able to glide along a horizontal path for an indefinite period (fig. 5). If the air is 
moving backward and upward from the ground at the same speed as the bird is traveling 
forward and downward, the bird can hover with motionless wings, quite stationary to 
an observer on the ground (fig. 6). 



FLIGHT OF ANIMALS — GRAY 



295 



In temperate climates the use of thermal upcurrents by gliding birds 
is somewhat restricted; nevertheless, birds may sometimes gain con- 
siderable height over towns or other regions where warm air is rising. 
In tropical countries, however, cheels, vultures, and birds of this sort, 
are very good at this kind of glide (fig. 7). During the mornings, in 
these places, columns of warm air rise from the ground and drift down- 
wind. The birds appear to glide down a spiral within such a column 
of air, and as the rate of tlieir downward movement is less than the 
rate at which the colmnn itself is moving upward, the birds constantly 
spiral upward, getting higher above the earth as they drift downwind. 
As we might expect, thermal gliding is characteristic of birds with 
light bodies and large wings. On these two factors (weight and wing 
surface), depends the speed at which the bird would lose height when 
gliding in still air and, consequently, the speed at which the air must 
rise if the bird maintains a horizontal or upward path. 




Figure 7. — In regions v/here upward currents of warm air alternate with downward cur- 
rents of cool air, birds can glide upward in the former and downward in the latter. Arrows 
show direction of air movement. It is seen that a bird can gain considerable height by 
taking advantage of these air currents. 

So far, the principles we have applied to gliding birds are exactly 
the same as those made use of by a glider pilot, whose powers of gliding 
and of staying in the air depend almost entirely upon the use of ob- 
structional and thermal upcurrents. Certain birds, however, are able 
to glide in conditions where there seem to be no upcurrents: shear- 
waters and albatrosses, for instance, glide near the surface of the sea, 



296 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 



though how they do so no one has yet managed to explain. Physical 
research may one day show us that upcurrents of air arise near the 
leading surfaces of traveling waves, and that the surface gliders are 
able to use these currents. Or it may be that these birds have solved 
the problem of gust flying — gaining height when they meet a gust, 
and losing height again as the gust dies away, rather as a tennis ball 
can be kept in the air by a succession of small upward hits from a 
racquet. 






x-v//^ 



X"".:-> 




Figure 8. — The flight of the albatross. Note how the bird makes semicircular turns, climb- 
ing into the wind and descending. 

All observers agree that an albatross cannot maintain its gliding 
flight if there is no wind. These great birds seem to rise in a slanting 
direction against the wind to a height of about 20 feet, depending on 
the strength and direction of the wind; this climb is followed by a 
wide semicircular turn as the albatross rapidly descends downwind; 
and then the cycle is repeated (fig. 8) . As the bird turns into the wind 
again, its speed relative to the air has been increased and the kinetic 
energy (energy due to movement) thus gained can be used for gaining 
height ; this results in a gain in potential energy (energy due to height) 
which is then available for maintaining the bird's flight downwind; 
and so it goes on. Notice that this interpretation of the flight of the 
albatross depends on the existence of an adequate difference between 
the wind speed at the surface of the sea, and that at a level perhaps 
20 feet up. 

Gulls behind a steamer give us an example of gliding that is by 
no means as simple as it may appear. No doubt there is an upward 
deflection of air by the hull of a ship, and the heating effect of the 
vessel's smoke stacks may cause certain upward thermal currents, 
but there is also a mass of air, stationary in relation to the ship, and 
therefore traveling over the sea at the same speed as the ship. How 
far the gulls rely on the upcurrents, and how far they glide down 
in the stationary air, would form an interesting subject of study. 

Stability in flight is of the greatest importance in an airplane; it 
must be designed so that any slight disturbance in balance between 
lift, drag, and weight is automatically and immediately corrected. 



FLIGHT OF ANIMALS — GRAY 297 

yet all the conditions of balance must also be under the command of 
the pilot, for by control of these he must fly, and fly as he decides to. 

Similar problems must be solved by birds. A bird achieves con- 
trol partly by using the tail as a horizontal rudder, and partly by 
changing the shape and posture of the wings; and these movements 
are also under the immediate control of the semicircular canals of 
the bird's ears, just as are the movements of the fins of a fish. 

A bird flying — propelling itself by its own muscular efforts — is one 
of Nature's great masterpieces, and she guards very closely the 
secrets of her success. It is easy to see that the bird's wings are 
beating upward and downward and to realize that these movements 
must provide a lifting force equal to the weight of the body, and a for- 
ward thrust equal to the backward drag of the air. From a mechanical 
point of view, the wings of the flying bird are carrying out simultane- 
ously the functions performed respectively by the wings and the pro- 
peller blades of an airplane ; a bird's wings are, therefore, more closely 
comparable with the rotor and screw blades of an autogyro or heli- 
copter. 

But any attempt to make an accurate study of the movements of 
a flying bird meets with difficulties. The form of the wing, for in- 
stance, is constantly altering during the course of its beat, some of the 
changes being due to the suppleness of the wing feathers and others 
to the bird's own internal muscular movement. Then again, the bird's 
speed and the frequency of its wing beats are too great for the wing to 
be exactly observed by the human eye. As a general rule, the smaller 
the bird the faster and more often it beats its wing; a swan or a heron 
beats its wings about 2 times, a gull 5 times, a pigeon 10 times, and a 
hummingbird 50 times per second. Details of such wing movements 
can only be found out by high-speed cinematography using a special 
light that gives a succession of very bright and very quick flashes. The 
photographs shown on plates 5-8 were taken in this way ; they show 
the movement of the wings of a pigeon flying slowly across a room. 

In plates 5 and 6 a pigeon is flying toward the camera. The down- 
stroke begins as shown by photograph 1 with the wings fully ex- 
tended, stretched up over the back of the bird. Both wings then strike 
downward (photographs 2-4) with the whole surface of the wing 
moving down almost at right angles to its horizontal path of mo- 
tion; the primary feathers are bending upward under the pres- 
sure of the air (photograph 3) . Wlien the wings have reached a hori- 
zontal position (photograph 4), the downward motions cease and 
the wings swing forward, to meet in front of the body (photo- 
graphs 5 and 6) ; during this change of movement tlie primary feath- 
ers separate from each other, and bend sharply upward under the 
lifting effect of the air moving between them. Photograph 7 shows 



298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

the end of the downward and forward stroke of the beat. The back- 
ward and upward stroke starts with an upward and backward move- 
ment of the wrist joint, uncovering the head and leaving the primary 
feathers directed forward along the line of flight (photograph 8). 
Then the primary feathers are drawn violently backward and upward 
(photographs 9-11) and the whole wing straightens out in position 
for a new downward movement. 

These same phases of a complete wing beat can also be seen from 
another direction in plates 7 and 8, where the pigeon is flying across 
the field of the camera ; photographs 1-6 show the downward and for- 
ward stroke, and photographs 7-12 show the upward and back- 
ward stroke. Photographs 2-4 show the separation and bending of 
the primary feathers during the first moments of the downstroke, and 
the forward swing of the whole wing is seen in photograph 6. The 
raising of the wrist and the subsequent very rapid backward flick of 
the wrist and primary feathers are seen in photographs 8-11. From 
these photographs it is possible to draw three conclusions with fair 
certainty : (1) During the initial downward wing movement the wing 
surfaces are traveling down in a direction almost perpendicular to 
their path of motion, and consequently elicit a powerful upward re- 
action from the air. (2) During the second part of the downstroke 
the wing is traveling forward with its surface inclined to the patli 
of motion at a relatively small angle; it thus acts as an airfoil and 
develops a lift, in the normal way. (3) The main propulsive thrust 
comes from the rapid backward movement of the primary feathers, 
which occurs during the upward stroke. Supposing this analysis to 
be true, it may be said that the downstroke of the wing gives the lift 
and the upstroke produces both lift and forward thrust. 

But can a bird's wing do so much, and do it constantly, without 
getting tired ? The downstroke is easy, for the wing is pulled down- 
ward by the very large pectoralis major muscle ; but the muscles that 
move the wrist and raise the wing are small by comparison, and it is 
difficult to see how a very rapid series of upstrokes could be kept up. 
And, in fact, it cannot. The photographs shown in plates 5-8 were 
taken during slow short flights of about 20 feet, and it soon appeared 
that pigeons find such flights tiring; 8 or 9 flights left this bird dis- 
inclined to take further part in the experiment. It seems likely, there- 
fore, that the wing movements observed during and immediately after 
a takeoff from the ground are not the same as those of a pigeon in full 
sustained flight in the open air, for we know that such birds can in 
fact travel for a long time without showing fatigue. Dr. E. H. 
J. Brown, therefore, decided to photograph the bird in full flight down 
a long corridor. A series of such photographs is seen in plates 9 and 
10. Two main changes are to be noticed in the downstroke: (1) the 
amplitude of the beat is smaller — the wings no longer rise high enough 



FLIGHT OF ANIMALS — GRAY 



299 



to meet over the bird's back; and (2) they no longer swing forward 
at the end of their downward movement: the bird's head remains 
clearly in sight at all stages of the flight. Changes also occur in the 
upstroke; the backward flick of the wrist and primary feathers has 
almost, if not completely, disappeared : the inner surface (radio-ulnar) 
of the wing begins to rise first and is followed by the wrist and pri- 
maries. What these characteristic features of open flight may signify 
is not altogether clear. During the downstroke, the whole wing travels 
downward and forward at a relatively small angle to its path of 
motion, and it seems likely that the resultant "lift" is directed both 
forward and upward, and can therefore propel the bird as well as 
support its weight. On the other hand, the upstroke of a bird in full 
flight appears to be of a more passive kind than the upstroke im- 
mediately after a takeoff ; perhaps during free flight the wing is pas- 
sively raised by the pressure of air against its under surface, and its 




Figure 9. — A bat in flight. The wing action is similar to that of a bird. 

rate of upward movement controlled by the braking effect of the 
pectoralis major muscle. If this is so, the wings, during the upward 
stroke, act as kites to lift the body merely at the expense of some 
diminution of forward speed- — rather like an umbrella opened down- 
wind on a windy day. Wliether this suggestion will bear further 
scrutiny remains to be seen, but at least it seems to explain one way 
by which rapid free flight can be made much less tiring than a take- 
off from the ground — for if our explanation is correct, the relatively 
small pectoralis minor muscle would be in action only for a little while 
after each takeoff. After that the only muscle concerned would be the 
large pectoralis major. 

Among vertebrate animals there is only one other — the bat (fig. 9) — 
whose powers of flight come anywhere near those of a bird. At pres- 

326511 — 55 21 



300 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 1 

ent, we know little about the movements of a bat's wings, but as far 
as we can see, the motion of the bat's wings appears to be similar to 
the motion of a bird's wings, and it seems likely that the same gen- 
eral principles would apply to both (pi. 2, right). What is charac- 
teristic of a bat's flight is, however, its ability to avoid obstacles when 
flying in the dark. At one time this very useful faculty Avas believed 
to be due to sense organs on the wings capable of registering the slight 
alterations in air pressure which must follow when the moving wing 
came too close to some such solid obstacle. It has been known, how- 
ever, for many years that a deaf bat frequently collides with obstacles. 
It has now been discovered that the vocal chords of a bat can give out 
sound waves of very high frequency, far higher than those to which 
a human ear can respond : these waves — not to be confused with the 
squeak of bats which some people can hear — are of 30,000-50,000 
vibrations per second, and there can be little doubt that a flying bat 
sends out these supersonic waves and listens to their reflection from 
surrounding objects. In effect, the bats have evolved a very efficient 
echo-sounding equipment. We can make a model of such a system. 
A Galton whistle capable of sending out sound waves at 50,000 cycles 
per second, is mounted underneath (but shielded from) a telephone 
capable of responding to waves of this frequency. Then, if no obstacle 
lies in the path of the whistle's outgoing high waves, the telephone 
will not respond. But if any object is present that can reflect sound, 
the outgoing waves will be reflected back and picked up by the tele- 
phone where they can be made audible to an observer by means of an 
instrument reducing their frequency to a level to which human ears 
will respond. A model of this kind will instantly detect the presence 
of a glass window. 

Among the invertebrates, only insects appear to have solved the 
problem of sustaining themselves in the air by means of wings. In 
most cases, a lift equal to the weight of the insect's body develops 
only when the wings are forced through the air by the insect's own 
muscular effort; the red admiral butterfly is one of the few insects 
capable of gliding flight. As with birds, the smaller the insect the 
more frequently does it beat its wings. A swallowtail butterfly beats 
about 5 times, a hive bee or a horsefly about 200 times per second. 
The record, so far as is known, is held by the males of a small midge 
{F ercepomyia) whose wings vibrate more than 1,000 times per second 
and produce a very high-pitched note. ISIuscular activity of this 
order requires a great deal of energy, and most insects can only main- 
tain active flight if they are reasonably warm and supplied with plenty 
of food. We can measure the "fuel" (or food) requirements by 
allowing a small fruit fly {Drosophila) to beat its wings until all the 
food reserves in its body are exhausted : this will be after 2-4 hours 
of flight, according to the age of the fly. Flies wearied in this way 



FLIGHT OF ANIMALS — GRAY 301 

can resume flight about 30 seconds after being given a drink of sugar 
solution. Sustained flight is possible as long as the fly is provided 
with 3-10 milligrams of sugar per minute. 

For an insect to fly along a level path, its wings must move in such 
a way as to exert a downward and backward thrust against the air; 
as the insect moves levelly forward, the air is driven downward and 
backward. We can see the air moving in this way in plate 2, left. 
The fly is photographed from one side against a dark background. 
The wings are vibrating, and catch the light at the top and bottom of 
their beat, and while the wings are beating, a shower of very fine 
iycopodium particles is allowed to fall on the fly from above and a 
photograph of 14 5 -second exposure is taken. The path traveled by 
a particle in this short time is shown as a white streak in the photo- 
graph, and the length of these streaks gives the speed at which the 
particle is moving. You will see in the photograph that they enter 
from above the zone of the wings at a relatively slow rate, and are 
forced backward and downward out of this zone at a much higher 
speed (in this particular case about 6 ft. per sec). An insect's wings, 
as a free-flying bird's wings, do the work, at one and the same time, 
of propeller and wings of an airplane. 

An ordinary house fly weighs about 14 milligrams or about i/4ooo 
ounce, and a force equal but opposite to this weight represents the 
"lift" derived from the wings during level flight, while the backward 
component exerted by the wings against the air is equal but opposite 
to the drag encountered by the fly as it moves forward through the air. 
Some of the ways in which these forces are kept in balance with the 
weight of the body are being investigated by Dr. Hollick at Cambridge 
by means of a very ingenious and very delicate balance. This con- 
sists essentially of a very thin glass rod fixed firmly at one end so that 
it extends horizontally. The fly is mounted at the unfixed end of this 
rod, and any horizontal backward thrust developed by the fly causes 
the rod to bend to one side, and any lift force causes the rod to bend up. 
The magnitude of the forces can be determined by measuring the 
amount to which the rod bends sideways and upward. Any move- 
ment of the rod is detected by the reflection of light from two small 
mirrors attached to the rod, which reflect light onto a graduated scale. 

As with a bird, the flight of a fly must be stable in the sense that 
accidental disturbances in the balance of lift, drag, and weight must 
be quickly or automatically corrected. Precisely how this is done is 
not known, but it is quite clear that insects possess special sense 
organs which inform the brain of changes in direction of motion 
of its body. Grasshoppers have special hairs on their heads, and it 
is the feel of the air as it flows past these hairs that enables the 
insect to keep its head facing into the direction of its flight. Dr. J. 
W. S. Pringle has investigated a particularly interesting organ of 



302 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



direction control which exists in the two- winged insects (Diptera) 
or flies. In these insects the two hinder wings are replaced by two 
small knobs or "halteres" united to the body by stalks (fig. 10). Dur- 
ing flight the tips of the halteres swing to and fro in the arc of a circle. 
When the fly is turned off its course, the halteres continue to swing 




Figure 10. — The hind wings of flies are modified into club-shaped structures known as 
halteres (indicated by arrows). The halteres vibrate up and down and act as two-dimen- 
sional gyroscopes, enabling the animal to fly along a steady path. 

in the same plane as before the turn, on the principle of a gyroscope, 
and the base of the haltere stalk is consequently twisted. This twisting 
excites a nerve, and the brain thereupon sends appropriate instruc- 
tions to the muscles that control the wings. 

By this time you will know something about how birds take to the 
air and how birds, bats, and insects maintain their flight. When the 



FLIGHT OF ANIMALS — GRAY 303 

flight ends, how do they return to earth ? Airplanes, as you know, 
must be able to land as well as to fly, and so must flying animals. 
Legs are the landing carriages of flying animals ; as the flier comes in 
to its landing place its legs are brought into position ready to take 
over the weight of the body. At the same time it is necessary for the 
forward motion of the flying body to be brought to an end at the 
moment of landing. Watch birds alighting and you will soon see 
clearly the whole process. In free flight they carry their legs out of 
the way — usually stretched out behind them ; but as a bird comes in 
to land the legs are lowered so as to be there to take the weight at 
contact. At the same time, the wings are tilted backward, thus 
reducing the lift and greatly increasing the drag force exerted by the 
air. Almost as soon as the bird's feet touch ground, the wings furl 
neatly at the sides of the body. The movements of wings and feet are 
beautifully coordinated — not only at landing but also at taking off 
— for the spread and beat of the wings is associated in some way 
with any reduction of pressure between the feet and the foothold. 
This can be easily demonstrated by suddenly lowering the perch on 
which a bird, such as an owl, is standing: the wings immediately 
expand and beat downward. 

The legs and wings of insects are related in an equally striking 
way. If the back of a fly is fixed by a small drop of wax to a fine 
glass rod, the wings will remain at rest so long as the legs of the fly 
are allowed to rest on some firm object. If this object is withdrawn 
the wings often begin to beat at once (and will always do so if a cur- 
rent of air is blown against the fly's body), and when the wings beat 
the hind legs are drawn up and back and the front legs are held out 
in front, so as to leave free a zone for the beating wings. 

And now we come to the end of our story. I have tried to tell you 
hoAv some of our commoner animals move and how they obey the 
same fundamental laws as those which govern the movements of 
inanimate things. The picture I have given is necessarily brief and 
incomplete, but it may, I hope, help you to look at moving animals 
with greater interest and understanding than in the past, and per- 
haps encourage you to make observations of your own. The more we 
learn about living animals, the more beautiful their activities appear; 
and in a world as much concerned as man's world is with ugly 
engines of destruction, the concept of natural beauty provides 
welcome relief. 



PLATES 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Gray 



PUATE 1 





Fh'ingfisli. The upper figure shows the fisl 
The lower figure shows tlie fish in ful 



''taking oflf" by beating its tail against the water 
flight. (Photographs by H. E. Edgerton.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Gray 





Plate 2 


fll M-l 1 


u 


c o^ 


o 


* ^ ^ 


-C 


^.§^ 


be 


I- ♦-"O 


o 


<U 1) - 


■^ 


^-C rt 


V 




Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Gray 





A bat In gliding flight. (Photograph courtesy National Geographic Magazine.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Gray 



Plate 4 




1. A gannet in gliding flight. (Photograph by Dr. H. B. Coti. 




2. The flying squirrel ((S/aurdiiiys) jumps ott trees and, spreading its arms and legs, glides 
downward gracefidh' for about SO yards. (Photograph courtesy National Geographic 
Magazine.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Gray 



Plate 5 




Smithsonian Report. 1 954. -Gray 



Plate 6 




Smithsonian Report. 1954.— Gra\ 



Plate 7 




Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Gray 



Plate 8 






/ 




"5 T" 

> f^ 



JfffT 



K 



O re 
u 2 





P-, 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Gray 



Plate 9 






^ 



* 

s / , 


1 







Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Gray 

. t, . im < i 



PLATE 10 




.^^\ 






CO 





2 o 



O o 




f^ V 






-^i. 



Ps 



Botanical Studies in Fiji 



By Albert C. Smith 

Department of Botany, U. S. National Museum, Smithsonian Institution 



[With 12 plates] 



One of the functions of the botanical department of a large museum, 
such as the U. S. National Museum, is to assemble from all parts of the 
world a representative collection of herbarium specimens. The value 
of such collections is often not appreciated by nonscientists, who may 
question the expenditure of public or private funds for the building 
of ever larger assemblages of dried botanical specimens, which in turn 
demand additional storage space and increased time of the staff for 
their maintenance. 

The herbarium specimen is the fundamental tool of the plant tax- 
onomist. Without reference to such specimens, his floristic and mono- 
graphic work loses much of its value, because his conclusions cannot 
be checked by future workers. The importance of taxonomic work 
needs no justification for those who see biology as a whole. But in 
some circles, unfortunately, the museum and field work of taxonomists 
is looked upon with either impatience or good-natured tolerance, 
sometimes with an implication that such work belongs on the fringes 
of scientific endeavor, if indeed it should be dignified as anything 
more than an amiable hobby. That taxonomy is relevant to the prog- 
ress of science, however, is apparent to anyone conversant with its 
objectives and its basic techniques. In fact, taxonomy is in large part 
a synthesizing branch of biology, and its practitioners derive their 
data from the fields of morphology, genetics, ecology, physiology, and 
cytology, not to mention the allied earth sciences of geology and 
geography. With the background of specialized techniques provided 
by these branches of science, the taxonomist, studying and analyzing 
great numbers of herbarium specimens, supplies the data and statis- 
tics that the phytogeographer and the student of phylogeny interpret. 
All branches of biology have become increasingly interdependent ; by 
the integration of knowledge derived from many disciplines, we are 
gradually forging a real understanding of the world of living things. 

305 



306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

The place of the large herbarium in this cooperative undertaking, as 
a basic source of documentation, is evident, and the contribution of 
the individual taxonomist, although often minute and sometimes 
seemingly remote, is fundamental. 

It is hardly necessary for one to point to the contributions made by 
plant taxonomists toward the understanding and development of agri- 
culture, toward a sound basis for ethnological and anthropological 
studies, or toward research in medicine. In World War II the part 
played by taxonomists in preparing a series of handbooks upon which 
the survival of military personnel in remote areas often depended is 
an irrefutable demonstration of a useful application of plant taxon- 
omy. When the individual taxonomist makes collections of herbarium 
material, when he studies and analyzes such material, and when he 
publishes his floristic or monographic conclusions, he cannot antici- 
pate for what practical end his data may eventually be utilized. But, 
in many instances, sudden and dramatic developments in applied 
science have been incalculably facilitated by knowledge already exist- 
ing in orderly herbaria and in the published researches of taxonomists. 

Quite apart from such practical considerations, however, I wish 
here to discuss only one of many theoretical aspects of plant taxonomy 
as it is related to the area of my special geographical interest, the 
southwestern Pacific. In this region much remains to be done on a 
preliminary level of taxonomic study involving the collection and 
identification of specimens. No taxonomist considers this type of 
work as more than the first step toward a larger project. In some 
little-known Pacific regions this first step has still not been firmly 
taken, and while we are taking it we try to look ahead and see how we 
may contribute, as taxonomists, toward an understanding of geologi- 
cal history. Phytogeography, or plant geography, is the study and 
interpretation of the distribution of plants over the earth's surface, 
and it is a field of research close to the interests of every plant tax- 
onomist. It is not too much to say, perhaps, that every floristic study 
is a contribution toward one ultimate goal, a comprehension of the 
biogeographical history of the world. 

Until we know with considerable accuracy what species of plants 
occur naturally in the region under consideration, we cannot intelli- 
gently discuss either their phylogenetic or migrational history. There- 
fore, to prepare a regional Flora or at least a well-documented list is 
the taxonomist's first concern, when he is satisfied that adequate, even 
though incomplete, field studies have been made. Without such basic 
knowledge the phytogeographer can go far astray in his conclusions. 

In the Pacific, for instance, it is recognized that Fiji occupies a key 
position, the archipelago being situated on the eastern rim of an old 
Melanesian land mass that presumably broke up into its present iso- 



BOTANICAL STUDIES IN FIJI — SMITH 307 

lated remnants in Tertiary time. A knowledge of what plants are 
indigenous in Fiji today will help materially in an understanding of 
past earth movements in the region, especially if such knowledge can 
be correlated with similar data from the New Hebrides, the Solomon 
Islands, and New Caledonia to the west, and from Samoa and Tonga 
to the east. It is unlikely that the fossil record in this part of the 
world will ever be complete enough to give a true picture of Tertiary 
vegetation, and so we may have to depend upon an interpretation of 
modern vegetation for our eventual reconstruction of plant migra- 
tions. And yet, the only floristic study of Fiji of any completeness, an 
excellent study for its period, is the nearly century-old "Flora 
Vitiensis." ^ Obviously the phytogeographer who depends upon so 
outmoded a work for his basic information will reach unsound con- 
clusions. For neighboring archipelagoes the picture is no more en- 
couraging; in fact, for the New Hebrides and the Solomon Islands 
our floristic knowledge is much more fragmentary than it is for Fiji. 

One of my preoccupations for more than 20 years has been a study 
of the plants of Fiji, my intention being to supplement Seemann's fine 
work with a Flora which, presumably, will give a more realistic pic- 
ture of the modern vegetation of the archipelago. This intention has 
had its vicissitudes, but after three extended field trips,^ during which 
approximately 65,000 herbarium specimens were prepared, I feel that 
a reasonably well-documented Flora can finally be visualized. 

Perhaps I can best suggest to the reader the methods of a tropical- 
plant collector by briefly recounting in chronological order the events 
of my most recent trip. On earlier trips I had visited some of the out- 
lying islands of the group and also representative portions of the two 
largest islands, Viti Levu and Vanua Levu.^ Consequently I had in 
mind a few remaining "blind spots," which earlier collectors had either 
not reached or had visited only cursorily. These areas included a 
region of precipitous mountains, the Korombasambasanga Kange, in 
south-central Viti Levu, the hills of Tailevu and Serua Provinces, in 
the east and south of the same island, and portions of the volcanic is- 
lands of Ovalau, Ngau, and Taveuni. 



* Seemann, Berthold, Flora Vitiensis : A description of the plants of the Viti 
or Fiji Islands with an account of their history, uses, and properties, xxxiii-f453 
pp., 100 pis., 1805-73. 

' The first of these trips, in 1933-34, was sponsored by the Beruice P. Bishop 
Museum, the New York Botanical Garden, and Yale University; the second, in 
1947_48, by the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation and the Arnold 
Arboretum of Harvard University, with the aid of grants from the National 
Academy of Sciences and the American Philosophical Society ; and the third, in 
1953-54, by the Smithsonian Institution and the National Science Foundation. 
To the sponsors who have thus demonstrated an Interest in the project I am 
deeply grateful. 

'For itineraries of these trips, see Journ. New York Bot. Gard., vol. 35, pp. 
261-280, 1934, and Journ. Arnold Arb., vol. 31, pp. 138-141, 1950. 



308 ANNUAL REPORT SAHTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

The tropical-plant collector does not travel lightly. Because in most 
tropical countries one cannot hope for a local source of supply, it is 
necessary to take most of the collecting equipment needed, including 
considerable quantities of paper, driers, corrugated boards, small kero- 
sene stoves, straps, envelopes, and the many other special things that 
are essential. In a country like Fiji, however, one can obtain kerosene 
for drying plants, axes, machetes, and similar standard items. There- 
fore, upon arriving in Suva in March 1953, with my wife and our two 
children, I disclosed to a somewhat baffled but very helpful customs 
officer more than a ton of baggage. At this point I might interpolate 
a word of thanlcs to all the government officials in Fiji ; their courtesy 
and friendly cooperation at every stage of my work there has been 
exemplary. For a few days we renewed our acquaintance with friends 
made in 1947-48 and established new contacts, while planning a pro- 
visional schedule of fieldwork. The local Department of Agriculture 
generously gave me working and storage space and furthermore sec- 
onded to me a young Fijian assistant, Bernardo Vunibobo, to act as 
interpreter and "head boy" for the ensuing 9 months. 

For our first headquarters, Bernardo and I selected a small Fijian 
village, Ndakuivuna, in Tailevu Province, eastern Viti Levu. This 
village is situated in a region of low hills between the sea and the Wai- 
nimbuka River, and from it we could collect in the thick rain forest 
that covers most of the southern and eastern parts of the island. As 
Viti Levu has an area of about 4,000 square miles and contains many 
peaks exceeding 3,000 feet, to make a complete botanical survey of this 
one island would take many years; consequently collectors can hope 
only to sample a number of representative habitats and elevations. 
Many of the high points of Viti Levu having been botanically ex- 
plored with reasonable thoroughness, I hoped in 1953 to sample the 
middle-elevation forest of a few selected regions. The Tailevu forest, 
where it has not been invaded by European and Indian settlers and 
by the route of the highway around Viti Levu, remains largely undis- 
turbed, as Fijian cultivation merely scratches the surface here and 
there. 

In April the rainy season in Fiji is slowly approaching its unwilling 
end, and one becomes accustomed to ignoring the weather. Very soon 
I found myself in a familiar daily pattern bounded by the steep hill- 
side gardens that ring the village, the little hunting trails, obscure and 
deep in mud, the wet undergrowth, the sudden drenching showers, and 
the noonday halt, with lunch of ndalo (Colocasia), yams {Dioscorea)^ 
and a tin of meat or fish. The collector's reward for spending a day 
in this manner is, to him at any rate, very tangible, if he obtains a 
few specimens of rare plants, perhaps new to the district or even to 
the island, perhaps known otherwise from one or two collections, or 



BOTANICAL STUDIES IN FIJI — SMITH 309 

perhaps not even recognized and potentially "new species." Of course 
the final identifications await herbarium study in future years, but the 
pleasure and excitement of plant hunting are adequate recompense for 
the discomforts involved. Eeturn to the village in late afternoon, a 
dip in the stream, dry clothes, a hot and often excellent meal of varied 
native food, and a congenial evening of conversation around a bowl of 
yanggona (the drink prepared from Piper methysticum) round out 
the collector's day in very satisfactory fashion. 

By the beginning of May I was back in Suva and ready to leave, 
with my family this time, for Ovalau, the principal island of Lomaiviti 
(Central Fiji) . Levuka, on the east coast of Ovalau, was for long the 
principal Fijian center of European settlement, but since the capital 
was moved to Suva in 1882 it has lost much of its importance as an 
administrative center and a port. Ovalau, with an area of about 40 
square miles, is the ruin of a large and complex volcano, comprising 
a central basin surrounded by peaks and steep ridges, the highest eleva- 
tion being 2,053 feet. Aside from a road along the east coast, only 
trails connect the villages. The whole island, except for the north 
coast and many rocky pinnacles and clifi's, is covered with a luxuriant 
rain forest. Furthermore, although it is the type locality of a few 
species obtained by early collectors, it has not been intensively 
botanized. 

On Ovalau our headquarters for 5 weeks was the village of Lovoni, 
lying in the beautiful valley in the center of the island. This superbly 
situated town is approached by a rough trail of about 4 miles, but the 
Koko (Fijian administrative official) arranged to have our consider- 
able baggage carried in by men from Lovoni, each man taking a load 
of about 30 pounds. While most Fijian villagers are good woodsmen 
and are at home in their natural environment, I must particularly com- 
mend the people of Lovoni for their knowledge of plants, their forest 
skills, and their generous hospitality. The Lovoni, once considered a 
wild and predatory tribe who made life for the early residents of 
Leviika very uncomfortable indeed, are now outstanding among 
Fijians for their vigor, independence, and their satisfactory communal 
village life. 

From the village of Lovoni we were able quite thoroughly to collect 
on the slopes and spectacular summits that ring the valley. The pro- 
longed rainy season did not seriously dampen my enthusiasm for this 
beautiful Ovalau forest, its varied trees forming a dense canopy aver- 
aging a hundred feet in height, its undergrowth rich in shrubs of 
such plant families as Rubiaceae, Euphorbiaceae, and Gesneriaceae, 
its steep rocky slopes supporting masses of terrestrial orchids and 
ferns, and its exposed summits smothered in a diversity of moss- 
covered shrubbery. Usually I would spend about 3 days a week in 



310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

the forest, with 4 or 5 men to make trails and cut trees; the Lovoni 
men were pleased to give us their names for plants and to range far 
from the trail to bring specimens that would otherwise have escaped 
Bernardo and me. Without willing cooperation of this sort a forest 
botanist's work is limited, for the bulk of the material obtained and 
the labor of felling trees prohibit solitary collecting. On the remain- 
ing days of the week I would work in the village, making notes and 
drying specimens, and periodically my assistants would carry dried 
plants to Levuka and return with needed supplies. The little Lovoni 
River, flowing through the village, lends charm to the surroundings, 
where my family had their first prolonged experience of Fijian life. 
It is perhaps an unfortunate fact that Fijian villages are delightful in 
inverse ratio to the European and Indian contacts of their people. 

After another brief stay in Levuka, we left on June 12 for Ngau, 
the southernmost and largest island of Lomaiviti, with an area of 54 
square miles and elevations up to 2,345 feet. The 40 miles from 
Levuka were covered in a small copra-collecting cutter, which travels 
between Levuka and the Ngau villages two or three times a month. 
On Ngau we had a fine headquarters in Sawaieke, the village of the 
Mbuli (ranking chief) of the island, and this village served as a base 
until we returned to Levuka on July 7. I was particularly anxious to 
work on the heavily forested hills of Ngau, because botanically it is the 
most neglected of the larger Fijian islands; except for specimens ob- 
tained in 1854 by the botanists of the surveying ship Herald^ there 
appears to exist no herbarium material of consequence from Ngau. 

Although higher than Ovalau, Ngau is entirely different in topog- 
raphy, its sharp ridges leading to a central mass dominated by the 
tAvin peaks of Ndelaitho and Ndelaithomboni. While I was able to 
work on some fine forested slopes and spurs, I failed to reach the 
actual high points. In Ngau we had a sample of a sustained type of 
storm that the Fijians call mbongiwalu ("eight nights") , during which 
for a period of more than a week there is literally no break in the rain 
and the cold wind-driven mist. This is a "dry season" type of storm 
that must simply be endured ; during it brief collecting trips are possi- 
ble, but the high ridges are temporarily out of bounds. 

Our final visit to Ovalau was spent for the most part at Thawathi, a 
Catholic Mission school on the northeastern coast. With the excellent 
headquarters provided by a dormitory during a vacation period, I 
was able to work on some of the northern peaks of Ovalau that were 
less accessible from Lovoni. It may now be felt that Ovalau, at any 
rate, has been adequately collected, but even here the occurrence of 
undescribed species is a probability. 

The third largest of the Fijian islands, although it is only a fraction 
of the size of Viti Levu and Vanua Levu, is Taveuni, which has an area 



an Report. l'J54.-- Smith 



Plate 1 




.H 







-'-' : ^"^ 






1. View across the Rewa River Valley in Viti Levu from the hills of Tailevu Province, 
showing in the distance the mountains of Namosi Province, nearly 4,000 feet high, and 
the Namosi Gap, where the picturesque Waindina River breaks through the range. 



v'*r«v*' 



.. .r. 



^k^ 




^•._ m^^'^:^: 



2. Willing Fijian helpers carry the results of a day's fieldwork back to the village. The 
material, roughly pressed between sheets of paper, is carried in copra sacks, and the 
empty shoulder portfolio indicates a successful day. 



Smithsonian Report. 1054. -Smith 



Plate 2 




1. Waikama Ba\ 



-land of Ngau, where the explorin.u' ship Herald anchored in 1854 
is of scenic as well as botanical interest. 



ir 




2. Mount Ndclaitho, the high point of Ngau, is cloaked to its summit by a dense rain forest. 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Smith 



Plate 3 






'iV 



i^vA 



'^'Jfl 





1. A flowering branch of Ilernandia ovigcra, unc ui llic large spreading trees of tlie coastal 

forest. 




2. A common tree of llie beaches is Thespesia pupu/nfu, of tiie mallow family, here shown 

in fruit. 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Smith 



Plate 4 




1. A footbridge of palm trunks and bamboo stems crosses a tidal creek on Ngau. The 
Fijians are adept builders with local materials, and such a temporary fiber-lashed structure 
is made in a matter of minutes. 




A method of drying herbarium specimens. The plants, under pressure between blotters 
and corrugated boards, are supported above a source of slow and constant heat which 
drives out the moisture through the corrugations. Specimens thus thoroughly dried 
under pressure remain flat and durable for future study. Large fruits and leaves for 
chemical analysis are dried by the escaping current of hot air. 



Smithsonian Rfr>nrt 1954 — Smitli 



Plate 5 




1. An introduced bamboo, Bambusa vulgaris, is widely luili/cd. licre a iliior ol woven 
split bamboo is being laid in a new house. The reeds lining' the walls, of the large grass 
Miscanthus japonicus, are woven together with coconut or hibiscus fibers. Main' species 
of forest trees produce the huge timbers that Fijians use in their houses, which are built 
entireh' without the use of metal fastenings. 




iMf/^i 




2. Bamboo makes strong rafts to carry loads of bananas down the rapids of the Navua 
River. These are "one-way" crafts and terminate their career at the river's mouth, the 
rapids prohibiting their return. 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Smith 



Plate 6 




1. Metroxylon vitiense, the endemic Fijian sago palm, grows very locally in swamps. It 
lives about 25 }'ears, produces a large terminal inflorescence, and then dies. Fijians 
esteem its fronds as the best thatching material in the archipelago. 




2. The leaf segments of Metroxylon :'in, ,i ■ n.i n Ironi the leaves, bent around a rceJ, 
and sewed together with hibiscus fiber. ■"Sliiaglcs" about six feet long are dried in the 
sun and then tied to the rafters of the roof. Such thatching is said to be durable for 20 
years or more. 



Smltlisonian Report. 1954. — Smith 



Plate 7 




1. The frame of the roof of a new house is made of sapHngs lashed together, and on this the 
A/d'/roxy/oM "shingles" are tied with fibers. 




2. A 



II ui^ 



III lUM- IS n::,i : ■ . : ' ■ .n ■ ,, : ■ •■ ■ ■ ■ , ■ ,■,■■'■ i ii ,nl/,. I lie usual 
house building ui I'lji are the macliete, a.\, and ad/,. 



Smithsonian Report. 1954.— Smith 



Plate 8 




1. The grass Erianthus maximus provides a diiu.i.;; ;!,< iiidcvcloped inflorescences, 
enclosed in leaf sheaths, are roasted over the coals. The cooked inflorescences look 
like large asparagus stalks and have a delicious maizelike taste. 




■^■^^fe 






* ^ '* 



2. A Fijian woman weaves a carrying basket from the fiber of Freycinetia, a relative ol the 

screwpine, Panda?ius. 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. -Smith 





.'m 



■ 0,0mm ^f^.>^ 



''^'~ 



1. A \ lew ul llic Ivi.iriiiuhasainlKit.aiiua Raiiue Iimui ihc \ illaL'c lA \\ aiiiiiiiakLil ii, iii Xaiiu.isi 
Province, Viti Levu. Vuimasia, tlic peak farthest to the right in this picture, has an 
altitude of 3,948 feet. 




2. All-It; 






:' : jiuj., bliMwing the whole norlhcrn face ol the ran^ 
from the vallev of VValnimbua Creek. 



Sm;ti.M.n;...,rvi„.ri. 105-t s,„;ii, 



Plate 10 



t^ls^"^: 




'/ 




1. A large epiphytic fern, Asplenium amboinense, is a frequent component of the Fijian 

rain forest. 




2. A much rarer plant is the little root saproplntc, Balanophora fungosa, which sends its 
inflorescences three or four inches up through tiie leaf mold. The whole plant is yellowish 
pink in color and lacks chlorophyll. 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Smith 



Plate 1 1 




S 1- 



-T3 -J. 
<u o 




s^ 









O o 



S £ 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Smith 



PLATE 12 




1. A view from the island of Taveuni across Somosomo Straits to Vanua Levu. I'lie reed- 
covered forehilis of this eastern coast of Vanua Levu are due to burning, as normally the 
windward (southeastern) exposures of the Fijian islands are densely forested. 







2. Children of Ngaloa practice a traditional spear dance, which they intend to present to 
their ciders on a special occasion. Music is provided by the chanting and clapping of the 
seated group. 



BOTANICAL STUDIES IN FIJI — SMITH 311 

of 108 square miles and in elevation attains 4,0^1:0 feet, second in the 
archipelago only to Mount Tomanivi on Viti Levu. Taveuni has been 
visited by several botanists, and I spent some weeks there 20 years ago, 
but there still remain large upland areas in need of collecting. At a 
plantation on the east coast of Taveuni the highest normal annual rain- 
fall for the archipelago has been recorded, averaging 213 inches. This 
eastern slope receives the full force of the trade winds, and the sununit 
ridge is seldom clear of clouds ; the rainfall at high elevations is prob- 
ably close to 400 inches a year. One of the thickest forests in Fiji 
cloaks this precipitous eastern slope from sea to sunmiit without a 
break. Because the shore is rockbound and unprotected by a reef, the 
area has no settlements and is difficult to approach. But my intention 
of working on the eastern slope of Taveuni was thwarted by a combi- 
nation of circumstances, and we made our headquarters on the popu- 
lated western coast, where there are several European coconut planta- 
tions and a few Fijian villages. This coast, for the lower 1,000 feet, is 
a nearly continuous belt of coconuts, above vv'hich the forest extends 
upward to the summit ridge. 

The northern and southern extremities of the central ridge of 
Taveuni have been previously visited by botanists, and I had already 
twice ascended Mount Uluingalau, the high point. Therefore, in 
August I worked as thoroughly as time permitted on the slopes in the 
center of the island. It was a pleasure again to collect in the Taveuni 
forest, which abounds in huge trees of such species as ndamanu 
{C alophyllum) J vulavula {E/idospenmmi), and representatives of the 
Sapotaceae, Moraceae, and Leguminosae. Among the rarest plants to 
be seen on Taveuni should be mentioned Trimenia weinmoAinii folia 
(the type species of a curious small family, Trimeniaceae) , Sukunia 
pentagonioides, a rubiaceous shrub with large white flowers that I 
named in 1936 to commemorate the distinguished Fijian administra- 
tor Eatu Sir Lala Sukuna, and the beautiful liana Medinilla loater- 
housei. This last, the exquisite tangimauthia of Fijian legend, is a 
melastome with large red bracts embracing waxy white flowers. To 
my surprise, we found growing near the tangimauthia another species 
of Medinilla which is presumably undescribed, if anj'thing even more 
spectacular, with rich pink bracts and flowers aggregated into huge 
inflorescences along the slender, twining stems. But perhaps my most 
exciting moment on Taveuni came with the recognition of an old 
friend, Degeneria vitiensis, the basis of a recently described plant 
family which we had previously known only from the two large 
islands.* 



* The Degeneriaceae, believed to be among the most primitive of extant angio- 
sperms, has been discussed in Journ. Arnold Arb.. vol. 23, pp. 356-365, 1942, 
and vol. 30, pp. 1-38, 1949. 

326511—55 22 



312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

By the end of August we were again in Suva, planning for the final 
months of our visit, to be spent on Viti Levu. September and October 
are normally the driest months in Fiji, although on the windward 
(southeastern) slopes there is no real dry season. However, this was 
the best time to approach my main objective, the Korombasambasanga 
Range, and on September 7 we were on our way inland from Navua, 
at the mouth of the Navua River, near the middle of the south coast of 
Viti Levu. Collecting equipment and supplies for a projected stay of 
2 or 3 months were taken inland. The first day of the journey was up 
the Navua River, utilizing three punts, pointed, flat-bottomed boats 
about 20 feet long which are well adapted for the rapids of the lower 
Navua. Six or seven strong and capable Fijian boatmen handle each 
punt, this specialized task being performed by men of certain upriver 
villages, who seem to have a monopoly on this form of river transpor- 
tation. Ascending the rapids of the Navua gorges, one passes through 
some of the most scenic surroundings in Fiji, the river being flanked by 
steep forested banks and sharp cliffs, over which waterfalls plunge 
into the swift stream. For the most part there is no possible place 
where passengers can walk in order to lighten the punts, and the in- 
credible boatmen, poling in unison, take their loads through the rapids 
a foot at a time, by sheer force. 

Where the Navua River is joined by a smaller affluent, the Waini- 
koroiluva, is situated the village of Namuamua. This being the head 
of "navigation," the rest of our trip was made on foot, the baggage 
being carried by 13 horses, each with an attendant. The trail up 
the Wainikoroiluva valley is so rough that in places each horse has 
to be led or guided. For this part of the trip we took 2 days, reaching 
our destination, the little village of Wainimakutu, on September 9. 
The whole region is extremely beautiful, the river winding among 
sharp, steep hills and towering crags. The trail, if so it can be called, 
in general follows the stream bed and is passable only during the dry 
season. Between December and April, I was told, the people of the 
Wainokoroiluva valley are effectively isolated in the vicinity of their 
villages. 

Wainimakutu is the "last" village in Namosi Province, situated in 
the valley of the little Wainavindrau Creek, which drains the western 
slopes of the Korombasambasanga Range. We could not have had 
a better headquarters for this phase of my work, as the spectacular 
group of cockscomb peaks rises near at hand above the village. The 
highest of them, Vuimasia, at 3,948 feet, is the second highest point 
of Viti Levu. The peaks of Korombasambasanga are massive col- 
umns of rock, ringed by precipices and divided by dark chasms. The 
steep and silent rain forest covers all but the sharpest slopes and cliffs. 
Such peaks are the denuded plugs of hard andesitic lava, remaining 
after the crater rims of the old volcanoes crumbled and eroded away. 



BOTANICAL STUDIES IN FIJI SMITH 313 

My first two field trips in this region were made to a narrow ridge 
that connects Korombasambasanga with Mount Naitarandamu 
(3,781 feet), to the north. Collecting in this fine forest was excellent, 
the weather was clear, and the men of Wainimakutii were willing and 
competent assistants. It had aways seemed to me that the field men 
who have "adventures" create such situations by Inck of foresight and 
planning, and I was feeling pleased, even smug, to have reached my 
goal with intact supplies, good health, and all the attributes essential 
to successful fieldwork. This was the situation about noon on Sep- 
tember 14, as we had our lunch on the sharp little ridge called 
Ndevutu, studying the north face of Korombasambasanga and discus- 
sing possible routes up spurs to the jagged peaks. Two minutes later 
I had quite changed my mind about the causes of "adventures," for in 
the interval the most severe earthquake recorded in Fiji since white 
occupation had taken place. The men and I were lying flat on the 
exposed ridge, ludicrously holding on to the ground as if such contact 
would keep the shuddering ridge from sliding into the valley below. 
To the north, through dust-filled air, we saw a cliff on the sunmiit of 
Naitarandamu slide down a newly scarred slope, and the terrifying 
rumble that issued from the earth on all sides made us too aware of a 
desire to be elsewhere. I suppose that one never feels more helpless 
than during an earthquake. Violent aftershocks spurred our scram- 
ble down the slopes to Wainimakutu, where we found the women and 
children sitting disconsolately on the village gi'een. 

It was some weeks before we learned of the considerable damage 
that had been done elsewhere in southeastern Viti Levu by the quake 
and tidal wave. During the ensuing months — at least into January — 
aftershocks were frequent and often sharp, and so I had to revise my 
plans to the extent of avoiding the peaks and cliffs that I had come 
so far to visit. The innumerable new landslides that now mark the 
region quite effectively discouraged me from high or very steep local- 
ities. But the following wrecks were not lost, for collecting in the 
forest of gentler slopes proved highly profitable. 

The forests of Korombasambasanga and its vicinity are too rich and 
diverse to make a listing of their principal elements meaningful, but 
it was always a pleasure to prepare ample material of species previ- 
ously thought rare, in such genera as Cyathocalyx^ Aglaia, Elaeo- 
carpus, Syzygiwm^ Astronidium, Li7iocicra, CoufJiovia, Cyrfandra, 
and Psychotria. A special pleasure is derived by the collector who 
obtains the second or third collection of species described by himself, 
and in this region I met again my Aristolochia viiiensis', Kermadecia 
ferruginea, Colubrina micropetala^ Medinilla suhviridis, and Plerand- 
ra iv soli fa. 

On October 13, with farewell glances of regret upAvard to the now 
familiar outline of Korombasambasanga, we retraced our route to 



314 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Namuamua, which served as a base until November 5. Although 
generally similar to those farther inland, the forests of this "big 
bend" region of the Navua River disclosed some new elements, and 
the village itself, large and clean, was a pleasant headquarters. The 
earthquake had dislodged a cliff hanging over the mouth of the Waini- 
koroiluva River, which has now cut a new course through the rubble 
and is perilously close to the village itself. 

After a brief respite in Suva, on November 12 we were settled in 
the large coastal village of Ngaloa, in Serua Province, southern Viti 
Levu. Here the hill forest reaches the coast in places, and only a short 
distance inland the ridges that gradually lead to the height of land 
between the sea and the upper Navua River are essentially undis- 
turbed. A limited amount of timber cutting is done in this region, 
but fortunately the cutters do not go far from the road that follows 
the coast. The slope forest is dense and in general aspect resembles 
that of Namosi Province, but doubtless it contains a few different 
elements. 

A final 2 weeks at the Catholic Mission of Lomeri, near Ngaloa, 
brought my work to a close. Here we enjoyed pleasant surroundings 
and European companionship during the Christmas period, returning 
to Suva on December 30. My collections in southern Viti Levu sup- 
plement the earlier ones of J. W. Gillespie (1927) and Otto Degener 
(1941), and I believe that this part of Viti Levu is now very well 
known botanically. 

It was with considerable regret that I left Suva on January 7 ; not 
only is it beautifully situated and climatically delightful, but its 
people are hospitable in every way. In this brief summary I am un- 
able to thank the many Europeans and Fijians who have so greatly 
facilitated my studies. Nor can I detail the valuable contributions 
that my botanical predecessors have made toward a new Flora of Fiji. 
My own visits have had the primary purpose of filling in some of tlie 
areas they did not reach, and our final knowledge of the Fijian flora 
will reflect the field and herbarium studies of many contributors. 

Insofar as data on the flora of Fiji are now available, we know of 
1,341 indigenous species of flowering plants, in addition to somewhat 
more than 500 species of adventive, or introduced, species. These 
latter, interesting as they may be as a record of man's settlement and 
visits to a region, cannot be taken as a basis for tracing the relation- 
ships of a flora. In such phytogeographic studies we must confine 
ourselves to the plants known to grow naturally, which were presum- 
ably established before the advent of man in the region. It is interest- 
ing to note that, of the 1,341 known species of indigenous Fijian 
phanerogams, 948, or 71 percent, are endemic, that is occurring in 
Fiji only. A high percentage of specific endemism is characteristic 



BOTANICAL STUDIES IN FIJI — SMITH 315 

of insular regions that have been isolated for a long period. It is 
probable that both the total number of species and the percentage of 
endemism will rise sharply with future exploration and study. 

Any consideration of phytogeographical relationships is premature 
until the floras of the regions under study are thoroughly known, and 
in the Pacific such complete floristic knowledge is probably a century 
or two in the future. In the meanwhile, however, botanists can cast 
considerable light upon the problems of earth movement. A statisti- 
cal analysis of the Fijian phanerogam flora,^ however incomplete, 
shows that an overwhelming proportion of Fijian plants has its affini- 
ties with the plants of Malaysia, and especially those of New Guinea, 
the Solomon Islands, and the New Hebrides. Only about 5 percent of 
Fijian species appear to be closely related to groups that are typically 
New Caledonian or Australian, and only about 3 percent can be con- 
sidered as belonging to strictly Pacific elements. A very few species 
have relationships toward New Zealand and what is thought of as an 
Antarctic element in the Pacific. 

The result of this study, however incomplete and provisional it may 
be, is to support the hypothesis of land movement in the western 
Pacific most favored by geologists, namely that Fiji lies near the edge 
of a once-extended ]\Ielanesian continent that embraced New Guinea 
and Australia, and that its separation from other parts of the con- 
tinent did not take place until the Tertiary Era. At this time, accord- 
ing to paleobotanical studies, the existing families and genera of flow- 
ering plants were already largely differentiated and often widely dis- 
tributed. Our studies indicate that the last land connections to be 
sundered, as the old continent broke up into its present remnants, 
were those along the Fiji-New Hebrides-Solomon Islands chain. 
Land connections leadmg from Fiji toward New Caledonia and Aus- 
tralia must have been broken much earlier, if they ever were well 
established during the Tertiary. 

In the southwestern Pacific we have, as it were, a laboratory for 
the study of plant speciation by isolation, and examination of the 
existing modern floras can be of great significance not only to phyto- 
geographers but also to geneticists. Experimental biologists would 
do well to supplement the valuable findings of their laboratory re- 
search by turning to the far vaster laboratory of the earth's surface, 
where the evolutionary history of millions of years lies written, to be 
read in the light of cooperative research by students of all biological 
disciplines. 



'Smith, A. C, The vegetation and flora of Fiji, Sci. Month., vol. 73, No. 1, 
pp. 3-15, 1951. 



The Romance of Domesticated Plants^ 



By Glenn W. Blaydes^ 

Department of Botany and Plant Pathology 
The Ohio State University 



[With 11 plates] 



Man's fate is closely correlated with events of the distant past — 
events which occurred even before he existed. One sucli incident, 
which was new among plants and eventually greatly changed the vege- 
tative landscape, occurred about 225 million years ago. This accident 
resulted in the formation of a plant organ which we recognize as a 
seed. Heritable changes were not common in the more primitive seed 
plants, but finally, during the Cretaceous period (about 120 million 
years ago) , the angiosperms made their appearance. All our common 
seed-bearing plants except the conifers belong to this group. This 
new kind of propagule was unique in that it contained an embryo 
plant which resulted from asexual union. Free water was not neces- 
sary in the fertilization process. Food, which could be used in fur- 
ther growth of the embryo and in germination, accumulated in the 
embryo and in surroimding tissues of the seed. This new plant organ 
could withstand desiccation yet remain viable for months to hundreds 
of years. In many instances, it could survive low temperatures which 
ordinarily would kill vegetative parts of the same plant. The nature 
of this organ was such that it could, at maturity, become widely dis- 
seminated within its habitat and to other habitats by several natural 
agencies. 



' Presidential address delivered at the annual meeting of the Ohio Academy of 
Science at the Ohio State University, Columbus, April 24, lOHS. (Publication 
No. 558, Department of Botany and Plant Pathology, Ohio State University.) 
Reprinted by permission from the Ohio Journal of Science, vol. 53, No. 4, July 
1953. 

' Credit is hereby given and appreciation expressed to the following for photo- 
graphs for the illustrations: Tillman J. Johnson, figures 1-14, 16-20, and 25; 
Allan Heilman, figures 15, 26, and 27; Walter G. Wagner, O. S. U. Department 
of Photography, figures 21-23 and 28-39; and Dr. E. N. Transeau, figures 40 
and 41. 

317 



318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

By means of this new kind of propagule a very successful land flora 
became established, even over relatively arid regions, on all the con- 
tinents except the Antarctic. All land habitats were more fully occu- 
pied by plants than before. The total vegetation mass was greatly 
increased, which in turn changed the characteristics of soils. The 
stream of heritable variations that occurred in seed plants is almost 
beyond comprehension. These occurred mainly before there were any 
humans in existence. The beginnings of some understanding of such 
matters is but a century old. Taxonomists now recognize about 10,000 
genera and at least 300,000 species of seed plants. Many more will un- 
doubtedly be discovered as time goes on. 

SOME HERITABLE VARIATIONS IN SEEDS 

Perhaps it is trite to point out that probably in every species of 
seed plant certain heritable potentialities may become expressed only 
in the seeds. Such were some of the characters in garden peas {Pisum 
saiiviMn L.) which Mendel studied in his classical work of nearly a 
century ago — smooth and wrinkled seed coats, and yellow and green. 
From these seed characters (pi. 1, fig. 1) as well as variable characters 
from other parts of the pea plant, the fundamental principles of he- 
redity applicable to both plants and animals were discovered. Though 
lost for nearly forty years, these principles, when rediscovered, 
sparked the new science of genetics at the beginning of the twentieth 
century. However, peas were not new to man in Mendel's time. They 
are among his oldest domesticated plants, the oldest recognizable re- 
mains dating 3000 B. C. from the Swiss lake dwellings of the Stone 
Age. The place of origin is in doubt, but may have been in the Medi- 
terranean region or in western Asia. The pea as we know it is a culti- 
gen, and botanists have been unable to locate it in the wild state. 

The kidney bean {Phaseolus vulgaris) (pi. 1, figs. 3, 4) probably 
originated in Brazil. However, its greatest diversity was reached in 
Guatemala and Mexico. The Peruvians were cultivating it about 
4,500 years ago. It was widespread among North American Indians. 
More than 500 varieties have been given names in recent times. Much 
the same story may be told for the lima bean {Phaseolus lunatus) (pi. 
1, fig. 2). This illustration shows something of the remarkable diver- 
sity of lima beans as to size, shape, and color pattern. These are from 
a collection of present-day varieties found in Guatemala and Mexico. 
These two species of beans are sources of basic food materials used by 
millions of people. 

The carob, locust bean, or St. John's bread {Ceraforiia sUiqua), a 
leguminous tree of the Mediterranean region (pi. 1, fig. 5), has pods 
that are used for human consumption as well as feed for swine and 
cattle. The pods have been identified by some with the locusts of John 



DOMESTICATED PLANTS BLAYDES 319 

the Baptist. The term "carat" has been applied to the carob bean 
or seed, and these seeds were used originally as a unit of weight, the 
carat. When mature, the seeds seem to be fairly uniform in size and 
very hard, and the seed coat is impervious to water until it is scarified. 
This imperviousness is a heritable characteristic and is found in the 
seed coats of many species. It is of concern to horticulturists, agrono- 
mists, foresters, and botanists. The waterproof coats of seeds and 
some fruits are obviously correlated with longevity of the embryo. 
The most prominent example is that of East Indian lotus {Nelmiibo 
nucifera Gaertn.) (pi. 2, fig. 7). These are, botanically, fruits with a 
single seed inside. The fruit coat (pericarp) is the structure that is 
impermeable to water. When the fruit coat is notched germination 
may occur within 10 days. A quantity of these fruits was recently 
discovered in the depths of a peat bog in southern Manchuria. The 
seeds were viable and would germinate readily upon scarification of 
the pericarps. By the radiocarbon technique these seeds were shown 
by Libby in 1951 to be about 1,000 years old. The seeds and rhizomes 
have been used as food by peoples of Asia for many centuries. The 
North American species, the water chinquapin {Nelivmho lutea 
(Willd.) Pers.) was used as a source of food by the Indians. 

In any seed collection one of the most conspicuous to be found is 
the castor bean {Ricinus communis) (pi. 2, fig. 6). This is not a 
legume but belongs to the spurge family. Though widely naturalized 
through the Tropics, it probably originated in Africa, with India as a 
second-best choice. In the seed coats we find remarkable variations 
in color and pattern, as well as in size and shape of the seeds. In 
addition, the endosperm synthesizes castor oil, which youngsters 
would readily proclaim as being a vile substance that should never 
have happened. In addition to its medicinal value, it is of importance 
industrially. 

Another member of the spurge family is the Para rubber tree 
{Hevea hrasiliensis), with a few of its unusual seeds (pi. 2, fig. 8) ex- 
hibiting characteristic patterns. It is a native of the Amazon. Al- 
though found in negligible amounts in the seeds, a latex with high 
rubber content is synthesized in the vegetative parts of the plant. This 
tree is the chief source of natural commercial rubber. Although the 
natives are said to have learned to make rubber balls from the latex, 
and a crude syringe, and used it for waterproofing some clothing, 
nothing was done about domestication until recent decades. I need 
not dwell upon the importance of rubber in modern economy, but only 
to mention our experiences after the Pearl Harbor disaster. 

Highly pigmented seeds are found distributed rather widely among 
plant families: The sword bean {Canavalia gladiata) (pi. 3, fig. 11) 
is from the Tropics of the Old World ; the large seeds are edible and 



320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

they are used as ornaments. The rosary pea (Ahrus precatorius) (pi. 
3, fig. 10), another bean from the Tropics of Asia has a hard, scarlet 
coat with a black spot. These beans are used extensively in the Tropics 
for beads, rosaries, and other ornaments. The powdered seeds made 
into a paste and applied to arrows or darts make any wound fatal in 
about 24 hours. Seeds of the strychnine tree {Strychnos nux-vomica 
L.) (pi. 2, fig. 9), native of India and Indochina, are disk-shaped and 
about an inch in diameter. These seeds yield the very poisonous sub- 
stance known as strychnine, which is of importance medicinally. An- 
other species of Strychnos, native of South America, yields curare, 
a deadly poison used by natives for poisoning arrows, and now coming 
into importance in modern medicine. 

The dye known as annatto, from the "lipstick plant" {Bicca orellana) 
(pi. 3, fig. 12), used in the coloring of oleomargarine, is a tropical 
American species. The dye is made in the outer soft, red layer seen 
in the illustration. This layer is an extra seed coat which is found 
in some species and is known as an aril. The spice known as mace 
is from the aril of the nutmeg seed. The edible part of the Chinese 
fruit called the litchi is the fleshy aril. Another seed with an aril 
(pi. 3, fig. 13) is from the bird-of-paradise-flower {Strelitzia nicolai) 
a mat of tangled orange-colored hairs which grow at one end of the 
seed; and another is the seed of the traveler's tree {Ravenala mada- 
gascariensis) (pi. 3, fig. 14), with the membranous, metallic-blue aril 
enfolding the seed. This metallic-blue pigment is unusual among 
plants. These last two species belong to the banana family. In nei- 
ther case are the arils of any use to the plants, yet they continue to 
develop on each new crop of seeds and from generation to generation. 

Seeds may vary through outgrowths from the seed coat, forming 
wings, spines, and hairs. The cotton seed (pi. 4, fig. 17) is an extreme 
example, with long hairs growing from the entire surface of the seed 
coat. These hairs certainly have no survival value to the cotton plant ; 
in fact they are a disadvantage to distribution of the seeds in the wild 
state. There are many varieties of cotton {Gossypium) derived from 
indigenous species from both the Old and the New World. It is 
known that some Peruvians were cultivating cotton and were weaving 
textiles from it in 2500 B. C. Most of the cotton in cultivation in 
the United States is of American origin. These varieties have 52 
chromosomes while the African and Asiatic varieties have 26 chromo- 
somes and will not hybridize except on rare occasions. Because of 
this the Old and New World types have remained distinct even though 
they were brought together in our southern States in the earlier periods 
of cotton culture. Although the species of the two types will not 
readily cross, the hairs or fibers from the seed coats are very similar. 
It is remarkable that widely separated primitive peoples of the two 



DOMESTICATED PLANTS BLAYDES 321 

hemispheres independently learned to make textiles from the cotton 
fibers and domesticated the plants more or less simultaneously. 

Variability in dimensions and weight of seeds may add to our ap- 
preciation of this plant organ. In various acid soil areas in Ohio, a 
native orchid, known as the rattlesnake plantain {Goody era inibescens 
( Willd.) R. Br.) , may be found. The seeds (pi. 4, fig. 16) of this plant 
are among the smallest known. The dimensions of this magnified 
specimen are approximately 0.02 inch long by 0.003 inch wide (641.4 X 
95.3 microns) . The weight is about .000002 gram. Many other or- 
chids have seeds with dimensions and weight in about this category. 
In addition, one of the tropical orchids is known to bear about a million 
seeds to a flower or fruit. 

The natives of the Seychelles Islands in the Indian Ocean and 
Oriental lands bordering this body of water are accustomed to finding 
a somewhat monstrous object (pi. 4, fig. 15) washed up on the beaches. 
For centuries it was thought to be a product of the ocean and was 
called coco de mei\ with many legends and superstitions developing 
about it. The hollowed-out shell was highly valued by potentates of 
the Orient as containers for drinking water. The shell was believed 
to contain an antidote to any poison that might have been added to 
the water. In the early part of the nineteenth century the fan palm 
{Lodoicea sechellarum) was discovered growing on Praslin Island. 
The nut, or stone, and seed are ordinarily two-lobed, appearing as 
though two large coconuts had partially joined, and are now com- 
monly called the double coconut. Occasionally a three-lobed stone is 
found, which has led to the fallacy that a single fruit may bear from 
two to three seeds. There is but one seed to a fruit, which is usually 
two-lobed, about 13 inches wide and 12 inches long with a weight of 
about 40 pounds — the largest seed known. 

If we were asked to pick out the plant family which is of greatest 
importance to man and other mammals, it undoubtedly would be the 
grasses (Graminaceae). There are over 10,000 species of grasses 
known, having a worldwide distribution, from aquatic to desert habi- 
tats and from the Tropics to the Arctic. The grains of grasses are, 
botanically, fruits — fruits with a single seed, which adheres to the 
membranous fruit coat or pericarp. The illustration on plate 4, 
figure 18, is a microscopic longitudinal section of a corn grain. The 
fruit coat is evident as a thin tissue surrounding the relatively large 
seed. The embryo is in the lower part of the grain, and the remaining 
krge mass of tissue is the endosperm. This tissue is unique in that 
it develops ordinarily from the fusion of three nuclei, a male gamete 
and two nuclei of the embryo sac which are identical genetically to the 
egg or female gamete. Since these three nuclei are each haploid, the 



322 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

endosperm nucleus, which results from the fusing of the three nuclei, 
is triploid, or has the 3n number of chromosomes or 30 ordinarily in 
corn. Since all the cells of the endosperm tissue are descendants of 
the triple-fusion nucleus, all the cells of the endosperm are triploid. 
While this is occurring, another male gamete fuses with the egg. The 
fertilized egg or zygote then is diploid or has the 2n number of chro- 
mosomes, which in corn ordinarily is 20. By cell division the zygote 
becomes an embryo, cA-ery cell of which is diploid, and as the growth, 
including cell division, continues, maturity of the plant is attained, 
with all the cells of the roots, stem, and leaves being descendants of 
the fertilized egg, each having the diploid number of chromosomes. 

The corn endosperm (pi. 4, fig. 18, E) is noted for the great accumu- 
lation of foods, carbohydrates, and protein. It is a basic food source 
for many people, and has no equal as feed for farm animals. In 1952, 
3,306,000,000 bushels grew on the farms of the United States. Numer- 
ous genetic variations (pi. 5, fig. 21) occur in the endosperm as to kind 
of carbohydrate, physical qualities, and pigmentation. In this illustra- 
tion six fundamental endosperm types are shown on the ear — floury, 
dent starchy, flint, sweet, waxy, and pop. Tlie floury type of endo- 
sperm has a high percentage of starch in relation to the protein content, 
is soft and readily ground by the primitive methods of the Indians, 
and was a common variety with them. Our common field corn varieties 
are of the dent starchy type. The flint type of endosperm is hard and 
hornlike, and was cultivated extensively by the Indians. Sweet corn, 
although known by the ancient Peruvians and by a few of the North 
American Indians in the latter part of the eighteenth century, never 
became important with them, and white man became interested in it 
about a century ago. Waxy corn is characterized by the presence of a 
waxy carbohydrate, erythrodextrin. Its culture history is uncertain. 
The Indians apparently made no use of it. Geneticists in this century 
found in it a useful tool in certain genetic studies and preserved stocks 
for that purpose. When World War II came along, cutting off the 
supply of cassava used in the manufacture of tapioca, a considerable 
acreage of hybrid waxy corn developed, the erythrodextrin being used 
in the making of tapioca and postage-stamp glue. Popcorn seeds have 
a hard, horny endosperm which explodes when heated, forming the 
white, soft, spongy mass of this popular confection. It was known and 
used by the ancients of Mexico and Central America. 

Plate 5, figure 22, shows the results of crossing a pure-line red flint 
plant with a pure white flint corn plant. The ears borne on the white 
plant as a result of the cross pollination will be red-grained and the 
embryo in every grain will be hybrid. "V^Hien these hybrid grains aie 
planted and the mature hybrid plants are self-pollinated, the resulting 
ears will show a segregation of three red grains to one white, a typical 



DOMESTICATED PLANTS — BLAYDES 323 

simple Mendelian ratio. If a pure white-grained plant is pollinated 
with pollen from a hybrid individual, the ear developing on the whi^e 
plant will show a 1 : 1 ratio of red to white grains and demonstrate the 
"backcross" of the geneticists. Because of these heritable variations 
and many others, corn, or maize, lias become one of the most important 
tools in the study of heredity. 

Wheat {Triticum aestwu?7i) (pi. 4, fig. 19) is another grain of the 
grass family, and has been in cultivation for at least 5,500 years. The 
earliest remains were found in Mesopotamia. The grain is not as large 
as the maize grain, but has a large endosperm with starch and protein 
accumulated in it. The wheat seed is a basic source of food, serving 
nearly half the human population of the world. In the United States 
the wheat yield was 1,291,000,000 bushels in 1952. 

Some place in southeastern Asia, rice {Oryza satlva) (pi. 4, fig. 20) 
became domesticated earlier than 2800 B. C. Over 5,000 varieties 
have been recorded. The wild ancestor is unknown. The rice seed is 
a basic source of food for nearly a billion people. 

MAN AND HIS DEPENDENCE UPON SEED PLANTS 

By the beginning of the great Ice Age, the Pleistocene period, 
1,500,000 years ago, the world stage of vegetation became set in sucli 
a way that our modern seed plants (angiosperms) were highly de- 
veloped. A new actor began to make appearances on this stage — he 
was known as man. He was able to survive because he could obtain 
the right kind of food supply from the abundant flora, and materials 
were available from which he could make clothing and construct 
shelter, and which he could use as fuel for w^arnith and solace for his 
ailments. He was a wanderer, endowed with intelligence far superior 
to any other animal, and had inherited knowledge of how to survive 
from his primate ancestors. It was essential for him to have intimate 
knowledge of the plants which were useful to him as well as those 
which were harmful — developing the rudiments of plant taxonomy. 
He learned to make weapons in protecting himself from other animals, 
and eventually to use these animals for food and their skins for 
clothing. Some groups learned to live almost entirely by hunting, 
making it necessary to follow the herds. Some were gatherers of food, 
or perhaps combined the two methods of livelihood. They learned, 
perhaps, to care for particular trees that bore desirable fruit. In dig- 
ging for edible roots, bulbs, tubers, and rhizomes, they became aware 
of vegetative propagation. 

Some of the more botanically minded noticed that some of the seeds 
they ate had sprouts on them, and upon looking further saw various 
seedlings develop to mature plants bearing the same kind of seed. 
The discovery of these relatively simple processes and attendant re- 



324 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

lationships was no doubt slow and torturous. Primitive man learned 
not only to collect and plant the seeds but to care for them in various 
ways. He learned how to store them in the interval between collect- 
ing and planting, and how and where the planting should be done. 
He observed that when planted in some organic waste, the plant grew 
better and bore more seeds and fruit. He became aware of differences 
in the various propagules and selected for planting those which ap- 
peared most desirable to him. These were the beginnings of horti- 
culture and agriculture. 

As the primitive hunters populated the continent of their origin, 
some groups migrated to other continents when opportunities arose. 
A land bridge once existed from Africa across Sicily to Italy, over 
which plants and animals, including early man, probably migrated. 
Owing to the vast accumulation of water in the form of glacial ice, 
sea levels were lowered to such an extent that land connections were 
possible between Siberia and North America in the area of Bering 
Strait. Bands of Asiatic hunters entered Alaska by this route, even- 
tually populating both North and South America. The most direct 
route would cover more than 5,000 miles from the Arctic through 
tropical climates, establishing a great number of primitive cultures, 
eventually leading to the establishment of the classic civilizations of 
the Incas, Mayas, and Aztecs, within a period of about 15,000 years. 
Though fantastic, this is based on the best inferences of archeologists 
and geologists. 

The movement of the Siberian primitives into North America must 
have been slow, perhaps taking many human generations. They came 
from a cold northern region which probably had no agricultural 
plants. There is no evidence of even a single species of domesticated 
seed plant having arrived from Europe, Africa, or Asia in pre- 
Columbian times. It is possible that man arrived in North America 
before there were any domesticated plants in Asia or elsewhere, and 
that domestication of plants in this hemisphere may have occurred 
more or less simultaneously with that of the Old World. As these 
people moved into the Americas they came in contact with a vast new 
seed-plant flora with geneplasms very different from those known to 
their ancestors. The Indians are known to have made use of over a 
thousand species of native plants in what is now the United States. 
Out of these only the sunflower and Jerusalem artichoke can be re- 
garded as domesticated. However, many species were added to the 
list from Mexico, Central America, and South America. 

DOMESTICATED PLANTS NATIVE TO THE AMERICAS 

A partial list of the more important plants domesticated in pre- 
Columbian times may help us visualize and appreciate the efforts of 



DOMESTICATED PLANTS — BLAYDES 325 

the first people of the New World. Maize or corn, with perhaps more 
than 8,000 varieties and the only important cereal which originated in 
the Americas, should head the list; the potato in its many varieties, 
now a staple food of many millions of people; the sweetpotato with- 
out which no vegetable counter is complete the year round, also a great 
source of commercial starch ; cassava, a staple food in the Tropics, and 
a source of waxy carbohydrate used in the manufacture of tapioca; 
arrowroot and canna yielding starch for fine pastries ; lima beans in 
considerable variety ; kidney beans, from which snap beans, soup beans, 
and field beans developed ; tomatoes, millions of tons being consumed 
annually in the United States today ; hot and sweet peppers, widely 
used as condiments and to camouflage left-over ground meats ; tobacco, 
introduced into Europe about 450 years ago, which has become the 
"sovereign master of practically all mankind"; coca, which yields 
cocaine, a narcotic used by millions of addicts; cocoa or chocolate; 
annatto, a vegetable dye, now used extensively for the coloring of 
oleomargarine, butter, and cheese ; peanut, squash, pumpkin, and the 
chayote ; and important fruits such as the pineapple, avocado, papaya, 
guava, custard apple, and the sapodilla. 

It may be pertinent to point out here that all the basic food plants 
upon which we are dependent came into existence in pre-Columbian 
times. No new basic food plant has developed from the wild species 
in either hemisphere since that time. The Concord, Catawaba, and 
Delaware grapes derived from our native fox grape; the cranberry 
derived from the wild species, long used by the Indians ; the modern 
strawberry has resulted from hybridization of the North American 
species and a Chilean species. The above grapes, cranberry, and 
strawberry developed during the nineteenth century, and in the present 
century the blueberry has been added. Important as they are, these 
can scarcely be regarded as basic food plants. 

HOW DOMESTICATED PLANTS DIFFER FROM WILD SPECIES 

Domesticated plants differ from wild species in that the domesti- 
cated species ordinarily cannot survive without human assistance, such 
as planting (sowing or propagating), protecting, selecting, and pre- 
serving. How these practices may best be accomplished is a major 
concern of horticulturists and agriculturists. 

Heritable variation among seed plants is the rule rather than the 
exception. The frequency of this variation may be high for some 
species and low in others. The quality of the variation may range 
from something that is of great value in survival of the species grow- 
ing in the wild, to characters which are neutral, through degrees of 
inhibiting influence to lethal variations. It should be kept in mind 
that such variations occur in an individual plant of a species, and 



326 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

never simultaneously in all individuals in the population of a given 
species. If one wishes to observe such variations, he must study indi- 
viduals. The early horticulturist had incentive to observe and tend 
individuals in his small garden, rather than large segments of a pop- 
ulation, since he was dependent on the small patch for food. Any 
variant that met his needs better was selected, protected, preserved, 
and finally propagated. It was selected because it suited his purposes, 
and without regard to the survival value of the plant growing in the 
wild state. If good enough, from his standpoint, he would plant his 
whole plot to the variant and eliminate the less desirable ancestral 
type. Other members of his tribe planted it too, and eventually many 
groups in a large area were culturing the new and desirable variant. 
Additional variations occurred from time to time and were allowed 
to accumulate. Eventually the accumulated heritable differences were 
so great that the wild ancestor was no longer recognized. This is the 
case with a large number of domesticated plant species from both the 
Eastern and Western Hemispheres, such as the garden pea, rice, 
potato, and tobacco, with maize or corn as the crowning example. 

The wild ancestor of corn is unknown. It has either become extinct, 
or is so different in appearance that it has not yet been recognized. 
There is some evidence that pod corn was cultivated by the Cochise 
Indians of Arizona about 3,000 years ago (pi. 5, fig. 24). Pod corn 
differs from ordinary maize in that each grain on the ear is enclosed 
in a husk (bracts of the spikelet bearing the grain) . The pod charac- 
ter is controlled by a single dominant gene. Some have regarded this 
as being the original wild corn. This notion has been questioned, since 
pod corn is no more able to survive in nature, without the aid of man, 
than is ordinary corn. The pod chai'acter is readily transmitted to 
any other variety of corn by cross pollination, resulting in a new com- 
bination or a recombination of characters. A similar case was men- 
tioned earlier in which white flint corn was crossed with red flint. Any 
of the many varieties of corn will readily cross. Tliis hybridization 
went on in gardens of primitive man, and undoubtedly occurred more 
rapidly than in the wild state because of the greater concentration of 
plants. 

In some plants (maize being the outstanding example) the hybrid 
(heterozygous) individuals are more vigorous than either of the 
parents. Man was unaware of this hybrid vigor (heterosis) until 
Shull discovered it in 1908 and 1909. This discovery was not put to 
practical use for almost 25 years. Now, about 90 percent of corn 
acreage is hybrid. The use of hybrid seed for planting may result in 
an increase in yield of as much as 25 percent. This ranks as one of 
the greatest achievements in plant breeding. 

Some place in the area from Mexico to Honduras, in the pre-Colum- 
bian period, there is evidence that maize crossed with the gamma grass 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Blaydcs 



PLATE 1 



€> 



/" 



• > 



^^H^ ^^ ^P ^^ ^^ 



ft 

tf 
ft 


• tiflM 


• f 




aj 


WK^ WBSf ^BP ^^ ■ 

4 ' . 



1, Garden pea {Pisuvi sativum) seeds. 2, A collection of lima bean {Phaseolus lunatus) 
seeds from Guatemala, varying in size, shape, color, and seed-coat patterns. Most 
of the dark-colored areas are shades of red. 3, 4, Common bean {Phaseolus vulgaris) 
seeds from Guatemala and Mexico. These and the lima beans of fij^'ure 2 are from a 
collection made by Webster McBridc. 5, Seeds of St. John's bread (Ceralonia siliqua). 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Blaydes 



PLATE 2 



It 



it i I 







6, Castor bean seeds. 7, Fruits of lotus {Nelumbo lulea). 8, Seeds of Para rubber tree 
{Ilevea brasiliensis). 9, Seeds of str\-chnlne tree {Strychtios nux-vomica). 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Blaydes 



Plate 3 












10, Ilosaiy pea {Abrus precaturius), scarlet with a black spot about the hihiin. 11, Sword 
bean {Canavalia gladiata) seeds of a purplish-red color and an incli or iikuc in length. 
12, Seeds of annatto {Bixa orelland) with velvetlike coat of a maroon color. These, 
with the Abrus of figure 10, were supplied by Capt. Wm. A. Fuller, Cocoa, Fla. 13, 
Seeds of bird-of-paradise-flowcr {Strelilzia nikolai) with a brilliant orange-colored aril. 
14, Seeds of the traveler's tree {Ravenala madagascariensis), with the membranous, 
fringed, metallic-blue aril enfolding them. 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Blaydes 



PLATE 4 




IS, Double coconut, the largest seed known. 16, A photomicrograph of rattlesnake plan- 
tain seed, among the smallest known. The oval body is an embryo within the seed 
coat. 17, Cotton seeds. 18, Longitudinal section of a corn grain with the membranous 
pericarp (P), large endosperm (E), and the embryo {Em). 19, Wheat grains. 20, Rice 
grains. 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Blaydcs 



Plate 5 




21, Six endosperm l>"pes of corn: A, l^ed Pop; B, \\'ax\'; C, Red Flint; D, Yellow Dent 
Starchy; E, white flour; F, sweet corn. 22, A, Pure Red Flint; R, White Flint; C, hybrid; 
D, ear from selfed hybrid showing segregation; and E, with a 1:1 ratio of red to white 
grains, resulting from a back-cross of a hybrid (C) with the recessive white {B). 1}, An 
ear of variegated maize with a block of white and j'ellow grains near the base, which 
are the result of a mutation having occurred. 24, Pod corn variation. 



Smithsonian Report, 1954.— Blaydes 



PLATE 6 




Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Blaydes 




26, Ulrc\''s variegated African xIdKm. Tl, A variegated specimen nf Orchid Woiuler \arietv' 
of African violet. 2<S, Mnie. Sollemi geranium. 29, Silver Leaf S. ,\. Niitt geranium. 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Blaydes 



Plate 8 




30-32, Mutations from a splotclud-liMl T;.pc ..I" variegated Colevs. 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Blaydes 



Plate 9 




35, Sansevicria Irifasciata. 34, S. trifasciata var. laurentii. .55, S. trifasciata sliowi 
developing from a leaf cuiiiiit.' of var. laurentii. 36, 37, Yellow slioots originating from 
yellow tissue of a leaf cutting of var. laurentii. 



Plate 10 




3S, A and B, Cliiinacral tubers of the Red 'J'riumph potato; C, while tuber wliicii resulted 
from peeling a bud from red tuber as a propagule. 39, A sectorial chimaera of grape- 
fruit. 



Smithsonian Report. 1<?54. — Blayde 



Plate 1 1 








s 



DOMESTICATED PLANTS — BLAYDES 327 

{Tripsacum) ^ and from the hybrid or its segregates teosinte [Euch- 
laena) resulted. The crossing of these two genera is difficult, but it 
has been accomplished in a few instances by Mangelsdorf and Reeves, 
by means of a special technique. The chances for it to occur in nature 
are remote. However, teosinte has a set of chromosomes which appear 
like those of corn and a set similar to Tripsacum. Taxonomists have 
given teosinte the rank of a new genus {Euchlaena) since it is so dif- 
ferent from either Tripsacum or corn. If the above story is true, we 
have the unusual case of hybridization between two genera resulting 
in a third genus of grasses. The early Indians did not make much 
use of teosinte as a domesticated plant, but it is used now to some 
extent as a forage plant. 

A CAUSE OF STERILITY IN SOME HYBRIDS 

Hybridization between two rather distantly related individuals of- 
ten results in the hybrid individual's being sterile. This sterility may 
be due to differences in the chromosomes from the male parent and 
the female. These differences may not prevent fertilization's taking 
place when the male gamete comes in contact with the ^^<g cell. If this 
occurred in the day lily {HemerocaUis julva) the sperm would have 
11 chromosomes and the egg would have 11 chromosomes. The ferti- 
lized tgg or zygote would have 22 chromosomes or the diploid number. 
There is no orderly arrangement of the 22 chromosomes within the 
zygote nucleus. The zygote divides mitotically, resulting in two new 
cells which are identical as far as the chromosomes are concerned, and 
each is identical to the zygote from which it came. In the same way, 
since the leaves, stems, and roots originate from the embryo by the 
same kind of cell divisions, it becomes evident that all cells of the vege- 
tative plant are identical. This is also true for the flower parts up 
to and including the so-called mother cells of the anthers and ovules. 
The mother cells are the immediate forerunners of the gametes. How- 
ever, it is common knowledge that gametes (sperms and eggs) have 
the monoploid number of chromosomes, or half the number found in 
any cell of a leaf stem, or root. The reduction from the diploid num- 
ber to the monoploid occurs in the first two divisions of the mother 
cells in the anthers and ovules. The sperm of a day lily, as stated 
above, has 11 chromosomes which we might label a, 5, c, d^ e, /, </, A, ^, i, 
and h. An egg cell of this same kind of plant has 11 chromosomes 
which are similar and could legitimately be labeled from aioh when 
the ^gg and sperm fused. There is a random assortment of these two 
sets of chromosomes in the zygote, and this is continued throughout 
all vegetative or somatic cells to and including the mother cells of the 
anthers and ovules. However, at this point, the chromosomes become 
assembled in pairs within the mother-cell nucleus, a pairing with a, h 

326511—55 23 



328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

with &, and so on through the ^-pair. As division continues, the mem- 
bers of each pair of chromosomes separate, moving to opposite poles, 
with a wall eventually separating the two groups. The two new cells 
have half the number of chromosomes found in the mother cell. If 
this occurs in the anthers, the end result will be male gametes; if in 
the ovule, the egg cells will develop. The diploid phase starts again 
upon fusion of a sperm and egg. 

However, if one of the sets of 11 chromosomes forming the egg 
were sufficiently different that we would have to label them p, q, r, s, t, 
u, V, w, X, y, s, pairing of the chromosomes previous to the reduction 
divisions usually would not take place, and the cells would abort. Or- 
dinarily no fruit or seeds can develop. This is what apparently hap- 
pens in the common day lily {TI emerocallis fulva^ clone Europea) (pi. 
6, fig. 25). This day lily was introduced from Europe perhaps over a 
century ago. Although no fruits or seeds ever develop, it propagates 
readily from the rhizomes. It is found thoroughly established along 
roadsides and railroads in many parts of the country — dumped there 
as waste from someone's garden. 

The seedless fruit varieties of orange, grapefruit, pineapple, banana, 
grapes, and persimmons are further examples of sterility because of 
irregularities in gamete formation, but differ from the day lily in that 
the pistil of the flower, although sterile, does not abscise, but continues 
to grow, and matures as a seedless fruit. Such plants cannot survive 
in the wild without the aid of man. 

As stated previously, all cells of the vegetative parts of a seed 
plant ordinarily are diploid, established by the fusion of the two 
monoploid gametes. The diploid nmnber is maintained by the mitotic 
cell divisions. In this kind of division, the chromosomes set is dupli- 
cated in every division. Occasionally an accident happens which pre- 
vents the formation of a new cell plate and the duplicated chromo- 
somes remain together in one cell. The diploid number is doubled by 
this method and the cell is a tetraploid. If this accident should occur 
as the zygote divides, every cell of the embryo, seedling, and mature 
vegetative individual will be tetraploid. If it occurs in one cell of 
a two-celled embryo, the shoot may be tetraploid and the root diploid, 
or vice versa. If it occurs in a somewhat older embryo, only that por- 
tion of the shoot derived from the original tetraploid cell will have 
the 4n number of chromosomes with other parts remaining diploid. 
This tetraploid state may occur spontaneously or it may be induced 
by treatment with colchicine and a few other reagents. Tetraploid 
plants, in general, may have thicker leaves, and larger stems, flowers, 
fruits, and seeds. Such plants are usually slower in growth, and con- 
sequently are later in flowering and fruiting. 

Somewhere in western Mexico, the tetraploid condition developed 
in the annual teosinte mentioned previously. The tetraploid plant has 



DOMESTICATED PLANTS — BLAYDES 329 

40 chromosomes and is a perennial. The annual teosinte has 20 
chromosomes. The tetraploid form has been described as a new species. 

Some nurseries list as available a hybrid horse chestnut {Aesculus 
camea). It is a tetraploid having 80 chromosomes and will "come 
true" from seed. It is known to have resulted from a cross between 
the horse chestnut {Aesculus hip-pocoManum) with 40 chromosomes 
and the red buckeye {Aesculus pavia), also with 40 chromosomes. 
With the exception of one case, the hybrids were sterile. In the one 
instance, doubling of the chromosomes must have occurred, resulting 
in a complete set of horse chestnut chromosomes and a complete set 
from the red buckeye in the hybrid zygote. The chromosomes at 
meiosis could pair and separate in the usual way, and the usual segre- 
gation in a hybrid would be prevented. This illustrates how a new 
species may be synthesized through hybridization and the doubling of 
chromosomes. 

The bread wheat, as mentioned earlier, is thought to have arisen 
in the region of ancient Babylonia. Bread wheat has 42 chromo- 
somes. Emmer {Triticum dicoccum) with 28 chromosomes, another 
wheat somewhat useful as livestock feed, crossed with a noxious weed, 
goat grass {AegUops squarrosa) ^ with 14 chromosomes, and became 
the parents of the world's most valuable food plant ! This must have 
occurred by the doubling of the chromosomes in the zygote (fertilized 
Qgg) or by the fusion of two unreduced gametes, giving the same result. 
This kind of heritable variation is by no means uncommon, as one 
might be led to believe from the above illustrations. It is probable 
that similar changes were involved in the origin of such domesticated 
plants as the potato, sugarcane, brome grass, cotton, tobacco, oats, 
apples, pears, and strawberries. 

MUTATIONS 

New, unpredictable heritable changes in plants may occur, known 
as gene mutations. Genes are invisible units of the chromosomes, 
each with a potentiality which may become expressed as an observable 
characteristic of a plant or animal. Ordinarily, genes are stable, 
remaining unchanged through many generations bridging millions of 
years. At the other extreme, there are genes that are unstable and 
mutate frequently in the same way. An illustration of this is found 
in a corn variety known as Variegated Pericarp or Calico. This maize 
variety is characterized by the pericarp of the grain being finely 
variegated with red stripes orientated lengthwise of the grain. Each 
red stripe or sector is the result of a mutation as shown by Emerson 
(1914, 1917) and studied recently by Anderson and Brink (1952). 
Occasionally grains were found which had an entirely red pericarp. 
The gene controlling the red color is stable, since, when red grains 



330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

are planted, every grain on the ear borne by the plant from the red 
grain is red. For about 10 years the writer has had a strain of 
Calico maize in culture for another purpose. During that time, four 
ears have been found, each with a block of grains with colorless peri- 
carp (pi. 5, fig. 23). Wlien these colorless-pericarp grains are 
planted, ears are borne, every grain of which is colorless. This may 
represent a mutation in the unstable gene to one that is stable as far 
as colorless pericarp is concerned. 

Mutations may occur in the formation of gametes, or in any living 
vegetative or somatic cell. In vertebrate animals and in some plants, 
mutant cells in somatic or vegetative tissues are lost with the death of 
the individual or at least death of the organ in which it occurred. 
This has given rise to the too common notion that mutations only 
occur in the formation of gametes. No techniques are known at pres- 
ent by which pieces of somatic tissues or organs of vertebrate animals 
or the vegetative organs of some plants can be used in the propagation 
of such organisms. However, most seed plants may be propagated 
vegetatively from leaves, stems, or roots. A mutant cell in any one 
of these organs then has a chance of survival, providing the 
organ is placed in proper conditions which will lead to vegetative 
multiplication. 

If a mutation occurs in a gamete or in the fertilized egg, every cell 
of the embryo is identical to the zygote, as far as chromosomes and 
genes are concerned. This continues to be true for all cells of the 
seedling as well as the mature plant. This was mentioned earlier 
when dealing with growth and development of maize zygotes. Or- 
dinarily when this happens, the mutant individual may be found among 
many individuals of the parent type which do not exhibit the change. 
An example of such a mutant is illustrated by Ulrey's variegated 
African violet {SaintpauUa) (pi. 7, fig. 26). This variegation 
is due to a chlorophyll deficiency in the young leaves, and is gradually 
lost as the leaves become older, with old leaves often being entirely 
green. More variegated plants may grow vegetatively from leaf 
cuttings. 

Previously it was mentioned that mutations may also occur in any 
vegetative or somatic cell. This may be illustrated by the African 
violet variety sold as "Orchid Wonder." The leaves of this variety 
are ordinarily dark green in color. The plant illustrated by figure 
27 (pi. 7) grew vegetatively from the petiole of a detached leaf of the 
Orchid Wonder variety when placed in moist sand. The chlorophyll - 
deficient tissue resulted from a cell that mutated in the stem primor- 
dium which developed near the cut end of the petiole of the detached 
leaf. As the stem primordium gi-ew, the mutant cell increased in 
numbers and the chlorophyll-deficient tissue became distributed in 



DOMESTICATED PLANTS — BLAYDES 331 

many of the leaves seen in the ilhistration. Each varigated leaf then 
is made up of two genetically different tissues instead of one, as is 
usual. When variegated leaves of this African violet are used as 
propagules, the young plants are usually green, as typical of the orig- 
inal parent, or they are so chlorophyll-deficient that adequate sugar 
is not made and they soon die of starvation. The variegated state can 
be propagated from stem cuttings, but this is difficult and not practical 
since the internodes of the stem are very short and ordinarily there 
is only one terminal vegetative bud. The lateral or axillary buds 
ordinarily are inflorescence buds and their growth is determinate. 
Similar mutants have been observed in plants derived from leaf cut- 
tings in varieties sold under the names "Mentor Boy," "Red Head 
Girl," and "'\^Tiite Lady." The same kind of mutation has probably 
occurred in many varieties oiSaintpauUa. 

In most variegated plants, the stem internodes are much longer than 
in Saintpmdia, and the axillary buds are more likely to be vegetative 
rather than reproductive. Examples of this will be recognized in the 
common varieties of geranium {Pelargoniuin) and Goleus. In such 
examples numerous stem cuttings may be made from a single plant. 
If these stem cuttings are chimaeras, then the chimaeral or variegated 
condition may be propagated. Mutant tissues in a chimaera may be 
distributed in a plant organ in one of three ways: (1) periclinal, (2) 
sectorial, and (3) mericlinal. The periclinal chimaeras are the most 
stable of the three types. This one is characterized by the mutant 
tissue forming a solid sheath about the whole organ. The red skin of 
a Red Triumph potato tuber (pi. 10, fig. 38, J., 5) is an example. The 
sectorial type (pi. 10, fig. 39 ; pi. 11, fig. 40) is the least stable as far as 
the chimaeral condition is concerned. The mericlinal type is char- 
acterized by an uneven distribution of the mutant tissue in the organ, 
forming streaks, splotches, or mosaic patterns. The mericlinal type 
is less stable than the periclinal, but more permanent than the sectorial 
form. Most variegated ornamental plants fall in this class. 

The variegated geranium {Pelargonium) listed as "Silver Leaf 
S. A. Nutt" (pi. 7, fig. 29) is a fairly stable chimaera exhibiting albino 
tissue about the border of the leaf blade. When branched plants are 
cut back and lateral buds are forced to develop, occasionally a stem is 
found which bears green leaves with no variegation (fig. 29). Less 
frequently an albino branch may develop laterally from a larger stem 
which bore typically variegated leaves. Cuttings from the green 
branch will multiply vegetatively and continue to be entirely gi-een. 
Cuttings from the albino branch will not survive because of the lack 
of sugar. 

Another variegated geranium {Pelargonium) , variety "Mme. Sol- 
leroi," has a chlorophyll-deficient (yellow-green) area radiating from 



332 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

the petiole-end into the leaf blade (pi. 7, fig. 28) . This variegated con- 
dition ordinarily is quite stable. However, figure 28 illustrates a plant 
that has a completely green branch and one that is chlorophyll de- 
ficient, in addition to branches that have typically variegated leaves. 
Cuttings from the green branch will reproduce vegetatively, continu- 
ing to be green and presumably like the parent of this variegated 
variety. Cuttings from the mutant yellow-green branch will root and 
continue to grow with all new leaves and branches having the chloro- 
phyll-deficient color. It is less vigorous and more care is necessary in 
keeping conditions right for growth. 

The above two geraniums (Silver Leaf S. A. Nutt and Mme. Sol- 
leroi) illustrate how mutations occurring in vegetative parts may 
result in chimaeras. The mutation may have occurred but once many 
years ago, for each variety, and the mutant chimaeral or variegated 
state has been maintained by vegetative multiplication. Most varie- 
gated plant varieties may be used to demonstrate a mutant individual. 
The exceptions are found in some varieties that have genetic patterns 
characteristic of some Goleus varieties, and albino spots, blotches, or 
streaks due to viruses, as in Ahutilon pictwn (flowering maple) . The 
geranium specimens illustrated in figures 28 and 29 (pi. 7) demon- 
strate vegetative or somatic segregation of the mutant tissue from the 
chimaera as well as segregation of the original type — the green 
branches. Obviously meiosis is not involved in this segregation, but 
is due to fortuitous anatomical deviations. For centuries man has been 
taking advantage of these vegetative or somatic segregates ("sports" 
of the older horticultural literature) without much of an understand- 
ing or appreciation of how they came about. It has been of great im- 
portance in obtaining new and useful plant varieties not only among 
ornamentals, but in most modern varieties of apples, pears, grape- 
fruits, oranges, peaches, grapes, and many others. 

An unnamed variegated Coleus variety, with leaves characterized 
by a dark-red backgi'ound with flecks of yellow distributed without 
any particular order or constant pattern, was maintained in culture for 
several years. From one plant a branch developed which bore com- 
pletely red leaves (pi. 8, fig. 30) . Cuttings from this branch have con- 
tinued to be dark red in color without any indication of yellow flecks. 
Figure 31 (pi. 8) is a photograph of a plant of the same variety ex- 
hibiting a yellow-leafed branch. The yellow branch propagated vege- 
tatively, and continued to be entirely yellow with the characteristics of 
the commercial Golden Bedder variety. A third mutation was ob- 
served from the same unnamed variety and is illustrated by figure 32 
(pi. 8) . The mutant branch bore leaves which were red with a yellow 
border around the edge of the leaf blade. Several similar mutations 
resulting in chimaeras have been found in Coleus. 



DOMESTICATED PLANTS — BLAYDES 333 

The vegetative or somatic segregation of mutant tissues from a chi- 
maera often is not as readily accomplished as in geranium and Goleus. 
Special methods may have to be employed, as described below, for 
potato and Saiisevieria. Some years ago it was noted that in the com- 
mon potato variety "Red Triumph" tubers could be found which had 
irregular white areas surrounded by the usual red skin, as illustrated 
by A and B of figure 38 (pi. 10). This seemed to indicate that at 
least these particular tubers were chimaeras, usually of the periclinal 
type, but by some anatomical deviation the mericlinal form might de- 
velop, as shown for those with white areas in the skin. No bud that 
was free of the red pigment was found isolated in the white areas. 
Since the potato is propagated vegetatively from tuber cuttings hav- 
ing at least one "eye" or bud, it seemed probable that the red-skin 
character was transmitted to the new vegetative generation by the 
outermost layers of embryonic cells in the stem tip of the bud. To 
shorten a long story, the stem tips on numerous cuttings were "peeled" 
and planted. Some cuttings survived the peeling treatment and de- 
veloped as usual-appearing potato plants, but were slower in sprout- 
ing. In late summer, when harvested, the tubers from most of the 
treated plants were all variegated, and were interpreted as being meri- 
clinal chimaeras. These probably resulted from incomplete removal 
of all red tissue from the embryonic stem tip at the time of peeling. 
A few plants bore tubers all of which were white (pi. 10, fig. 38, 0)^ 
including the "eyes" or stem tips. During the following summer, cut- 
tings from the white tubers were planted, all of which developed 
plants bearing "White Triumph" potatoes. Two other varieties, 
"Blue Victor" and "Blue Meshanoc," have been treated in a similar 
way, resulting in a "White Victor" and a "White Meshanoc" potato. 

Bowstring-hemp or snakeplant {Sansevieria trifasciafa) (pi. 9, fig. 
33) has been in cultivation as an ornamental for more than a century 
and as a fiber plant in Africa for a much longer time. About 50 years 
ago a variegated form, characterized by a golden-yellow border around 
the leaf edge, was found in cultivation by a native tribe in the Belgian 
Congo. It was named Sansevieria trifasciata var. laurentii^ and is 
usually listed on the floral market as S. laurentii (pi. 9, fig. 34). This 
variety is more popular today as a decorative plant than is the species. 
The species (fig. 33) could propagate vegetatively from leaf cuttings 
as well as from rhizome pieces having a stem tip. Soon after the varie- 
gated variety {laurentii) was introduced as a house plant it was 
learned that the variegated form could be propagated only from 
rhizome cuttings. Wlicn leaves are used as propagules, nonvariegated 
plants will result which are like the species as illustrated in figure 35 
(pi. 9). This led to the inference that laurentii is a chimaera with 
two genetically different tissues. That is, the golden-yellow tissue, 



334 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

forming a border to the leaf, is genetically different from the green 
tissue. To test this inference, leaf cuttings were made as illustrated in 
figure 36 (pi. 9). This was done because roots develop from the cut 
end when in contact with moist sand. However, ordinarily roots de- 
velop only from the green tissue of the leaf cutting and not from the 
yellow tissue. New shoots or stems initiate at the base of a root about 
where the root originates from the leaf tissue. A block of all-green 
tissue was removed from the area of the leaf cutting that was to be set 
in moist sand, with only strips of yellow tissue in contact with the 
substrate. Roots, after some time, developed from the yellow tissue 
and eventually golden-yellow shoots as illustrated in figures 36 and 
37 (pi. 9). At first the shoots are slightly green, indicating the pres- 
ence of some chloroplasts, but these soon disintegrate and the tissues 
become golden yellow in color. If the rhizome connection between the 
yellow shoot and the leaf cutting is broken, the shoot dies of starva- 
tion within about 2 weeks. This is presented as evidence that the yel- 
low tissue is genetically different from the green. The yellow tissue 
is mutant tissue that has existed in a chimaeral relationship with 
green Sansevieria tissue, perhaps much longer than the 50 years since 
the French botanist Laurent discovered it in cultivation by natives of 
the Belgian Congo. It is only by accident, or when special technique 
as described above is applied, that segregation of the pure yellow 
mutant tissue results in chlorophyll-deficient plants. 

Mutations resulting in sectorial chimaeras may occur in leaves, 
stems, roots, inflorescences, flowers, and fruits. The grapefruit illus- 
trated by figure 39 (pi. 10) had a relatively large sector of the fruit 
coat or pericarp that was dark brown in color in contrast to the light- 
yellow color of the remainder of this particular fruit. No differences 
were observed in the carpels containing the pulp opposite the brown 
sector of the pericarp and those opposite the yellow part of the fruit 
coat. The inference from this and other evidence was that only the 
sector of the pericarp was affected by this mutation and that the 
carpels and seeds opposite the brown sector were not changed. Simi- 
lar sectoring is fairly frequent in oranges, lemons, and grapefruit. 

Sectorial chimaeras in fruits are not always superficial, i. e., limited 
to the pericarp. Several years ago there was found in a field a tomato 
fruit of the Baltimore variety (pi. 11, fig. 40) that had a sharply 
outlined yellow sector with the adjoining parts a deep red color. 
Eventually a cross section of the fruit was made in order to examine 
the extent of the yellow mutant tissue of the sector. It was readily 
evident that the yellow tissue extended to the center of the fruit and 
included two seed cavities. 

Seeds from the yellow sector were saved, as well as those from the 
red portion of the fruit. Three plants from seeds of the yellow sector 



DOMESTICATED PLANTS — BLAYDES 335 

matured and bore yellow fruits (pi. 11, fig. 41). Descendants from 
these 3 plants have been carried through 10 generations with the ma- 
tured fruits of each generation continuing to be yellow. 

Seeds from the red portion of the chimaeral fruit (pi. 11, fig. 40) 
were also saved and planted. All the progeny bore red fruits. Two 
lines were selected from these red-fruited plants as sources of seed. 
Descendants of these two plants have been planted for 10 generations 
with no segregation of yellow fruits having been observed and no 
more fruits have been found with yellow sectors. 

Yellow-fruiting plants were cross-pollinated with red-fruiting 
plants. The hybrid plants (Fi generation) all bore red fruits, as might 
be anticipated from results upon crossing other varieties of red and 
yellow tomatoes, illustrating the dominance of the red color factor over 
yellow color. Seeds were obtained from self-pollinated hybrids and 
planted. Out of a group of 59 plants, 45 bore red fruits and 14 were 
yellow-fruited, working out as a simple Mendelian 3: 1 ratio. 

Although no other sectorial chimaera has been reported for fruits 
from which the mutant character is transmitted by seed, it probably 
does occur and usually escapes unnoticed. This suggests another plant 
organ and place in the life cycle worthy of close observations, where 
mutants may be discovered. 

This story of the domestication of plants is a story of how man has 
and is now making use of the products of evolution that are desirable 
to him. The world is represented in our gardens, orchards, and fields 
by many domesticated plants necessary to our daily activities and well- 
being. xYchievements have been considerable in the past, and there 
still remains a great reservoir of unexplored plant potentialities. 

REFERENCES 

Ames, O. 

1939. Economic annuals and human cultures. Botanical Museum of Har- 
vard University. 
Anderson, E. 

1952. Plants, man and life. Boston. 
Anderson, R. E., and Brink, R. A. 

1952. Kernel pattern in variegated pericarp maize and tlie frequency of self- 
colored offspring. Amer. Journ. Bot., vol. 39, pp. 637-644. 
Bird, J. B. 

1948. America's oldest farmers. Nat. Hist., vol. 57, pp. 296-303, 334-335. 
Bryan, K. 

1941. Geologic antiquity of man in America. Science, vol. 93, pp. 505-514. 
Camp, W. H. 

1947. The world in your garden. Nat. Geogr. Mag., vol. 92, pp. 1-66. 
Caeteb, G. F. 

1945. Plant geography and culture history in the American Southwest. 
New York. 



336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Emerson, R. A. 

1914. The inheritance of a recurring somatic variation in variegated maize. 

Amer. Nat., vol. 48, pp. 87-115. 
1917. Genetlcal studies of variegated pericarp in maize. Genetics, vol. 2, 
pp. 1-35. 
Hodge, W. H. 

1949. The goliath of seeds. Nat. Hist., vol. 58, pp. 34-35. 
LiBBY, W. F, 

1951. Radiocarbon dates II. Science, vol. 114, pp. 291-296. 
Mangelsdoef, p., and Reeves, R. G. 

1939. The origin of Indian corn and its relatives. Texas Agr. Exp. Stat. 
Bull. No. 574. 
Meekill, E. D. 

1933. Crops and civilization. Nat. Hist., vol. 33, pp. 235-250. 
1937. Domesticated plants in relation to the diffusion of culture. In Early 
Man, ed. by G. G. MacCurdy. Philadelphia. 
Weathekwax, p. 

1950. The history of corn. Sci. Month., vol. 71, pp. 50-GO. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as 
long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Pub- 
lications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D. C. 



The Scientific Detection of Crime' 



By Charles Sannie 

Professor of Organic Chemistry 

National Museum of Natural History 

Paris 



Evert human society, even the least advanced, has been obliged, in 
the face of certain antisocial acts imperiling its very existence, to draw 
a distinction between lawful and unlawful conduct. The concept of 
crime and misdemeanor is thus inseparable from the concept of so- 
ciety itself, and the struggle against crime is a social necessity of over- 
whelming importance. 

Although it may appear self-evident, this idea has not always been 
fully grasped, because it was overshadowed, for a long time, by re- 
ligious considerations. All religious doctrines lay down moral laws, 
defining right and wrong and holding out the prospect of reward for 
virtue and punishment for evil. They correspond to the rules of so- 
cial defense which are essential to community life. Parallel to re- 
ligious rules, legislators have drawn up codes of behavior, listing 
legitimate acts on the one hand, and antisocial acts on the other, the 
latter being forbidden and subject to penalties varying according to 
the gravity of the offense. 

In order to enforce the law, the first step is to discover the crime 
and then to trace the guilty party. This is the principal task of the 
judge or of the officer of the law responsible for establishing that an 
offense has been committed, for identifying the offender, collecting 
proof of his guilt, and discovering his motive. The file transmitted to 
the judge must contain the complete story of the crime and enable 
the judge to estimate the criminal's responsibility and inflict upon him 
the penalty provided for by the law. 

Thus it is the examining magistrate — or his assistant, the police- 
man — who is the first to learn the facts of a crime. By making a sys- 
tematic study of the conditions, circumstances, and environment in 
which the crime was committed, he manages to reconstruct the facts 



^Reprinted by permission from Impact of Science on Society, vol. 4, No. 8, 
Autumn 1953, publlslied by UNESCO. 

337 



338 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

as they occurred and discover the perpetrator. What methods does 
he employ, how have such methods been developed, and why do 
the police resort more and more frequently to modern scientific 
techniques ? 

METHODS OF JUDICIAL INQUIRY 

Methods of judicial inquiry differ considerably, both in tlieorj' and 
practice, according to the legislation in force in each country ; they fall, 
however, into two main categories, i. e., methods employed in Anglo- 
Saxon countries, and those employed in Latin and Germanic countries. 

Accusatory procedure, which is the older, consists in bringing two 
adversaries face to face. Defendant and plaintiff debate the case, 
orally and publicly, in front of a judge or jury acting as an impartial 
arbitrator. No proceedings can take place without an accuser, and, 
when dealing with offenses under common law, the policeman is the 
public prosecutor ; it is his duty to prove, resorting to all the means 
in his power, that a breach of the law has been committed. 

Inquisitorial procedure, consisting of written and secret evidence, is 
entirely different. In this case, it is the magistrate himself who seeks 
for evidence and collects it in a file, which he then hands to the judge 
or jury responsible, in the last resort, for deciding whether the ac- 
cused is guilty and what penalty should be imposed. 

Accusatory procedure, most clearly described as a "judicial en- 
counter," has, in almost every case, been the earliest to be adopted, 
and is still the main feature of the judicial proceedings of African 
tribes, where trial by ordeal, or "the judgment of God," still some- 
times plays a vitally important part. In England, it remains 
the foundation of criminal procedure and explains the very nature 
of proceedings in English courts. Although it has reached a stage 
of perfection in that country, the Latin peoples do not find it sufficiently 
logical and, ever since the Roman Empire, they have preferred an 
inquisitorial system. After a short period of revival in France dur- 
ing the Middle Ages, accusatory procedure once again vanished and, 
since that time, the inquisitorial method has been employed, except 
in England, by all European countries. 

Whatever the procedure adopted, however, the detection of crime 
is always based on the same principles. In order to punish an of- 
fender, after proving that there has been a breach of the law, evidence 
must be adduced, proving that a certain person is in fact the guilty 
party. All criminal procedure, whatever its nature, is thus based on 
a probative system; in administering justice, the truth is not dis- 
covered — it is proved. 

For the collection of the necessary proof, the police officer relies on 
two methods complementary to each other, differing widely in nature 
and technique and whose relative importance has varied through the 



SCIENTIFIC DETECTION OF CRIME — SANNIE 339 

centuries; the first consists of obtaining evidence from human wit- 
nesses, and the second of obtaining evidence by studying the facts. 

Human testimony is obtained by examining the accused or witnesses ; 
this is essential to any investigation, and explains why it is necessary 
to be a good psychologist in order to be a successful investigator. 
The report of the examination remains the cornerstone of the pre- 
liminary investigation; many writers have explained how it should 
be drawn up, and have worked out a set of rules, but they have also 
drawn attention to its shortcomings. 

Evidence obtained from human witnesses has already been suf- 
ficiently criticized.^ To seek for the truth in statements made by an 
accused person who cannot speak the truth without condemning him- 
self is hazardous, to say the least. The same is true of the evidence 
given by his relatives, his children, or his servants ; it is so true that 
it is forbidden by law to put them on oath before examining them. 
Although "the right to lie" may appear open to criticism, it is never- 
theless a fact which has to be accepted, and the probative value of 
such statements is always very slight, or even nonexistent. 

The same is true, though to a lesser extent, of most evidence given 
by human witnesses. Even a witness involved only by chance in a 
crime, and having nothing to gain by lying, may make mistakes, and 
often does. There are classical examples of the unreliability of mem- 
ory, even in the case of recent events, showing how several people, all 
acting in good faith, may remember the same series of events differ- 
ently. A witness's physical or mental condition may influence him 
without his being conscious of it, so that he sometimes distorts the 
facts beyond recognition. In addition, it is not unusual for an inves- 
tigator to suggest untruthful replies by the manner in which he puts 
his questions. That is the danger of examining witnesses by means 
of leading questions, and such interrogations have been responsible for 
a great many false admissions. 

The proof that an investigator is most anxious to obtain is the 
"final proof," that is to say, confession. With the inquisitorial system, 
if suspects refused to confess, the police used to resort to torture, 
although, as La Bruyere said : "It is a method calculated to lead an 
innocent man, of weak resistance, to the gallows and to enable a guilty 
man, with a strong constitution, to escape justice." 

When public indignation led to the abolition of torture at the end 
of the eighteenth century, the only other known probative method was 
interrogation or examination. 



' Any reader interested in this subject would do well to refer to L'Appr^ciation 
des Preuves en Justice, by F. Gorphe, Paris, 1947, which is a classic, and to the 
report presented by Dr. M. C6nac to the Fifty-ninth Congress of Mental 
Specialists in 1951. 



340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

In forming his own private judgment, the examining magistrate 
relies on such examination of the accused ; he will obviously feel far 
more satisfied in his own mind when he has managed to obtain an 
actual confession; he can then conclude his investigation with a clear 
conscience. 

Whatever the methods of criminal procedure or judicial inquiry- 
employed, there is no disguising the fact that human evidence, in spite 
of its weaknesses, still is and will remain, at least for many years to 
come, one of the most important factors in any investigation. Later 
on, we shall see how efforts have recently been made to remove the 
arbitrary character of human evidence and reduce the possibilities of 
error by introducing scientific methods. Human evidence was so 
unreliable that it had to be supported by surer proof, and especially 
by the evidence of facts. In order to satisfy himself of the guilt of 
the accused, the investigator was obliged to seek conclusive evidence 
independent of human statements. 

If he had not done so, the magistrate would have had no other choice 
than to replace the evidence extorted by torture — unreliable though it 
was — by his own subjective intuition and personal impressions, thus 
reverting to a primitive form of justice, more or less based on guess- 
work, which was precisely what has to be avoided. For the future 
of the probative system, it was thus essential to introduce scientific 
methods into criminal investigation. 

INTRODUCTION OF SCIENTIFIC METHODS 

The first science to be used in criminal investigation was forensic 
medicine. Very often, an examining magistrate learns far more from 
the medicolegal examination, or autopsy, than from all the evidence 
supplied by witnesses, because no witness can know exactly what only 
such an examination can reveal. It confirms or disproves the fact that 
rape has been committed, and reveals the existence of internal injuries, 
which are sometimes fatal but have been caused by blows leaving no 
external mark; or, on the contrary, it shows that a death, which at 
first appeared extremely suspicious, was in fact due to natural causes. 
A medical expert often establishes the causes of death beyond all doubt, 
describes the weapon used, the way in which it was employed, and the 
immediate or delayed effects of a wound. Nowadays, a criminal inves- 
tigation failing to start with a postmortem examination would be in- 
conceivable, and the law has quite rightly made an autopsy compulsory 
whenever permission to bury the body is withheld. 

It is even more necessary to employ scientific methods in cases of 
poisoning, for it is obvious that a "chemical crime" is directly con- 
nected with chemical methods. Thus toxicology, a science dealing 
with accidental or intentional poisonings, came into being in the middle 



SCIENTIFIC DETECTION OF CRIME — S ANNIE 341 

of the nineteenth century and developed side by side with the chemical 
sciences. As a poisoning cannot be discovered unless the chemical sub- 
stance employed by the criminal is identified, the only way of bringing 
the crime to light is to make a chemical analysis of the substance con- 
cerned. One of the earliest examples of the importance of chemical 
methods in criminal proceedings was the famous controversy which 
brought Orfila into conflict with his colleagues in the Lafarge case 
(1840) ; this controversy would never have arisen had the chemical 
methods used during the proceedings not been so ineffectual. Even in 
our own time, is it not true that disputes still arise between toxicolo- 
gists, and are nearly always due to the imperfection of the scientific 
techniques employed? This goes to show how greatly the improve- 
ment of a scientific method in this field can further the cause of justice. 
Up to 1880, the chemical crime, i. e., poisoning, was the only form 
of crime to which truly scientific methods were applied. Apart from 
the evidence supplied by the medical expert, the investigator relied 
solely on evidence given by human witnesses. Bertillon was the first 
to introduce factual evidence systematically into the detection of crime. 
At that time, and almost simultaneously in all European and Ameri- 
can countries, it was at last realized that every criminal leaves behind 
him some tangible evidence of his crime, which, if correctly interpreted, 
may, independently of all human testimony, supply proof or circum- 
stantial evidence of immense value. Such was the origin of scientific 
criminal investigation, i. e., forensic science, which has made steady 
progress during the past 50 years ; there is a growing tendency to sub- 
stitute it for verbal evidence or, at least, to have it reinforce the latter 
as effectively as possible. 

SCIENTIFIC DETECTION OF FALSEHOODS 

It was inevitable that the progress of scientific methods in the field 
of factual evidence should have repercussions on evidence given by 
human witnesses. As early as 1892, Ferri had advocated, in his Crim- 
inal Sociology, the use of hypnosis to "try out the reins and the heart" 
of a criminal and reveal his innermost thoughts. Lombroso used a 
sphygmograph to register a suspect's emotional reactions. Research 
on the possibility of detecting lies by testing a suspect's pulse, Ijlood 
pressure, respiration, psychogalvanic reflex or electric reactions of the 
skin, etc., was carried out by Muensterberg in 1904, Marston in 1915, 
Larson and Vollmer in 1921, and Father Summers in 1932. 

In the application of scientific methods to the interrogation of hu- 
man witnesses, two very different lines have been followed. Under 
the first system, the aim is to suppress the consciousness of the individ- 
ual being questioned, so that his subconscious may be freely explored. 
Although all methods based on hypnosis have failed, those involving 



342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

the use of artificial sleep have made great progress in the last few 
years ; achievements in this field are, moreover, closely connected with 
those in the field of chemical synthesis. In the past 30 years, a con- 
stantly increasing number of hypnotics, producing an ever wider range 
of physiological reactions, have become available to doctors. The 
most recent barbiturics make it possible, before sending the subject off 
into a deep sleep, to keep him in a somnolent state, in which his con- 
sciousness is suppressed but his subconscious continues to function. 
While he is in this state, an individual can answer the questions put 
to him, but he can no longer control his replies ; it is thus possible to 
obtain information from him which he would never have given, had 
he been fully conscious. 

This method of questioning the subconscious is commonly used by 
psychiatrists in order to diagnose mental diseases accurately; it is 
called narcodiagnosis. It has also come to be employed, as "narco- 
analysis," in forensic psychiatry, particularly for disclosing simula- 
tion. During such medical examinations, some subjects have confessed 
to crimes which they had committed, and this raises the question 
whether their confessions should be used in the course of the legal 
proceedings. This suggestion, however, has met with violent opposi- 
tion, on the ground that the procedure involves a real "forcible entry" 
into the human personality ; certain experiments, even in the medico- 
legal field, have aroused very strong feelings. All those who consider 
that the innermost recesses of the human mind are sacred and should 
not be tampered with are categorically opposed to this method. 

This is not the place to raise the question whether the interests of 
society should not take precedence over those of the individual and 
whether the accused's right to lie should be respected. However, there 
is no doubt that narcointerrogation raises moral and social problems 
of prime importance and it would appear premature, at the present 
stage, to introduce it into criminal investigation. 

Working on parallel lines, but without using hypnotic methods, 
other research workers have tried to obtain from suspects, who were 
fully conscious, replies of a kind enabling them to discover whether 
the subjects were lying or not. They apply the various physiological 
tests already mentioned, using a single apparatus, namely the poly- 
graph or lie detector. The principle is to register simultaneously, on 
the same recording cylinder, the subject's physiological reactions while 
lie is being asked very precise questions relating to the case at issue. 
The physiological tests applied are rhythm of breathing and heart 
beats, blood pressure, and electric resistance of the skin. The examina- 
tion consists of a certain number of questions (not exceeding 15) , some 
having no direct connection with the crime, and the others, on the 
contrary, being directly related to it. The subject must answer "Yes" 



SCIENTIFIC DETECTION OF CRIME — SANNIE 343 

or "No" and, by comparing the physiological reactions to "pertinent" 
and "neutral" questions, it is possible to detect untruthful replies to 
the former. 

It is quite obvious that, in this case, there is no "forcible entry" into 
the private recesses of the human personality. The subject is free to 
accept or refuse the tests; he is master of his own replies, and only his 
physiological reactions can betray him. If the test is to be of any 
value, there must be no coercion, and it has in fact never been sug- 
gested that there should be. Further, it should be noted that this 
method does not result in a definite confession, but leads to it indirectly 
by proving that the individual questioned has lied ; the guilty party's 
ultimate confession is thus only a consequence of the test. 

This form of interrogation with the help of a polygraph has been 
studied in particular by Prof. F. E. Inbau, of Northwestern Uni- 
versity. In the United States of America today, some 60 police serv- 
ices and various private institutions, as well as the army, use Keeler's 
polygraph to detect falsehoods and test their employees. According 
to Keeler and Inbau, successful results have been achieved in over 80 
percent of cases ; it would thus appear to be an extremely effective test. 

The use of this method has, however, given rise to a certain amount 
of criticism. Some particularly phlegmatic individuals do not show 
the normal reflexes when telling a lie. Others, on the other hand, are 
overemotional and the reflexes of these may be misinterpreted. How- 
ever, no method of interrogation is infallible, and so far no apparatus 
which will guarantee 100 percent success can be conceived. It is never- 
theless striking that even a thorough knowledge of the instrument does 
not enable an experienced subject to prevent it from betraying him. 
For example, a student who had had a great deal of experience of this 
apparatus was one day suspected of theft. Despite all the care which 
he took over lying and controlling his reactions, the polygraph de- 
tected his lies; it was subsequently proved by the investigation that 
he had, in fact, stolen. 

Should the polygraph therefore now be employed generally in crim- 
inal investigation ? There is no doubt that this instrument is particu- 
larly valuable from the standpoint of research. However, its employ- 
ment calls for highly competent interrogators, and it does not seem 
that it can be put into general use before the latter have acquired the 
necessary experience. 

In any case, the polygraph marks the introduction of purely scien- 
tific methods into the examination process — methods which will cer- 
tainly end, one day, by transforming and simplifying it, while 
increasing its probative value. The past 20 years show, in this respect, 
an evolution parallel to that which, as we shall now see, has taken 
place in the realm of facts. 

326511—55 24 



344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

THE BEGINNINGS OF FORENSIC SCIENCE— ANTHROPOMETRY 

Conscience forbids our allowing an individual to be punished for an 
offense he has not committed. The first duty of the law is therefore 
to discover and identify the guilty party. The identification of the 
criminal is of still greater importance when there is any question of 
applying the laws regarding persistent offenders, which prescribe 
heavier penalties for other than first offenders. 

There are thus two very different aspects of judicial identification. 
First, it is necessary to discover the person guilty of an offense, or, in 
other words, to prove that the person in question, and he alone, has 
committed it. Second, when a delinquent is thus convicted of a crime, 
it is necessary to investigate whether he has previously committed 
other offenses, in which event a heavier penalty would be entailed. 

Bertillon was the first person to solve this problem and, from this 
point of view, must be considered a pioneer. Before 1885, there were 
no exact rules for the recognition of old offenders. The most usual 
method was to introduce prisoners in the pay of the police into the 
cells of the individuals suspected of having committed previous of- 
fenses, with the object of getting the suspects to talk and obtaining 
information from them, directly or indirectly, about their past life. 
Or else, if this method failed, another course open to the police was 
to parade the prisoners arrested the previous day, to see if they recog- 
nized any of them. If the latter denied accusations, it was impossible 
to prove that they were lying. In practice, all these methods failed 
in over 80 percent of cases. 

People had, of course, already thought of using photography to 
identify criminals ; and as early as 1854 an examining magistrate in 
Lausanne succeeded in having a dangerous criminal arrested in the 
Grand Duchy of Baden by circulating a daguerreotype of the "want- 
ed" man through all the Swiss cantons and the adjacent countries; 
but such cases were the exception rather than the rule. The intro- 
duction of gelatinobromide plates and papers, which made it easier to 
obtain negatives and to print copies, enabled certain police depart- 
ments to build up photograph albums of portraits of criminals known 
to the police, in order to facilitate their subsequent recognition. Ex- 
perience showed that the desired aim was seldom achieved, for the 
very simple reason that, though it was easy enough to build up files 
of photographs of all persons arrested or convicted of an offense, it 
was impracticable to trace such persons in the files. 

It was, in fact, impossible to devise a systematic method of filing 
these photographs so that the individual sought could be found by a 
gradual process of elimination. The more photographs that were 
added, the more difficult the problem became; and despite all its ap- 
parent advantages, the system had to be dropped. Bertillon himself 
later tried to develop a suitable filing system, but he, too, failed. 



SCIENTIFIC DETECTION OF CRIME — SANNIE 345 

When however, in France, the Law of 27 May 1885 introduced trans- 
portation as an additional penalty for certain persistent offenders, it 
became urgently necessary to find a more satisfactory solution. Since 
1878, Bertillon, a clerk at the Prefecture de Police, had been responsi- 
ble for filing the cards of persons already convicted. He had been 
struck by the poor and unsatisfactory means employed for that pur- 
pose, and set out to find a solution for the problem. 

Very often advances in a science are achieved by people who are not 
primarily concerned with that science. Pasteur was a chemist and 
mineralogist, but it was his discoveries in the field of medicine that 
immortalized him. Bertillon was not a policeman but, by training, 
background, and heredity, an anthropologist. His father, grand- 
father, and brother did anthropological work. It was the time when 
Broca's school was at its prime. Throughout his youth, Bertillon 
had associated with the foremost anthropologists in France and 
Europe; with these he had discussed the value of anthropological 
measurements, and he was familiar with them all. It is therefore not 
surprising that he should have thought of applying these methods — 
accurate methods based on exact measurements — to the solution of 
a problem that appeared to have no connection with them. 

To identify anyone is to establish a relationship between a given 
individual and certain morphological characteristics observed in that 
individual. But these morphological characteristics must satisfy cer- 
tain imperative conditions, having regard to the aim in view. They 
must be absolutely stable throughout the life of the individual ; they 
must, at the same time, be as specific as possible, i. e., the group of 
characteristics found in any given individual must be found only in 
that individual and in no other. Lastly, they must be easy to record, 
with the use of simple equipment and elementary methods. 

Bertillon approached the question as an anthropologist and, in de- 
veloping his method, selected the forms of measurement with which 
he was familiar. The only anthropometric measurements that can 
easily be taken from a living being with sufficient accuracy are the 
dimensions of the bones. He therefore chose bone measurements, 
although they did not fully satisfy the two conditions mentioned 
above. They are not absolutely stable throughout life, and they 
change until the process of growth is completed. Secondly, they are 
not strictly specific, even when considered in combination. Our de- 
partment has come across certain twins whose measurements were, as 
nearly as could be measured, exactly the same. 

Despite these drawbacks, Bertillon succeeded in assembling on a 
single card a collection of bone measurements distinguishing any 
given individual. At the same time, he worked out a method of filing 
which enabled him unerringly to trace the individual for whom he was 
looking from among the hundreds of thousands of cards accumulated. 



346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

He reduced the inherent disadvantages of bone measurements by add- 
ing to the purely anthropometric details a note of any distinguishing 
marks, such as warts, scars, tattooing, etc., which are highly individual 
when their exact situation, size, and direction are clearly indicated. 
Bertillon's method was strikingly successful. For the first time, 
thanks to accurate scientific methods, it was possible to refute the lies 
of an old offender who denied his previous misdeeds and, irrespective 
of what he said, to establish his true identity. Despite the difficulties 
involved, and the complexity of the method, it spread all over the 
globe in a few years, and by 1895 most police forces throughout the 
world were using the Bertillon system. 

FINGERPRINTS 

But a formidable competitor was soon to oust Bertillon's system. 
The work of Galton in England, following that of Sir William 
Herschell, Faulds, and Vucetich, had established that fingerprints 
could very well take the place of bone measurements. The system of 
ridges in the skin, forming regular lines all over the inside of the 
fingers, the palms of the hands, and the balls of the feet, proved to be 
infinitely better, for the purpose in view, than any other morphological 
feature. Experience over a period of more than 70 years has shown 
that the system is absolutely stable, not only throughout life but before 
birth, from the fourth month of the mother's pregnancy, and after 
death, until the total destruction of the skin. All police forces 
throughout the world have identified drowned bodies found several 
days or sometimes weeks after death, by removing the saturated epi- 
dermis and taking prints from the exposed ridges in the corium. The 
probative value of fingerprints as evidence in the identification of 
human beings is universally recognized. 

A few years ago, however, some anxiety arose. L. Ribeiro had 
observed that in leprosy, in which trophic disturbances usually affect 
the extremities, progressive changes took place in the ridge patterns, 
sometimes almost totally obliterating them. The same series of ob- 
servations established, however, that if the disease was treated and an 
improvement set in as a consequence, if the trophic disorders were 
brought to an end, the ridge patterns returned in exactly the same 
form as they were before the illness. 

It still had to be proved that in no case were there two identical 
fingerprints. Admittedly, when we examine fingerprints, we see that 
there are only a few general patterns — four or five at the most. When, 
however, we go into the details of the ridge system, we very soon find 
that there are always differences in the morphology of the patterns, 
by which one can be infallibly distinguished from another. 

In point of fact, despite the countless comparisons of fingerprints 
which have been made by experts throughout the world for more than 



SCIENTIFIC DETECTION OF CRIME — SANNIE 347 

50 years past, no two identical prints have ever been discovered. Ex- 
perience, in this case, has confirmed theoretical calculation. 

When a fingerprint is examined in detail, it will be seen that it is 
made up of a series of ridges and depressions, running parallel to one 
another and arranged more or less regularly around a central point 
roughly in the center of the fleshy pad. These ridges form either 
more or less flattened arches, or loops, opening to the right or left, 
or, again, more or less complicated whorls. At the base of the finger, 
there is a system of ridges roughly parallel to the line at the joint. 
The meeting place of this system and the other is formed by triangular 
points in the shape of a Greek "delta," by which name they are, in- 
cidentally, known. 

These papillary ridges are not absolutely regular, however; in some 
cases, they are broken and end abruptly ; in others, they split in two ; 
in yet others, they form islands between two longer ridges. Each of 
these irregularities is useful for identification purposes. Taking their 
presence and position in the print as a basis, Balthazard, by a simple 
calculation of probabilities, has shown that approximately 1,074 mil- 
lion prints would have to be examined to find two prints showing 15 
points of coincidence in the ending of their lines or their bifurcations. 

The first joint of one finger alone contains more than 100 of these 
identification points. One finger can therefore definitely reveal the 
identity of an individual, and indeed a portion of a print may be 
enough. The whole system of fingerprints is based on this principle. 

Lastly, a fingerprint is extremely easy to take. All that is needed is 
a plate covered with ink on which the finger can be rolled. Finger- 
prints are thus the ideal morphological characteristic for identifying 
individuals; throughout the world, they have taken the place of Ber- 
tillon's bone measurements, which are now of no more than historical 
interest. 

It is not enough, however, to have found the ideal morphological 
characteristic ; it must also be suitable for use in a card index system 
and for the tracing of cards. Several methods are used ; in the English- 
speaking countries, they are derived from the Galton-Henry system 
and in the Latin countries from the Vucetich system. All these sys- 
tems use the basic ridge patterns of the fingertips and differ in their 
methods of secondary classifications. Prints are traced by going 
through the files themselves. 

It might be thought that no further progress could be made in such 
a field ; and indeed the largest filing systems, sometimes including sev- 
eral tens of millions of cards, are entirely satisfactory. Nonetheless, 
a mathematical study of the problem of tracing an object with rather 
indeterminate characteristics among a group of similar objects has re- 
cently made possible a considerable improvement in the tracing tech- 
nique, thanks to the use of a supplementary card index made up of 



348 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

perforated cards. Efficiency is, as a result, several thousand times 
greater than before. A search which used to take several hours can 
be completed in a few minutes. This system has been developed en- 
tirely by mathematical reasoning based on the theory of sets, though 
a large number of statistical calculations with computing machines 
were also necessary. It is a very clear and recent example of the ad- 
vantages of using a scientific method, in this case associated with a 
complicated branch of mathematics, in what seemed to be a totally 
unrelated field. 

Before leaving this matter, we must point out that it is impossible 
for the police to trace an individual in a big 10-finger filing system, 
when they have only more or less perfect prints of one, or even two or 
three of his fingers. At the scene of a crime or a burglary, fingerprints 
are very often found on objects that the criminal has handled, and most 
people believe that the perpetrator of the crime can be identified, by 
reference to these prints, simply by looking through the files. This is 
not so. If an individual is to be found in a big 10-finger filing system, 
we must have prints of all 10 fingers. On the other hand, to identify 
a finger which has touched a glass and left a print on it, one has simply 
to compare the print and the finger ; very often the identification is a 
mere formality. For this to be feasible, however, we must suspect a 
particular individual and have his fingerprint card. Comparison of 
each of the prints on the card with that found at the scene of the crime 
will enable us to say whether the latter was made by one of the fingers 
on the card. There are also single-finger filing systems from which, 
in certain cases, an offender can be traced by the ridge marks he may 
have left at the scene of the crime. 

PHOTOGRAPHY 

Criminals leave behind them not only their fingerprints but also 
many other material traces which, if properly collected, studied, and 
interpreted, may enable us to reconstruct events exactly as they hap- 
pened and to identify the person responsible. This principle is the 
very foundation of scientific detection, and the first function of this 
science is to discover such traces and study them in the laboratory, in 
order that they may be used in evidence. 

First and foremost, the state of the scene of the crime immediately 
after the event nvust be permanently recorded, and for this purpose 
photography is naturally used. The importance of the documentary 
evidence thus obtained is well illustrated by the following example. 

A murder is committed, the victim being killed by two bullets in 
the head. Our service is not informed until the following day, when 
it takes photographs of the scene of the crime. No trace of a bullet 
can be seen. A week later, in company with the examining magistrate. 



SCIENTIFIC DETECTION OF CRIME — SANNIE 349 

the men of our service work out from the prints the various stages in 
the tragedy, determining how the murderer fired the two shots. They 
return to the scene of the crime a few days afterward to complete 
their observations and draw a full plan. They then note, on one of the 
photographs taken that day, that there is, in the room in which the 
tragedy occurred, a chair which had not previously been there. On 
that chair, which had been deliberately removed immediately after 
the murder, they find traces of the passage of a projectile. These 
marks make it possible to show that the murderer's statements during 
the reconstruction of the crime were untrue, and to establish how the 
events actually occurred. 

The scene of a crime cannot, however, be photographed in the same 
way as for ordinary purposes ; and ordinary cameras arc quite inade- 
quate. The scenes of crimes vary so much, are so differently lighted, 
and so different in size, that photographers and camera manufacturers 
have to satisfy unusual and sometimes conflicting demands. The need 
to use the photographs, or some of them, as evidence at a later date 
makes it essential that all the details shall be sufficiently clearly defined 
to allow of considerable enlargement. 

All advances in the technique of lighting make the work of the 
police easier; and the development of suitable cameras and lenses 
gives rise to very complicated problems. Difficult research has been 
necessary to obtain lenses with an angle of field greater than 90°, an 
adequate relative aperture, and a suitable depth of field. 

If the photographic document is to do all that is required of it, we 
must be able, with its help, to reconstruct the dimensions of the objects 
shown in it. Since 1903, when Bertillon first devised a camera and a 
method of reconstruction intended for use at the scene of crimes, 
several not entirely satisfactory ways of solving this problem have 
been suggested. It was never fully solved until the progress of stereo- 
photogrammetry furnished the photographer with cameras and plot- 
ting devices suitable for detective work. The Swiss police are equipped 
with stereophotogrammeters and automatic plotting devices (auto- 
graphs) ; these are extremely useful, particularly in cases of motor 
accidents, for they make it possible, with only two photographs, to re- 
construct a complete plan of the scene, showing measurements, the 
position of the vehicles, any marks on the ground, etc. 

Even without using complicated and expensive autographs, it is 
possible, by more or less simple methods of geometrical reconstruc- 
tion, to work out the measurements of traces found on the ground or 
on walls. 

The author of an advertising leaflet reproduced in it a photogi'aph 
of a building and he claimed that it was a nursing home in which he 
cured cancer by a special method of his own. On the fagade of the 
building, there was an enormous inscription confirming his claim. 



350 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Was the picture faked and had the inscription been added to the nega- 
tive for propaganda {purposes ? The perspective naturally altered the 
shape of the house, and direct examination of the inscription told 
nothing. It was therefore necessary to plot the inscription as it would 
have appeared if it had been painted on a surface parallel to the photo- 
graphic plate. This was done by geometric methods and it was then 
found, in enlargements, that the letters were so arranged that no 
painter could ever have done the work. The photograph was there- 
fore faked, and there had been no such inscription on the building at 
the time it was photographed. 

In certain exceptional cases, photographic conditions are such that 
aerial photography has to be employed. This is particularly useful 
in the case of large-scale disturbances on the public highway. 

Lastl)^ the development of motion pictures was bound to lead scien- 
tific police investigators to try to adapt this technique to the recording 
of particulars at the scene of the event. The first pictures of this type 
were probably made in Brazil. While their usefulness may seem 
questionable when it is simply a case of noting facts, they are undoubt- 
edly a great help in the reconstruction of events where the investigator 
is faced with several different possibilities. This system has not yet 
come into general use, but there is no doubt that its advantages will 
one day be acknowledged to outweigh its drawbacks, the most material 
of which is the difficulty of showing a film in court. 

DEVELOPMENT OF METHODS OF SCIENTIFIC DETECTION— A FEW 

EXAMPLES 

It is impossible, in this article, to give a detailed account of the 
present methods used in scientific detection. In any case, it is prefer- 
able to show how they have developed and to indicate in a certain 
number of cases, by actual examples, how they have been evolved and 
how the pure and applied sciences have helped. 

First and foremost, we must emphasize the need for the forensic 
scientist to adapt the methods of pure science to the particular aim 
he has to achieve. Forensic science investigations, indeed, involve a 
number of requirements, some of which are very exacting, regarding 
the quantity of a substance to be analyzed, the time taken for the 
analysis, or even the conditions in which the analysis itself is con- 
ducted. These requirements must be observed and the methods of pure 
science and technology, which have been developed to meet quite dif- 
ferent purposes, must be adapted accordingly. 

One of the most typical examples of the application of the latest 
scientific methods in the forensic field is that of the discovery of arsenic 
administered with criminal intent. As we have already mentioned, 
chemical methods developed during the second half of the nineteenth 



SCIENTIFIC DETECTION OF CRIME — SANNIE 351 

century and improved at the beginning of the twentieth are giving 
more and more reliable results. Sensitive as these methods are, how- 
ever, they all necessitate the taking of fairly large samples from the 
organs. It is known that arsenic tends to accumulate in the hair and 
nails; the quantity of arsenic found in a tuft of hair, at a given point, 
enables us to ascertain the time when the poison was administered, 
since we know the speed at which the hair grows (slightly over half 
an inch in a month). The chemical methods previously available, 
however, necessitated considerable quantities of hair, from half an 
inch to a few inches long, and therefore covering a period of one or 
more months. The development of atomic piles has now provided 
toxicologists with a neat and infinitely more accurate means of tracing 
acute or chronic arsenical poisoning. This method, as described by 
GriU'on and Barbaud, consists in rendering the arsenic contained in 
the substance of the hair itself artificially radioactive by exposing the 
hair to the flux of thermic neutrons produced by an atomic pile. Sub- 
sequent analysis of the radiation from the hair enables us, first, to 
identify the element by measuring its period and, second, to determine 
its situation in relation to the length of the hair. It is thus possible, 
without in any way damaging the sample taken from the living or 
the dead body, to ascertain the date at which the poison was absorbed, 
and to trace the course of its impregnation of the organism. 

Such developments are very common in forensic science investiga- 
tion. We have been able to identify blood for a long time past ; but 
since microspectroscopes have been introduced and improved, we have 
been able to identify extremely small quantities (much less than a 
milligram) with absolute certainty. It is useful, of course, to know 
that a stain has been made by human blood, but that does not tell us 
whose blood it is. Is it possible to discover individual characteristics 
in the blood by which we can answer this question? The research 
done, over the past 15 years, on blood groups has been the first step 
toward the solution of this problem. When these methods are applied 
to dry bloodstains, they help us to decide whether a stain found on 
the clothing of an accused person may have come from the victim or 
from the accused himself. 

The research done on the theory of blood groups in human beings 
has revealed an ever-increasing number of specific factors in the blood, 
which are inherited according to Mendelian laws. Up to last year, 
the only blood groups covered by the methods of investigation used 
on dry bloodstains were the classic A, B, and O groups. Quite re- 
cently, similar methods have been applied to the Rh factor, and there 
is little doubt that in future they will be applied in many other ways. 

When scientific methods are introduced, the provisions of a penal or 
a civil code, drawn up at a time when such ideas were entirely un- 



352 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

known, may become outdated. For instance, under the Code Civil, in 
France at least, it was strictly laid down that only five types of evi- 
dence could be admitted in an action for affiliation. Judges, however, 
have become aware of the progress of research on blood groups and 
more and more often call for evidence on that point, the importance 
of which is increasing daily as the number of blood groups known to 
us extends and the possibility of ruling out paternity becomes more 
definite. 

The social implications of this development can clearly be seen. In 
certain countries, such as Germany, affiliation does not entail the ob- 
ligations imposed by French law. The child, for instance, does not 
bear its father's name or have a claim to share in the inlieritance of 
his estate. In France, on the other hand, a child thus recognized 
enjoys all the rights of legitimate children. The extension of scientific 
proofs may therefore have important social implications from the point 
of view of the father or mother as well as from that of the child. 
We have come across actions for affiliation in which two men claimed 
to be the father of the same child. 

So far, blood groups have been used mainly to rule out the possibility 
of a man's being the father of a child. That is the only case in which 
the blood group provides definite proof. Research is proceeding so 
fast, however, that it is to be expected that it will one day be possible 
to state a presumption of paternity with a relatively small percentage 
of error. Many young men will then have to reckon with the social 
implications of such actions, and the laws may possibly have to be 
altered as a result. 

The same development can be seen in the detection of other stains 
of biological origin, such as semen, saliva, urine, and body fluids of all 
sorts. One of the main difficulties confronting a scientific investigator 
in the study of such stains is that of discovering them in the first 
place. There was absolutely no means of detecting them with cer- 
tainty on a thick, colored material until the Wood ultraviolet lamp, 
with its nickel glass filter, made it easy to detect tlie fluorescence of 
the stains and to carry out the necessary histological or chemical tests 
on the stained portions only. The substances are later identified by 
the classic techniques of histology, pathological anatomy, and im- 
munology. 

These same methods may be applied to all animal and vegetable 
remains (such as wood fragments, scraps of plants or seeds, pollen, 
etc.) which may be discovered in dust. Every advance in these sciences 
makes it easier to carry out this particularly difficult type of identifi- 
cation. Even bacteriology may be called into play, and the following 
case affords a typical example. 

After a big robbery, searches were made at the homes of various 
suspect individuals and bank notes were seized from several of these 



SCIENTIFIC DETECTION OF CRIME — SANNIE 353 

people. Expert examination showed that all these notes looked the 
same, having the same miusual patches of fluorescence and similar rust 
stains. Moreover, examination of their microscopic flora showed that 
the same bacteria and fungoid growths were present on all of them ; in 
particular, all were considerably affected by a rare and highly in- 
dividual fungus, Acrostalagrrms cinnabarinus corda. The flora on 
other notes kept in bundles or put into circulation was quite different. 
It was thus possible to prove the common origin of the notes and to 
confirm the complicity of the receivers. 

The advances of science do not always, however, make the expert's 
task easier. Sometimes they make it much more complicated. We 
may have a police laboratory which is perfectly familiar with the 
methods of studying the usual textiles. Its members may be expert 
in comparing the fibers of wool, cotton, silk, jute, hemp, linen, etc. 
But the introduction of many synthetic textile fibers, to which the 
familiar teclmiques can no longer be applied, raises new problems 
which are sometimes extremely difficult to solve. The same is true of 
artificial dyestuffs, the number of which is increasing daily, and of 
the countless pharmaceutical products, some of which are dangerous 
narcotics, capable of being used instead of the derivatives of opium or 
coca. Their identification involves knowledge not only of their for- 
mula and chemical properties but also of the methods of organic chem- 
istry by which their chemical functions can be determined and 
identified. 

One of the most striking features of this development in methods 
is the substitution, for visual examination, of more complicated but 
also more efficient techniques. For a long time, materials, textiles, 
fibers, threads, animal and vegetable remains and dust were examined 
by means of the magnifying glass and the microscope. But such visual 
examination, and the interpretation of what is seen, necessarily depend 
on the observer. Wlienever it is possible to use a physical or chemical 
method instead of, or to supplement, visual observation, greater pre- 
cision and certainty are ensured. Mineral dust, earth, and mud can 
be identified under the microscope; and the use of a polarizing micro- 
scope is in itself a great step forward. Lastly, the methods of mineral- 
ogical analysis — separation by increasing densities, thermal analysis 
by the methods of Saladin and Le Chatelier, or even the determination 
of the magnetic moment — are still more efficient. More recently, X-ray 
spectrography, by which crystalline structure can be determined, and 
the electronic microscope with very high resolving power have been 
used with great success in the identification of dusts. 

In the past, the only means of studying bones was by histological 
examination, which revealed changes attributable to fossilization. 
Fossilization can be followed still more accurately by means of chem- 
ical analysis and, more particularly, by the quantity of fluorine wliich, 



354 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

in bony carbonate-apatites, gradually replaces the phosphoric acid of 
the phosphates. Finally, our knowledge of isotopes has very recently 
made an extremely useful contribution to the study of fossilization by 
means of the quantity of the radioactive carbon isotope (Cn) in the 
carbonates of the bones. During life, the proportion of radioactive 
carbon in the bones (as, incidentally, in plants) is the same as in the 
carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. After death, and when the body 
is buried in the ground, this radioactive carbon spontaneously disinte- 
grates, half of it disappearing in about 5,600 years. By determining 
the remaining radioactivity of a fossil bone, therefore, we can date it 
with a very close approximation to accuracy. The amount of Ci4 in 
the wood of the funeral barge of Sesostris, for instance, which was 
thought to be 3,792 years old (to within 50 years either way), made it 
possible to establish that the barge was approximately 3,700 years old. 

When a tiny fragment of paint from a broken door is found on a 
burglar's jimmy, we have, if we are to establish definitely that the 
jimmy in question was actually in contact with the door it was used 
to break open, to make a comparative analysis of the scrap of paint 
on the jimmy and the paint on the door. Microscopic examination is 
of no use in this case, the only valid proof being the identification of 
the paint's ingredients. Unfortunately, the qualitative composition 
of most ordinary paints is very similar. Quantitative analysis is there- 
fore necessary, sometimes on a sample weighing only a few tenths of 
a milligram. Spectrography is the only possible means we can use, 
and even that must be conducted under very strict control. 

The expert examination of works of art is much in the public eye. 
Police laboratories are more and more often consulted during judicial 
inquiries to establish whether or not such works are genuine. The 
increasing number of forgeries, the skill with which they are made, 
and the threat they constitute to our artistic heritage, necessitate the 
use of more and more complicated techniques for their detection. 

It is exceedingly difficult to give an expert opinion on a piece of 
furniture. There may be, for instance, a Louis XV bureau with 
carved bronze ornaments, which is apparently of very great value. 
How can we establish whether or not it is faked? Analysis of the 
bronze ornaments shows that they are gilded by the mercury process 
commonly used in the eighteenth century, and so worked that the piece 
cannot possibly be a modern copy. Examination of the wood estab- 
lishes that it is old and also dates from about the same period; certain 
later sections have been given an artificial patina. But this wood had 
already been used before being incorporated in the bureau, and was 
cut to fit the latter by means of a power saw. The piece is therefore 
a copy but an old copy, probably dating from the First Empire. 

Or we may have a large glazed terracotta panel, attributed to 
Andrea della Robbia ; if it is genuine it is a real museum piece. Expert 



SCIENTIFIC DETECTION OF CRIME — SANNIE 355 

examination shows, however, that the clay of which it is made is a 
coarse chiy containing much more iron than the cLays used in making 
artistic terracottas. The pigments used are indeed the same as those 
employed by the fifteenth-century artists, but the same ones are still 
used today. The patina is artificial, being produced by a varnish with 
a basis of linseed oil, ochre, and verdigris. Finally, the panel has been 
broken and restored, but the restoration was done when it was still 
new and was strengthened by iron bars, one being made of rolled iron. 
But rolled iron dates from 1850 and the panel is therefore a recent 
forgery. 

The works of art most often forged are paintings, and a wide va- 
riety of photographic and radiographic methods have to be used in 
their expert examination. Repainting is shown up by ultraviolet or 
infrared light ; X-ray photographs, for which rays of low penetrating 
power are used, are a still better means of discovering traces of earlier 
painting beneath a later layer. Pigments can be identified by micro- 
chemical and spectrographic analysis and, as we know the dates at 
which they were introduced and ceased to be used in the last 10 cen- 
turies, they give us an invaluable means of dating certain works of art. 

Arson is also difficult to detect. It is, as may be imagined, extremelj' 
hard to discover the substance left by the criminal in a mass of cinders 
and charred fragments, especially as such substances are highly in- 
flammable. There may, for instance, be phosphates resulting from 
the combustion of a phosphorus bomb, the ashes of straw used to light 
the fire, or traces of oil or petrol scattered about the premises. All 
the processes of chemical analysis are then called into play, the main 
difficulty being to isolate the incendiary material from the ordinary 
residue of combustion. 

Optical methods. — Scientific detection was, at the outset, a science 
of observation, supplemented by photography. Bullets and cartridge 
cases can thus be identified, footprints, signs of housebreaking, and 
tire marks compared, and forgeries on documents, identity cards, 
postage stamps, etc., detected. Every improvement in these photo- 
graphic methods means a step forward. One of the most spectacular 
dates from the use of the Wood lamp, already mentioned, which pro- 
vokes fluorescence in a large number of substances. Under the Wood 
lamp, obliterations in manuscripts are revealed, as well as writing in 
invisible ink, and gums and waxes of differing compositions can easily 
be distinguished. The colors of counterfeit postage stamps, or even 
the gum applied to them, can be distinguished from genuine colors 
or gums. Infrared photography also often shows up things that are 
invisible to the eye, such as the scorch marks around a hole caused by 
a shot fired through a piece of black clothing at close range. 

About 20 years ago, manufacturers of photographic plates began 
to produce emulsions of varying degrees of chromatic sensitivity, 



356 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

covering the whole spectrum. By using colored screens it is thus pos- 
sible to take the colors out of an object; the slightest cancellation 
mark on a stamp that has already been used is then clearly revealed. 
Here again, advances in physics have affected criminal investigation. 

We are now able to make screens by which the 2,500- Angstrom 
band of mercury in the ultraviolet can be isolated. Photographs of 
objects taken in this light reveal certain details which are otherwise 
invisible. As regards infrared light, the electronic telescope — an im- 
provement upon the image-converting cell developed during the war 
to enable fighting forces to see at nighttime their opponents lit up 
by infrared light which is invisible to the human eye — has quite 
recently been adapted in Belgium for use in forensic science 
investigation. 

Some objects whose surface needs to be photographed reflect light 
so strongly that it is impossible to photograph them directly. This 
applies to carbon papers that have been used in typing a document. 
Their shiny surface is dulled where the characters of the machine 
have struck the paper. When we try to photograph them, however, 
we find it impossible because of the reflection, particularly as they are 
veiy often crumpled. It is necessary to incline the surface at an angle 
to the axis of the lens so that the reflection is eliminated. The result- 
ing photographs are distorted, however, and the original can be recon- 
structed only if we know the angle of inclination of the document; 
incidentally, the angle cannot be chosen haphazardly but must be 
calculated mathematically beforehand. 

The trichromatic selection of colors on which color printing is based 
is far from perfect. It is very often impossible to cancel out a color 
completely, especially when it contains white or black, which is gen- 
erally the case. It is still less possible to eliminate black characters 
on a colored background by photographic means, but it can in fact be 
done hj the process described as "superimposing positives and nega- 
tives," as the following example shows. 

A registered letter is handed in to a post office bearing stamps 
already canceled but with the postmarks almost invisible. In order 
to insure that these marks are not discovered, the post office clerk, 
who is involved in the fraud, stamps several times over each of the 
stamps. How can we discover whether, when the envelope was put 
into the post, 1 he stamps were or were not already postmarked ? The 
colors of the stamps can easily be screened out by a simple selection 
of colors, leaving only the postmarks; but, even in enlargements, it is 
impossible to discern whether or not there are other marks from dif- 
ferent stampings among the stamp marks of the dispatching office. 
In such a case, we may photograph on transparent films : (a) the stamp 
of the dispatching office as a positive; (b) the postmarks on the stamps 



SCIENTIFIC DETECTION OF CRIME — SANNIE 357 

as a negative. We may then superimpose the positive and negative 
exactly and, if the vahies of the whites and blacks are exactly the 
same on the positive and the negative, the whites will compensate the 
blacks and vice versa. If we then make a print through these super- 
imposed films, all that will show are the canceling marks not belong- 
ing to the dispatching office. It is thus possible not only to detect 
these traces, but partially to decipher them, and so discover the office 
responsible for the first cancelation. 

This method, which theoretically is very simple, is in practice ex- 
tremely difficult to use, for the perfect compensation of the whites and 
blacks presents us with a problem of photographic photometry whose 
difficulties are well known. 

The study of written documents is still more difficult. Any treatise 
on scientific detection, even of recent date, will show how scanty the 
means employed by the experts are. They generally consist simply of 
examination under the microscope and the application of a few chem- 
ical reagents. More accurate methods exist, but they are much more 
difficult to use and involve a full-scale physical laboratory. For in- 
stance, the mineral constituents or, indeed, in some cases, mineral im- 
purities in ink can easily be identified by spectrography. Spectro- 
photometric analysis of the pigments in inks enables one ink to be 
compared with another ; indeed, a method of photographic photometry 
has been invented that can be used directly by reflection on the docu- 
ment itself. It is easy to determine the amount of iron in inks once it 
has been transformed into a colored compound. Variations in the 
amount of iron in inks containing logwood dyes are particularly sig- 
nificant, as these info do not normally contain this product. 

It seems probable, however, that the best methods of identifying and 
comparing the pigments in inks are chromatography on alumina, selec- 
tive chromatography on paper, and microelectrophoresis on paper, the 
last of which is still being tested in my laboratory. By these methods, 
with only one word as a test basis, the pigments in inks can be distin- 
guished and their impurities revealed. Here, again, however, progress 
has complicated the expert's work. The inks used in ball-point pens 
are very different from the earlier ones and cannot be analyzed by the 
same methods. As a result of their introduction, therefore, the expert 
finds new problems facing him, and new methods have had to be de- 
vised to solve them. 

Examination of -firearins. — There have been similar developments 
with regard to firearms. Scrutiny under the magnifying glass or the 
microscope is still the main means of identifying bullets and cartridge 
cases; but we are now able to analyze, by chemical means, the traces 
of powder and its combustion products in the barrel of a gun or 
around the hole made by a projectile. Quantitative spectrography or 



358 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

niicrocliemical analysis enable us to detect, in such holes, the few 
thousandths of a milligram of metal left behind by the bullet as it 
passes through the material. When this degree of accuracy is called 
for, absolute reliability in the physical or chemical methods used is 
essential. A microcliemical reaction of mercury, for instance, which 
is very specific, will detect less than one-millionth of a milligram of 
mercury. By this means we can trace the mercury derived from the 
fulminate of a cartridge cap to a distance of more than 30 inches from 
the mouth of the barrel of a weapon. The following is a very inter- 
esting instance of the use of this method. 

A man is found dead in bed with two bullet wounds — one in the 
heart, from which he must have died almost immediately, and the 
other a mere flesh wound in the abdomen. The weapon lies at the foot 
of the bed, the last cartridge fired being jammed in the ejection open- 
ing; the other cartridge is found on the ground. The first investiga- 
tors, when collecting the cartridges, have mixed them up so that it is 
no longer possible to say which was jammed in the weapon and was 
therefore the last fired. The two bullets are found during the autopsy 
and it is easy to determine which came from which cartridge case, 
since one is of American and the other of Belgian manufacture. What 
the investigators have to determine, however, is the order in which the 
two shots were fired. In the case of a suicide, the fatal shot could only 
be the second ; if the fatal shot was the first, it was obviously not a case 
of suicide, since the man could hardly kill himself before wounding 
himself. 

In an attempt to identify the cartridge first fired, we investigated 
the mercury in the barrel of the weapon. As we have just said, one 
of the cartridges was of American origin, and we verified that the 
cartridge caps of this type of ammunition were made of lead nitride. 
The other cartridge, which was of Belgian make, had a fulminate of 
mercury cap. Comparative experiments showed that, if two shots 
were fired from the same weapon, using one cartridge with a lead 
nitride cap and one with a fulminate of mercury cap, the quantity of 
mercury found in the barrel was much greater when the fulminate 
cartridge was fired last. We were thus able to reconstruct what had 
happened and to show that the fatal shot was indeed the first, so that 
suicide was almost excluded. 

We could quote many other examples. The one we have given shows 
tliat we should always try to solve a scientific problem of detection, 
oven when it seems insoluble, so long as a sufficiently sensitive and 
specific method of analysis is available. 

In the scientific detection of crime, we are therefore constantly on 
the lookout for new methods developed in pure science laboratories. 



SCIENTIFIC DETECTION OF CRIME — SANNIE 359 

It may with good reason be said that the development of a new tech- 
nique, such as chromatograi^hy, may offer the forensic scientist un- 
suspected opportunities, 

THE SOCIAL VALUE OF SCIENTIFIC CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION 

For a magistrate enlisting the services of an expert, there is one 
question of overriding importance : how far can he rely on scientific 
evidence ? His knowledge of science being naturally limited, he can- 
not estimate the reliability of such evidence, and the disputes that 
sometimes arise between experts lead him to adopt a cautious attitude. 

Scientific criminal investigation produces absolute proof only in 
certain special cases, such as that of fingerprints ; the exact value of 
this form of evidence can be worked out mathematically. Generally, 
however, this is not so. 

What forensic science methods contribute to court proceedings is 
circumstantial evidence, often very conclusive, and, in a great many 
cases, sufficient to elicit a confession. Such a confession, which salves 
the judge's conscience, is far more valuable than any obtained in the 
course of an interrogation. It proceeds from a sequence of irrefutable 
facts, which enmesh the accused and leave him no loophole. Even 
when the circumstantial evidence produced by an expert does not elicit 
a confession, it is sufficiently precise to enable the value of the charges 
brought against the accused, or the facts militating in his favor, to 
be weighed with considerable accuracy. The ideal system, of course, 
would be to express that value in mathematical terms, as is done for 
fingerprints. That is possible only in a few cases, but it is to be hoped 
that their number will increase as forensic science methods improve. 

There is no doubt that the introduction of more and more accurate 
methods in the detection of crime makes for greater certainty in the 
administration of justice. The social importance of these methods is 
therefore clear. 

Crime represents a threat to man's safety in communal life, and 
everything that facilitates the discovery and punishment of crime 
affects that safety. The introduction of scientific methods is therefore 
directly connected with the protection of society, and any method 
that adds to the resources at society's disposal influences the outcome of 
the struggle. Society's fight against the criminal classes may be com- 
pared to a war between two states. If one of them has greater scien- 
tific resources, it can be sure of superiority over its enemy ; the same 
applies to the struggle against crime, and this social aspect of the ques- 
tion is indeed so clear that it seems unnecessary to dwell on it longer. 

We may ask, therefore, whether the increasing armory of scientific 
resources commanded by society in this struggle influences the spread 
or the reduction of crime. 

326511—55 25 



360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Such an influence is obvious in a few special cases. The progress of 
toxicology has certainly played a great part in reducing the number of 
poison cases. Although we have no exact statistics going back several 
centuries, it is probable that poisoning was once much more common 
than it is at present. In our time, it rarely occurs except among the 
less civilized sections of the population, or in country districts. The 
merest suspicion of poisoning will cause it to be brought to light. 

On the other hand, such social repercussions are less certain where 
other types of crime are concerned. The seriousness of the penalties 
has no real influence on the development of criminal tendencies; these 
must be regarded as the outcome of a man's development, and the im- 
portant thing is to prevent the type of development which makes a 
man a criminal. 

Scientific methods of controlling crime have an effect on social life 
in another respect — the prevention of unlawful acts. Criminal in- 
vestigation laboratories are often asked to place their methods and 
experience at the service of organizations seeking to protect them- 
selves against the risks of fraud. They are consulted in this way 
in the matter of identity cards, passports, banlmotes, travelers' checks, 
and bonds. The better safeguarding of these documents makes their 
falsification more difficult and thus directly reduces incentive to crime. 
This is a new feature of the work of these laboratories, which will 
become steadily more important as scientific knowledge advances. 

We have sought, in this paper, to show how scientific criminal in- 
vestigation is revolutionizing the system of proof, v/hich is the basis 
of all social law. One day, perhaps, scientific evidence of facts will 
almost entirely take the place of the unreliable evidence of men, so 
that justice will better fulfill its social function. That day, however, 
is still far off — for man's development, like that of things, is bound 
to be slow and gradual. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

BtTRRARD, Sib G. 

1951. The identification of firearms and forensic ballistics. London. 
Hatcheb, J. S. 

1935. Textbooks of firearms investigation, identification, and evidence. Ma- 
rines, Small Arms Techn. Publ. Co., Onslow County, N. 0. 
KiBK, P. L. 

1953. Crime investigation — physical evidence and the police laboratory. 
New York and London. 
Lerich, R. 

1949. La police scientiflque. Paris. 

LOCARD, E. 

1923. Manuel de la technique policifere (enquMe criminelle), Paris. 
1934. La police et les mSthodes scientifiques. Ed. Rieder. Paris. 



SCIENTIFIC DETECTION OF CRIME — SANNIE 361 

Lucas, A. 

1931. Forensic chemistry and scientific criminal investigation. 2cl ed. 
London. 
OSBORN, A. S. 

1929. Questioned documents. Albany, N. Y. 

RlBEIRO, L. 

1934. Policia cientiQca. Rio de Janeiro. 
Robinson, H. M. 

1941. La science contre le crime. Paris. 

SANNIfi, CH. 

1954. La recherche scientifique du criminel. Paris. 
SANNifi, Ch., and Gu6uin, D. 

1938-40. Elements de police scientifique, vols. 1^. Paris. 

SODERMAN, H. 

1928. L'expertise des armes h. feu courtes. Lyons. 
SoDERMAN, H., and O'Connell, J. J. 

1952. Modern criminal investigation. 4th ed. New York. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as 
long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Pub- 
lications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D. C. 



The Great Piltdown Hoax' 



By William L. Straus, Jr. 

Laboratory of Physical Anthropology 
The Johns Hopkins University 



[With 2 plates] 



When Drs. J. S. Weiner, K. P. Oakley, and W. E. Le Gros Clark 
[1] ^ recently announced that careful study had proved the famous 
Piltdown skull to be compounded of both recent and fossil bones, so 
that it is in part a deliberate fraud, one of the greatest of all anthro- 
pological controversies came to an end. Ever since its discovery, the 
skull of "Piltdown man" — termed by its enthusiastic supporters the 
"dawn man" and the "earliest Englishman" — has been a veritable 
bone of contention. To place this astounding and inexplicable hoax 
in its proper setting, some account of the facts surrounding the dis- 
covery of the skull and of the ensuing controversy seems in order. 

Charles Dawson was a lawyer and an amateur antiquarian who 
lived in Lewes, Sussex. One day, in 1908, while walking along a 
farm road close to nearby Piltdown Common, he noticed that the 
road had been repaired with peculiar brown flints unusual to that 
region. These flints he subsequently learned had come from a gravel 
pit (that turned out to be of Pleistocene age) in a neighboring farm. 
Inquiring there for fossils, he enlisted the interest of the workmen, 
one of whom, some time later, handed Dawson a piece of an unusually 
thick human parietal bone. Continuing his search of the gravel pit, 
Dawson found, in the autumn of 1911, another and larger piece of the 
same skull, belonging to the frontal region. His discoveries aroused 
the interest of Sir Arthur Smith Woodward, the eminent paleon- 
tologist of the British Museum. Together, during the following 
spring (1912), the two men made a systematic search of the undis- 
turbed gravel pit and the surrounding spoil heaps; their labors re- 
sulted in the discovery of additional pieces of bone, comprising — 
together with the fragments earlier recovered by Dawson — the larger 



* Reprinted by permission from Science, vol. 119, No. 3087, Feb. 26, 1954. 

* Numbers in brackets Indicate references at end of text. 

363 



364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 4 

part of a remarkably thick human craniimi or brain case and the right 
half of an apelike mandible or lower jaw with two molar teeth in situ 
[2], Continued search of the gravel pit yielded, during the summer 
of 1913, two human nasal bones and fragments of a turbinate bone 
(found by Dawson), and an apelike canine tooth (found by the dis- 
tinguished archeologist. Father Teilhard de Chardin) [3]. All these 
remains constitute the find that is known as Piltdown I. 

Dawson died in 1916. Early in 1917, Smith Woodward announced 
the discovery of two pieces of a second human skull and a molar tooth 
[4]. These form the so-called Piltdown II skull. The cranial frag- 
ments are a piece of thick frontal bone representing an area absent in 
the first specimen and a part of a somewhat thinner occipital bone 
that duplicates an area recovered in the first find. According to Smith 
Woodward's account, these fragments were discovered by Dawson 
early in 1915 in a field about two miles from the site of the original 
discovery. 

The first description of the Piltdown remains, by Smith Woodward 
at a meeting of the Geological Society of London on December 18, 
1912 [2], evoked a controversy that is probably without equal in the 
history of paleontological science and which raged, without promise 
of a satisfactory solution, until the studies of Weiner, Oakley, and 
Clark abruptly ended it. With the announcement of the discovery, 
scientists rapidly divided themselves into two main camps represent- 
ing two distinctly different points of view (with variations that need 
not be discussed here) [5] . 

Smith Woodward regarded the cranium and jaw as belonging to 
one and the same individual, for which he created a new genus, Eoan- 
thropus. In this monistic view toward the fragments he found ready 
and strong support. In addition to the close association within the 
same gravel pit of cranial fragments and jaw, there was advanced 
in support of this interpretation the evidence of the molar teeth in the 
jaw (which were flatly worn down in a manner said to be quite pe- 
culiar to man and quite unlike the type of wear ever found in apes) 
and, later, above all, the evidence of a second, similar individual in 
the second set of skull fragments and molar tooth (the latter similar 
to those imbedded in the jaw and worn away in the same un-apelike 
manner). A few individuals (Dixon [6], Kleinschmidt [7], Weinert 
[8] ) , moreover, have even thought that proper reconstruction of the 
jaw would reveal it to be essentially human, rather than simian. Re- 
constructions of the skull by adherents to the monistic view produced 
a brain case of relatively small cranial capacity, and certain workers 
even fancied that they had found evidences of primitive features in 
the brain from examination of the reconstructed endocranial cast 
[9, 10] — a notoriously unreliable procedure; but subsequent altera- 



PILTDOWN HOAX — STRAUS 365 

tioiis of reconstruction raised the capacity upward to about 1,400 cc. — 
close to the approximate average for living men [10, p. 596]. 

A number of scientists, however, refused to accept the cranium and 
jaw as belonging to one and the same kind of individual. Instead, 
they regarded the brain case as that of a fossil but modern type of 
man and the jaw (and canine tooth) as that of a fossil anthropoid 
ape which had come by chance to be associated in the same deposit. 
The supporters of the monistic view, however, stressed the improb- 
ability of the presence of a hitherto unknown ape in England dur- 
ing the Pleistocene epoch, particularly since no remains of fossil apes 
had been found in Europe later than the Lower Pliocene. An anat- 
omist, David Waterston, seems to have been the first to have recog- 
nized the extreme morphological incongruity between the cranium and 
the jaw. From the announcement of the discovery he voiced his dis- 
belief in their anatomical association [11, p. 150]. The following 
year (1913) he demonstrated that superimposed tracings taken from 
radiograms of the Piltdown mandible and the mandible of a chim- 
panzee were "practically identical"; at the same time he noted that 
the Piltdown molar teeth not only "approach the ape form, but in 
several respects are identical with them." He concluded that since 
"the cranial fragments of the Piltdown skull, on the other hand, are 
in practically all their details essentially human ... it seems to me 
to be as inconsequent to refer the mandible and the cranium to the 
same individual as it would be to articulate a chimpanzee foot with 
the bones of an essentially human thigh and leg" [12]. 

In 1915, Gerrit Miller, then curator of mammals at the United 
States National Museum, published the results of a more extensive 
and detailed study of casts of the Piltdown specimens in which he con- 
eluded that the jaw is actually that of a fossil chimpanzee [13]. This 
view gradually gained strong support, e. g., from Boule [14] and 
Ramstrom [15]. Miller, furthermore, denied that the manner of 
wear of the molar teeth was necessarily a peculiarly human one; he 
stated that it could be duplicated among chimpanzees. That some 
other workers (Friederichs [16]; Weidenreich [17]) have ascribed 
the jaw to a fossil ape resembling the orangutan, rather than to a 
chimpanzee, is unimportant. T\^iat is important, in the light of recent 
events, is that the proponents of the dualistic theory agreed in pro- 
nouncing the jaw that of an anthropoid ape, and unrelated to the 
cranial fragments. Piltdown II remained a problem; but there was 
some ambiguity about this discover}^, which was announced after the 
death of Dawson "unaccompanied by any direct word from him" [5]. 
Indeed, Hrdlicka [18], who studied the original specimens, felt con- 
vinced that the isolated molar tooth of Piltdown II must have come 
from the original jaw and that there was probably some mistake in its 
published history. 



366 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

A third and in a sense neutral point of view held that the whole 
business was so ambiguous that the Piltdown discovery had best be 
put on the shelf, so to speak, until further evidence, through new 
discoveries, might become available. I have not attempted any- 
thing resembling a thorough poll of the literature, but I have the 
distinct impression that this point of view has become increasingly 
common in recent years, as will be further discussed. Certainly, 
those best qualified to have an opinion, especially those possess- 
ing a sound knowledge of human and primate anatomy, have held 
largely — with a few notable exceptions — either to a dualistic or to a 
neutral interpretation of the remains, and hence have rejected the 
monistic interpretation that led to the reconstruction of a "dawn man." 
Most assuredly, and contrary to the impression that has been generally 
spread by the popular press when reporting the hoax, "Eoanthropus" 
has remained far short of being universally accepted into polite an- 
thropological society. 

An important part of the Piltdown controversy related to the geo- 
logical age of the "Eoanthropus" fossils. As we shall see, it was this 
aspect of the controversy that eventually proved to be the undoing of 
the synthetic Sussex "dawn man." Associated with the primate re- 
mains were those of various other mammals, including mastodon, 
elephant, horse, rhinoceros, hippopotamus, deer, and beaver [2]. The 
Piltdown gravel, being stream-deposited material, could well contain 
fossils of different ages. The general opinion, however, seems to have 
been that it was of the Lower Pleistocene (some earlier opinions even 
allocated it to the Upper Pliocene), based on those of its fossils that 
could be definitely assigned such a date [2]. The age of the remains 
of "Piltdown man" thus was generally regarded as Lower Pleistocene, 
variously estimated to be from 200,000 to 1,000,000 years [19]. To 
the proponents of the monistic, "dawn-man" theory, this early dating 
sufficed to explain the apparent morphological incongruity between 
cranium and lower jaw. 

In 1892, Carnot, a French mineralogist, reported that the amount 
of fluorine in fossil bones increases with their geological age — a report 
that seems to have received scant attention from paleontologists. Re- 
cently, K. P. Oakley, happening to come across Carnot's paper, recog- 
nized the possibilities of the fluorine test for establishing the relative 
ages of bones found within a single deposit. He realized, furthermore, 
that herein might lie the solution of the vexed Piltdown problem. 
Consequently, together with C. R. Hoskins, he applied the fluorine 
test to the "Eoanthropus" and other mammalian remains found at 
Piltdown [20]. The results led to the conclusion that "all the remains 
of Eoanthro'pus . . . are contemporaneous"; and that they are, "at 
the earliest, Middle Pleistocene." However, they were strongly indi- 



Smithsonian Report. I ''54. — Straus 



Plate 1 





C TO 

13 o 
— O 



P:^ 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Straus 



Plate 2 




Fragments of the Pilldown I skull, jaw, and canine tooth. 



PILTDOWN HOAX — STRAUS 367 

cated as being of late or Upper Pleistocene age, although ''probably 
at least 50,000 years" old [19]. Their fluorine content was the same 
as that of the beaver remains but significantly less than that of the 
geologically older, early Pleistocene mammals of the Piltdown fauna. 
This seemed to increase the probability that cranium and jaw belonged 
to one individual. But at the same time, it raised the enigma of the 
existence in the late Pleistocene of a human-skulled, large-brained 
individual possessed of apelike jaws and teeth — which w^ould leave 
"Eoanthropus" an anomaly among Upper Pleistocene men. To com- 
plete the dilemma, if cranium and jaw were attributed to two different 
animals — one a man, the other an ape — the presence of an anthropoid 
ape in England near the end of the Pleistocene appeared equally in- 
credible. Thus the abolition of a Lower Pleistocene dating did not 
solve the Piltdown problem. It merely produced a new problem that 
was even more disturbing. 

As the solution of this dilemma. Dr. J. S. Weiner advanced the prop- 
osition to Drs. Oakley and Clark that the lower jaw and canine tooth 
are actually those of a modern anthropoid ape, deliberately altered 
so as to resemble fossil specimens. He demonstrated experimentally, 
moreover, that the teeth of a chimpanzee could be so altered by a com- 
bination of artificial abrasion and appropriate staining as to appear 
astonishingly similar to the molars and canine tooth ascribed to "Pilt- 
down man." This led to a new study of all the "Eoanthropus" mate- 
rial that "demonstrated quite clearly that the mandible and canine are 
indeed deliberate fakes" [1]. It was discovered that the "wear" of 
the teeth, both molar and canine, had been produced by an artificial 
planing down, resulting in occlusal surfaces unlike those developed by 
normal wear. Examination under a microscope revealed fine scratches 
such as would be caused by an abrasive. X-ray examination of the 
canine showed that there was no deposit of secondary dentine, as would 
be expected if the abrasion had been due to natural attrition before 
the death of the individual. 

An improved method of fluorine analysis, of greater accuracy when 
applied to small samples, had been developed since Oakley and Hoskins 
made their report in 1950. This was applied to the Piltdown speci- 
mens. The results of these new estimations, based mainly on larger 
samples, are given in the first and second columns of the accompany- 
ing table. Little elaboration is necessary. The results clearly indi- 
cate that whereas the Piltdown I cranium is probably Upper Pleis- 
tocene in age, as claimed by Oakley and Hoskins, the attributed 
mandible and canine tooth are "quite modern." As for Piltdown II, 
the frontal fragment appears to be Upper Pleistocene (it probably 
belonged originally to Piltdown I cranium), but the occipital frag- 



368 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

ment and the isolated molar tooth are of recent or modern age. The 
foregoing conclusions are supported by evidence concerning the or- 
ganic content of the specimens, as determined by analysis of their 
nitrogen content. This method is not as conclusive as fluorine analy- 
sis; but its results, given in the third column of the accompanying 
table, provide additional support for the conclusions arrived at by 
the fluorine-estimation method. In general, as would be expected, 
the nitrogen content decreases with age ; the only specimen that falls 
out of line is the occipital of Piltdown II. 

Table 1. — Fluorine content, ratio of fluorine to phosphorus penioocide, and nitrogen 
content of the bones and teeth of the so-called Piltdown I and Piltdown II skulls, 
compared with those of various Upper Pleistocene and Recent bones and teeth. 
(From Weiner, Oakley, and Clark [1], rearranged.) 

%FX100 
/" % P2O5 ^^^ 

Upper Pleistocene: 

Bones (local) (minimum F content) 0. 1 0. 4 

Teeth, dentine (minimum F content) 0. 1 0. 4 

Bone (London) 0. 7 

Equine molar, dentine (Piltdown) 1.2 

Human molar, dentine (Surrey) 0. 3 

Recent: 

Neolithic bone (Kent) 1.9 

Fresh bone 4.1 

Chimpanzee molar, dentine <0. 06 <0. 3 3. 2 

Piltdown I: 

Cranium 0.1 0.8 1.4 

Mandible, bone <0. 03 <0. 2 3.9 

Mandibular molar, dentine <0. 04 <0. 2 4.3 

Canine <0. 03 <0. 2 5.1 

Piltdown IT: 

Frontal bone 0.1 0.8 1.1 

Occipital bone 0.03 0.2 0.6 

Isolated molar, dentine <0. 01 <0. 1 4. 2 



Weiner, Oakley, and Clark also discovered that the mandible and 
canine tooth of Piltdown I and the occipital bone and molar tooth 
of Piltdown II had been artificially stained to match the naturally 
colored Piltdown I cranium and Piltdown II frontal. Whereas these 
latter cranial bones are all deeply stained, the dark color of the faked 
pieces is quit« superficial. The artificial color is due to chromate and 
iron. This aspect of the hoax is complicated by the fact that, as re- 
corded by Smith Woodward [21], "the colour of the pieces which 
were first discovered was altered a little by Mr. Dawson when he 
dipped them in a solution of bichromate of potash in the mistaken idea 
that this would harden them." The details of the staining, which 
confirm the conclusions arrived at by microscopy, fluorine analysis, 
and nitrogen estimation, need not be entered into here. 



PILTDOWN HOAX — STRAUS 369 

In conclusion, therefore, the disjecta membra of the Piltdown "dawn 
man" may now be allocated as follows: (1) the Piltdown I cranial 
fragments (to which should probably be added Piltdown II frontal) 
represent a modern type of human brain case that is in no way remark- 
able save for its unusual thickness and which is, at most, late Pleisto- 
cene in age; (2) Piltdown I mandible and canine tooth and Piltdown 
II molar tooth are those of a modern anthropoid ape (either a chimpan- 
zee or an orangutan) that have been artificially altered in structure 
and artificially colored so as to resemble the naturally colored cranial 
pieces — moreover, it is almost certain that the isolated molar of Pilt- 
down II comes from the original mandible, thus confirming Hrdlicka's 
[18] earlier suspicion; and (3) Piltdown II occipital is of recent 
human origin, with similar counterfeit coloration. 

Weiner, Oakley, and Clark conclude that "the distinguished palaeon- 
tologists and archaeologists who took part in the excavations at Pilt- 
down were the victims of a most elaborate and carefully prepared 
hoax" that was "so extraordinarily skilful" and which "appears to 
have been so entirely unscrupulous and inexplicable, as to find no 
parallel in the history of palaeontological discovery." 

It may be wondered why 40 years elapsed before the hoax was dis- 
covered. Two factors enter here : first, there was no reason at all to 
suspect the perpetration of a fraud, at least, not until fluorine analysis 
indicated the relative recency of all the specimens, thus making the 
association of a human cranium and an anthropoid-ape jaw, either 
anatomically or geologically, hardly credible; and, second, methods 
for conclusively determining whether the specimens were actual fos- 
sils or faked ones, short of their wholesale destruction, were developed 
only in recent years (it will be recalled that even the fluorine-estima- 
tion method used by Oakley and Hoskins a few years ago was inade- 
quate for detecting a significant difference between brain case and 
jaw). It is of interest to note that Dawson, in his original report 
[2], stated: 

A small fragment of the skull has been weighed and tested by Mr. S. A. Wood- 
head, M.Sc, F.I.C., Public Analyst for East Sussex & Hove, and Agricultural 
Analyst for East Sussex. He reports that the specific gravity of the bone (pow- 
dered) is 2.115 (water at 5° C. as standard). No gelatine or organic matter is 
present. There is a large proportion of phosphates (originally present in the 
bone) and a considerable proportion of iron. Silica is absent. 

This statement obviously refers to the brain case alone ; for, in both 
the title and text of the original report the authors spoke of "skull 
and mandible" (italics mine). One cannot help but wonder what 
might have come to pass if samples of the jaw and teeth had also been 
submitted to chemical analysis, even though the j^resent, more refined 
methods were not then available. 



370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

The ready initial acceptance of the Piltdown discovery at its face 
value, at least by a majority of interested scientists, can probably be 
attributed to the philosophical climate that invested the problem of 
human evolution at that time. In September 1912, before the an- 
nouncement of the discovery of "Piltdown man," the distinguished 
anatomist Elliot Smith, in an address before the Anthropological 
Section of the British Association for the Advancement of Science at 
Dundee [22], expressed a prevailing point of view when he developed 
the theory that the brain led the way in the evolution of man and that 
modification of other parts of the body followed. Thus the stage was 
set for the ready acceptance of the Piltdown fragments as constitut- 
ing a single individual, a "dawn man" possessing a human cranium 
housing a human brain, but with phylogenetically laggard, hence 
simian, jaws and teeth. To quote the paleontologist Sollas [23] : 

The surprise which was first excited by what appeared to be a monstrous 
combination disappears on further reflection. Such a combiuation had, indeed, 
been long previously anticipated as an almost necessary stage in the course of 
human development. ... In Eoanthropus Daivsoni we seem to have realised 
precisely such a being . . . , one, that is, which had already attained to human 
intelligence but had not yet wholly lost its ancestral jaws and fighting teeth. 

And, as Sir Arthur Keith, perhaps the most vocal champion of 
"Eoanthropus," argued in supporting this view : 

. . . before the anthropoid characters would disappear from the body of primal 
man, the brain, the master organ of the human body, must first have come 
into its human estate. Under its dominion the parts of the body such as the 
mouth and hands, the particular servants of the brain, became adapted for 
higher uses. Looking at the problem from this point of view, we cannot reject 
the Piltdown mandible because as regards the mylo-hyoid ridge it is simian and 
not human in character [10]. 

Recent finds of fossil men and other primates, however, indicate 
that it is the brain that was the evolutionary laggard in man's phy- 
logeny; indeed, the studies of Tilly Edinger [24] of the phylogeny 
of the horse brain suggest that this may well be a general rule in 
mammalian evolution. It was such concepts as this, leading to a 
change in philosophical climate, that evoked an increasing skepticism 
toward the validity of the monistic interpretation of the Piltdown 
fragments and led in turn to what appears to have been the prevail- 
ing recent opinion, namely, that the fragments should, as expressed 
in 1949 by Le Gros Clark [25], "be laid aside without further com- 
ment until more evidence becomes available." This view, enhanced 
by the redating of the remains by Oakley and Hoskins, provided the 
proper psychological setting for the coup de grace delivered by 
AVeiner, Oakley, and Clark. 

As the three latter point out, the solution of the Piltdown enigma 
greatly clarifies the problem of human evolution. For "Eoanthropus," 
both morphologically and geologically, just simply did not fit into 



PILTDOWN HOAX — STRAUS 371 

the picture of human evolution that has gradually been unfolding as 
the result of paleontological discoveries throughout the world. 

The Piltdown story is a significant one in the history of ideas, more 
particularly as it bears on the concept of the precise course of lumian 
evolution. For, if man's biological history be likened to a book, it is 
seen to be composed of both blank and written pages and, by those 
who note them carefully, many if not most of the w^ritten ones will be 
seen to be in the nature of palimpsests — pages that have been rewritten 
after their original writing has been rubbed out. Of this, the Piltdown 
affair is a striking demonstration. It is a demonstration, furthermore, 
that the palimpsest nature of the pages of man's history is not always 
due directly to new fossil discoveries but can also result from changes 
in the philosophical climate of the science. That this phenomenon is 
peculiar to antliropology, however, is seriously to be doubted. 

REFERENCES 

1. Weineb, J. S., Oakley, K. P., and Clark, W. E. Le Gkos. Bull. Brit. Mus. 

(Nat. Hist), Geol., vol. 2, p. 141, 1953. 

2. Dawson, C, and Woodwaed, A. S. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. London, vol. G9, 

p. 117, 1913. 

3. Ibid., vol. 70, p. 82, 1914. 

4. Woodward, A. S. Ibid., vol. 73, p. 1, 1917. 

5. Miller, G. S., Jr. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst, for 1928, p. 413, 1929. 

6. Dixon, A. F. Nature, vol. 99, p. 399, 1917. 

7. Kleinschmidt, O. (Cited by Miller [5], p. 437.) 

8. Weinert, H. In Anthropology Today (ed. A. L. Kroeber), p. 111. Chicago, 

1953. 

9. Smith, G. Elliot. Appendix to Dawson and Woodward [2]. 

10. Keith, A. The antiquity of man, 2d ed., vol. 2. London, 1925. 

11. Watekston, D. Appendix to Dawson and Woodward [2]. 

12. Nature, vol. 92, p. 319, 1913. 

13. Miller, G. S., Jr. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 65, No. 12, 1915. 

14. BouLE, M. L' Anthropologic, vol. 28, p. 433, 1917. 

15. Ramstrom, M. Bull. Geol. Inst. Univ. Uppsala, vol. 16, p. 261, 1919. 

16. Friederichs, H. F. Zeitschr. Anat. Entwicklungsgcschichle, vol. 98, p. 199, 

1932. 

17. Weidenkeich, F. Palaeontologia Sinica, n. s. D, No. 10 (whole ser. No. 127), 

1943. 

18. Hrdlicka, A. Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., vol. 5, p. 337, 1922. 

19. Oakley, K. P. In Anthropology Today (ed. A. L. Kroober), p. 47. Chicago, 

1953. 

20. Oakley, K. P., and Hoskins, C. R. Nature, vol. 165, p. 379, 1950. 

21. Woodward, A. S. The earliest Englishman. London, 1948. 

22. Smith, G. Elliot. Nature, vol. 90, p. 118, 1912. 

23. Sollas, W. J. Ancient hunters, 3d ed. New York, 1924. 

24. Edinger, T. Geol. Soc. Amer. Mem. 25, 1948. 

25. Clark, W. E. Le Gros. History of the primates. British Mus. (Nat. Hist.), 

London, 1949. 



Our State Names 



By John P. Harrington 
Bureau of American Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution 



Over the years, correspondence of the Bureau of American Eth- 
nology has shown that there is much popular interest in the origin and 
meaning of the names of the States and Territories that comprise our 
republic. In compiling answers on this subject I was forced to look 
minutely into several of these names, and as a result finally decided to 
extend the study to all. I soon discovered that the task would have 
been simpler had it been undertaken 100 years ago. Twenty-six out 
of the total of 51 names turned out to be of American Indian origin, 
and one of Polynesian. Half of the names are, therefore, from in- 
digenous languages. Of the 6 New England States only 2 — Massa- 
chusetts and Connecticut — have names of Indian origin. 

Our State names are almost entirely a product of chance. A hap- 
hazard aggxegation has grown into official usage, as irregularly as the 
typical American city grows into shape. There were, of course, no 
analogous political regions in aboriginal times, so names became 
adopted in various ways. Often the earliest use of a name that later 
came into prominence received little attention as regards recording. 
There are seven State names of Indian origin that constitute what I 
call the early cycle. These are Connecticut, Kentucky, Massachusetts, 
Ohio, Tennessee, Wisconsin, and Wyoming. Most of them have been 
difficult to trace. 

Each State, district, or Territory name has had a long usage and has 
considerable history behind it. Of the so-called original Thirteen 
Colonies of the Atlantic seaboard, each had a name already firmly 
established before the time of the Revolutionary War. The later 
States, however, regularly went through two stages, being at first 
Territories and then States, the Territory name usually becoming the 
State name. 

Several of the names are modified by such terms as "North," 
"South," "West," and "New." The most employed of these modifi- 
catory words is "New," appearing in the names New Hampshire. New 
Jersey, New Mexico, and New York. In many instances an Old World 

373 



374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

place name has been transferred to the New World. The two names 
Carolina and Dakota put in their appearance as State names modified 
oppositionally into pairs by the preplacing of North or South. West 
Virginia alone has the preplacing of West, and the name of the old 
original Virginia is not modified to balance this. The two State names 
Arkansas and Kansas are of the same origin, derived through different 
channels. 

The various State names can be segregated into several sections ac- 
cording to reference. 

ORIGINS 

Tribal Names. — Of the many American Indian tribe names formerly 
occurring in the region now comprised by the United States, only 12 
have survived as State names: Alabama, Arkansas, Idaho, Illinois, 
Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South 
Dakota, Utah. Although fundamentally the names of tribes, they 
were also employed in native and other languages as designations of 
habitat, but in English, usually of rivers. 

Place Names. — Seventeen of our State names are of place-name 
origin, having received their present application usually per exten- 
sionem: Alaska, Arizona, California, Hawaii, Kentucky, Maine, 
Massachusetts, Michigan, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New 
Mexico, New York, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Vermont, Wyoming. 

Geographical Terms. — There are only two names of geographical- 
term origin : Montana and Pennsylvania. Montana is the Latin fem- 
inine singular of the adjective montaanus, "mountainous." Pennsyl- 
vania is a compound word. While honoring William Penn's father 
as its first syllable, -sylvania is a feature-denoting word in neo-Latin, 
signifying woodland and having somewhat more definite meaning 
than the throwing of a Latin adjective into the feminine singular. 

River Names. — State names of purely river-name origin number 
nine : Colorado, Connecticut, Minnesota, Mississippi, Nebraska, Ohio, 
Oregon, Wisconsin. 

Greeting Terms. — The only name in this category is Texas. 

Name Referring to a Male Person of Nobility or Ranh. — The State 
names in this category number seven : Delaware, District of Columbia, 
Georgia, Louisiana, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, 
and Washington. 

Names Referring to a Female Person of Nobility or Ranh. — There 
are three State names of this class, referring to two queens of England : 
Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia. 

Name Referring to Day of Discovery. — The name Florida, refer- 
ring to Easter Sunday, was bestowed by Ponce de Leon because of 
his first sighting of the peninsula of Florida on Easter Sunday, 1512. 



STATE NAMES — HARRINGTON 375 

Nine of the State names are, or can be conceived of as being, Latin 
feminine singulars of adjectives, used as nouns : California, Georgia, 
Indiana, Louisiana, Montana, North Carolina, South Carolina, Vir- 
ginia, West Virginia. 

Two of the State names have been revamped with respect to mean- 
ing: Massachusetts, Michigan. All the State names have been re- 
vamped with respect to form. 

Erroneous definitions of State names belong in the same class as 
nicknames, as they usually attribute falsely some flattering or beauti- 
ful meaning to a name which in reality has another origin. Thus 
when we assume that Idaho means "gem of the mountains," this 
erroneous interpretation is practically the same as a flattering nick- 
name. North Carolina has long been referred to as the "land of the 
sky," which suggests also the frequent reference to Minnesota as the 
"land of the sky-blue water," partly as the result of the English word- 
ing of a popular song. 

ANALYSIS 

Alabama. — According to the researches of Dr. Mary R. Haas, the 
native form of the name in the Alabama Indian language (Muskho- 
gean) is Alpaamo, plural Alpaamoha. It was originally the name of 
a place and tribal town, which was a member of the Creek confederacy. 
Earliest records show it on the Alabama River, just below the con- 
fluence of the Coosa and the Tallapoosa. The name is still applied 
to the tribe, and this application has preserved it from loss. Modern 
Indians can give no meaning to the name, and it may have been the 
designation of the place in some other language. At least this theory 
would explain the name's having no known meaning. In some dialects 
the name alpaamo appears with initial h : Halpaamo, and Cyrus W. 
Byington ("A Dictionary of the Choctaw Language," Bur. Amer. 
Ethnol. Bull. 46, 1946) gives the name with initial h, as does Spots- 
wood, 1720 (North Carolina Colonial Records, II, p. 383, 1886), who 
writes "Habbamalas" (bb a mistake for lb) . The Ross map of 1765 
shows the name as "Alibamons." The i in the second syllable may 
have been an early pronunciation. 

In 1817 Mississippi Territory was divided, the eastern half becoming 
Alabama Territory, which in 1819 was made a State. An erroneous 
belief of wide circulation is that Alabama means "here we rest." 

Alaska. — The name in the Aleutian language of the Eskimoan stock 
(dialect of Unalaska) of the Alaska Peninsula, which is that part of 
the mainland of Alaska that juts out toward the eastern end of the 
Aleutian Island chain, is 'Alaxsxaq. The boundaries of the Alaska 
Peninsula are indefinite to the east and the Aleutian name has no trans- 
parent etymology. Alaxsxaq is a normal Aleut noun, and, according 

326511—55 26 



376 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1964 

to speakers of the Unalaska dialect of Aleutian, refers to a land, not 
to an island. The ordinary Russian corruption of this Aleutian noun 
was Al^aksa, but sometimes Alaska. The reference in Russian was 
to the Alaska Peninsula. The region that we call in English Alaska 
was always referred to by the Russians as Russian America. Alaska 
became a Territory of the United States as a result of the Alaska Pur- 
chase of 1867, and was designated as Alaska Territory, the name 
Alaska being extended to designate the entire mainland and islands 
of the purchase. 

Arizona. — The originating form of the name Arizona is in the Papa- 
go dialect of the Pima language, of the Shoshonean stock, and is 
'Arishoonak, meaning "little spring place." The springs referred to 
are in the bed of Arizona Creek 1 mile upstream from the Arizona 
ranchhouse, which is itself 1 mile up Arizona Creek from Planchas de 
Plata Creek, where a fabulous find of silver in its native state was 
made about 1735. The Spanish corruption of 'Arishoonak as Arizonac, 
also Arizona, and the word was taken over in the latter form by the 
Americans. The region of the springs is in the northern part of 
Sonora, Mexico, and not within the present bounds of the United 
States. The Arizona of the United States consists of land acquired 
through the Mexican cession of 1846 and the Gadsden Purchase of 
1855. ArizonabecameaTerritory in 1863andaStateinl9r2. Among 
several other names proposed for application to the new Territory, 
Arizona happened to be adopted. 

Arkansas. — The State name Arkansas is another form of the State 
name Kansas. Both orthographies are French in origin, the final s of 
both names being silent in French. The State of Arkansas was part 
of the land acquired by the Louisiana Purchase. The Marquette map 
of 1673 is the first recording of this name. Arkansas Territory was 
created in 1819 and became a State in 1836. See "Kansas" for ety- 
mology. 

California. — The name California is the old Spanish designation 
of the peninsula of Lower California. This name was at its very 
inception applied both to the pearl-fishing colony of Cortes, estab- 
lished May 3, 1535, and to its hinterland. This colony was apparently 
on Santo Espiritu Island in La Paz Bay, situated in the southern part 
of the eastern coast of the peninsula. Perhaps Cortes and others 
started calling the place California, but why was not known. 

In 1862 Hale called the attention of historians and of the world 
to the fact that California is the name of the Amazon island in 
Montalvo's sixteenth-century Spanish novel called "Esplandian." 
The New World place name must have been taken from the name 
in the novel, but no historical statement to this effect has ever been 
discovered. Subsequent to this discovery by Hale, earlier etymologies 
of the word California have retreated. 



STATE NAMES — HARRINGTOlSr 377 

What the source of Montalvo's name California may have been 
remains a matter of conjecture. Did he make the word up out of 
whole cloth, or did he follow some traditional word that came down 
from the Middle Ages ? The Roland poem, which dates perhaps from 
1150, has at the end of its line 2948 the strikingly similar form 
"califerne" as the name of a region, perhaps situated near Africa; 
and the Antioch poem, which is still earlier, dating perhaps from 
1110, has "(h)oliferne" as the name of the sultancy of Aleppo and 
Mosul, just beyond the Crusader kingdom of Antioch. May one of 
these earlier forms have reached Montalvo in some way ? 

Connecticut. — According to historical information and the linguis- 
tic studies of Siebert, the colony and later State name Comiecticut 
was taken into English from the name of the Connecticut River, the 
originating form having been in Mahican and other similar Algon- 
quian dialects of southwestern New England, KwEnihtEkot, or some 
form very similar to this, signifying "long river place." The Con- 
necticut River, one of the long rivers that flow south to the southern 
New England shore, evidently had this name in local and more re- 
mote Indian dialects. The name Connecticut was applied to the river 
as far north as Springfield, Mass. The etymology of Connecticut as 
meaning "long river" was already on record in 1631. The ct in the 
English version of the name is produced by analogy with the English 
word "connect." 

Trumbull in his Natick dictionary translates the word as "a wave 
or rough watered river," while Heckewelder in his "Historical Ac- 
count" says that its Delaware cognate means "a rapid stream." 

Colorado. — The Latin adjective colooraatus., means red or brown. 
From it comes Spanish "Colorado," the usual Spanish adjective mean- 
ing red. Colorado as applied to the Colorado River is a descriptive 
term, referring to the red color of the water. Indians speaking many 
languages, living more or less in the vicinity of the Colorado River, 
tended to use this description of the river in addition, perhaps, to 
other methods of reference. The area of Colorado State is derived 
from three sources : the Louisiana Purchase, Texas, and the Mexican 
cession. Colorado Territory was created in 1846, Colorado State in 
1876. The name Colorado was adopted because the Colorado River 
had its headwaters in the western half of Colorado Territory. The 
principal affluent of the Colorado River in Colorado was called Grand 
River, with the result that for many years there was no stream called 
Colorado within the limits of the present State. The name of the 
Grand River was changed to the Colorado River by the Colorado State 
Legislature on March 24, 1921, and by act of Congress, approved July 
25, 1921. 

Delaware. — The name of the State of Delaware was taken from 
the river of that name, at the mouth of which the State of Delaware is 



378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

located. The Delaware River was named in honor of Sir Thomas 
West, first Governor of the Virginia Company, 1610, in the reign of 
James I, King of England. His title in the British peerage was Lord 
De La Warr, the barony De La Warr dating from the thirteenth cen- 
tury. The name De La Warr is spelled a number of different ways 
but the State name is one word. The Delaware Indians also get their 
name from their former habitat along the Delaware Eiver. 

District of Columbia. — The District of Columbia, seat of the Fed- 
eral Government and the capital of the United States, created January 
24, 1791, was carved out of the States of Maryland and Virginia at 
the close of the Revolutionary War. The form "Columbia" is the fem- 
inine, used as a country name, of an assumed neo-Latin adjective 
columhius, "pertaining to Columbus." 

Florida. — Ponce de Leon was apparently the first white man to 
sight the coast of Florida and he named it in honor of Easter Sunday, 
the day in 1512 on which this land was discovered. Easter is called 
in Spanish the Pascua Florida, literally the "floral Passover." It was 
the custom of the Spaniards to name a country for the day on which it 
was discovered. The Spanish name Florida, accented on the next to 
last syllable, is usually misaccented on the first syllable in English. 
Florida was acquired from Spain by conquest and cash settlement in 
1819 and became a State in 1845. 

Georgia. — Georgia was named in honor of George I and George II, 
kings of England. George I made a grant to Montgomery about 1717, 
but this grant expired in 3 years. In 1732, Oglethorpe obtained a 
charter and named the land Georgia in honor of George II, then king. 
Georgia is the neo-Latin feminine country-name counterpart of the 
name George, borne by several British kings and preeminently b}^ St. 
George, patron saint of England. George, according to etymology, 
signifies "farmer," literally "earth worker," being a compound word 
in ancient Greek denoting "earth- worker." 

Hawaii. — Hawaii, the name of the largest and most southeasterly 
of the Hawaiian group of islands, is in local linguistic form, Haway'i. 
Beyond this information one cannot go with certainty. It appears 
that perhaps an early form of the word was Kaway'i and that the 
meaning was "homeland." 

A Spaniard named Juan Gaetano discovered the Hawaiian Islands 
in 1555. Hawaii was created a Territory in 1898. 

Idaho. — Idaho was the old name of the Salmon River tribe of In- 
dians of Shoshonean stock. This tribe was called the salmon tribe, 
in accordance with the occurrence of salmon, even as the whites say 
Salmon River today. Ida- means "salmon," and -ho means "tribe," 
literally "eaters," hence "salmon eaters." Idaho Territory was cre- 
ated by Congress in 1863, the name Montana Territory having first 
been proposed. Idaho State was created in 1890, 



STATE NAMES — HARRINGTON 379 

Joaquin Miller, the poet, erroneously guessed Idaho to mean "sun- 
up" in Shoshoni. Another erroneous interpretation of the name that 
has gained wide circulation is "gem of the mountains." 

Illinois. — The Illinois River runs southwest across most of the State 
of Illinois and empties into the Mississippi River not far north of 
where the Missouri River joins the Mississippi. The Illinois tribe of 
Indians, speaking a language of the Algonquian stock very closely 
related to the Peoria language, inhabited the lower course of the Illi- 
nois River. The Illinois name of the Illinois tribe, also in use in 
Peoria, is 'ilini (plural 'iliniwak). The earliest published occurrence 
of this name is on the Marquette map, 1673, which labels Lake Michi- 
gan "Lac des Ilinois." La Salle traveled up the Illinois River in 1679 
and named it from the tribe of Indians that he found inhabiting its 
banks. In the Illinois and Peoria languages 'ilini means (1) "man," 
"a warrior"; (2) a person of the Illinois tribe of Indians, no matter of 
what age or sex. French Ilinois (Marquette uses only one 1), used 
both as the singular and the f)lural in French, is based on the Illinois 
plural 'iliniwak, eliminating the third syllable of the Illinois plural 
and substituting for -wak, of the Illinois plural, the Franch -ois, pro- 
nounced in standard Modern French as -wa (with silent s). Illinois 
Territory was created 1809, Illinois State 1818. 

Indiana. — Indiana is the feminine of a Latin adjective Indiaanus, 
the feminine being used as a country-name noun, the appropriateness 
of the name being that certain Indian tribes were early settlers in 
Indiana. There exists such an adjective as indiaanus in Latin, but 
the common Latin adjective is indicus, Indian. Indiana Territory 
was created in 1800, Indiana State in 1816. 

Iowa. — Iowa is in origin a tribe name, the Iowa tribe having spoken 
a Siouan language closely related to the Oto and Missouri languages. 
The name of the Iowa tribe was applied to the Iowa River, which is 
the principal stream of southeastern Iowa and runs southeast into the 
Mississippi. Through the application to the river, the name was 
adopted for the Territory and State. The Iowa form of the tribal 
name is 'Ayuxwa, which means "one who puts to sleep." Perhaps 
the Iowa Indians were so called because they had the power to put 
a visitor to sleep, or there was perhaps in very early times some con- 
nection in fact or story, now forgotten. This has frequently been 
erroneously translated "the sleepy ones." The early French spelled 
the tribal name usually Ayoua, the English loway. Iowa was made 
a Territory in 1838, a State in 1846. 

Kansas. — Kansas is the name of a tribe of the Siouan stock, speak- 
ing a language closely related to that of the Kaw and Omaha. The 
Kansas, Kaw, and Omaha form is the same, according to Dr. Francis 
La Flesche, formerly ethnologist of the Bureau of American Ethnol- 
ogy, and is KaNze, with the accent on the first syllable. The Osage 



380 Al^WrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

and the Dakota Sioux name is also exactly the same. Kansas is a 
French spelling, the final s being silent in French pronunciation, as 
it still is in the Federally approved pronunciation of Arkansas. The 
name KaNze, in the Kansas language at least, means "the south-wind." 
The Kansas River is a large river of northeast Kansas and the name 
of the tribe being applied to the river, the application to the Territory 
and State was natural. The Kansas region was within the Louisiana 
Purchase except for the southwest corner, which was taken from 
Texas. Kansas Territory was created in 1854, Kansas State in 1861. 

Kentucky. — The earliest occurrence of the word Kentucky is from 
the pen of Major Trent, in 1753, and the spelling is exactly the same 
as today. From 1794 comes the recording of the name which is next 
oldest, Cane-tuck-ee. The name is merely the Wyandot Iroquoian 
word for plain, and was applied originally to Kentucky Plains in 
what is now Clark County, central Kentucky. Kentucky was long a 
vague "province" of Virginia. A common erroneous belief is that 
Kentucky signifies "dark and bloody ground." In 1790 Kentucky was 
made a Territory, and in 1792 a State. 

Louisiana. — Louisiana is the feminine of a Latinlike adjective, used 
as a country name. It was first applied by La Salle in 1682 in honor 
of Louis XIV of France to the entire Mississippi Valley and region 
of the later Louisiana Purchase. The State of Louisiana is only a 
small part of the vast area originally bearing this appellation. The 
French spelling is La Louisianne, always with the definite article. 
The territory of Orleans was created out of part of the Louisiana 
Purchase in 1804 and Louisiana State was created out of Orleans Ter- 
ritory in 1812. 

Maine. — Maine was the name of a former province of France, very 
prominent in earlier times, and is guessed to be derived from the last 
two syllables of Ceno-manni, a Celtic tribe mentioned by Caesar, lo- 
cated where Maine is now. In America the early French gave the 
names Maine and Arcadie. The southern part of Maine was one of 
the Thirteen Colonies; the northern part was fixed by treaty be- 
tween the United States and Great Britain in 1842. The French 
pronunciation is Meen, with long open ee. Other sources state that 
Maine originally signified the mainland country. 

Maryland. — Maryland was named in honor of Queen Henrietta 
Maria, wife of Charles I of England. Henrietta Maria was the 
daughter of Henry IV, King of France. Charles I proposed that 
the colony of Maryland be called for his wife Mary, Maryland, Latin 
Terra Mariae., and this designation of the colony was written into the 
charter given by Charles I to the first Lord Baltimore. Henrietta 
Maria was called Mary by many of the writers of the time. A popular 
fancy is that the State of Maryland was named after the Virgin Mary, 
since it was a Catholic colony. 



STATE NAMES — HARRINGTON 381 

Massachusetts. — The Massachusetts tribe of Indians, which dom- 
inated the region of Massachusetts Bay in pre-Cohimbian times, 
belonged to the Algonquian stock and spoke a northern dialect of 
Narraganset. According to the map of Capt. John Smith, the Mas- 
sachusetts Indians were named from Great Blue Hill, 2 miles south 
of Milton, Mass., on the top of which there is now an observatory. 
The hill can be seen from Boston Harbor. The originating form was 
perhaps mes-atsu-s-et, "large hill place." 

We are now able to explain why Josiah Cotton, who took down a 
Massachusetts vocabulary in 1702, states in that vocabulary that 
INIassachusetts means arrowhead hill. The Massachusetts term for 
flint sounded similar to the term for large. Massachusetts Hill is a 
hillock near the mouth of Sachem's Creek in Quincy, Mass. Since 
this hillock is not large, its name may easily contain the term for 
flint. But the name of the tribe was taken from Great Blue Hill. 

The colony and later State of Massachusetts received its name by 
the extension of this term. 

Michigan, — The name Michigan first appears in the writings of 
Alouet, 1672, and evidently applied to a large clearing on the west side 
of what is now known as Michigan lower peninsula. Frederic Baraga 
("A Dictionary of the Otchipwe (Chippewa) Language," Cincinnati, 
1853) gives "Clearing, majiigan." Michigan was later erroneously 
thought to go back to Chippewa micigami, which is one way of saying 
"large water," although a more natural way of talking in Chippewa 
would be to say kitcigami or kitcizagiigan, -zagiigan meaning "lake." 
Evidently the name Michigan originally referred to the clearing, and 
later the French and English-speaking whites extended it to refer to 
Lake Michigan. Michigan was made a Territory in 1805, a State in 
1837. 

Minnefiota. — The prominent river in what is now the southern part 
of the State of Minnesota, a western affluent of the Mississippi River, is 
now called the Minnesota River, but was earlier called St. Peter's 
River (French, riviere de Saint Pierre). Stephen Return Riggs ("A 
Dakota-English Dictionary," Contributions to North American Eth- 
nology, vol. 7, 1890) shows that the name Minnesota in the originating 
Dakota Sioux form Mnishota, signifies "milky" or "clouded water." 
There are two other possible derivations, mnihhota, "gray water," and 
mnisota, "used up or dwindled water." The old Indians of Riggs' 
time believed that mnishota was the original form. The name of the 
river was later extended to the Territory and State. 

Jonathan Carver's "Travels through the Interior Parts of North 
America" (London, 1778) contains the earliest occurrence of the word 
Minnesota, spelled Menesoter. Gen. Sibley, who took an active part 
in the creation of Minnesota Territory in 1849, is responsible for the 
spelling Minnesota. Minnesota State was created in 1858. 



382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Mississippi. — ^The earliest occurrence of the name Mississippi is on 
the La Salle map of 1695, La Salle having been the first to navigate 
down the Mississippi River, in 1C82. The name is patently from some 
language or dialect of the Algonquian stock, probably Chippewa, the 
meaning being "large river." The designation is descriptive, but was 
probably used in Pre-Columbian times, for one way of saying "large 
river" in Chippewa is Mici-zibi (mici-, "large"; zibi, "river"), and the 
French orthography cited above is intended for this form, for even 
Ottawa, another language of the Algonquian stock, has meci- instead 
of mici-, and the French form probably comes from a tongue which has 
mici-. The name of the Mississippi River has been erroneously stated 
to mean "large water," and "father of waters." 

In 1798, previous to the Louisiana Purchase, Mississippi Territory 
was created by Congress out of what was then part of Florida, the 
Mississippi River name being bestowed on the Territory. In 1817, 
with the division of Mississippi Territory, the eastern half became 
xilabama Territory, and Mississippi became a State. 

Missouri. — The Marquette map, 1673, has on it the earliest occur- 
rence of the word Missouri in the form 8emess8rit. (Marquette uses 
8 instead of French ou.) The modern form lacks both the beginning 
and end. Although the French orthography has double s, showing 
that the sound is to be pronounced sharp, the current English pro- 
nunciation is to sound the ss as z. The name signifies "canoe haver." 
The canoes referred to wxre dugouts. 

The Missouri were a small tribe perhaps belonging to the Algon- 
quian stock and living on the Missouri River, their neighbors to the 
west being the Little Osage and to the east the Illinois. According to 
information supplied by Swanton, the Missouri had a tradition that 
their ancestors came from the Illinois River. Also, according to 
Swanton, the survivors of the Missouri tribe became mixed with Oto- 
speaking Indians, and the Missouri Indians still living speak only 
Oto. 

The Missouri River got its name from the Missouri tribe, and 
when Missouri Territory was created in 1817 out of a portion of 
the Louisiana Purchase, the name of the Missouri River was applied 
to the Territory. The State of Missouri was created in 1821. The 
name Missouri is sometimes erroneously said to mean "muddy water" 
or "big muddy." 

Montana. — Montana is the onlj^^ State that has a classical Latin 
name. Several others have neo-Latin names, but the word "montana" 
is standard Latin. It is the feminine of the adjective Tiiontaanus^ 
"mountainous," "having mountains," and is properly used only as a 
country-name noun. There is no indication in comiection with the 
application of the name that it is Latin neuter plural, which would 



STATE NAMES — HARRINGTON 383 

have the same form, or that the name is Spanish "montana," an unusual 
Spanish word for mountai]i. 

In I860 it was proposed that the Territory then created be called 
Montana Territory, but the name Idaho Territory was adopted in- 
stead. Montana Territory was created in 1864, the name unsuccess- 
fully proposed the year previous becoming adopted. In 1889 Mon- 
tana became a State. 

Nebraska. — The principal river is the Platte, called in French la 
riviere Platte, meaning "the broad river." According to Dr. La 
Flesch, a native Omaha who also spoke French, the State of Nebraska 
derives its name from the Omaha name of the Platte River, which is 
Niboapka (ni, "water"; boapka, "broad"), the meaning being the 
same as that of la riviere Platte. Fremont, who went to what is now 
Nebraska in 1842, was the first to use the name Nebraska, applying it 
to the Platte River. According to La Flesche, Nibraska would be a 
more correct pronunciation. Nebraska Territory was created in 1854, 
Nebraska State in 1864. 

Nevada. — Nevada is an abbreviation for Sierra Nevada, Spanish 
for "snowy range." Spanish ships engaged in the trade between the 
Philippine Islands and Mexico used to sight these mountains when 
far off the California coast, in the I7th and 18th centuries, and spoke 
of them as la Sierra Nevada. Most of the Sierra Nevada range is in 
California. In February 1858, it was decided to form a new Territory 
out of western Utah and it was suggested that it be named after the 
Sierra Nevada. May 12, 1859, the Territory was admitted under the 
name of Nevada. Nevada became a State in 1864. 

New Hampshire. — Hampshire is a famous shire or county of central 
England, the name of which was transferred to tlie New World 
colony. The county seat of Hampshire, England, is Hampton. The 
form of Hampton is in Anglo-Saxon Haamtuun, meaning "village." 
One early recording of Hampshire shows that it is short for Hampton- 
shire, in Anglo-Saxon Haamtuunsciir. In 1629 Mason gave the name 
New Hampshire to a part of the area comprised later by the State of 
New Hampshire. 

Nero Jersey. — In the name Jersey, the initial J is for ch. Jersey is 
the principal one of the Channel Islands, and bore in Latin the name 
Insula Caesareea, literally "the Cesarian Island," meaning the Federal 
Island. Caesareeus is an adjective derived from Caesar, which name 
can perhaps be connected with the fifth declension noun of Latin, 
caesariees., "hairiness." In 1664 Lord Berkeley and Sir George Car- 
teret, who was a native of the island of Jersey, named New Jersey 
when they were gi'anted the charter for that colony. 

New Mexico. — The Spanish form of this name, "Nuevo Mexico," was 
for several centuries used as a designation for the region of the upper 



384 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Kio Grande. When this region was annexed to the United States 
through the cession of 1846, the name was retained but with the trans- 
lation into English as New Mexico. Mexico, in the official orthog- 
raphy of Mexico, is written Mejico, but the older orthography, Mexico, 
still largely obtains throughout the world, even in Spanish-speaking 
countries. The Aztec spelling is Mexico, of which the pronunciation is 
meci'ko, this being one of the names of Mexico City and apparently 
meaning the "place of Mexitli." Mexitli is a byname of Huitzilo- 
pochtli, the god whose temple stood where the cathedral now stands 
in Mexico City. The name Mexico also had, and still has, reference 
to the region of Mexico City and to the entire nation. New Mexico 
was created a Territory in 1850, a State in 1912. 

New York. — The earlier name of New York was New Amsterdam, 
the capital of the Dutch colony of America, known as New Nether- 
land. When Governor Stuyvesant, the last Dutch Governor of the 
Dutch colony, surrendered to the English in 1664, the Dutch colony 
came under the British crown. It was proclaimed at once that the 
name New Amsterdam be changed to New York, in honor of James, 
Duke of York and Albany, younger brother of Charles II of England. 
York is probably the corruption of a British word meaning "a grove 
of yew trees." 

North Carolina. — The name Carolina is the feminine of a neo- 
Latin adjective Caroliinus, derived from neo-Latin Carolus, Charles. 
The name Carolina was first given in honor of Charles IX of France, 
but later grants were named in honor of Charles I and again of 
Charles II of England. The grant of Carolina of Charles I was made 
in 1629, of Charles II in 1663. North and South Carolina were made 
separate colonies in 1729. 

North Dakota. — Dakota is the Dakota Sioux Indian word meaning 
"friend," in some of the eastern dialects beginning with 1 instead of 
with d. The k is aspirated and the accent is on the next to the last 
syllable. The originating form is dakhota. Dakota Territory was 
created in 1861, The Territory received its name because of being 
occupied by the Dakota tribe. In 1889 North Dakota and South 
Dakota were admitted as separate States. 

Ohio. — La Salle was the first European to discover the Ohio Eiver, 
and wrote in 1680 that the Iroquois call it Ohio, spelling the name as 
it is spelled today, in French pronunciation, of course, the i being pro- 
nounced like English ee. W. N. Fenton states that what is evidently 
the same word is still in use in the Seneca language of the Iroquoian 
stock in the form 'Ohiiyo', the Seneca name of the Allegheny River. 
The ordinary word for "beautiful," "magnificent," in Seneca is wiiyo', 
which is to be connected, perhaps, with 'Ohiiyo'. The name 'Ohiiyo' 
is also applied by the Seneca to the Ohio River, into which the Alle- 
gheny River flows, and one of the informants stated that the name 



STATE NAMES — ^HARRINGTON 385 

means any large river. Ohio Territory was created in 1783, taking 
its name from the Ohio River. Oliio State was created in 1803. 

Oklahoma. — The name Oklahoma is a coined word in Choctaw 
meaning "red person" ('ukla, "person"; huma', "red") and first ap- 
peal's in the Choctaw-Chickasaw Treaty of 1866. It was proposed by 
Eev. Allen Wright, a Choctaw-speaking Indian, who was a mission- 
ary. "Red person" or "red man" implies contrast with the Whites 
and was therefore not used in Pre-Columbian times to designate the 
Indians. Oklahoma Territory was created in 1890, Oklahoma State 
in 1907, 

Oregon. — The name Oregon can be traced back to Rogers who in 
1765 wrote Ourigan. There is strong evidence in records of the life 
of Rogers and that of his friend, Jonathan Carver, who also used the 
term, that the name Oregon is Canadian French in origin. The 
French word, standardly spelled ouragan, is used in Canadian 
French to mean any storm, although the word originally came into 
French from Spanish and is the same word as "hurricane," being 
ultimately of Carib Indian origin. The Columbia River, with special 
reference to its source, was probably referred to in very early times 
by some French-speaking trapper as la riviere des Ouragans, "the 
river of the squalls." Mackenzie, in a book published 1802, has a 
chapter entitled "The Hurricane" in which he describes a land storm, 
indicating that English usage sometimes agreed with that of the 
Canadian French. Bryant, in his poem entitled "Thanatopsis," first 
published in 1812, has Oregon as the name of the Columbia River. 
Other suggested meanings have been that Oregon is a corruption of 
the name Aragon, province of Spain, or that it stands for Spanish 
orejon, "big-ear," a name that has been applied to several Indian 
tribes. Capt. Bonneville, in a letter to Schoolcraft, stated that it was 
derived from the Spanish word for the Artemesia or wild sage, saying 
Spanish traders from Santa Fe called it Oregano and the old moun- 
tain men corrupted this to Oregon. There being plenty of sage in 
eastern Oregon, this was referred to as the Oregon or wild-sage 
country. Oregon Territory was created in 1848, bearing the old name 
of the Columbia River; Oregon State was established in 1859. 

Pennsylvania. — Pennsylvania was named by Charles II, King of 
England, when he granted a charter to William Penn in 1680. It is 
a compound of sylvania., neo-Latin for woodland, with the prefix 
Penn, the surname of William Penn's father, Adm. William Penn. 
It had been the desire of William Penn, the son, to call the colony 
New Wales, but the King did not give this name. 

Rhode Island. — The name originated with Adrian Block, who, writ- 
ing in Dutch, called Rhode Island Roodt Eylandt, meaning "red is- 
land," "because of the fiery aspect of the place, caused by the red clay 
in some portions of its shores." The spelling Rhode in English is to 



386 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

be expected, as it was in accordance with the standard way of spelling 
the syllable. An erroneous idea that it was named for the Island of 
Khodes goes back at least as far as Roger Williams, who suggested it. 

South Carolina. — See North Carolina. 

South Dakota. — See North Dakota. 

Tennessee. — The originating form is Tanasi, the Cherokee name of 
two different Cherokee villages on the Little Tennessee River, in what 
is now the southeast corner of the State of Tennessee. The etymology 
of the name is unknown. The Little Tennessee River was evidently 
called Tennessee from the name of these villages, and the name of 
the river was applied by extension to the State. The area of Tennes- 
see was long considered to be a province of western Carolina. Ten- 
nessee became a State in 1796. 

Texas. — The word "teysha" in the Caddo language is a salutation 
which is best translated as "hello friend." The word was widely used in 
Louisiana, Oklahoma, and Texas. In early literature it appears in the 
forms texas, texias, tejas, tejias, teysas, techan, etc., and was applied to 
various tribes, indicating that they were friendly. In Mexican Span- 
ish the letter x had the sound of sh. The Spanish spelling was 
Anglicized to its present sound. The Spanish early applied the name 
to the tribes of the Caddo confederacy which later became Louisiana 
and eastern Texas, so that one spoke in Spanish of these tribes col- 
lectively as el reino de los Texas, "the kingdom of the Texas," and the 
first mission established by the Spanish, which was founded May 25, 
1690, a little northwest of the present town of Weches in eastern 
Texas, was named San Francisco de los Texas, "St. Francis of the 
Texas." As the land of the Texas, the name was applied to the Repub- 
lic of Texas in 1836. Texas became a State in 1845. 

Utah. — The originating form for Utah is White Mountain Apache 
Yuttahih, literally "one that is higher up," now applied by the Wliite 
Mountain Apache to the Navajo. The Spanish and English speakers 
have interpreted this name as referring to the Utes, who are still 
higher up in the mountain country than are the Navajo. The Ute 
are of Shoshonean stock, the Navajo, of Athapascan. As the coun- 
try of the Utes, the name was applied to the region. In 1849 Utah 
was organized as an independent unit, termed "the Provisional State 
of Deseret." Utah was created a Territory in 1851, a State in 1896. 

Vermont. — Champlain, on his map of 1647, designates the Green 
Mountains, which are the most conspicuous landmark of what is now 
the State of Vermont, as "Verd Mont," this designation evidently 
meaning "green mountain," although the standard Modern French 
for green mountain is montagne verte. Champlain did not visit the 
Green IMountains, he only saw them from a distance. It should be 
noted that he used the singular, whereas both French and English 
naturally use the plural. Modern French, imitating Champlain's 



STATE NAINIES — HARRINGTON d87 

form, would have the spelling Vert Mont, and the pronunciation 
would be viir mON. The form would be considered as correct, but 
not customary. 

Virginia. — The English colony of Virginia was named in 1584 in 
honor of Elizabeth, Queen of England, who was widely termed the 
Virgin Queen. Virginia is the feminine of the neo-Latin adjective 
virginius.^ used as a country-name noun. 

Washington. — In 1853, Washington Territory, created out of part 
of Oregon Territory, received the name of Washington in honor of 
George Washington. Washington State was created in 1889. The 
name AVashington would be more correctly spelled Wassington. It 
derives from two words in Anglo-Saxon: "Wassinga Tuun," meaning 
the ville, city, or stockade of the Wassings. 

West Virginia. — West Virginia was set aside from Virginia in 1861, 
at the beginning of the Civil War, and became a separate State in 18G3. 
For the origin of the name, see Virginia. 

Wisconsin. — The earliest occurrence of the name Wisconsin is by 
Plennepin, 1695, and has the spelling Sisconsin. 8 is for ou. Some of 
the early recordings start the word with m instead of with 8. It was 
evidently the name of the Wisconsin River, or of some place on the 
Wisconsin River. The name apparently means "grassy place'' in the 
Chippewa language. Wisconsin was made a Territory in 1836 and 
received its name from the Wisconsin River. Wisconsin became a 
State in 1848. 

Wyoming. — The name Wyoming is from the Delaware language, 
of Algonquian stock, and means "large prairie place." The original 
reference is to the Wyoming Valley in Pennsylvania where the Wyo- 
ming Massacre took place and where the city of Wilkes-Barre is now 
situated. The poet Campbell wrote a long and famous poem entitled 
"Gertrude of Wyoming." When it was desired to give a name to the 
territory that was formed in 1868, the widely known Indian name of 
Wyoming was chosen. Wyoming State was created in 1890. 

CANADIAN NAMES OF INDIAN ORIGIN 

Canada and five Canadian province names are of Indian origin and 
so are included in this study. 

Jacques Cartier in 1545 made a statement as to the origin of the 
name Canada to the effect that it is a Huron Iroquoian word meaning 
"settlement." The original form in the language of the Mohawks is 
Kanaata, meaning a "small place," in contrast to a town or city. 

Manitoha. — The province of Manitoba is named from the large lake 
of that name which occurs in the province. This lake has, at the center 
of its hourglass form, narrows that are called, in the language of the 
Cree Indians who still inhabit these parts, Manitoowaapan, meaning 
"spirit narrows," that is, dangerous narrows. Lake Saint Anne, "Lake 



3SS ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

of Miracles," is called similarly Manitoosaakahikan, "spirit lake," that 
is, dangerous or miraculous lake. 

Ontario.— This name is of Iroquoian origin appearing, for instance, 
in Mohawk as kanyatariiyu, "nice lake," and as skanyatariiyii, "be- 
yond the nice lake." The former is applied as a descriptive term to 
Lake Ontario, the latter to the country beyond the lake. The famous 
Indian, Handsome Lake, was called by the latter of these terms. 

Quebec. — The Huron name for Quebec appears twice in the 1632 
Huron dictionary of Father Sagard-Theodat. The word is aton- 
taregue, "where the heights of both sides meet together." The Abnaki 
name is Kabek, from Kab, "to shut," and ek, "place." Hence, "shut 
in place." The Abnaki name of Quebec first appears in the writings 
of Samuel de Champlain, who visited the site in 1608, under the or- 
thography Quebecq. Champlain's map gives it as Quebec. 

Saskatcheioan. — This province gets its name from the Cree Indians. 
It is the name applied to the Saskatchewan River primarily. Rev. 
F. J. Calais has analyzed it as Kisiskaatchiwan, meaning "swift river," 
the first element being the common word for swift, said of a stream, 
and -tchiwan meaning "river" or "current." Both the north and the 
south forks of Saskatchewan River fit this description. 

Yukon. — The Wliite River in Alaska and Canada was discovered by 
Robert Campbell of the Hudson Bay Co. and named White by him 
because of its color. Schwatka says that the Tutchone Indians called 
it Yukokon Heenah or Yukokon River. The Yuko is a river, tributary 
to the Yukon from the south about 40 miles above the mouth of the 
Koyukuk. The native name was reported by Tikhmenief in 1861 to 
be Yukukakat, i. e., Yuku River. The name Yukon as applied to the 
main river is of Athapascan origin and has been variously spelled 
Youcon, Yucon, etc. The etymology is not known but it was possibly 
applied by extension from the name of one of the headwater streams. 



Slianidar Cave, a Paleolithic Site 
in Northern Iraq 



By Ralph S. Solecki 

Collaborator, Bureau of American Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution 



[With 7 plates] 



In contrast to the study of Paleolithic archeology in the West, 
that of the Orient has lagged behind. This is particularly true of 
Iraq, a country that has been noted for its archeological discoveries 
for more than a hundred years. However, it was just about 25 years 
ago that the first archeological excavation for Paleolithic remains was 
undertaken there, and until recently no further investigations in this 
field had been made in Iraq. 

In this paper I shall attempt to consolidate the meager information 
relating to the Stone Age of Iraq in brief outline, with emphasis on 
my own investigations at Shanidar cave in northern Iraq.^ The most 



'On leave of absence from the Smithsonian Institution in 1951, I began the 
Shanidar cave sounding on behalf of the Directorate General of Antiquities of 
Iraq while I was associated as archeologist with the University of Michigan's 
1951 Expedition to the Near East. Prof. George Cameron was director of the 
University of Michigan expedition. Returning to Iraq again as a Fulbright 
Research Scholar, and collaborator of the Smithsonian Institution, I completed 
the sounding in 1953. The work, financed that season by a grant from the Bruce 
Hughes Fund of the Smithsonian Institution and again by funds and assist- 
ance from the Directorate General of Antiquities of Iraq, was a joint expedition 
of both institutions. To Dr. Naji al Asil, Director General of the Directorate 
General of Antiquities of Iraq, who followed the work of the expedition with 
warm personal interest, and to his institution, is owed a debt of gratitude. 
Not only did the Directorate General of Antiquities lend financial support to 
the work at Shanidar at the cost of limiting the budget of their own archeological 
expeditious elsewhere in Iraq, but they also supplied personnel, equipment, and 
facilities as needed during both seasons of work. 

This report is a preliminary one, since the data are still in process of being 
analyzed. About one twenty-fifth of the total bulk of the cave deposit was exca- 
vated in the two seasons' work. During the first season, the sounding was made 
October 6-16, November 2-15, and December 14-27, 1951. During the second 
season the sounding was carried to completion May 9-29, June 6-26, and July 20- 
August 15, 1953. 

889 



390 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 54 

outstanding discoveries of the two seasons' work at Shanidar cave are : 
(1) the adding of a new archeological horizon to the ah^eady known 
stratigraphical relationships in Iraq, and (2) the finding of the Shan- 
idar hahj skeletal remains. The latter were found in the Middle 
Paleolithic (Mousterian) deposits of the cave. The discovery of the 
skeletal remains marks Shanidar cave as the possible site of the fourth 
principal Neanderthaloid find spot in the continent of Asia — assum- 
ing that the presence of the child's remains in the Mousterian deposit 
gives it a right to be included in the Neanderthaloid category of races. 
It is the first Paleolithic skeleton to be recovered in Iraq. 

The newly identified archeological horizon, represented by an arti- 
f actual assemblage recovered in an Upper Paleolithic stratum, is called 
the "Baradost" industry. 

The name of the present state of Iraq, or 'Iraq, which means "cliff" 
in Arabic, was the name originally employed after the Arab conquest 
to designate that portion of the valley of the Tigris and Euphrates 
Rivers known in the older literature as Babylonia, in the southeast 
section of old Mesopotamia. Iraq now roughly occupies that geo- 
graphical portion of the Near East which was called Mesopotamia 
under the Ottoman Empire, or the "land between the twin rivers" 
(fig. 1). This is part of Breasted's Fertile Crescent, which has seen 
the rise and fall of the civilizations of Sumer, Akkad, Babylonia, As- 
syria, Achaemenian Persians, the Greeks, and the later-day arrivals. 

PHYSIOGRAPHY OF IRAQ 

The major physiographic features of Iraq today comprise three 
main natural regions. These include the eastern border of the Arabian 
plateau (from whose eastern cliff like escarpment is derived the Arabic 
name for Iraq) which forms the infertile desert region of western 
Iraq, the valleys of the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers between the 
plateau of Asia Minor and the Persian Gulf, and the Zagros mountain 
chain, which rises to 12,000 to 14,000 feet in altitude, enclosing the 
Mesopotamian Valley in an arc to the north and east. 

The Tigris and Euphrates Rivers, the former with its larger tribu- 
taries, drain the upper part of Iraq. The general axis of the area of 
Iraq is northwest to southeast, following the line of the two major 
river valleys. The lower part of the Mesopotamian plain is almost 
tablelike in flatness, while the upper part of the country above Bagh- 
dad has some topographical relief. In the north there is an exten- 
sive dry steppe area with a healthy desert climate, something like that 
of parts of the American Southwest. There is an unhealthy region of 
swamps and marshlands in the south, bordered by a desert on the 
west and the Persian mountains on the east. 



SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 



391 




p''/^^-':^' 


.►^ Af-i" -,- 


^ / i T ' <* 








.cMs " 


w - 



Figure 1. — Map of Iraq showing locations of reported Stone Age sites, and neighboring 
countries. Numbered sites are: 1, Shanidar cave; 2, Aqra; 3, Zakho; 4, Havidan cave; 5, 
Rowandu?.; 6, Dukan cave; 7, Zarzi cave; 8, Palepawra cave; 9, Hazer Merd cave; 10, 
Karim Shahir; ll,Jarmo; 12, Barda Baika; 13, "Mile 21"; 14, Kirkuk gravels and Baba 
Gurgur; 15, Tarjil; 16, Tar Kshaife and wadi gravels; 17, site near Sliithatha; 18, finds 
north of Ana; 19, Landing Ground 4; 20, Landing Ground 5; 21, area of Wadi Hauran; 
22, Qaara depression; 23, Jebel Anazeh. 

826511—55 27 



392 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

PLEISTOCENE HISTORY OF IRAQ 

Very important to our understanding of the Stone Age of Iraq and 
the Near East is a discussion of the former view concerning the sup- 
posed extension of the Persian Gulf in Mesopotamia. Such an ex- 
tension of this sea would have been an obstacle to the prehistoric mi- 
gration of peoples. In a recent instructive paper, Lees and Falcon 
(1952) have demonstrated that Jacques de Morgan's (1924, pp. 32, 39; 
1927, p. 2) hypothesis regarding the former extension of the Persian 
Gulf within the time of man is geologically unfounded. Such a land- 
ward encroachment of the sea would have meant that migrant peoples 
would have had to funnel east and west between the foothills of the 
Zagros and the northern edge of this water. Lees and Falcon (op. 
cit.) have found no evidence of marine deposition anywhere in the 
upper Mesopotamian plain. These authors compiled a study from ar- 
cheological excavations, boreholes, physical and geological observa- 
tions, and aerial photography which indicates, contrary to de Morgan's 
hypothesis, that the Tigris, the Euphrates, and the Karun Rivers are 
not building forward a normal delta. Instead, these rivers are dis- 
charging their load of sediment into a tectonic or sinking basin. 

The fact that there never has been a long northward extension of 
the Persian Gulf within the time of human occupation negates the 
cherished belief of archeologists, based upon de Morgan's theory, that 
Stone Age man was obliged to skirt the head of the gulf in the vicinity 
of northern Mesopotamia. We can now assume that man could have 
roamed at will, dry-shod, across the length and breadth of the Mesopo- 
tamian plains, some actual hint of which is given below. 

Very important to the geochronology of prehistoric archeological 
sites is the identification of old landforms with periods of liuman 
occupation. Significant among these landforms are raised sea beaches 
or marine terraces and inland riverine terraces. Marine terraces arc 
not discussed here, since they are not within the scope of this paper. 
In fact, there appear to be certain difficulties in correlating marine 
terraces of the Persian Gulf, into which the principal rivers of 
Mesopotamia empty, with inland riverine terraces of the same region. 
Lees and Falcon (1952, p. 28) state that there is no simple develop- 
ment of recent marine terraces in the surroundings of the Persian 
Gulf, because the folding movements of the anticlines that bound the 
coasts are still active. There are many sections of subsiding shoreline 
with drowned valley conditions in synclines and many sloping terraces 
on the flanks of adjacent anticlines. H. E. Wright, Jr. (1952, p. 24), 
the geologist who accompanied the University of Chicago Oriental 
Institute expedition to Iraq in 1951, mentions, among other things, 
that river terraces traceable to marine terraces were not revealed in his 
geological reconnaissances in northern Iraq. 



SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 393 

In upper Mesopotamia we find the record of distinct terrace sys- 
tems bordering the Euphrates, the Tigris, and the Greater Zab Rivers. 
Passemard (1927, p. 71) noted that there were terraces along the Eu- 
phrates at elevations of 100, 60, 30, and 15 meters. He found a hand 
ax described as of upper Chellean type in place in a 30-meter terrace, 
suggesting that the region was occupied during Lower Paleolithic 
times. 

The geologists of the Iraq Petroleum Co. at Kirkuk reported that 
one of their surveys between Tarjil and Rudkhana, villages northeast 
of Tauq in northern Iraq, revealed five fluviatile deposits marking five 
terraces merging one into another.^ These terraces lie on the stream 
drainages of the Tigris River. The relative heights of these terraces 
above river level were measured between the following limits : Terrace 
1, 289 feet; Terrace 2, 190 and 170 feet; Terrace 3, 110 and 90 feet; 
Terrace 4, 65 and 55 feet ; Terrace 5, 33 and 25 feet. The relative hori- 
zons of the terraces are constant at about 10 feet for the fourth and 
fifth terraces, and at about 20 feet for the second and third terraces. 

C. Stansfield Hitchin (unpublished report of 1948, pp. 50-51), con- 
sulting geologist for the proposed high dam at the head of the Bekhme 
Gorge in the Rowanduz District of northern Iraq, reports the occur- 
rence of four distinct horizons of terrace gravels above the Greater Zab 
River. Isolated deposits of these gravels occur at fre(iuent intervals 
up the length of the Greater Zab and Rowanduz River valleys. These 
terrace gravels are found at 100-90, 40-35, 15, and 4 meters above the 
present river level. At many localities these sediments are lime- 
cemented, and evidently represent the depositions of past pluvial 
periods, since they contain material far coarser than the present river 
is capable of carrying, even in flood. 

I was able to make a few observations on the terraces in the vicinity 
of Shanidar village and the Greater Zab River during my explora- 
tions at Shanidar cave and environs. Using an aircraft-type altimeter, 
I measured the heights of two terraces on the Greater Zab River 
about half a mile above the confluence of the Greater Zab and the 
Rowanduz River.^ One terrace lay at approximately 50 feet above 
the river, and a lower terrace was measured at approximately 25 feet 
above the river. The Shanidar police post, which is situated on a 
broad terrace composed of coarse gravel cemented by limestone, is 
some 140 feet above the river level. 

The observations of Passemard, the Iraq Petroleum Co. geologists, 
Hitchin, and myself are tabulated below (table 1). Measurements 
made in feet are converted to the nearest meter.* 



' Unpublished data. The terraces are numbered in reverse order in the report. 

* These readings should be rechecked with a level for more accurate data. 

* The conversion tables used are the "Express," British into metric conversion 
tables, by J. Gall Inglia, London, 1927. 



394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Table 1. — Terrace elevations on the Euphrates and tributaries of the Tigris 



Euphrates terraces 
(Passemard) 


Tarjil-Rudkhana terraces (Iraq 
Petroleum Co.) 


Greater Zab and 
Rowanduz River 
terraces (Hitchin) 


Greater Zab River 
terraces (Solecki) 


Meters 




Meters 




100 


88.0 m. (289 ft.) 


100-90 




60 


57.9 and 51.8 m. (190 and 
170 ft.) 






30 


33.5 and 27.4 m. (110 and 
90 ft.) 


40-35 


42.6 m. (140 ft.) 


15 


19.8 and 16.7 m. (65 and 
55 ft.) 


15 


15.2 m. (50 ft.) 




10.1 and 7.6 m. (33 and 


4 


7.6 m. (25 ft.) 




25 ft.) 







These terraces presumably result from climatic fluctuations in the 
Pleistocene period. As Hitchin notes, the coarser material contained 
in terrace gravels may be evidence of past pluvial periods. Wright 
(1952, p. 18) indicates that on the "basis of climatological and physi- 
ographical reasoning," deposition may be correlated with either dry 
or wet climate. In apparent support of Hitchin's suggestion, Wright 
(ibid.) finds correlation of deposition with relatively humid or wet 
phases in northeastern Iraq. The nonconformity of several of the 
readings on the Tigris Eiver drainage may indicate local tectonic 
movements. With regard to the latter possibility, Lees and Falcon 
(1952, p. 27) state that in the Mesopotamian region (at least in the 
southeastern area) the history of recent movements of the mountain 
zone is shown by terraces in the river valleys leading from the plains 
into the mountains. The elevation of the mountains was not uniform 
but episodic. 

Thus we appear to have two solutions for the formation of the 
river terraces within the confines of Iraq. In upper Iraq we find ter- 
races reflecting climatic fluctuations — terraces which must have also 
been dependent upon episodic elevation movements of the Zagros 
Mountains. The problem of which factor, climatic fluctuation or tec- 
tonic movement, played the dominant role in the formation of the 
terraces in northern and northeastern Iraq, may be a hard one to solve. 
That the future holds promise for the establishment of a geological- 
archeological chronology for the Zagros-Mesopotamian belt is revealed 
by Wright (1952, p. 24), who states that the relation of the moun- 
tain streams to the historical development of the Mesopotamian plain 
is "susceptible of solution" in a fairly detailed chronological system. 

In my own reconnaissance of the Zagros mountain chain in the gen- 
eral area of northern Iraq no evidences of glaciation were seen. This 



SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 395 

observation was corroborated by the geologists of the Iraq Petroleum 
Co., who had not noted any glacial indications in their field explora- 
tions.^ Traces of glaciers have been observed in the Anatolian Moun- 
tains by de Morgan (1925, p. 99). A more detailed report on glacial 
evidences on the Anatolian plateau was made more recently by Ering, 
(1949), who noted existing glaciers in the mountains of northeast 
Anatolia. Flint (1948, pp. 362-363) presents data to show that the 
mountain areas of western Persia as well as the Anatolian Mountains 
were glaciated. 

HISTORY OF THE PALEOLITHIC ARCHEOLOGY OF IRAQ 

The archeology of the Old Stone Age of Iraq is better known in the 
steppe and mountain areas than in the desert areas or in the region 
south of a line below Kirkuk. Aside from a few surface finds in the 
western desert of Iraq and some west of Kerbala, a holy city south 
of Bagdad, no data have been recovered in the latter area. This is 
due mainly to the fact that this area has not been explored yet for 
Paleolithic remains — a truism that holds for a large area of the Near 
East. The principal investigator of the western desert regions of 
Iraq is Dr. Henry Field, who collected from many surface sites on 
the desert plateau west of Bagdad. These collections were made by 
Field (1952a, pp. 136-139) on motor trips from 1925 to 1928, in 1934, 
and 1950. The artifacts recovered by Field on his earlier motor trips 
were studied by Dorothy Garrod, but the work has not yet been pub- 
lished (Field, op. cit., p. 139, footnote 41). In the southwest angle 
of Iraq on Jebel Anazeh, Field (1952b) found "flint stone implements 
of Middle and Upper Paleolithic types." He also found artifacts at 
Wadi Hauran, a long valley near Eutba in the same region. The 
locus of a number of finds of Old Stone Age material is a large de- 
pression (Qaara) about 20 miles north and east of Rutba (Field, 1951, 
p. 89). In presumably the same area M. Rene Wetzel found flints 
which appear to be of archaic Neolithic type (Fleisch, 1952, pp. 
214-216). 

There are in the collections of the Iraq Museum some surface finds 
of Paleolithic-appearing flints recovered on desert landing grounds 
of western Iraq. The finds were made by Squadron Leader G. S. M. 
Insall (now Group Captain, V. C, M. C, retired) of the Royal Air 
Force in 1927. The specimens were found on Landing Grounds 5 

' From Iraq comes Information that Dr. Herbert E. Wright, Jr., with the 1954- 
19.55 Oriental Institute expedition in the Near East, discovered evidences of 
glaciers in northern Iraq which had flowed down to 5,000 feet elevation. The 
relation of gravel terraces of glacial origin to some archeological sites were to 
be studied. (Released by permission of Dr. Robert B. Braidwood in a personal 
communication dated February 9, 1955.) 



396 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

and 4, between Landing Grounds K and H, and on Landing Ground 
H, on the air route between Habbaniyah and Jordan. 

Some flint flakes were found 25 miles north of Ana by a member 
of the Iraq Petroleum Co. oil prospectors (Field, 1951, p. 89). 

Field (1952a, pp. 44, 136-137) reports that he found typologically 
Paleolithic implements at widely separated points across the face of 
Kurdistan Iraq. The finds include implements recovered in the Kir- 
kuk gravels, and in the mountain passes at Zakho, Aqra, and Rowan- 
duz, and at Suleimaniyah. He found "hundreds of microlithic im- 
plements" on the talus slope in front of Havdian cave, a few miles 
to the northwest of Rowanduz (Field, 1951, p. 90). Field (op. cit., 
pp. 89-90) also reports a few flakes near Erbil, and a flint hand ax 
and some choppers near "mile 21" on the Kirkuk-Suleimaniyah road. 
Some implements were recovered by the Directorate General of An- 
tiquities of Iraq and Field at Barda Balka on the same road. 

W. B. Lucas, of the Iraq Petroleum Co., picked up several flints near 
Kirkuk which appear to have a Paleolithic cast. 

The first Paleolithic finds in northeastern Iraq were made in 1928 
by Dr. Dorothy A. E. Garrod (1928) during the course of a prelimi- 
nary survey undertaken on a joint expedition of the Percy Sladen 
Memorial Fund and the American School of Prehistoric Research. 
She recovered several Mousterian artifacts on the surface of gravel 
beds near Kirkuk, and found (op. cit.) Mousterian-type artifacts on 
the surface of a small wady near Tarjil, a few miles southeast of 
Kirkuk. A small flint tortoise core was found in place near the base 
of a bed of gravel that had been cut into by a stream. It would be 
interesting to relocate the Tarjil site and try to correlate the gravels 
with one of the terrace systems mapped there by the Iraq Petroleum 
Co. geologists. 

Dr. Garrod's (1930) expedition to the Suleimaniyah area of Kurdi- 
stan Iraq was the first to conduct a Paleolithic excavation in Iraq. 
They discovered the Upper Paleolithic ("Gravettian") site of Zarzi, 
and the Middle Paleolithic (Mousterian) site of Hazer Merd, both of 
which are cave sites. At Hazer Merd, efforts were concentrated on 
the excavation of one of six caves, called the Dark Cave. This cave 
yielded the Mousterian-type artifacts that form the type specimens 
for this period in Iraq. The expedition excavated a little less than 
two-thirds of the deposit, and established the presence of three layers: 
A, B, and C. Layer C, which contained the Mousterian artifacts, had 
a thickness ranging from 50 cm. to 3.90 m. 

It is suggested that the Dark Cave of Hazer Merd was occupied 
during a cold period, or at least a period colder than today (Garrod, 
op. cit., p. 40). Yet Dorothea M. A. Bate's (in Garrod, op. cit., pp. 
38-39) examination of the animal remains reveals (though not in 



SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 397 

refutation of this statement) that there was no form represented in 
the excavation that could not be found living in the country at present. 

The cave of Zarzi which Garrod (op. cit.) excavated is a small 
chamber situated on a tributary of the Lesser Zab River. The main 
archeological deposit consisted of two layers : A and B. Layer B 
contained the Upper Paleolithic "extended Gravettian industry," 
which marks Zarzi as the type station for this horizon. Layer B had 
a thickness of 50 cm. to 1.50 m. Flint implements representing a 
single umnixed archeological industry were scattered in great abun- 
dance throughout Layer B. The only apparent sign of change or 
development was the appearance of microlithic geometric forms in the 
uppermost part of Layer B. The distinctive forms that set this site 
apart are small round scrapers, bladelets with deeply notched edges, 
and blunted-back blades (Garrod, 1953, p. 22). There are also a very 
few single-shouldered points. The microlithic forms from the top of 
the layer consist of lunates and elongated triangles, with a single 
microburin. These microlithic forms are typologically Mesolithic in 
character. 

Archeologists of the Directorate General of Antiquities of Iraq re- 
covered some Paleolithic implements on the surface of the desert 
southwest of Shithatha near a great depression west of Kerbala (Sol- 
ecki, 1954, p. 62, footnote 1). A representative of the same institu- 
tion made a reconnaissance of cave sites in the Surdash District of 
northeastern Iraq, but in none of these were found Paleolithic remains 
(Mahdi, 1950). It is very likely that some of these caves had been 
examined earlier by Robert A. Franks, Jr., and F. Turville-Petre, 
who accompanied Garrod (1930, pp. 41-42) on her expedition in this 
region. 

Barda Balka, an important open Paleolithic site on a hilltop and 
hillside about 2i/^ miles east of Chemchemal in the Kirkuk liwa, was 
originally described by Dr. Naji al Asil (1949). The site was tested 
during a reconnaissance by Drs. PL E. Wright, Jr., and Bruce How^e 
(1951) of the Oriental Institute expedition, on behalf of the Direc- 
torate General of Antiquities. It seems to have been a living area 
as well as a workshop site. The investigators made a discontinuous 
trench about 50 meters long and 1 to 2 meters deep. The artifacts 
recovered in the Barda Balka gravel may be grouped in three general 
categories: hand axes, pebble tools, and flakes. The outstanding 
archeological feature of this site is the combination of cores, pebbles, 
and small flake implements in the same occupation area, apparently 
contemporaneous. This material resembles elements in the Acheulian, 
Tayacian, and Mousterian industries. The assemblage was found in 
situ, or virtually in situ, on the basis of the geological evidence. It 
may be considered as the oldest type of industry so far found in a 



398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

geological context in Iraq. According to Wright (1952, p. 12), the 
deposits containing the artifacts date from the very beginning of the 
last of the four glacial stages of the Pleistocene (i. e., Wiirm, in terms 
of the Alpine sequence) . Included in the mammal remains are the 
bones of rhinoceros and Indian elephant, which have not been noted 
elsewhere in Iraq archeological sites (Wright and Howe, 1951; 
Fraser, 1953). 

The combined archeological expedition of the Oriental Institute 
of the University of Chicago and the American Schools of Oriental 
Eesearch under the directorship of Dr. Kobert J. Braidwood in 
1950-51 spent a season in the region between Chemchemal and Sulei- 
maniyah in northeastern Iraq. This expedition investigated four 
sites: Jarmo, Karim Shahir, Palegawra, and Barda Balka (described 
above). All these sites are in the foothills area of the Zagros Moun- 
tains. With the exception of Jarmo, a very early Neolithic site, all 
are pre-Neolithic in age.'' 

Palegawra, a cave site that was excavated by Howe (Braidwood, 
1951a, b), is situated about 20 miles east of Chemchemal. Three suc- 
cessive natural layers were exposed in a trench excavated to 1.75 me- 
ters. The bottom layer contained an "uncontaminated blade-tool 
industry, with microliths" resembling the industry of the Zarzi cave 
(Braidwood, 1951b, p. 15). A preliminary impression is that the in- 
dustry of Palegawra represents a slightly later phase than that of 
Zarzi (Garrod, 1953, p. 23, footnote 3). In typological classification 
it may be deduced that Zarzi and Palegawra are very late Upper 
Paleolithic sites, bordering on Mesolithic (Garrod, 1953, p. 22; Mo- 
vius, 1953, p. 416). Unfortunately, because of its physical nature, 
Palegawra cave cannot be related to the geological sequence of the 
Chemchemal Valley, and therefore cannot be placed in the geochron- 
ology of this area (Wright, 1952, p. 12). There is no way of geo- 
logically dating Zarzi cave either. 

Karim Shahir is an open settlement site of about 2 acres in extent, 
situated on an eminence about one-fourth mile upstream from Jarmo 
(Jarmo is about 5 airline miles east of Chemchemal) (Braidwood, 
1951a, b). It was excavated by Bruce Howe. This site appears to 
represent the terminus of the Mesolithic quite close to Early Neo- 
lithic Jarmo. Karim Shahir had a single occupation exposed in about 
550 square meters of area, with the principal occupation level only a 



'Braidwood (1952, p. 41), and Braidwood, Robert J. and Linda, 1953, pp. 
279-280) use the term "food gathering stage" as a substitute for the Paleo- 
lithic; "era of incipient agriculture and animal domestication" for the Meso- 
lithic; and "era of village-farming efficiency" for Neolithic in their papers on 
Near Eastern archeology. According to the Braidwoods, the terms in current 
usage, especially Neolithic and Mesolithic, are felt to be too loosely applied. 



SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 399 

few centimeters below the modern surface. The site is chronologically 
and typologically between Jarmo of the village-food-raising period 
and the Palegawra cave, of the earlier hnnting-foraging period. 
Some kind of house structure is suggested, and the recovery of a 
small number of sickle blades, milling stones, and a fair number 
of chipped and ground stone hoes is pointed to as evidence for the 
beginnings of agriculture. Also in the inventory are chipped celts 
with polished bits; ground stone rings, bracelets, and pendants; in 
addition to a large proportion of microliths. 

Karim Shahir, as well as the succeeding Jarmo, belongs to a dry 
climate in the "Post-Glacial climatic optimum" of the European cli- 
matic sequence (Wright, 1952, pp. 22-23). The faunal remains of 
Karim Shahir reflect this dry climate. 

In summarizing the history of Paleolithic archeology in Iraq, it 
is evident that with the exception of Shanidar cave, the leading sites 
of pre-Neolithic Iraq are situated in an area approximately 35 miles 
wide in the foothills of the Zagros Mountains between Chemchemal 
and Suleimaniyah. These sites include Barda Balka, the Dark Cave 
of Hazer Merd, Zarzi, Palegawra, and Karim Shahir. There are gaps 
in the archeological sequence, which future investigations will inevita- 
bly close. 

It is certain that with further and more systematic searches in the 
desert areas of Iraq, more Stone Age sites will be found. Since Lees 
and Falcon's study (1952) has shown that the supposed former exten- 
sion of the Persian Gulf into Mesopotamia was not a fact, we may 
assume that Stone Age man moved at will across the length and 
breadth of this region. It is possible that Paleolithic sites may be 
buried under the alluvium of the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers and their 
drainage systems in southern Iraq. The desert regions, as in the other 
desert areas of the Near East (notably Kharga Oasis in Egypt), had a 
more favorable climate, presumably in pluvial times, thus supporting 
enough game to attract the hunting-foraging peoples of the Paleo- 
lithic period. There are several depressions of large size in western 
and southern Iraq, around two of which Paleolithic-type artifacts 
have been recovered. 

Affinities of the Mousterian industry of the Hazer Merd cave have 
been found by Garrod (1930, p. 37; Garrod and Bate, 1937, p. 119) 
with the caves of Palestine. The assemblage from the Bisitun cave 
in western Iran contains elements that are comparable to the industry 
from the Hazer Merd cave also (Movius, in Coon, 1951, pp. 91-92; 
Movius, 1953, pp. 414-415). 

At the time of Garrod's (1930) finds at Zarzi, information from 
Russia was scanty; the nearest comparable sites were the Austrian 
loess stations and the Grimaldi caves. With new reports from Rus- 



400 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

sia, she realized that the Kurdistan industry of Zarzi, although pos- 
sibly later in time, should be linked with the industries of Kostenki I 
and Gagarino, some 600 miles to the north. The microlithic assem- 
blage from the upper part of Layer B of Zarzi cave resembles the 
flints from the cave of Gvardzhilas Klde in the Caucasus, a site that 
also dates from the very end of the Paleolithic (Garrod, 1938, p. 14). 
Garrod (1953, pp. 22-23), in a recent view of the problem, feels that 
this "culture is for the moment too isolated to enter into a general 
picture of the Middle Eastern sequence." On the other hand, Waechter 
(1952, p. 16) finds a marked similarity of the upper part of Zarzi to 
the post-Aurignacian of Palestine, as well as to the site of Gvardzhilas 
Klde.^ For Palegawra, with an industry similar to, but somewhat 
later chronologically than Zarzi, the same relationships presumably 
hold. 

Karim Shahir yielded a Mesolithic industry which Howe regards 
as a development from the Zarzi-Palegawra stage, but definitely later 
in time (Movius, 1953, p. 417) . 

Prior to the discovery of the Shanidar cave, the superposition of a 
very late Upper Paleolithic industry such as that of Zarzi upon the 
Middle Paleolithic of the Hazer Merd cave left a chronological and 
cultural hiatus unaccounted for. It represented a tremendous jump — 
presuming a change-over in the climate, physiography, biology, as well 
as in the flint- working tradition — as though one wiped the slate clean 
and began all over again. We can be pretty sure that the racial types 
of Paleolithic man (about which we still know nothing in Iraq) had 
changed too, as at Mount Carmel in Palestine. 

SHANIDAR CAVE 

Shanidar cave, first explored on an archeological reconnaissance in 
1951 (Solecki, 1952a), lies in the Rowanduz district of the Erbil liwa, 
in northern or Kurdistan Iraq (fig. 2). The Chemchemal-Sulei- 
maniyah area is about 120 airline miles to the southeast of Shanidar. 
The village, after which the cave has taken its name, is occupied by 
a small tribal settlement of Barzani Kurds, who had been resettled 
there by the Iraq Government. Shanidar village is 29 miles by road 
from Khalifan, a Kurdish village on the main road to Ryat from 
Erbil. A police post, one of the several that are to be found at points 
along the roads in this region, dominates the terrace edge above the 
Shanidar village. 

The synclinal valley of Shanidar lies at about 1,400 feet (426.7 
meters) elevation (pi. 1, a). It is formed by two rivers, the Greater 



' For additional references concerning possible relationships of the Zarzi site 
with this Caucasus site see Movius, 1953, p. 416, especially footnote 25. 



SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECEI 



401 



Zab River flowing southeastward, and the Rowanduz River, flow- 
ing northwestward. These two rivers join at a village called Der Tesu 
in the valley, where they cut across the Berat Dagh mountain at the 
Bekhme Gorge. The Greater Zab River, one of the major tributaries 
of the Tigris River, originates in the Anatolian plateau. The Rowan- 
duz River, originating near the eastern boundary of Iraq, emerges 
into the valley from the famed Rowanduz Gorge of Hamilton ( 1937) . 




Figure 2. — Map showing location of Shanldar cave in the Zagros Mountains of Kurdistan 

Iraq. 

The valley of Shanidar nestles behind the second range of moun- 
tains (Berat Dagh) from the Mesopotamian steppe area. Baradost 
Mountain flanks the valley on the northeast. Both mountains are 
over 6,000 feet (1,828.8 m.) high. These mountains are part of the 
system of parallel and subparallel anticlinal folds of the Zagros 
Mountains. In the vicinity of Shanidar there is a directional curve 
of these mountains from a general northwest-southeast direction to 
a more westerly trend in conformity with the Zagi'os arc. Several 
gravel terraces are present in the valley, which have been judged to 



402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

be pluvial in origin. Baradost Mountain looks down upon the Shan- 
idar valley with a steep southwest-facing scarp attaining precipice 
elevations along much of its length. Stunted dwarf oak trees dot 
the landscape in the river bottom which has a rather broken floor of 
some 114 miles in width. 

The valley of the Greater Zab River between Zibar, a village to 
the northwest of Shanidar, and Shanidar village is constricted above 
Gundi-Shkaft (an abandoned village site) at the Pira Sar Gorge. 
The valley in the Zibar area above this gorge is called the Sapna or 
Sapne Valley (Wigram and Wigram, 1914, p. 311). It is in the area 
of this gorge, a scant 2 miles from Shanidar cave, that the migratory 
Herki Kurds twice seasonally construct their log, branch, and twig 
bridge across the Greater Zab River for their annual migrations to 
the Persian mountains for the hot summer months, and return. It 
seems likely that before the present road was cut along the left bank 
of the river the only trail led past the Shanidar cave. In fact, some 
groups of these migrant Kurds still do use this trail in preference to 
the road. There are evidences of "Kor Pasha's road" below Shanidar 
cave. This road, which leads from Rowanduz to Mosul (it is said), 
was built by one of the Kurdish rulers who had his seat at Rowanduz 
over a hundred years ago. 

Shanidar cave (Kurdish, Shkaft Mazin Shanidar — cave big Shani- 
dar) is a solution cave in a dolomitic Qamchuga ^ limestone series of 
Middle Cretaceous age. The color of the rock is a light gray-brown, 
which erodes into a reddish-colored soil. There is a fault zone near 
the cave with two well-marked fault lines, parallel to the axis of the 
mountain folds. 

The cave is situated at about 2,200 feet (731.5 m.) above sea level, 
or about 1,200 feet (365.8 m.) above river level. The Greater Zab 
River may be seen a mile and a half from the cave (pi. 1, 6). Shani- 
dar cave is in a sheltered nose of the Baradost Mountain, facing the 
fcouth with a warm, sunny exposure, and protected from the winter 
winds (pi. 2, fig. 1) . There is an intermittent stream which flows at the 
foot of the slope to the west. This stream bed contains stagnant pools 
in its lower portion during the dry summer months. There is a path 
following the upper reaches of this stream through a steep valley to 
Mergasur, a village on the east side of Baradost Mountain. It takes 
about two hours to make this journey. A closer supply of water than 
the intermittent stream is to be found in the springs up the gorge from 
the cave some 410 feet (125 m.) by a well-traveled path. Water is 
carried in goatskin bags on the backs of the present cave-dweller 
women, as their forebears had probably done before them at Shanidar. 



"Called Qamchuga by the geologists of the Iraq Petroleum Co., and Judea 
limestone by Hitchin (unpublished report of 1948). 



SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 403 

The mouth of the cave is shaped roughly like a broad triangle (pi. 2, 
fig. 2). The opening measures 82 feet (25 m.) wide, and 26 feet (7.92 
m.) high. Not far from the opening the width increases abruptly 
toward the interior to an extreme of 175 feet (53.34 m.). The ceiling 
vaults loftily to a jagged crevice about 45 feet (13.2 m.) above the 
cave floor. From this point inward the ceiling falls away rapidly 
to a height of 25 feet (7.62 m.), then gradually slopes to the rear until 
the end of the cave is met, some 130 feet (39.62 m.) from the cave 
mouth. The talus slope, with its yearly mounting debris, is steep, 
slanting away to the gulley about 140 feet (42.67 m.) below (figs. 3, 4). 




SHANIDAR CAVe 
PROFILE SECTION ON LINE AS 



Figure 3. — Section of Shaiildar cave showing extent of 1951 sounding (dotted line) and 

1953 sounding (dashed line). 

Between the colder winter months of November and April, a group 
of Shirwani Kurds, about 35 people in all, or approximately 7 fami- 
lies, inhabit the cave. They maintain small single-roomed winter 
shelters constructed of log posts, branches, twigs, and straw ranged 
around the sides of the cave interior. Each of these is warmed by a 
stone-bordered open fire. Completing the scene of communal living 
are the animal corrals for the goats, and hitching posts and tethering 
stakes for the larger animals such as the cows and horses. It is appar- 
ently customary for these cave inhabitants occasionally to light a large 
communal fire, burning cakes of earth (observed during the 1951 
season). These cakes are compacted segments of animal dung and 
humus-containing cave-floor crust, which burn with a hot flame for 
a long time. The sizable ash deposit left may account for the phe- 
nomenon of large ash and fire remains in the topmost layer (Layer A) 



404 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



of Shanidar cave. The recovery of a number of small, well-attrited 
pieces of flint on the surface of the talus slope was explained when 
it was observed that the cave dwellers — even the workers (when 
matches were lacking) — strike flint and steel for fires and for the 
lighting of pipes and cigarettes. 




BENCH MARK 



^.# 



''""'•<v.....,.,,„4.vvv>vv^^^^''" ^yi^ 



"/yY'h-ivM.vi'iVri'Vi'VA , 



*o ao 4t> so 



O I 23 A S 



'/•;.|,|j,V|.|Vri'V\'VA FEET 



GROUND PLAN 
SHANIDAR CAVE 



Figure 4. — Plan of Shanidar cave showing extent of the 1951 sounding and expanded limits 
in 1953. Of the enclosures indicated, Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 24, 26, 27, 28, 32, 34, 35, and 36 were 
houses or had been formerly used as houses by present-day Kurdish inhabitants. The 
rest of the features, with the exception of 37 and 38, were animal corrals or storage places. 
Features 37 and 38 were leban (Kurdish, "mast") or milk-product churn tripods. 

Two seasons were spent in the sounding of the deposits, in 1951 and 
1953 (Solecki, 1952b, 1953a, b). The first expedition, which was 
laidertaken on behalf of the Directorate General of Antiquities of 



SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 



405 



Iraq, was engaged on the project for more than 6 work weeks during 
the fall and winter of 1951. Ahmad Mahdi, a staff member of the 
Directorate General of Antiquities, represented his institution at 
Shanidar the first season. Excavation was begun with a test trench 
in the middle of the cave floor area. As the results of this preliminary 
assessment seemed to be very promising, a grid plan of 5 feet (1.62 
m.) was staked out for the areal control of the sounding (fig. 5). A 



Nzy^ 


NZHJ 


A/2M 


^2Wf 


A2W0 


NIU4 


Nim 


/VIWZ 


NIM 


/¥ZWO 


ow^ 


om 


OMZ 


OVil 


5AWA'/A9/? 

(ChlLP 


Sl\N4 


SIW3 


smz 


SIMI 


SI MO 


Sim 


SZ\H3 


S2U2 


szw/ 


szwo 


S3M4 


S3W3 


S3WZ 


S3t// 


S3m 


S4W4 


54W 


J^htt 


5^W/ 


S4W0 


SSW4 


SfW3 


SfWZ 


SSWl 


SFHO 



00 



56W4 Si>\ft3 S6WZ J(>W/ S6W0 

Figure 5. — Grid plan of Shanidar cave sounding. 

datum plane for vertical or depth control was established. The 
sounding was excavated and screened by 6-inch (15.24-cm.) levels. 
The 1951 sounding measured 15 by 20 feet (4.57 by 6.10 m.) in ground 
plan, with a depth reaching to 25 feet (7.62 m.) in the deepest area. 
The sounding was "stepped" back. 

Four major cultural layers were recognized as the result of the 
first season's operation : Layers A, B, C, and D, from top downward 
(pi. 3, a, 6; figs. 6, 7). Layer A, marked by a thick accumulation of 
ash beds, hearths, and organic-stained soil, contained modern, historic 
through probably "Neolithic" horizons. Layer B, a thinner zone of 



406 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

brown stained soil, yielded a nonceramic Zarzi type of flint industry, 
including a Mesolithic-like industry (pi. 4). Layer C, which the 
writer (Solecki, op. cit.) had earlier called "Aurignacian" and 
"Aurignacian-type," contained a stone industry which was later 
identified as unique (pi. 5). Layer D contained a typologically 
Mousterian stone industry which, with the exception of hand axes, is 
typologically similar to the industry recovered by Garrod at Hazer 
Merd (pi. 6) . These layers with their contents and significance are 



CROSS SECTION OF SHANIDAR CAVE SOUNDING 
ON LINE 00-GW4 (NORTH FACE, UPPER HALF SECTION) 



0W4 ■•> — WEST 



EAST ► 00 



^0 ...DATUM 




Figure 6. — Upper part of the north face of Shanidar cave sounding, 1951 season, showing 
Layers A, B, C, and the upper part of Layer D. 

discussed in more detail below. It may be well to emphasize here that 
the four cultural layers noted do have soil changes within them, but 
for the present treatment I chose to recognize the layers in broad 
physical as well as cultural perspective, placing weight on typological 
contexts (e. g., Layer D, a very thick deposit, while it appears to be 
typologically Mousterian in content throughout, is not composed of a 
single unbroken soil stratum, as one should logically expect). 



Smithsonian Report. 1934. — Solecki 



PLATE 1 




^U- 





a. View (if Shaiiidar \cilli/\ t<i ihe souUieast from a point near SliaiiiJai- cave. The Greater 
Zab River, with its terraces, at the right; Baradost Mountain, a part of the Zagros moun- 
tain range, in left background, b. View to the south and west from the mouth of Shanidar 
cave. The Greater Zab River is just beyond the notch in the hills in the foreground. 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Solecki 



'-«'<'V^' 






^-^ ^ A if ■"'* ,-'^'w'' -r - 






V - ^** 










■*'"»» \' '^ 




1. Looking nortli toward Shaiiui i I'lu MiuLturc on tlic right side nf tlic cave 

interior is one of the several liabiiations of present-day Kurdish tribesmen. 








2. View from the interior of Shanidar cave. The excavation is in the foreground. 



Smithsonian Report, l«54.-Soleckl 



*-• 1* 



- '-., u 



m^ 



ii^^^> 



Plate 3 




C C U P A 



T I N A L LAY 



E R 



STA LAGMITIC 
L A Y E R 



. North face of Shanidar cave sounding, 1951 season. The westward slant of Layers 
A, B, and C is shown, b, Lower part of Layer D in Shanidar cave sounding, north face, 
1953 season. The man is standing on bedrock. The heavy occupational zone containing 
the laver of stalaeniitic crust is indicated. 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Solecki 



Plate 6 




Examples of flints from Layer D (Middle Paleolithic, Mousterian) of Shanidar: a. Borer 
or perforator; b, c, curved or asymmetric points, no faceted striking platform; d, curved or 
asymmetric point, faceted striking platform; e, double-ended keeled point; /, point,_ no 
faceted striking platform; g, A, points, faceted striking platform; i, Emireh-type point, 
two views;/, side scraper; k, side scraper and end scraper; /, side scraper; «i, "exhausted" 
medium iiake core; «, "exhausted" small flake core. 



Smithsonian Report. 1954. — Soleckl 



Plate 7 



y 





The Shanidar child. The pin points approximately north. 



SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 



407 



The second season, under a grant from the Smithsonian Institution 
and with funds and assistance contributed by the Directorate General 
of Antiquities, a joint undertaking was resumed at Shanidar cave. 
Hussein Azzam represented th.e Directorate General of Antiquities 
that season. During a period of 10 workweeks in the sunnner of 1953, 
the sounding was continued down to solid bedrock. The pit was 



CROSS SECTION OF SHANIDAR CAVE 

SOUNDING ON LINE 0-0-0W4 
(NORTH FACE) LOWER HALF SECTION 




DAf^l^ 



cnsyii' 



}f)CVVN MI.YtO LOAMY 5 



. r:T^i'~i:onT/i:f""is tiMssrone rnAOMiurs 

^■'^ " t^uy OCCUf-.tr-OfJAL LAYER ^^^^^ , - 




^?^^^ 



Figure 7 — Lower part of ihe north face of Shanidar cave sounding, 1953 season, showing 
the heavy occupational zone in Layer D. 

enlarged from its previous dimensions in ground plan to an area 
of 20 by 40 feet (6.10 by 12.19 m.), and "step-backs" were enlarged, 
reaching dowm into the main shaft. The bottom of the main shaft 
measured 20 by 13 feet (6.10 by 3.96 m.) in areal section, and bed- 
rock was reached at a maximum depth of 44 feet (13.41 m.) in the 

326511—55 28 



408 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

western portion of the sounding. It slanted upward to the east to a 
depth of 31 feet (9.45 m.) below the surface. 

The engineering of the sounding presented the usual problems with 
respect to excavation and soil removal, plus constant vigilance against 
possible cave-ins. The deposits below Layer A were composed of 
compact loamy soils which were safe enough for the maintenance of 
steep wall faces. Encountered were numerous boulders and stones 
which had to be broken up into portable-sized fragments for clearance. 
These undoubtedly had fallen from the ceiling. A total of 41 charges 
of gelignite were set in order to shatter the larger boulders. This ac- 
tivity presented some difficulties during the winter season of 1951 
when the whole cave population of natives with their livestock had 
to be evacuated before each blast. 

A slight earthquake, a factor normally not included in the cal- 
culations, was experienced on August 14 while work was in progress 
at the bottom of the pit. Fortunately, the walls held and no damage 
was done to either the personnel or the sounding. 

The number of flints recovered during the 1951 and 1953 seasons 
total approximately 2,800 specimens. Of this number, over 40 percent 
are use-retouched flakes and blades, notched blades and flakes, cores 
and core fragments. Layer B in the stratigraphy yielded the most 
flints for its shallow deposit, numbering well over 1,000 specimens. 
Of the remainder. Layer D yielded the next in numerical proportion, 
while Layer C produced the least number of specimens. 

Except for a study collection presently in the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, the whole collection from Shanidar cave is in Iraq. 

This preliminary announcement of the two seasons' work at 
Shanidar is based upon my first reports (Solecki, op. cit.), my notes 
and observations of the collection that is now in Baghdad, and a sample 
of the flints studied in this country. The last represents approximately 
a selected 10 percent of the flint inventory. Drs. J. W. Amschler of 
Vienna and F. C. Eraser of the British Museum have kindly consented 
to examine the mammal bones. Dr. Alexander Wetmore of the Smith- 
sonian Institution has agreed to examine the bird bones. The reports 
from these authorities will be included in a later paper. Dr. Hans 
Suess of the U. S. Geological Survey has taken three carbon specimens 
(from Layers B and C) for carbon-14 analysis. His findings are re- 
ported below. The sum total of the related biologic, climatologic, and 
geologic findings (or as much as can be obtained) will be treated in the 
final report. 

STRATIGRAPHY 

It was observed that the top layers, A and B, were shallower in depth 
in the northeast part of the sounding, growing deeper toward the 



SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 409 

western and southern part (pi. 3, a). This slant in these deposits 
was due principally to a large boulder and fallen stones in the north- 
east quarter. The boulder was capped with a comparatively thin 
veneer of Layers A and B, and in part Layer C. The boulder was 
actually within Layer C. The top limit of Layer C, conforming to the 
dip of Layer B, also sloped sharply to the west. The demarcation line 
between Layers C and D was only slightly slanted to the west. This 
latter slant was very likely due to the dip of the bedrock to the west 
and north, to which the base of Layer D conformed. 

Layer A. — This horizon was uncovered below a 2-inch (5.0S-cm.) 
crustal capping of dry compacted topsoil and dung. The layer con- 
tained a thick series of large, widespread, colored ash beds and hearths 
lying in a matrix of dark, organic-stained soil. The deposit was 
thicker in the western part of the sounding (8 ft., 2,44 m.) and thinner 
in the eastern part (2 ft., 60.96 cm.) . Rock-lined fireplaces and hearth 
stones were encountered throughout this layer. A pit occurred in the 
eastern part, in which were found the scattered fragmentary remains 
of a human burial. Unfortunately, the bones — those of an adult — were 
few in number. A copper bracelet of Islamic type and two spiral 
copper beads were found closely associated with one of the human 
bones, discoloring the latter with verdigris. 

It was early evident tliat Layer A had intruded into Layer B, mix- 
ing some of the artifactual materials at the junction of the deposits. 
In the top part of Layer A were found, in addition to a quantity of 
recent potsherds, some clay pipe fragments, which are evidence of 
the introduction of the smoking habit to this area. According to 
Yacqub Sarkis (1941) the smoking habit was introduced into the Near 
East about 300 years ago. The potsherds, numbering upward of 
3,000 fragments, occurred in greatest profusion toward the middle 
of Layer A, where fragmentary mammal bones were also found in 
greatest abundance. With the exception of some reddish burnished 
Uruk sherds, no pottery types were immediately recognizable in the 
collection. The sherds consisted almost exclusively of culinary wares. 
It would seem that a statistical study of the potsherds will have to be 
made in order to evaluate the collection properly, if at all. The major 
difficulty is that no excavations of tells (tails) have been made in this 
district from which comparative studies of sherds may be made. It 
may be possible to compare statistically the culinary sherds, which 
were associated with the various identified wares (Hassuna, Ubaid, 
Uruk) from the Diyan and Bastoon caves on top of Baradost Moun- 
tain (Safar, 1950) , and to evaluate the results in terms of the Shanidar- 
cave pottery. 

The artifact inventory from Layer A appears to represent a cul- 
tural backwater of the higher civilizations to the south. As an anal- 



410 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

ogy, one might compare the simple economy and habits of the present 
tribal goatherds, who seasonally inhabit the cave, with contemporary 
life in Bagdad or in any other sizable city in Iraq. Rotary quern 
fragments (found exclusively in the upper part of Layer A) and hand 
manos and boulder mortars found in this layer attest a somewhat seden- 
tary life, with some dependence on cereal foods, nuts, and the like. 
The introduction of the rotary quern must have been quite a recent 
technological revolution in these Kurdish hills. Both rotary querns 
and boulder mortars were used by the present inhabitants of the cave 
while work was in progress during the 1951 season. Among the flints, 
which were found in the lower mixed junction zone of Layer A, are 
cores, notched blades, use-retouched blades, end scrapers, steep 
scrapers, microlithic flints, and blunted back blades and bladelets. No 
sickle blades were found. Hammerstones, rubbing stones of black and 
green shale, and lumps of hematite, worked bones including well-made 
awls and pins, and one grooved shaft or rod smoother of stone similar 
to the one recovered by Garrod (1930, fig. 11) at Zarzi, represent the 
rest of the inventory. 

Layer B. — Layer B was composed of a soil zone in marked contrast 
to Layer A. The thick and heavy organic ceramic-containing deposits 
were absent, as were the enormous compressed hearths and ash beds, 
and the profusion of mammal bones. There is clear-cut evidence that 
Layer B had been reduced in true thickness by the intrusion of Layer 
A in the upper part of the former. Adding to the complexity of 
Layer B, it was found that this layer had in turn intruded into the 
upper part of Layer C. Layer B was a deposit of dark brown, sandy, 
loamy soil, slanted in depth from east to west. The thickness of Layer 
B was approximately 2 feet (60.96 cm.) in the eastern part, and 5 feet 
(1.52 m.) in the western part. Four small pits and a large depression 
intruded from Layer B into Layer C. The purpose of these features 
was not ascertained. Not evident in the 1951 season, but noted in the 
1953 season, was a difference in soil texture in Layer B, marking an 
upper and a lower division of this layer (figs. 8, 9). Whether or not 
this division represents a true occupational difference, which might 
be indicative of a cultural change and reflected in the artifactual as- 
semblage, is still to be worked out. It will be recalled that Garrod 
(1930) found a microlithic component at Zarzi in the upper part of 
the layer, a fact that hints at developmental change there. The Zarzi 
industry and the Layer B industry of Shanidar (in addition to arti- 
facts in the lower mixed zone of Layer A) are typologically the same, 
with some slight variation. 

The artifact inventory from Layer B includes among the rough 
stones items such as hammerstones, rubbing stones, and mullers. An 
ovate pebble with a V-shaped notch cut across its upper face is among 



SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 



411 



CQ 



M 



y) 




2- 








Ci 




^ 


' — 


-> 


Uj 


O 


O 


*o 


^ 








o 


Q: 


^ 


"=7 




t^ 


^ 




<^J 


^ 


1 


tj 




o, 


o 




<\i 


5- ^ 


O 




Kl 


Ui 


^> ^- 




-~j 


0-, 


^ 
o 




M 



,-A 



t: 

o 






412 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



the specimens found (fig. 10, d). The flints, like those of Zarzi, reflect 
a very careful and expert chipping industry. Small river cobbles of 
chert were evidently used. The color of the material ranges from 
light tan, reddish through brownish, to green and gray chert. Layer 
B had proportionally the largest number of pieces of worked obsidian, 
an exotic material, the nearest source of which is in the Lake Van 

CffOSS SECTION OF SHANIDAR CAVE SOUNDING 
ON LINE 0W4-N2W4 (WEST FACE) 



> LAYER A 




Figure 9, — West face of step-back in the upper part of Shanidar cave sounding, 1953 season. 
Layer B appears to have an upper and a lower division (B' and B^). 

region of Anatolia. In the assemblage are several "Gravette" points, 
several types of gravers, backed blades and bladelets, elongated trian- 
gular and subtriangular or scalene points, several single-shouldered 
points, a small number of lunates and trapezoidal fonns (including 
a Kebaran and Heluan crescent) , borers or perforators, core scrapers, 
side and end scrapers, notched blades (including "lames etrangles"), 



SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 



413 




Figure 10. — a. Layer B, shell pendant; i, c. Layer B, inscribed slate; d. Layer B, grooved and 
rubbed planoconvex gray stone; e. Layer B, one bone pin and two bone awls;/, Layer C, 
two pointed bones; g, Layer D, pointed and sharpened bone. 



414 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

and retouched blades and flakes. An unusual object was a small, 
flat, ovate slate pebble bearing a scratched cross-hatching on its face 
(fig. 10, c). One small shell pendant was also recovered (iig. 10, a). 
Worked-bone implements were relatively plentiful. These ranged 
from simple bone splinters with sharpened points, to carefully pol- 
ished, long, slender pins (fig. 10, e). 

I feel that there are strong typological resemblances between certain 
flints from Coon's (1951) Belt cave and Shanidar B. Coon's (1952) 
Hotu cave, also in Iran, while lacking the finer distinctive forms, such 
as the trapezoids, subtriangles, and others, similarly appears to have 
a very late upper Paleolithic flavor — even Mesolithic (Dupree, 1952, 
p. 257, footnote 1 ) . If not Shanidar B in character, the artifacts of 
Hotu are quite close to it in affinities. From the bottom of Layer B 
(or B^, figs. 8, 9) , Suess obtained a carbon-14 date on a charcoal sample 
(W-179) of 12,000 ±400 years or about 10000 B. C. 

Layer C. — As previously stated, Layer B had intruded into Layer 
C, a much thicker deposit. This resulted in some confusion of arti- 
fact types in the very top of Layer C and the bottom of Layer B. 
The top of Layer C increased in depth below the surface to the west, 
and in this respect it conformed with the westward dip of Layer B. 
Layer C had a thickness of 13 feet (3.96 m.) in the eastern part 
of the sounding, and 10 feet (3.05 m.) in the western part. In th« 
northern part of the sounding — an area which was most intensively 
explored in the 1951 season — Layer C was composed principally of a 
relatively organic-free, yellowish-brown, sandy loam. A large num- 
ber of limestone boulders and stones, representing at least two falls 
from the cave's ceiling, were encountered. Evidence of human occu- 
pation, such as traces of charcoal, hearths, and artifactual materials, 
were found among these stones. Not until the season of 1953, when 
the southern portion in the "step-back" was explored, was it fully 
realized that the major occupational stratum of Layer C was contained 
south of the boulder complex. There, hearths and ash lenses were 
clearly marked in detail in the dark, organic-stained soil. The im- 
plication is that the cave dwellers naturally preferred a boulder-free 
living-room area. Some of the boulders must have formed a sort of 
shelter, since hearths were found within what must have been small, 
overhanging, protective nooks of limestone blocks. There is abundant 
and conclusive evidence that all the dangers were not outside the cave. 
The falls of limestone must have interrupted life around the hearths, 
for more than one hearth was found underneath a boulder, its nor- 
mally flat lens compressed and contorted out of shape by the weight 
of the stone. The heaviest fall of stones was encountered in the north- 
em part of the sounding near the bottom of Layer C. The occupa- 
tional traces in the upper part of Layer C were relatively light in 



SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 415 

comparison with the evidence of human occupation toward the bottom 
of this layer. 

Hearths were found to range in size from about a foot (30.48 cm.) 
in diameter and a few inches thick, to over 10 feet (3.05 m.) in di- 
ameter and nearly 6 inches (15.24 cm.) thick. 

The artifacts inventory from Layer C, w^iile comparatively poor 
in proportion, is singular, since apparently it has no counterpart 
known thus far in the Xear East. Included among the flints are sev- 
eral types of gi'avers (including one of special form that is described 
below), perforators, fabricators, scrapers of several types including 
circular scrapers, points, notched blades, and use-retouched blades and 
flakes. It was essentially a blade-tool industry. A couple of ferru- 
ginous pebbles were found. There were only a few worked bones 
(fig. 10, /). The majority of the latter were from the upper part of 
the layer. It appears that blades and blade cores were more abundant 
near the upper part of Layer C. Also more numerous in the top part 
of Layer C were the notched blades. Several backed blades found in 
the top part of the layer were evidently intrusive from Layer B. 
Points on long, narrow flakes, like the Mousterian type, occurred near 
the bottom of Layer C. 

Upon examination and consultation with Garrod, who viewed the 
collection in Bagdad in December 1953, the assemblage from Layer 
G was thought to deserve a new distinguishing identity. Certainly 
the forms represented in this layer at Shanidar are not characteristic 
of a western Aurignacian industry. Nor has another assemblage like 
this one been described from anywhere in the Near East, exclusive of 
Iraq. It was decided to call the industry of Layer C the "Baradost" in- 
dustry, after the name of the mountain which looms so prominejitly 
above Shanidar. At best, measured in terms of stone industries, the 
Baradost industry is a relatively poor one. 

Layer C is characterized by its high proportion of well-made 
gravers, among which are a small number of a distinctive form. The 
latter are a variant of a polyhedric graver.^ The departure from the 
ordinary type of polyhedric graver, as described by Burkitt (1949, 
p. 62), are two opposed angular notches on the cutting edge. These 
notches were intentionally formed by blows directed on the end of the 
blade producing a chisel-like projection or nose that is flanked by a 



* J. Bouyssonie, of Brive, France, in a personal communication dated January 
15, 1955, writes that this type of graver is known from the Aurignacian in France. 
The first type described here he would call "burins-car^n^s-museau" (nosed keel- 
shaped gravers). The second type, with the single shoulder, he would call 
"burins caren^s k ^paulment" (shouldered keel-shaped gravers). M. Bouyssonie 
prefers to reserve the term "polyhedric," on typological grounds, for another 
variant of keeled graver. 



416 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

step or notch on either side — quite different from the ordinary gouge 
type of polyhedric graver, which has a convex working edge. In 
addition, there are in the collection several single-notched variants of 
the polyhedric graver. The net effect is a rather flat, narrow, work- 
ing edge which was probably trimmed to limits desired by the tool- 
maker. This certainly was a specialized form of tool that must have 
filled some needed purpose or adaptation. In the collection of the 
artif actual materials from Ksar 'Akil, near Beirut (Lebanon), which 
is now housed in the Peabody Museum at Harvard University, seven 
examples of these artifacts were noted (unpublished data). These 
come from about the 9-meter level of the site, which lies within the 
horizon described by Ewing (1947, p. 191) in a preliminary an- 
nouncement as "Lower Aurignacian" or "Chatelperronian." 

Two samples of carbon from Layer C were given to Dr. Suess for 
radiocarbon dating. Both samples were from extensive hearths. 
The first sample (W-178) was from near the upper part of Layer C 
in Square S3W1 at a depth of 10.0 feet (3.05 m.). This sample gave 
a carbon-14 date of 29,500 ±1,500 years, or about 27500 B. C. The 
second sample (W-180) was from near the lower part of Layer C in 
Square S2W4 at a depth of 15.0 feet (4.57 m.). This sample gave a 
carbon-14 date older than 34,000 years, or beyond the range of the 
radiocarbon dating method used by Dr. Suess. 

Regarding the great chronological lapse between the lower part of 
Layer B (see above) and the upper part of Layer C, it is very likely 
that the boulders and falls of limestone lying in and above Layer C 
had effectively sealed off portions of the occupational horizons of 
Layer C. 

Layer D. — The contact line between Layers C and D is distinct at 
a depth of 16 to 17 feet (4.88 to 5.18 m.) from the surface in the south- 
ern face of the sounding. The relationships were difficult to deter- 
mine in the northern part of the sounding because of the boulders. 
There was no sterile soil intervening. Layer D, which upon pre- 
liminary analysis appears to contain a homogeneous Mousterian-type 
industry similar to Hazer Merd, represents a long occupation of the 
cave. Its thickest part measured 28 feet (8.53 m.). Limestone boul- 
ders were encountered at intervals in this deposit, but there were no 
large widespread falls as in Layer C. The soil was a light-brown to 
yellowish-brown sandy loam, with a heavy occupational zone through 
the middle. This stratum, which may later warrant a separate iden- 
tity within Layer D, was marked by mixed, dark organic-stained soil 
containing extensive hearths and ash lenses across the whole area sec- 
tion of the sounding (pi. 3, 5). An unusually heavy and deep con- 
centration of large hearths consisting of banded lenses of ashes, char- 
coal, and burned earth was found in the east wall between the depths 



SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 417 

28.0 feet (8.53 m.) and 32.0 feet (9.75 m.) . This hearth zone measures 
about 5 feet (1.52 m.) across and 4 feet (1.22 m.) deep. The deposits 
are concaved, or downwarped, as though there had been a hollow in 
this particular part of the occupational area. There is no appearance 
of intrusional disturbance except in the bottommost part of this fea- 
ture. The marked concentration of hearths in this unique localized 
zone gives this feature a pitlike appearance. Fragments of mammal 
bones and flints were found in it. The stratum mentioned above, and 
within which the hearth zone occurred, had an average thickness of 
about 9 feet (2.74 m.). The stratum lay between the depths of 23 to 
32 feet (7.01 to 9.75 m.) from the surface. It was the richest part of 
Layer D in cultural material, and it was in this heavy occupational 
zone that the Shanidar child was found at a depth of 26 feet (7.93 m.) 
from the surface. A continuous stratum of lime-cemented deposit 
about 5 to 6 inches (12.70 to 15.24 cm.) thick occurred at a depth of 
27 to 28 feet (8.23 to 8.53 m.) ; it slanted across the sounding within 
the heavy occupational zone. This was the only lime-cemented or 
stalagmitic deposit in the sounding, and may represent an interval 
of increased (or exceptional) humidity in the geochronological se- 
quence at Shanidar. 

Above and below the heavy occupational zone in Layer D were 
found small scattered hearths and other archeological evidence. As in 
Layer C, some of the hearths were contorted and compressed out of 
shape by fallen boulders. 

Flints were found on the bedrock floor of the cave, indicating that 
Shanidar cave had been host to Stone Age man from the very begin- 
ning of the sedimentation. 

The Shanidar child (pi. 7) was uncovered in the southwest quarter 
of Square SlWl at a depth of 25.8 feet (7.81 m.) below datum, or 
about 26 feet (7.93 m.) from the surface. It was discovered when one 
of the workmen began to scrape some loose earth from this area pre- 
paratory to the excavation of another level. 

The skeleton was found in a dark gray-brown loamy soil. It rested 
3 inches (7.62 cm.) above a bed of light-gray ashes. Search for a 
burial pit met with negative results. Flecks of charcoal were noted 
in the surrounding earth. The child was found in a flexed or doubled 
position, with its head oriented to the north. All the bones present 
were in articulation. The feet and leg bones were doubled to the west 
or right side of the cliild, and the arm bones were similarly flexed to 
the same side. The head, which was badly crushed, presumably by 
the overlying earth, faced upward. All the bones, except those of 
the extremities, were in a very poor state of preservation. They were 
friable and badly decomposed, and many fragments were reduced to a 
powdery state. However, we are exceedingly fortunate that so much 



418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

remained to be recovered. The writer had observed during the course 
of the sounding that the moist, loamy earth was not especially good 
for bone preservation, and that many of the fragmentary mammalian 
bones in the same stratmn as those of the child were very poorly 
preserved. 

The legs may have been doubled upward originally, and twisted to 
the side by the overlying earth. The length of the burial on the long 
axis measured 1 foot 14 inch (31.12 cm.). Its greatest width, across 
the lower extremities (from the feet to the pelvic girdle), was 71^ 
inches (19.05 cm.). The skeletal remains were about 1% inches 
(4.45 cm.) thick at the maximum section. The arms were poorly pre- 
served and defined, but sufficient bones of the right hand remained 
to show that the fingei-s of that hand had been closed with the palm 
upward. The pelvic girdle and vertebrae were very poorly preserved 
and could not be saved. The rib bones had disappeared. 

A careful search around the remains revealed no associated arti- 
facts with several possible exceptions. A small block-shaped frag- 
ment of limestone lay at the left heel. Adjacent to this stone was found 
a small nodule of black carboniferous substance measuring one-half 
inch (1.27 cm.) by three-quarters of an inch (1.91 cm.). A large flint 
was found 2 inches (5.08 cm.) to the east of the head, and a fragment 
of a mammal bone was found an inch (2.54 cm.) to the east of the 
left knee. Another smaller fragment of burned bone was found near 
the right arm. These bones and the flint appear to have been part 
of the normal occupational layer, and not items meant to be associ- 
ated with the child's remains. However, it is possible that the piece 
of limestone and the associated carboniferous substance may have 
been intentionally interred with the remains. The mixed, dark loamy- 
earth stratum in which the skeleton was found abounded in occupa- 
tional debris, and included fragments of mammal bones, flints, flecks 
of charcoal, and fragments of limestone. The limestone fragments 
were not abundant by comparison with the amounts encountered from 
other depths. The unbroken lens of a firebed lay at a depth of 24.5 
feet (7.47 m.) below datum, just about over the child's remains, which 
precludes the possibility of an intrusive burial. The skeleton must be 
identified with the stratum in which it lay. 

The skeleton is represented by 68 bones and bone fragments. There 
are 8 finger bones and finger-bone fragments; 11 whole and fragmen- 
tary left leg bones and metatarsals ; 18 whole and fragmentary right leg 
bones and metatarsals ; and 31 cranial fragments. Sixteen milk teeth 
are represented, including 4 first incisors, 3 second incisors, 3 canines, 
3 first molars, and 3 second molars. 

Since the bones have not been studied anatomically in detail, or 
compared with other Paleolithic finds, no statement can be made con- 



SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 419 

cerninfi: the morphology of the Shaiiidur child. According to Dr. D. 
F. Veldkamp, professor of dentistry at the Royal College of Dentistry 
in Bagdad, the teeth, by modern standards, would appear to belong 
to a child about 9 months old. The cranial fragments seem to be 
thicker than the normal for a child of that age. Although it may be 
possible to reconstruct the calvarium from the fragments preserved, 
the face is, unfortunately, beyond reconstruction, since none of the 
facial parts were recovered. The teeth are the best- preserved parts 
of this individual, and it is expected that much can be learned from 
them, even though they are not adult. 

The heaviest concentrations of artifactual materials were found 
clustered around two horizons within the heavy occupational zone 
of Layer D. One of these was at about 2-1 to 27 feet (7.32 to 8.23 m.) , 
and the other was at about 30 to 31 feet (9.14 to 9.45 m.) from the sur- 
face. Very few worked bones, including bone points, were found (fig. 
10, ^) . In greatest abundance were tlie flint points and scrapers. The 
points were both symmetrical and asymmetrical in shape, the former 
being proportionally more numerous. The majority of the symmetri- 
cally shaped points appear to be relatively broad and flat, or narrow 
with thick, keeled cross sections. Among the asymmetric curved points 
only one good example of a curved-backed point was found. Side 
scrapers made on broad flake blades were very abundant. There was 
a small percentage of borers and notched flakes. At least one limace 
(slug-shaped flint) was present. A fairly large percentage of simply 
retouched points on flakes was found, suggesting that the stone arti- 
sans were quick to take advantage of a likely-shaped flake. A pre- 
liminary check of the collection shows that no gravers are present in 
the series. Garrod (1930, p. 35) found four at the cave of Hazer 
Merd, together with two hand axes, which were not present at Shani- 
dar. Another point of difference with Hazer Merd is that, whereas no 
cores were found there (Garrod, op. cit., p. 33), a fair number were 
recovered at Shanidar. These were rather amorphous-shaped, and 
of medium to small size. There is a surprisingly poor showing of dis- 
coids, or cores that may be classed in the discoid category. It would 
seem that material was scarce, and the core was broken down or ex- 
hausted to the last flake that could be extracted. As at Hazer Merd, 
the raw material evidently consisted of river pebbles of medium size, 
which probably accounts for the relatively small size of the artifacts. 
The use of the prepared striking or faceted platforms was known. 
It may be stated tentatively that the flakes were struck off with end 
blows, not side blows. 

On first impression, with the exception of the gravers and the hand 
axas, the flint artifacts of Hazer Merd cave could be matched type 
for type with examples from Layer D. Furthermore, there is a 



420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1964 

marked similarity in the stone industry from Bisitun in western Iran 
(Movius, in Coon, 1951, pp. 91-92) to the flints from Layer D at 
Shanidar. In fact, there is almost a 100-percent agreement with 
Movius' analysis of the Bisitun cave material. 

Some very special finds, which did not occur at Hazer Merd or 
in Iran, were four Emireh-type points.^" Three of these were recovered 
between 25 and 26 feet (7.62 and 7.93 m.) deep in the heavy occu- 
pational zone of Layer D, about one-third of the way down in this 
horizon. By a remarkable coincidence, the Shanidar child was found 
in the same level. A fourth point was recovered at a depth of 28 
to 29 feet (8.53 to 8.84 m.). Accordmg to Garrod (1951), who found 
Emireh points at the base of the Upper Paleolithic at Mount Cannel, 
the Emireh point is part of a transitional industry between the 
Levalloiso-Mousterian and Upper Paleolithic industries in Syria and 
Palestine. Although Emireh-type points from Shanidar were found 
in a stratum some 9 feet (2.74 m.) below the contact zone between the 
Upper Paleolithic (Baradost) and the Mousterian of Layer D, there 
seems to be some indication of contemporaniety of the Shanidar exam- 
ples and those from Mount Carmel in Palestine on the basis of the 
climatic evidence. Thus the lime-cemented zone at about 28 feet 
(8.53 m.) in Layer D at Shanidar may indicate a period of increased 
rainfall, which was closely followed by the level containing the 
Emireh-type points, while a pluvial period, or a period of greater 
humidity, also occurred immediately below the Emireh horizon at 
Mount Carmel. In fact, the Emireh horizon was almost entirely 
broken up by the water action (Garrod and Bate, 1937, pp. 22-27; 
Garrod, 1951, pp. 121-122 ; 1953, p. 31) . In the Lebanon at Ksar 'Akil, 
Ewing (1947, pp. 191, 195) found points of Emireh type just above 
a complex of stone beds. He suggests that this complex of stone 
beds is indicative of a period of "greatly enhanced humidity and pre- 
cipitation" (Ewing, in Braidwood, Wright, and Ewing, 1951, p. 120). 
"Wright's {in op. cit., p. 119) work at the same site shows that its 
cultural deposits, including the geological stone complexes, may be 
safely dated as "entirely Wiirm." Garrod (1953, table, p. 38) has 
illustrated the relationship of the Emireh horizon, or "Emiran" period, 
in a geochronological table for Palestine and Lebanon. The place 
of the alluvium (representing a pluvial period) below the "Emiran" 
horizon in the Wiirm glaciation is a matter of interpretation between 



" In a personal communication dated January 12, 1955, Dorothy Garrod states 
that she does not consider these points to have any necessary connection with 
the Emireh points on typological grounds, despite resemblances in the basal 
chipping. Neverthless, I feel at this writing that the closeness of the association 
of the Shanidar points with a presumed contemporaneous pluvial horizon favors 
the case of relationships. 



SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 421 

prehistorians of the schools of long and short chronologies (Caton- 
Thompson, 1952, pp. 20-21). According to the former school, this 
pluvial (Pluvial 2 in Caton-Thompson's study) may be correlated 
with Wiirm I, while, according to the latter, it may be correlated with 
Wiirm II. Regardless of which chronology is used, for our con- 
siderations it appears that the evidence for the contemporaneity be- 
tween the horizon of the Emireh-type points of Shanidar and the 
"Emiran" of Palestine and Lebanon is satisfactory. Since the Shan- 
idar child was found in the same level as the Emireh-type points, 
it must belong to the same archeological horizon. The Emireh points 
being indicative of a transitional industry (Garrod, 1951), the Shani- 
dar child then belongs to the same transitional phase. Whether or 
not the Shanidar child will ever fill the evolutionary gap between 
Tlomo sapiens of the Aurignacian of Palestine and the "human type 
which is morphologically intermediate between Neanderthal and 
modern man" of the Levalloiso-Moustcrian of Mount Carmel (Garrod, 
1951, p. 129) remains to be seen. The prospects are tantalizing. 

The enigma here is the 8 or 9 odd feet (2.44 or 2.74 m.) of typo- 
logically Mousterian deposit lying above the Emireh-type point level 
at Shanidar. Excluding the possibility of independent invention, we 
presume that the Emireh-type points were culturally introduced from 
the eastern Mediterranean region (unless the weight of more evi- 
dence indicates another locus of origin). This sounds plausible 
enough, since there is only a distance of about 600 miles between these 
areas, unbroken by difficult barriers. Yet the people of Shanidar at 
that time, or at least in succeeding ages, must have indeed been 
cultural laggards. Whereas in Palestine and at Ksar 'Akil we find a 
fully developed Upper Paleolithic immediately following the intro- 
duction of the Emireh industry (the latter development even being 
allocated a place in the lower Upper Paleolithic (Garrod, 1953, p. 
38) ), at Shanidar, it may be tentatively stated, there is no evidence of 
the new tradition until the appearance of the Baradost horizon. The 
people of that remote time at Shanidar cave seem to have been just 
as reserved and aloof in their mountain fastness as are the present 
Shirwani Kurdish goatherds. 

The tentative correlations of the Stone Age horizons in Shanidar 
cave with the known sequence in Iraq are given in table 2. If they were 
present at Shanidar, the stages above and including Karim Shahir 
and Jarmo must fall in the time interval between the end of Layer B 
and the most recent deposits at Shanidar, or within Layer A. How- 
ever, a preliminary analysis of the remains in Layer A reveals that 
there are but few links in this layer with the more recent archeology 
of Iraq. Furthermore, since the Paleolithic cultures of Shanidar cave 
have been emphasized in this paper, the discussion of the Layer A 
phases will be deferred for the present. 



422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Table 2. — Correlation of the archeology of Shanidar cave with the archeology of Iraq 

{tentative) 

Archeology of Iraq Archeology of Shanidar Cave 

Receut (?) — ..^^ 

Historic ^"^^ 

Dynastic ^\^ Layer A 

Early Dynastic 

Proto-literate 

Neolithic and Early Neolithic 

(?) 
Palegawra (?) 

Zarzi Layer B 

(Late Upper Paleolithic and (10,000 B. C. ±400 years) 

Mesolithic ?) (?) 

(^) 
(Upper Paleolithic) Layer C 

(Baradost) 

(27,500 B. C. ±1,500 years) 

(Older than 34,000 years) 

(?) (?) 

Hazer Merd Layer D 

(Middle Paleolithic) 

(?) 
Barda Balka 
(Middle and Lower PaleoHthic) 

In conclusion, a recapitulation of some first impressions of the 
Paleolithic archeology of Shanidar cave might be noted. In Iraq, 
the typological similarity of the very late Upper Paleolithic (border- 
ing on Mesolithic) flint assemblage of Layer B of Shanidar to the 
industries of Zarzi and Palegawra caves is apparent. Also evident is 
the apparent typological similarity of the Middle Paleolithic Mous- 
terian flint assemblage of Layer D of Shanidar to the Mousterian 
industry of the Hazer Merd cave and the Bisitun cave. Layer C, 
containing the Baradost industry of the Upper Paleolithic, is a 
unique one. 

Outside Iraq there appears to be good typological evidence of link- 
age of Shanidar cave with the west — or the eastern Mediterranean 
area — throughout its Paleolithic history. Thus, the assemblages from 
the upper part of Zarzi (Shanidar B) , and Hazer Merd (Shanidar D) 
have been noted to bear affinities with material from the Palestine- 
Syria area. Further support of these resemblances may be made on 
an individual basis with special items in the Shanidar cave material, 
i. e., with "index fossils" (since detailed typological comparison 
studies of the artifacts have not yet been made). Admittedly scanty 
yet significant clues are the presence of a Kebaran-type and a Heluan- 
type point in Shanidar B — artifact types found in the Mesolithic of 
the eastern Mediterranean. A special type of polyhedric burin in the 
Baradost industry of Shanidar C has counterparts in the "Aurigna- 
cian" industry of Ksar 'Akil of Lebanon. Last, we find the presence 



SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 423 

of "Emireh-type" points in Shaniclar D associated quite closely with 
a stalagmite level or evidence of a pluvial period — a phenomenon also 
noted in Palestine-Lebanon. The typological resemblances of the 
Shanidur Paleolithic material are not exclusively alined with the east- 
ern Mediterranean region. Affinities have been noted with the caves 
of Iran and archeological sites in the Caucasus. Outside of Kokten's 
(1949) finds in the Korain cave near Antalya in Turkey (material 
comparable to Shanidar D) ," we do not have good comparison studies 
with Anatolia, a region where close relationships should be sought. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

AL ASIL, NAJI. 

1949. Barda Balka. Sumer, vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 205-200. 
Braidwood, Robert J. 

1951a. A preliminary note on prehistoric excavation.s in Iraqi Kurdistan. 

Sumer, vol. 7, No. 2, pp. 99-104. 
1951b. From cave to village in prehistoric Iraq. Bull. Amer. Schools Orient. 
Res., No. 124, pp. 12-18. 

1952. The Near East and the foundations for civilization. University of 

Oregon Press, Eugene. 
Beaidwood, Robert J. and Linda. 

1953. The earliest village communities of southwestern Asia. Journ. World 

Hist., vol. 1, pp. 278-310. Commission Internationale pour une 
Histoire du Developpement Scientifique et Culturel de I'Humanite. 
Braidwood, Robert J. ; Wright, H. E., Jr. ; and Ewing, J. Feankun. 

1951. Ksar 'Akil : Its archeological sequence and geological setting. .Tourn. 

Near East. Stud., vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 113-122. 

BtJRKITT, M. C. 

1949. The Old Stone Age. Cambridge, University Press. 
Caton-Thompson, G. 

1952. Kharga Oasis in prehistory. Athlone Press, University of London. 
Coon, Carleton S. 

1951. Cave explorations in Iran 1949. Univ. Mus., University of Pennsyl- 

vania. 

1952. Excavations in Hotu cave, Iran, 1951, a preliminary report. Proc. 

Amer. Philos. Soc, vol. 96, No. 3, pp. 231-249. 
DE Morgan, Jacques. 

1924. Le monde Oriental avant I'historie I'Asi^ Ant^rieure et I'l^gypte. 

L'Anthropologie, vol. 34, pt. 1 pp. 2-56. 
1925-1927. Le prehistoric orientale. 3 vols. Paris. 
Dupree, Louis B. 

1952. The Pleistocene artifacts of Hotu cave, Iran. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, 
vol. 96, No. 3, pp. 250-257. 

ERINg, SlERl. 

1949. Eiszeitliche Formen und gegenwjirtige Vergletscherung im nordostau- 
atolischen Randgebirge. Geologische Rundshau, vol. 37, pp. 75-83. 



"My impression of Kokten's "Moustorian TI" material, viewed in Ankara, is 
that this assemblage is comparable to Shanidar D. It contains a large propor- 
tion of points and side scrapers, similar to the situation at Shanidar. 
326511—55 29 



424 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

BwiNG, J. Franklin. 

1947. Preliminary note on the excavations at the Paleolithic site of Ksir 

'Aliil, Republic of Lebanon. Antiquity, vol. 21, No. 81, pp. 18&-196. 
Field, Henry. 

1951. Reconnaissance in southwestern Asia. Southwest. Journ. Anthrop., 

vol. 7. No. 1, pp. 86-102. 
1952a. The anthropology of Iraq. Pap. Peabody Mus. Amer. Archaeol. and 

Ethnol., Harvard Univ., vol. 46, Nos. 2, 3. 
1952b. Jebel Anazeh in Jordan, Iraq and Saudi Arabia. Antiquity, vol. 26, 

No. 104. 
Fleisch, H(enri). 

1952. N6olithique du Proche-Orient. Bull. Soc. Prehist Frangaise, vol. 49, 

Nos. 5-6, pp. 212-216. 
Flint, Richard Foster. 

1948. Glacial geology and the Pleistocene epoch. New York. 
Fraser, F. C. 

1953. Correspondence published in News and Correspondence. Sumer, vol. 

9, No. 1, pp. 106-107. 
Garrod, Dorothy A. E. 

1928. Notes on some Mousterian finds in Spain and Irak. Proc. Prehist. 

Soc. East Anglia, vol. 5, pt. 3, pp. 268-272. 
1930. The Paleolithic of southern Kurdistan: Excavations in the caves of 

Zarzi and Hazer Merd. Bull. Amer. School Prehist. Res., No. 6. 
1938. The Upper Paleolithic in the light of recent discovery. Proc. Prehist. 

Soc, vol. 4, pp. 1-26. 

1951. A transitional industry from the base of the Upper Paleolithic in 

Palestine and Syria. Journ. Roy. Anthrop. Inst., vol. 81, pts. 1 and 
2, pp. 121-130. 
1953. The relations between southwest Asia and Europe in the later Paleo- 
lithic age. Journ. World Hist., vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 13-38. Commission 
Internationale pour une Histoire du DSveloppement Scientifique et 
Culturel de I'Humanite. 
Garrod, Dorothy A. E., and Bate, D. M. A. 

1937. The Stone Age of Mount Carmel. Oxford. 
Hamilton, A. M. 

1937. Road through Kurdistan. London. 

HiTCHIN, C. StANSFIELD. 

Final report on the selection and detailed investigation of sites for 
a high dam at the head of the Bekhme Gorge. [1948.] Unpublished 
report of the Government of Iraq Irrigation Development Commis- 
sion. Baghdad. 
KOKTEN, t. KiLLig. 
1949. 1949 Yili Tarihoncesl Ara§tirmalari Hakkinda kisa Rapor. (Re- 
cherches de prehistoire faites en 1949.) Belleten-Turk Tarih 
Kurumu, vol. 13, No. 52, pp. 811-831. 
Lees, G. M., and Falcon, N. L. 

1952. The geographical history of the Mesopotamian plains. The Geogr. 

Journ., vol. 118, pt. 1, pp. 24-39. 
Mahdi, Ahmad. 

1950. Ancient sites in Sulaimaniyah. Sumer, voL 6, No. 2, pp. 231-242. 
(In Arabic.) 
MovTUs, Hallam L., Jr. 

1953. Paleolithic and Mesolithic sites in Soviet Central Asia. Proc. Amer. 

Philos. Soc, vol. 97, No. 4, pp. 383-421. 



SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 425 

Fassemabd, M. E. 

1927. Mission en Syrie et au Liban. Bull. Soc. Pr^hist. Frangaise, vol. 24, 
pp, 70-72. 
Safab, Fuad. 

1950. Pottery from caves of Baradost. Sumer, vol. 6, No. 2, pp. 118-121. 
Sabkis, Yacqub. 

1941. Tobacco in Iraq: Its existence and cultivation a little before three 
hundred years ago. Baghdad Board of Commerce, 4tli year. (In 
Arabic.) 
SoLECKi, Ralph S. 

1952a. Note on a brief archaeological reconnaissance of cave sites in the 

Rowanduz district of Iraq. Sumer, vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 37-44, 
1952b. A Paleolithic site in the Zagros Mountains of northern Iraq. Report 
on a sounding at Shanidar cave. Pt. 1. Sumer, vol. 8, No. 2, pp. 
127-161. 
1953a. A Paleolithic site in the Zagros Mountains of northern Iraq. Report 
on a sounding at Shanidar cave. Pt. 2. Sumer, vol. 9, No. 1, pp. 
60-93. 
1953b. The Shanidar cave sounding, 1953 season, with notes concerning the 
discovery of the first Paleolithic skeleton in Iraq. Sumer, vol. 9, 
No. 2, pp. 229-239. 
1954. Tar Kshaife, a possible prehistoric station near Ukhaidher, Iraq. 
Sumer, vol. 10, No. 1, pp. 62-64. 
Waechter, J. d' a. 

1952. The excavation of Jabrud and its relation to the prehistory of Pal- 
estine and Syria. 8th Ann. Rep. Univ. London lust. Archaeol., pp. 
10-28. 
Wigram, W. a., and Wigram, Edgab T. A. 

1914. The cradle of mankind. London. 
Wbight, H. B., Jb. 

1952. The geological setting of four prehistoric sites in northeastern Iraq. 
Bull. Amer. Schools Orient. Res., No. 128, pp. 11-24. 
Wright, H. E., Jr., and Howe, Bbuce. 

1951. Preliminary report on soundings at Barda Balka. Sumer, vol. 7, 

No. 2, pp. 107-lU. 



Medicine, Warfare, and History^ 



By John F. Fulton 

Sterling Professor of the History of Medicine 
Yale University 



It is not commonly realized that many of the most significant ad- 
vances in medical science have been made by medical officers in the 
armed services or by civilian physicians working under the stimulus 
of wartime exigency. Whereas the ultimate compensations of war 
to any society are usually few and seldom recognized, in the field of 
medicine, over the years, they have been numerous and many of them 
highly important. A number of examples may be cited from the his- 
torical record. 

In his illuminating series of notes on the history of military medi- 
cine, the late Col. Fielding H, Garrison ^ made the observation that, 
while there were military surgeons in ancient times who occupied po- 
sitions of responsibility and respect in the armies of Greece and Rome, 
it was the Swiss Confederation, in the fourteenth century, that ante- 
dated all other nations of modern Europe in state care of the wounded. 
Municipal ordinances were issued notifying the individual soldier 
that his government was behind him and would look after his wel- 
fare on the field of battle. The eminent historian Conrad Brunner ^ 
points out further that, from the time of the battle of Laupen in 1339, 
the Swiss archives are replete with records of monies distributed for 
the care of the wounded and their dependents. Brunner also dis- 
covered that barber-surgeons were engaged by individual Cantons to 
attend the wounded after battle. The Swiss thus set an example to 
all the other warring countries of western Europe. 

In France in the 1470's we find that Charles the Bold, Duke of 
Burgundy, had placed a surgeon in each company of 100 lancers, that 
is, one surgeon to 800 men. It is also recorded that the lancers re- 
ceived £12 monthly from the Duke's coffers while his surgeon-physi- 



* Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the American Medical Associ- 
ation, vol. 153. Oct. 3, 1953. 

'Garrison, F. H., Notes on the history of military medicine, Mil. Surg., vol. 
.50, p. 1, 1922. 

* Brunner, C, Die Verwundeten in den Kriegen der alteu Eidgenossenschaf t : 
Geschichte des Heeressauitatswesens und der Kriegschirurgie in den schwei- 
zerischen Landen bis zum Jahre 1798, Tubingen, 1903. 

427 



428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

cians received only £5. When Edward IV of England joined Charles 
the Bold in the campaign against Louis XI, he brought with him a 
chief physician, two "body physicians," a surgeon, and 13 assistant 
barber-surgeons. These men, who attended the sick and wounded, 
gained valuable experience for dealing with civilian problems, injury, 
and disease when the wars had ended. 

A century later we find Andreas Vesalius, founder of modern anat- 
omy, serving as a military surgeon in the armies of Charles V. His 
contemporary Ambroise Pare, who lived through the reigns of seven 
French monarchs and served four of them, not only introduced the 
ligature for arresting hemorrhage resulting from injury or amputa- 
tion but also used antiseptic salves for dressing wounds. A man of 
high character, Pare spoke with authority and did more to place sur- 
gery on a modern basis, as Vesalius had anatomy, than any other per- 
son until the time of Joseph Lister. Pare was also a pioneer in ad- 
vancing the art of rehabilitation of the injured. He devised many 
forms of prosthesis, including wooden arms, legs, mechanical fingers, 
false noses, and ears — advances that again were adopted by civilian 
surgeons. 

During the seventeenth century and first half of the eighteenth, ad- 
vancement of military medicine proceeded slowly, and there was no 
one comparable to Pare until the last half of the eighteenth century, 
when James Lind, the great British naval surgeon, appeared on the 
scene. There was, however, one notable figure in the seventeenth 
century, Eichard Wiseman, who served the royalist armies in Eng- 
land throughout the civil war and after the Restoration and who was 
responsible for many improvements in surgical teclinique, including 
the art of amputation, especially in the case of gunshot wounds af- 
fecting the joints. His book, "Severall Chirurgicall Treatises," pub- 
lished in London in 1676, is one of the important landmarks in the 
history of surgery, both military and civilian. 

To James Lind, M. D. (1716-1794) (to be distinguislied from 
James Lind, M. D. [1736-1812], also a Scotsman) of Edinburgh, a 
surgeon long in the service of the Royal Navy, we owe the first clear- 
cut proof that scurvy can be prevented by the use of citrus fruits 
among sailors on long ocean voyages. His "Treatise on the Scurvy," 
published in 1753,* is a classic, and as a result of it a dread disease, 
common not only among seamen but in civilian populations where 
citrus fruits are not readily available, has been virtually eradicated. 



*LInd, J., A treatise of the scurvy. In three parts. Containing an Inquiry 
into the nature, causes, and cure of that disease; together with a critical and 
chronological view of what has been published on the subject, Edinburgh, 1753. 
Reprinted as Lind's Treatise on Scurvy, Stewart, C. P., and Guthrie, D., editors, 
Edinburgh, 1953. 



MEDICINE, WARFARE, AND HISTORY — FULTON 429 

Fully conscious of the importance of his discovery, Lind wrote in the 
preface to the first edition : 

The subject of the following sheets is of great importance to this nation ; the 
most powerful in her fleets, and the most flourishing in her commerce, of any in 
the world. Armies have been supposed to lose more of their men by sickness, 
than by the sword. But this observation has been much more verified in our fleets 
and squadrons; where the scurvy alone, during the last war [ending in 1748], 
proved a more destructive enemy, and cut off more valuable lives, than the united 
efforts of the French and Spanish arms. 

WILUAM BEAUMONT AND SILAS WEIR MITCHELL 

In 1853 the American medical profession mourned the death of 
William Beaumont, U. S. Army surgeon, who, in addition to advanc- 
ing the art of surgery in our armed forces, made a brilliant study of 
the processes involved in human digestion. When Beaumont was 
stationed at an isolated army barracks in northern Michigan, a French- 
Canadian courier, Alexis St. Martin, was accidentally shot through the 
stomach. Beaumont attended his wound with infinite care. When 
it healed it left a fistula that Beaumont looked on not as a mere wound 
but as a unique opportunity to inspect his patient's stomach mucosa 
by direct vision and to study the rate of digestion of individual food- 
stuffs through action of the gastric juices. He was also able to remove 
these digestive secretions and to study their action on food outside the 
body, a study that resulted in his celebrated monograph, "Experi- 
ments and Observations on the Gastric Juice, and the Physiology of 
Digestion," ° which so well exemplified Pasteur's famous dictum, "In 
the field of observation, chance favours only the mind which is 
prepared." 

The United States armed forces have had many other illustrious 
medical officers who have done original work through opportunity to 
study wounded men, ours as well as those of the enemy. Many names 
come to mind, such as that of Jolin Shaw Billings ; but no one during 
the Civil War occupies the position of Silas Weir Mitchell, a physi- 
ologist by training and a neurologist through special interest. 
Mitchell, with W. W. Keen (who ultimately became a celebrated Phil- 
adelphia surgeon) and G. R. Morehouse, early in the Civil War (1861) 
had occasion to study peripheral nerve injuries and the sensory and 
motor disturbances that result therefrom. Perusal of the protocols 
of their preliminary Circular Letter issued through the Office of the 
Surgeon General on March 10, 1864,^ and of the monograph that they 



• Plattsburgh, 1833. 

* Mitchell, S. W. ; Morehouse, G. R. ; and Keen, W. W., Jr., Reflex paralysis, 
the result of gunshot wounds, founded chiefly upon cases observed in the United 
States General Hospital, Christian Street, Philadelphia, Circ. No. 6, Surgeon-Gen- 
eral's Office (March 10), 1S64. [Reprinted, Yale Medical Library, New Haven, 
Conn., 1941.] 



430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

published later in the same year/ makes it clear that Mitchell was the 
dynamic force behind the study. His analysis of the problem illus- 
trates his powers of observation and his genius for making sound 
physiological deductions. Among other things, Mitchell and his col- 
leagues discovered that in certain cases following severance of an 
important nerve, especially when the nerve's disruption was associated 
with infection, there were abnormal sensory manifestations, i. e., hy- 
peresthesia in the extremity affected, a syndrome that Mitchell named 
causalgia. The problem of causalgia has been studied for nearly a 
hundred years in both civilian and wartime cases of nerve injury, 
and it came to be most actively studied during World War II, when 
its incidence was frequent. 

In retrospect, an even more important contribution of Mitchell and 
his collaborators lies in the clear-cut description of "primary" and 
"secondary" shock. Thus, in discussing the various types of shock, 
one reads in the circular on reflex paralysis (see footnote 6) : 

The majority of physicians will no doubt be disposed to attribute the chief 
share in the phenomena of shock ... to the indirect influence exerted upon and 
through the heart. There are, however, certain facts, which duly considered, 
will, we think, lead us to suppose that in many cases the phenomena in ques- 
tion may be due to a temporary paralysis of the whole range of nerve centres, 
and that among these phenomena the cardiac feebleness may play a large part, 
and be itself induced by the state of the regulating nerve centres of the great 
circulatory organs. . . . But there do exist certain cases, more rare it is true, 
in which singular affections of the nerve centres, other than those of the heart, 
occur as a consequence of wounds. 

WORLD WAR I 

During World War I there were many medical advances stimulated 
by the war itself, particularly in the sphere of prevention of infectious 
disease. It is said that when the Austrians attempted to invade the 
Balkans, the front was held not by guns but by the louse and the dev- 
astating epidemics of typhus caused by the jumping creatures. It is 
estimated that nearly a million Austrian soldiers poised on the Balkan 
border perished from epidemic typhus. The Russian armies had much 
the same difficulty and so did those of other countries of western 
Europe. Our soldiers were similarly troubled in the trenches on the 
western front, but through use of hygienic methods there was far less 
devastation. 

On the basis of the experience of World War I, every effort was made 
in World War II to protect our troops from typhus, especially in the 
Mediterranean theater. Meanwhile, DDT, the most effective insecti- 



' Gunshot wounds and other injuries of nerves, Philadelphia, 1864; see also 
Fulton, J. F., Neurology and war (Vlllth Weir Mitchell Oration), Trans, and 
Stud. Coll. Phys., Philadelphia, vol. 8, p. 157, 1940. 



MEDICINE, WARFARE, AND HISTORY — FULTON 431 

cide then known, had been introduced and was used by the Eighth 
Army under tlie direction of General Fox and General Hume to delouse 
the population of Naples and other points of southern Italy. This 
practically abolished the typhus hazard among our occupation forces 
and the Italian civilians. 

It would be difficult to enumerate all the special branches of medicine 
that have benefited by war research, but there is nothing so striking 
as the protection a Horded our troops by mass inoculation, particularly 
against tetanus. To quote Brig. Gen. Elliott C. Cutler, chief consultant 
in surgery of the European theater of operations in World War II, 

I would like to speak of the miracle which has occurred in eliminating tetanus 
from military surgery. Let me recall some figures for you. In our Civil War, 
the mortality rate was from 89 to 95 percent. Shortly before World War I, under 
the benefit of antitoxin which was discovered and elaborated upon by the use 
of animals, the mortality rate had dropped to between 40 and 80 percent. During 
World War I, large statistical evidence showed a mortality rate of 20 to 58 
percent ; but, in this second World War, there were only 11 cases known to have 
occurred amongst 10,700,000 men. Of these 11 cases, 5 had been given toxoid 
and 6 had not. Moreover, in these 11 cases, there are records of only four deaths, 
two of which occurred in individuals who had received the basic series of toxoid 
but no booster dose, and two in individuals who had not received even the basic 
series. This is, in my mind, one of the great miracles of modern medicine. The 
basis of the establishment of a proper toxoid rests squarely upon animal investiga- 
tion, and no greater debt could be acknowledged to oiu' friends in the animal 
kingdom than this advance for the good of humanity.' 

In World War I many other lessons were learned, particularly the 
importance of moving casualties rapidly from the front lines, before 
infection had set in. The mortality incidence from battle casualties 
was far less than in the Civil War or the Spanish- American War, but 
it was still high as compared with the mortality rate from casualties 
in World War 11. 

Harvey Gushing took the lead in dealing with head wounds, and, 
while he worked slowly, much to the consternation of other Allied 
surgeons, he took the rugged view that one wound well handled served 
a better purpose than a dozen hastily repaired wounds, since in nearly 
all the latter cases the patients would die anyway. Plis paper pub- 
lished in the British Journal of Surgery in 1918 ^ is still a classic of 
war-time cranial surgery and has been widely quoted by Hugh Cairns, 
Eldridgo Campbell, and others who dealt with battle casualties in 
World War II. 



* Cutler, E. C, Military surgery — United States Army — European Theater of 
Operations, 1944-1945 (Hunterian Lecture), Surg., Gynec. and Obst., vol. 82, p. 
261 (March), 1946. 

* Cushing, H., A study of a series of wounds involving the brain and its envelop- 
ing structures, Brit. Journ. Surg., vol. 5, p. 558, (April) 1918. 



432 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

WORLD WAR II 

Introduction of antibiotics. — Between World War I and World 
War II there were many important contributions useful not only in 
time of war but for medical and civilian defense. Undoubtedly the 
most important were the developments in the field of the antibiotics. 
Much research had been done on them before 1939, but their introduc- 
tion as therapeutic agents was greatly expedited by World War II. 
Sir Howard Florey and his resourceful team at Oxford were respon- 
sible for establishing the therapeutic potentialities of penicillin. They 
were the first to isolate it in pure form ; they were also responsible for 
determining its effective dosage and for securing its large-scale com- 
mercial production. Several years ago when someone referred to peni- 
cillin as an outcome of wartime research Sir Howard protested, and his 
objections were well taken, for he had begun to work on the antibiotics 
in the early thirties ; but it would have been many years before peni- 
cillin could have been made available in large quantities had it not 
been for the stimulus of war. The story of penicillin has been fre- 
quently told and need not be repeated here, particularly since Sir 
Howard and Lady Florey have recently published detailed mono- 
graphs ^° in which the meaningful story of the antibiotics has been 
traced in detail. 

Surgery has probably been more benefited by wartime research than 
any other branch of medicine. In World War I no surgeon would 
have dreamed of closing an infected wound, or even one that was 
potentially infected, without leaving a drain. Now, thanks to the 
use of chemotherapeutic agents such as the sulfonamides and penicil- 
lin, it is possible to close wounds of almost every description, even 
those of the abdomen, without drainage and without fear of subse- 
quent complication from infection, provided all dead tissue has been 
carefully removed prior to the closure. So great at one time did con- 
fidence become in the effectiveness of the new chemotherapeutic agents 
that some of the younger surgeons grew careless and began closing 
badly contused wounds without "debridement," i. e., without careful 
removal of seriously damaged tissue. Such injured areas may be 
without circulation, and they therefore become the foci of serious 
infection, since the bloodstream is unable to carry antibacterial agents 
into such regions. Penicillin thus cannot be regarded as a substitute 
for good surgery but merely a highly important adjunct. These newer 
principles of traumatic surgery, as worked out in the war theaters, 
have had immediate application in all forms of civilian traumatic 



^"Florey, H. W., Antibiotics: a survey of penicillin, streptomycin and other 
antimicrobial substances from fungi, actinomycetes, bacteria, and plants, 2 vols., 
London, 1949 ; and Florey, M. E., The clinical application of antibiotics : Penicillin, 
London, 1952. 



MEDICENE, WARFARE, AND HISTORY — FULTON 433 

surgery, and they are rapidly being adopted in our surgical clinics, 
largely through the influence of the younger medical officers returning 
from active service, 

A second important result of the use of penicillin and the sulfon- 
amides has been the avoidance of umiecessary amputations and un- 
necessary removal of potentially viable tissue. With the greater con- 
fidence that these drugs are bringing to the surgeon he is able to oper- 
ate much less radically. Formerly it was taught that all contused 
tissue should be removed from an injured area, but a contused muscle 
may still have an active circulation and therefore be capable of regain- 
ing its normal function. When the thigh muscle or the calf has been 
injured by a high- velocity missile, the muscle is generally contused 
over a large area, and a surgeon of the old school would in most such 
instances amputate rather than risk secondary infection. During 
the last 2 years of World War II and during the Korean campaign 
countless extremities injured in this manner have been saved by com- 
bining penicillin therapy with conservative surgery. One of the burn- 
ing arguments, however, that one still encounters in surgical amphi- 
theaters turns on the criterion of tissue viability : how can a surgeon 
be certain that a contused muscle will recover its function ? The old 
adage ran, "Wlien in doubt, remove it" ; a newer epigram might be, 
"If it bleeds, it can recover," and "Wlien in doubt, leave it." 

BLOOD FRACTIONATION 

Surgery has also been influenced by wartime studies on human blood 
and the blood plasma fractions that have become available in pure 
form, again as a direct result of wartime medical research. At the 
beginning of the war, much effort was devoted to the preparation of 
blood fractions suitable for transfusion. Blood plasma (whole blood 
minus the red blood cells) was made available, but since many un- 
toward reactions occurred from the transfusion of incompatible plas- 
mas, and since under war conditions blood typing was often difficult 
or impossible, the plasma proteins were fractionated and the globulin 
fraction that carries the allergic potentialities of the blood was elim- 
inated, leaving the albumins and fibrinogen. Albumin was then pre- 
pared in pure form and was thus made available for immediate trans- 
fusion without fear of complications. 

It soon became obvious, and this should have been clear from our 
experience in World War I, that when men have sustained severe 
hemorrhage whole blood is needed for transfusion, not merely plasma 
or albumin, since many weeks are required for the body to regenerate 
its red blood cells. The British had attempted to collect and store 
whole blood in 1939, but their efforts were largely unsuccessful because 
of difficulties in preservation. In 1943 an effective preservative was 



434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

developed by the United States National Eesearch Council, and within 
a few months whole blood was being flown in enormous quantities to 
Europe as well as to all the outposts of our Pacific theater, as it is 
now being flown to Korea. So effective is this service that blood drawn 
on the west coast was delivered in refrigerated containers less than 
48 hours later at points such as Leyte, and at the end of the war it 
was quickly reaching Seoul and other points in the Korean theater. 

As a result of these investigations on blood and its fractions, the 
civilian surgeon has an imposing array of blood substitutes ready for 
his use at any time, and he is able to count on a supply of stored whole 
blood rather than having to find a blood donor at the scene of an acci- 
dent or at some outpost of civilization. He has also come to depend 
on two other significant blood fractions, namely, fibrin and thrombin, 
which, thanks to the work of Edwin Cohn, Franc Ingraham, and 
others, are available in pure form, and in combination can be used to 
stop the most stubborn hemorrhage, e. g., bleeding from the brain 
substance or the liver, which is notoriously difficult to arrest. A more 
homely use of the fibrin-thrombin combination is for stopping a nose- 
bleed or the hemorrhage that so often follows tooth extraction. 

Important new branches of medicine, important to the armed forces 
and to civilians alike, have been created by wartime necessity. Al- 
though no word has yet been coined to cover the great new area of 
chemical applications in disease control, i. e., insect repellents, insecti- 
cides, and antimalarials, which are now numerous because of our 
attempts to make military operations possible in tropical regions, this 
special field presents itself as a new and discrete branch of medicine and 
should be so recognized. Just as Maj. Walter Reed and Gen. William 
C. Gorgas made possible the building of the Panama Canal through 
control of yellow fever, so the repellents (against insect and shark) 
and the new insecticides made possible operations in the South Pacific 
in World War II that otherwise would have been too costl}^ to con- 
template. Other new and significant branches that have developed 
are aviation and submarine medicine. 

AVIATION MEDICINE 

Oxygen administration. — Progress in aviation, stimulated by devel- 
opments in military aircraft, has led to many advances of outstanding 
value both for medical defense and for civilian aviation.^^ One of 



" HofP, E. C, and Fulton, J. F., A bibliography of aviation medicine, Spring- 
field, III., 1942. Hoff, P. M. ; Hoff, B. C. ; and Fulton, J. F., A bibliography of 
aviation medicine : Supplement, Springfield, 111., 1944. Fulton, J. F. ; Hoff, P. M. ; 
and Perkins, H. T., A bibliography of visual literature, 1939-1944, Washington, 
D. C, 1945. 



MEDICINE, WARFARE, AND HISTORY — FULTON 435 

these is oxygen administration. During the First World War, few 
fighter planes could achieve altitudes greater than 18,000 feet, and the 
use of oxygen, except in unusual instances, was not deemed a prime 
military necessity ; hence, such oxygen masks as there were were crude 
in design and wasteful from the point of view of oxygen supply. The 
need for oxygen masks was well known, however, from early balloon 
ascents, and particularly from the tragic Tissandier disaster, which 
occurred on April 15, 1875. Three men had ascended in a balloon to 
an altitude of 28,000 feet, and all three were overcome by altitude 
sickness before they could breathe the oxygen they had on board. As 
a result, two of the balloonists, Croce-Spinelli and Sivel, succumbed, 
and Tissandier alone of the three survived. The intrepid French 
experimenter, Paul Bert, established the fact in a home-made pressure 
chamber that it was not low pressure as such that had caused the death 
of the two balloonists but rather the low pressure of oxygen at 28,000 
feet. Paul Bert exposed himself, along with a bird and a rat, to a 
pressure of 430 mm. Hg. The bird vomited and appeared quite sick, 
and at a slightly higher altitude the bird was close to death and the 
rat uneasy. At that point. Professor Bert became dizzy and his pulse 
had increased from 60 to 86. He then began to breathe oxygen, his 
dizziness disappeared, and his pulse within 2 minutes had dropped to 
64, but it was still impossible for him to whistle. He continued his 
ascent to an altitude equivalent of 29,000 feet (428 mm. Hg) , at which 
time the bird was prostrate and a burning candle had turned very blue, 
with its flame almost extinguished. 

This celebrated experiment made it quite clear that oxygen must 
be available if planes without pressure cabins were to ascend to alti- 
tudes above 18,000 feet. Further study carried out during World 
War II made it clear that vision, mental alertness, and the capacity 
to fly a plane with safety began to diminish at altitudes as low as 5,000 
feet, this being particularly true of night vision. Hence, when mili- 
tary aircraft began to ascend to altitudes of 25,000 and 30,000 feet 
and later to 40,000 and 50,000 feet ^^ the problem of oxygen supply 
became acute and all the problems worked out for military aircraft 
were immediately applicable to commercial planes carrying civilians. 
It has been said that the Battle of Britain was won with a few oxygen 
masks. In a literal sense this is perhaps true, because Hitler's mili- 
tary pilots, both fighters and bombers, began in the summer of 1940 
to come in at altitude ceilings well above the tolerance of an ordinary 
flier and they had developed systems of oxygen supply that for a brief 

" In the Illustrated London 'News for May 16, 1953, it is reported that on May 
4 a new English turbojet bomber (Canberra type) reached an authenticated alti- 
tude of 63,668 feet, which stands as the altitude record for heavier-thau-air 
machines under human control. 



436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

time were superior to those of British fighters. Thanks to the efforts 
of the Flying Personnel Research Committee and particularly to one 
of its members, Sir Brian Matthews, the British developed a success- 
ful oxygen mask and a system of supply that made it possible for 
British fighters to meet German raiders at their own altitude, and 
through this circumstance the Battle of Britain was won, virtually in a 
single day, September 15, 1940, when 186 German planes were shot 
down. The Luftwaffe quickly decided it could no longer stand this 
rate of attrition. The British were tireless in their efforts to improve 
their oxygen masks and modes of supply, and our own air forces prof- 
ited immeasurably by British experience, which was made freely 
available to the U. S. Army and Navy Air Forces. 

Pressure-cabin aircraftP — It early became obvious to some investi- 
gators, including Paul Bert, that, if the gondola of a high-altitude 
balloon were artificially pressurized, a balloon might ascend higher 
into the atmosphere without endangering life. But years passed, and 
it was not until 1933 that the National Geographic-United States 
Army stratosphere flight was able to make an ascent in a pressurized 
gondola with adequate pressure control. In this memorable ascent, 
Auguste Piccard achieved an altitude of 72,395 feet, the highest alti- 
tude yet attained by man. 

The experience encouraged the United States Army Air Corps to 
think of pressurized combat aircraft, and to Harry G. Armstrong, 
now Surgeon General of the United States Army Air Forces, must 
be given credit for having, through a historic Air Corps teclinical 
report, outlined the physiological requirements of sealed high-altitude 
aircraft compartments. This was a starting point for developments 
of pressurized planes in this country, the first of which (the XC-35) 
was flown in April 1937. In this development the United States was 
ahead of both Britain and Germany and, thanks to the enterprise of 
the Lockheed Aircraft Corp., finally succeeded in making their strato- 
liners (B-307) and Constellations effectively pressurized. After 1946 
Constellations began to make regular transatlantic flights at altitudes 
ranging from 18,000 to 24,000 feet, while the pressure in the cabins 
was maintained at an average corresponding to 8,000 feet. 

Technical difficulties in pressiire-cabin aircraft prove numerous, 
and for the most part they stem from man's physiological requirements, 
i. e., maintaining cabin pressure, and, of almost equal importance, ade- 
quate ventilation. The average air passenger, without lung or heart 



"The material in this and the following section is based on Fulton, J. F., 
Aviation medicine in its preventive aspects: An historical survey (Heath Clark 
Lectures, 1947), London, 1948. National Research Council, Decompression sick- 
ness, caisson sickness, diver's and flier's bends, and related syndromes, Phila- 
delphia, 1951. 



MEDICINE, WARFARE, AND HISTORY — FULTON 437 

disease and under the age of 70, is quite comfortable at an altitude of 
8,000 feet, even though at that height his night vision may be some- 
what impaired. But ventilation of the fuselage presents a very real 
problem because of the accumulation of water vapor and carbon di- 
oxide ; also in hot weather body odors and fumes from aircraft instru- 
ments and engines demand rapid change of air at appropriate pres- 
sure. In a completely sealed cabin a change of air of 2 to 3 cubic 
feet per minute per person will keep the humidity and the carbon 
dioxide at a tolerable level, provided there are no exhaust fumes." 
Leaks in the pressure-cabin equipment are inevitable, however, and 
with further experience it became evident that a change of at least 
12 cubic feet per minute per person would be essential for comfortable 
air travel. This involved installation of larger turbopressurizers and 
air coolers to make the pressurized air tolerable from a thermal stand- 
point. Through experience gained during World War II these diffi- 
culties have now been largely overcome, and essential equipment has 
now been installed in all long-range, high-flying, pressurized pas- 
senger aircraft. 

Explosive decoTTipression. — An ever-present hazard in pressurized 
aircraft, both military and commercial, is that of sudden or explosive 
decompression. Pressurized aircraft, such as the Constellation, is 
stressed to withstand a pressure differential of 6.5 pounds per square 
inch. This would permit flight at 30,000 feet with an internal pres- 
sure equivalent of 8,000 feet. If a large military aircraft, flying at 
30,000 feet, were suddenly depressurized by enemy action, the pilot, if 
he had oxygen available, could carry on, but other crew and passengers 
without oxygen would retain useful consciousness for about 2 minutes. 
If no oxygen were available, crew and passengers would become un- 
conscious within a matter of minutes and death might ensue within 
a period of 8 to 10 minutes. Hence, commercial planes, in which ex- 
plosive decompression might occur as a result of the breaking of a 
window, failure of turbos, or explosion of an observation dome, are not 
permitted to fly above 22,000 to 24,000 feet, since a large plane cannot 
descend rapidly enough to insure consciousness of the occupants, 
especially of the crew. 

With military planes, which ascend to much greater altitudes, the 
situation is even more critical. For example, if pressurized military 
aircraft were flying at 52,000 feet and were suddenly decompressed, 
the pilot would have only 15 to 20 seconds to get himself out of the 
plane, and, if he did not descend within 3 to 5 minutes through free 
fall to 20,000 feet, his heart would have stopped. A direct pressure 
dive might enable the pilot to achieve 15,000-20,000 feet, but he would 



" Spealman, C. R., Aviation toxicology (an introduction to the subject and a 
handbook of data) , New York, 1953. 



438 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

be unconscious when he reached that level. In view of this circum- 
stance it has been deemed safer to bail out for a free fall with a para- 
chute that will automatically open at 10,000 to 12,000 feet. With 
rockets and the much-talked-of space ship, which will fly through 
ether in which there is no pressure and no oxygen, the paramount 
importance of maintaining adequate pressure levels is obvious, and the 
energy required to maintain pressure, let alone jet propulsion, is so 
great that even the most optimistic are loath to predict that the prob- 
lem of fuel supply could be solved, despite all the resources of human 
ingenuity, within the life span of this generation. Perhaps one might 
reach the moon, but how would energy be secured to insure return? 
More difficult conundrums have been solved in the past, but, although 
I happen to be an optimist with faith in the resourcefulness of some 
future generation, I believe that the only possible solution lies in atomic 
energy with all its weighty paraphernalia.^^ 

Acceleration in high-speed aircraft. — The successful use of oxygen 
presupposes a steady blood circulation without undue gravitational 
pressure on the heart; however, it became obvious to the French flight 
surgeons in 1918 that rapid turns and dive pull-outs tended to diminish 
the flow of flood to the brain. In the Snyder Trophy Races in 1929, 
confusion and dimming of vision were encountered when the pilots 
were rounding the pylon ; and in 1932 a man of great insight, Heinrich 
von Diringshofen of the German Air Ministry Research Laboratories 
at Tempelhof in Berlin, constructed a human centrifuge to simulate 
problems of acceleration in flight. Before this, however, two equally 
thoughtful Dutch investigators, Jongbloed and Noyons of Utrecht, 
had studied the efi'ects of acceleration on the level of the systolic blood 
pressure in animals. As a plane's speed is augmented or diminished, 
the pilot is pushed backward or forward in his seat by a force directly 
proportional to the rate of acceleration or deceleration. If the increase 
of speed occurs at 32.2 feet per second, the pilot would be pushed 
against the back of his seat by a force equal to that of gravity, but, 
when pilots pull out of dive-bomb maneuvers, the direction of the 
acceleration is from head to foot, and, as far as the circulation is 
concerned, there is a tendency to pull blood from the head. 

Need for protection from high acceleration in aircraft has become 
even more acute in the last few years owing to the development of the 



" And so it turns out that in man's quest for mastery of the air a great step 
forward has been talsen in the successful development of pressurized cabins. 
These developments, however, are in their early infancy from the engineering 
standpoint, and their use in larger transport planes, in rockets and jet-propelled 
craft, will succeed only if the limitations of the human frame, both in its structure 
and in its functions, are kept constantly in mind. And let us not forget that it 
was a flight surgeon and not an engineer who wrote the specifications for the 
first pressurized plane. [ See Fulton, footnote 13.] 



MEDICINE, WARFARE, AND HISTORY — FULTON 439 

fast-flying jet plane and the possibility of using rockets for human 
transportation. Even when planes were unable to fly at rates of more 
than 200 to 300 miles per hour, acceleration had become a vital prob- 
lem, especially in dive bombers, and in fighter aircraft that were able 
to make fast turns. Now that jets are achieving speeds of 500 to 700 
miles per hour, the need for protection from acceleration is vastly 
increased. The pneumatic pressure suit developed by Capt. John Pop- 
pen, USN (MC), Prof. F. A. S. Cotton in Australia, and Dr. Harold 
Lamport in New Haven, Conn., and many others, has served to give 
measurable and strategically significant protection for military pilots. 
Such suits have proved of inestimable value, especially during the 
D-day operations, and more recently for our fighter pilots in Korea. 

Design for safety. — During the war there were many instances in 
which a fast-flying bombing plane crashed into a mountain side and 
everyone on the plane, except for the tail gunner, was instantly killed. 
Accidents such as this have stirred inquiry into the reasons for these 
apparently miraculous survivals. They lie in the fact that the rear 
gunner's head and the rest of his body were supported by solid struc- 
ture at the time of the impact and in the fact that he was riding back- 
ward. Those situated in a more forward position in a crashing airplane 
are thrown from their seats because of insufficient strength of seat belts 
and seat moorings, and according to the wartime report of Wliitting- 
ham, director general of medical services of the R. A. F. (and now of 
B. O. A. C), 95 percent of the deaths in air crashes result from head 
injury, i. e., the head of the passenger is thrown violently against 
solid structure. 

It became obvious, in view of episodes such as these, that rear-facing, 
heavily moored seats would confer a degree of passenger safety at least 
10 times as great as that which could be achieved with forward-facing 
seats with fragile seat belts to hold the passenger in place in the event 
of accident. The British public and airplane manufacturers have 
already seen the virtue of rear-facing seats, and many of their new 
passenger planes are so equipped. In the United States the resistance 
on the part of both the flying public, and more particularly the air- 
craft designers, has been so great that to date only Northwest Airlines 
have seen fit to install rear-facing seats in commercial craft. 

The principles involved in the greater safety from rear-facing seats 
are simple. If one falls to the ground and strikes one's head on soft 
earth, the head is decelerated in a matter of a few tenths to one-half a 
second ; the blow being thus softened, the accident victim may not suffer 
concussion or unconsciousness. When, however, a person knocked off 
a bicycle strikes his head on solid cement that does not yield, he may 
suffer fracture of the skull, concussion, hemorrhage, and possibly even 
death. In these circumstances the head is decelerated in a matter of 

326511—55 30 



440 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

a hundredth of a second or less, depending on whether the falling 
person has on his head a soft felt hat or a football helmet. Crash hel- 
mets to minimize sudden deceleration of the head are now in use in 
almost every military aircraft, since pilots, unfortunately, are unable 
to occupy rear-facing seats with present flight equipment. 

Hugh De Haven, director of crash injury research at Cornell Uni- 
versity Medical College in New York, is, among others, responsible 
for stressing these considerations. In this comiection, one of his most 
impressive studies has been the analysis of nonfatal suicide leaps in 
the city of New York. Persons have survived virtually uninjured 
after leaps from the tenth and even the seventeenth floor of New York 
buildings, and, when the circumstances are analyzed in any given 
case, it turns out that the intended suicide victim has usually landed 
flat on his back in a soft garden plot or on a ventilating screen, or his 
fall may have been broken by awnings or an automobile top. This 
again indicates the importance of gradual rather than abrupt decelera- 
tion. These principles have proved to be immediately applicable not 
only in aircraft design but also in the automotive industry. A sum- 
mary of these considerations has been given in Hugh De Haven's "De- 
velopment of Crash-survival Design in Personal, Executive and Agri- 
cultural Aircraft." " 

The literature of aviation medicine, the great part of which has 
come from military installations, affords many other examples of 
material that is immediately applicable to commercial aircraft and 
to the automotive industry. It stresses the importance of having men 
of vision, imagination, determination, and sound training in the medi- 
cal departments of all our military services, for the contributions they 
make are likely to be of importance not only to military operations 
but to society in the broadest sense. 

SUBMARINE MEDICINE 

Submarine medicine offers many examples of scientific disclosures 
with general application, but they are of less immediate significance 
to the civilian public at the present time, since it is not much given 
to traveling in submersibles, except for a few hardy souls such as 
William Beebe, who study marine life at great depths in the sea, and 
the "frogmen," who do mysterious things at depths of 100 or more 
feet in the interests of national defense. Of course, the diver and the 
caisson worker can always learn much from submarine experience, 
especially about protection from caisson disease and diver's "bends." 
There is no journal of submarine medicine, but the physiological prob- 



" Crash Injury Research, Cornell University Medical College, New York, 

(May) 1953. - i":a.;V;„.; ;. L:.l„ ::„.:-. 



MEDICINE, WARFARE, AND HISTORY — FULTON 441 

lems encountered by submarine personnel are numerous and the liter- 
ature pertaining thereto has been analyzed, summarized, and system- 
atically arranged in a remarkable bibliography by Commander Ebbe 
C. Hoff, USNR (MC) entitled "A Bibliographical Sourcebook of 
Compressed Air, Diving and Submarine Medicine," published by the 
Navy Department in February, 1948. The bibliography contains 
nearly 3,000 entries, each of which is summarized and reviewed in 
subject groups. It does not fall within the scope of this paper to 
discuss the technical phases of submarine medicine but attention should 
be directed to K. E. Schaefer's comprehensive monograph (826 pp.) 
on German submarine medicine." Dr. Schaefer, chief of the Sub- 
marine Physiological Laboratory at Heidelberg during the war, is 
now continuing his important studies in the physiology branch of the 
United States Naval Medical Research Laboratories at New London, 
Conn. His recent reports from the submarine base should also be 
consulted. 

In closing this historical survey on the importance of military medi- 
cine to national and civilian defense I can do no better than to quote 
the words of Capt. J. S. Taylor, USA(MC), written after World 
Warl:" 

The world is far from even apprehending what it has yet to learn thoroughly, 
that in the field the distribution of medical supplies, prompt evacuation, skillful 
first aid, shelter, food, and restoratives available early for every fallen com- 
batant are of infinitely more importance than highly technical relief to difficult 
cases. More critical still are the problems relating to later demobilization, 
to hospitalization and rehabilitation of war victims, and the faithful but well- 
ordered and economical relief of the wreckage of war. Millions will be spent 
and more millions wasted until the time comes when it is a recognized part of 
the program of national defense to organize methods of post bellum relief at 
the same time that activities are initiated for the prosecution of hostilities. We 
have progressed from the day of medical attendance for leaders to medical at- 
tendance for all combatants, and leaders are increasingly alive to the immediate 
necessary needs of their forces; but we have not yet attained to a comprehen- 
pive grasp of the requirements or possibilities of military medicine. 



" Schaefer, K. B., Symposium on submarine medicine, U. S. Fleet Naval Forces, 
Technical Section (Medical), Germany, 1950. 

" Taylor, J. S., A retrospect of naval and military medicine, U. S. Naval Med. 
Bull. 15, No. 3, p. 608, 1921. 



Harriet Lane Johnston 
and the National Collection of Fine Arts 



By Thomas M. Beggs 

Director, National Collection of Fine Arts, Smithsonian Institution 



[With 8 plates] 



A CONTINUING RESPONSIBILITY of the National Collection of Fine 
Arts is the preservation of a permanent collection valued at over $10 
million. For the establishment of this large assemblage of paintings, 
sculptures, and decorative art objects under a separate bureau of the 
Smithsonian Institution, the United States is especially indebted to 
Harriet Lane Johnston, niece of James Buchanan, the fifteenth Presi- 
dent of the United States, and hostess at the White House during his 
Administration. 

At her death in 1903 Harriet Johnston bequeathed her precious 
mementos, historical objects, and famous pictures with the understand- 
ing that they should be placed in the Corcoran Gallery of Art until the 
founding of a national gallery, when they should become the property 
of the Nation. These provisions in her last will and testament raised 
questions for court decision, and in 1906 Justice Wendell P. Stafford 
of the United States District Court of the District of Columbia decreed 
that the Smithsonian Institution was in fact the legal repository for 
Government-owned works of art within the meaning of her will and, 
therefore, the rightful recipient of her treasures. They were placed in 
custody of Dr. William Henry Holmes, but not until 1920 did Congress 
appropriate funds for salary and assistance that led to his appointment 
as director of what is now the National Collection of Fine Arts. 

Until the terms of the Johnston will were carried out, Government 
art collections were limited to scattered early gifts. The John Varden 
collection had been transferred with that of the National Institute, 
at the latter's expiration in 1861, to the Smithsonian Institution after 
Buchanan had left the White House and Harriet Lane had gone with 
him to Wheatlands, his Lancaster, Pa., estate. These accessions, to- 
gether with paintings and sculptures acquired unsystematically dur- 
ing the remainder of the nineteenth century, were so dispersed as to 
barely deserve the impressive title her bequest invoked. Her vision 

443 



444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

inspired action, and her gift was followed by those of connoisseur- 
industrialist Charles L. Freer, businessman William T. Evans, and 
lawyer Ralph Cross Johnson. Crowded by later additions to the 
permanent exhibition, the significance of her collection had been all 
but forgotten. In the reorganization of the gallery in 1953, its im- 
portance was recognized anew, and it was then restored to primary 
position at the head of the arrayed collections. Gentle, gracious, and 
most favored in her youthful leadership in Washington, Harriet Lane 
Johnston commands our gratitude today as First Lady of the National 
Collection of Fine Arts. 

Born in Franklin County, Pa., in 1830, Harriet Lane was the 
youngest of several children orphaned by the death of Elliot T. Lane 
and his wife Jane. At the age of 9 Harriet showed wisdom in the 
choice of her mother's brother, James Buchanan, as her guardian. 
A bond of affection developed between niece and uncle, then Senator 
from Pennsylvania, that inspired two fine characters to lives of dis- 
tinction in national service. Harriet, in gaining his devoted guardian- 
ship, required of him the solicitude of a bachelor tragically disap- 
pointed in love. He had suffered a broken engagement resulting from 
misunderstanding, and his beloved had died before reconciliation. 
She was known to Harriet through a miniature, a careful tracing of 
which, with tender notations, was long treasured and now reposes in 
the Library of Congress with her letters. Understanding of each 
other's loss seems to have kindled an unwavering loyalty that lasted 
to the end of his long career as statesman and President, the full worth 
of which is yet to be appropriately acknowledged by historians. No 
daughter could have rewarded more steadfastly in later years the 
watchful guidance he provided in the period that demanded greatest 
effort in his own behalf. Harriet Lane enjoyed physical vigor and 
personal charm that proved equal to responsibilities and opportunities 
rarely faced by an American girl. Fortune was not always kind, yet 
hers was ever a willing acceptance and happy response, which enabled 
lier to surmount trials with faith and grace, to win the unreserved 
admiration of all who knew her. 

Letters to his adopted niece reveal certain fears James Buchanan 
held that animal spirits and tomboy inclinations would pose problems 
in rearing his young ward. The rising statesman knew how to blend 
official authority with an uncle's affection. Rarely did he reprimand 
without pointing out reward for good behavior. He admonished her in 
his letter to her of March 20, 1843, "How proud and happy I should be 
to acknowledge and cherish you as an object of deep affection could I 
say, she is kind in heart, amiable in temper and behaves in such a man- 
ner as to secure the affection and esteem of all around her." ^ Such 
words were a steadying influence during days at the fashionable 

' Curtis, George Ticknor, Life of James Buchanan, 2 vols. New York, 1883. 



HARRIET LANE JOHNSTON — BEGGS 445 

boarding school in Charlestown, in what is now West Virginia, which 
she attended with her older sister Mary. After three years there be- 
tween the ages of 12 and 15, she was enrolled at the old Georgetown 
Convent of the Visitation. Her Senator uncle felt no fear that she 
might become a nun, but expected her to be taught "charity and sym- 
pathy for all God's people." From Wheatland he wrote admonishing 
her for her lack of application to her studies ; but when, in her last two 
years, she won high honors, he took great pride in her achievement. 

Hers was the beauty of golden hair and bright blue eyes. Buchanan 
cautioned his attractive niece never to marry "if not attached" nor 
with a man unable "to afford decent and immediate support." He 
warned her to let flattery "pass in one ear gracefully and out the 
other." His kindness and concern were shown when his proposed 
appointment as Minister to Great Britain threatened separation. He 
wrote, "I think that a visit to Europe with me as Minister would 
spoil you outright. Besides, it would consume your little independ- 
ence. One grave objection to my acceptance of the mission, for which 
I have no personal inclination, would be your situation. I should 
dislike to leave you behind, in the care of any person I know." The 
post, however, was accepted, and Harriet's elation at the prospect of 
accompanying him was cooled by a period of waiting during which 
she was assured that her "beautiful dream" would be "disappointing 
in reality." On April 29, 1854, Harriet left New York for London in 
the company of Mrs. Perry, wife of the Commodore. On the advice of 
her uncle, she brought "no New York dresses as ladies [there] of 
highest rank do not dress as expensively as in the U. S." 

Buchanan's years of experience as a statesman gave him great poise 
and dignity. He became a favorite at the Court of St. James's, and 
his niece's popularity added to his own. Queen Victoria bestowed 
upon her more honors than were accorded any other foreign woman. 
Harriet described to her sister Mary the regal dinners she enjoyed at 
the Palace in her uncle's company, her dancing with the Prince of 
Wales, and conquests of the heart of more than one wealthy British 
peer. Her success socially in the aristocratic English Court gave her 
the self-confidence that was to prove such an asset to her later as First 
Lady of the White House. 

In an effort to keep her from becoming too vain, the ever watchful 
guardian said to his niece, upon their return from the second Drawing 
Room of 1854 Season, "Well, a person would have supposed you were 
a great beauty, to have heard the way you were talked of today. I was 
asked if we had many such handsome ladies in America. I answered 
yes and many much handsomer. She would scarcely be remarked 
there for her beauty." "^ 

' Hostetter, Ida L. K., Harriet Lane, Lancaster, Pa. Lancaster County Hist. 
Soc. Pap., vol. 33, No. 6, 1929. 



446 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

The Honorable James MacGregor was one of many Englishmen 
whose friendship for James Buchanan and his niece outlasted the 
Pennsylvanian's official duties there. This member of the English 
Parliament expressed his admiration of the American Minister by 
the gift of an engraved portrait of Sir John Hampden, cousin of 
Oliver Cromwell and cochampion in Parliament against illegal tax- 
ation of citizens by the crown. This portrait is among the mementos 
of Buchanan's ministry to England, now in the National Collection of 
Fine Arts. 

Harriet returned to the United States in October 1855. The fol- 
lowing spring her uncle became a third-time candidate for the presi- 
dential nomination. The gavel used at the Democratic Convention in 
Cincinnati which gave him the nomination on June 19, 1856, is to 
be seen in the collection. Harriet was 26 when he won the election in 
the fall. 

Miss Lane served as President Buchanan's official hostess until Lin- 
coln's inauguration. Through times of gravest national anxiety she 
maintained at the White House an atmosphere of serenity and cordial 
warmth that aided Buchanan's attempts to insure a period of good 
feeling. The friendship between the White House and the Court of 
St. James's assumed historical importance when later it offset, to some 
extent, English sympathy for Southern suppliers of British cotton 
mills. When the Princess Royal of Great Britain was married. Presi- 
dent Buchanan received a letter from her father, Prince Albert, dated 
February 16, 1858, expressing his warm personal regard for the Presi- 
dent, and a silver medal struck in commemoration of the marriage. 

The laying of the transatlantic cable and the opening up of tele- 
graphic communication with Great Britain furthered the pleasant 
relations between the Queen of England and the former Minister to 
her Court. The original copy of the official congratulations exchanged 
on August 17, 1858, between Victoria and James Buchanan was for 
years in the possession of the President's nephew and confidential sec- 
retary, J. Buchanan Henry, and afterward became a part of the 
Harriet Lane Johnston collection, where it may now be seen as first 
matted and framed. 

Harriet's spontaneous gaiety enlivened grand occasions. A 5-day 
visit from Albert Edward, Prince of Wales, in October 1860 called 
for the utmost in White House entertainment. The climax of the 
festivities was an excursion aboard the Revenue Service Cutter "Har- 
riet Lane" (named for the President's niece by the Secretary of the 
Treasury Howell Cobb) to Mount Vernon where the Prince and his 
entourage, accompanied by the President, his niece and his Cabinet, 
saw Washington's tomb. This was pictured by Thomas Pritchard 
Rossiter (1818-1871) in a painting preserved in the collection. An- 



Smithsonian Report, 1954— Beggs 



Plate l 




Harriet Lane Johnston, by John Henry Brown (1818-1891). Watercolor on ivory, 4)4 x SVie 

inches. 



Smithsonian Report. 1 954 



Plate 2 




Portrait of the Prince of Wales (King Edward Vll), by Sir Jolm Walson Gordon (1798- 
1864). Oil on canvas, 50 x 40 inches. 



Smithsonian Rrporl, 1954.— Begas 



Plate 3 




James Buchanan Johnston, by Harper Pennington (1854-1920). Oil on canvas, 29}'2 x li 

inches. 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Beggs 



Plate 4 




Q 







2.^ 



hJ! 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Beggs 



Plate 5 




Henry Elliott Johnston, Jr., as "Cupid Stringing His Bow," by William Henry Rincliart 
(1825-1874). Marble, height 42>^ inches. 



Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Beggs 



Plate 6 





Smithsonian Report. 1954. 



Plate 7 




Smithsonian Report, 1954. — Beggs 



Plate 8 








HARRIET LANE JOHNSTON — BEGGS 447 

other souvenir of the sojourn of the Prince, long before he became 
King Edward VII, is a portrait in uniform painted by Sir John Wat- 
son Gordon (1798-1864). It was given to President Buchanan in 
18G2, and is described in the letter from Jaffa, Palestine, exhibited 
with the painting, "as a slight mark of [his] grateful recollection 
of the hospitable reception and agreeable visit at the White House." 

Letters exchanged by Queen Victoria and the President m connec- 
tion with the visit of the Prince of Wales bear evidence of the cordial 
relations existing between England's ruler and the head of our Govern- 
ment. This friendship with the Iloyal Family was maintained by 
Harriet Lane Johnston to the end of the Queen's long reign, as evi- 
denced by the collection's photograph of Victoria, autographed in 
1898, and an invitation to Edward VII's coronation in 1902 known to 
have been received from the King. 

As early as 1853 Buchanan had written his niece, "It is my desire to 
see you happily married, because, should I be called away, your situ- 
ation would not be agreeable .... I desire that you shall exercise 
your own deliberate choice of a husband. View steadily all the conse- 
quences, ask the guidance of Heaven, and make up your own mind and 
I shall be satisfied." Though a host of suitors hovered about con- 
stantly and romance often beckoned, Harriet seemed too preoccupied 
with her household and official duties to think of marriage. But in 
Lancaster during October 1865 she obtained her uncle's cheerful ap- 
proval of her acceptance of Henry Elliott Johnston. "You have made 
your own unbiased choice and from the character of Mr. Johnston I 
anticipate for you a happy marriage," he wrote, and, the decision 
having been made, he cautioned her against unreasonable delays. 

After 6 j^ears with her uncle in his last retirement to Wheatlands, 
she became the bride of the suitor whose devotion had been constant 
since they first met in early youth at Bedford Springs. She went to 
the Maryland home of her husband, who was a junior member of a 
Baltimore law firm. Her happiness was marred 2 years later by the 
loss of her beloved uncle. Two sons were taken from her at ages 12 
and 14; and then she lost her husband after 18 years together. The 
American sculptors Henry Dexter (1806-1876) and William Henry 
Einehart (1825-1874) have transmuted to marble the physical like- 
nesses of the distinguished ex-President, his niece, her husband, and 
the hitter's namesake. The last mentioned is shown at the age of two 
as "Cupid Stringing his Bow." The older son, James Buchanan John- 
ston, is the subject of the posthumous portrait by Harper Pennington 
(1854-1920). 

The remainder of her life in Baltimore and Washington she spent 
quietly with plans ever in mind for worthwhile memorials to her 
loved ones. The birthplace of Buchanan in Mercersburg, Pa., St. 

326511—55 31 



448 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 

Albans and the Cathedral Choir School in "Washington, the hospital 
wing bearing her name at Johns Hopkins, and the Harriet Lane Home 
for Invalid Children in Baltimore are outstanding among her generous 
benefactions. 

Though not a memorial gift, the Harriet Lane Johnston Collection 
very appropriately commemorates in Washington the exemplary 
public lives of both its gracious donor and her gallant guardian. In 
addition to the memorabilia, paintings, and sculptures already men- 
tioned, the following are noteworthy. The Italian Renaissance is 
represented by Bernardino Luini's (c. 1450-1535) "Madonna and 
Child," and the Dutch and Flemish of a century later by Franz Pour- 
bus's (1569-1622) "Josepha Boegart," more Englisli than Belgian in 
appearance. There is also a portrait of Harriet's continental com- 
panion, Madame Tulp, by the Dutch painter Jansen Van Ceulen 
( 1593-1661 ) . Paintings of English ladies were sought for the walls of 
her stately parlors as agreeable reminders of the tour of duty in Great 
Britain. Portraits of Mrs. Hammond, by Reynolds (1723-1792) ; 
Mrs. Abington, by Hoppner (1758-1810) ; and Miss Kirkpatrick, by 
Romney (1734-1802), have found places with Lady Essex, by 
Lawrence (1769-1830). The identity of the subject of a portrait by 
Sir William Beechey (1753-1839) as Miss Agnes Murray has not yet 
been positively established. Her costume, restored through the re- 
moval of later repainting, is in the style of the period in which the 
artist painted her. 

The American paintings are few aside from "Independence." a 
genre subject by F. B. Mayer (1827-1899), Maryland historical painter 
who recorded this scene of easy life in Frostburg. The portrait of 
James Buchanan by Jacob Eicholtz (1776-1842), painted between his 
last year as Representative from Pennsylvania and the time he became 
American Minister at the Russian Court in St. Petersburg, is of his- 
torical importance. It shows Buchanan as he appeared about the time 
his favorite niece, Harriet Lane, was born. He and the niece were 
portrayed again in later life by J. Henry Brown. This artist had 
made a miniature of Buchanan in 1851, and in 1876 he was asked by 
Henry E. Johnston, husband of the ex-President's niece, to duplicate 
it for her. The artist painted a new picture from daguerreotypes 
instead of copying the earlier picture. Its companion-piece, a mini- 
ature of the donor of the Harriet Lane Johnston collection, is an 
exquisitely rendered portrayal of matronly beauty. At 43 years of 
age, Harriet Lane Johnston was a queenly figure, combining gentleness 
and feminine charm with the majestic mien of a woman fully awtire 
of her trusteeship of the mementos of a golden epoch in White House 
history and conscious of the importance of art to the Nation's future. 



INDEX 



Abbot, Charles G., viii 

(The Smithsonian Astrophysical 
Observatory), 9 
Abbott, R. Tucker, vi 
Accessions, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 44, 45, 51, 
52, 63, G6, 89, 93, 94, 147. 162 

Bureau of American Ethnology, 44 

Freer Gallerv of Art, 63 

Library, 12,'l62 

National Air Museum, 89 

National Collection of Fine7Arts, 
51, 52 

National Gallery of Art, 11, 147 

National Museum, 9, 13 

National Zoological Park, 11, 93, 94 

River Basin Surveys, 45 
Aldrich, Loyal B., Director, Astro- 
physical Observatory, viii, 47, 50 
Aldrich, Stanley L., viii 
Allen, William T., 24 
American Ethnology (See Bureau of) 
Anderson, Clinton P., Regent of the 

Institution, v, 6 
Ando, Hideya, 87 
Andrews, A. J., vi 
Anglim, J. E., vi 
Appropriations, 7, 32, 147, 175 

Astrophysical Observatory, 7 

Bureau of American Ethnology, 7 

Canal Zone Biological Area, 7 

International Exchange Service, 7 

National Air Museum, 7 

National Collection of Fine Arts, 7 

National Gallery of Art, 147 

National Museum, 7 

National Zoological Park, 7 

River Basin Surveys, 7, 32 
Arms, John Taylor, 51 
Arthur lecture, 8 
Aschemeier, C. H., vi 
Astrophysical Observatory, viii, 7, 10, 
46, 48 

Appropriation, 7 

Astrophysical Research, Division 
of, viii, 46 

Field stations, viii, 48 

Radiation and Organisms, Division 
of, viii, 48 

Report, 46 

Staff, viii 
Atznosphere, the upper. The nature of 

the (H. S. W. Massey), 179 
Audit of private funds, 175 
Avery, E. A., vii 
Awl, Mrs. Aime M., vi 



B 

Baker, T. G., vi 

Bales, Richard, 158 

Bartsch, Paul, vi 

Bassler, R. S., vii 

Bayer, Frederick M., vi, 22, 23 

Beach, Jessie G., vii 

Becchetti, Fred, 87 

Beggs, Thomas M., Director, National 
Collection of Fine Arts, viii, 51, 62 
(Harriet Lane Johnston and the 
National Collection of Fine Arts), 
443 

Belin, Ferdinand Lammot, Vice Presi- 
dent, National Gallery of Art, ix, 146, 
147 

Benn, J. H., vii 

ISenson, Ezra Taft, Secretary of Agri- 
culture, Member of the Institution, v 

Bent, Arthur C, vi 

Biggs, J. D., vi 

Bio-Sciences Information Exchange, 5 

Blackwelder, R. E., vi 

Blaker, Mrs. Margaret C, 42 

Blaydes, Glenn W. (The romance of 
domesticated plants), 317 

Bliss, Robert Woods, 51 

Bond, Gorman M., vi 

Boschma, H., 20 

Botanical studies in Fiji (Albert C. 
Smith), 305 

Boving, A. G., vi 

Brackney, Pablo, 21 

Brain, On comparing the, with machines 
(D. M. MacKay), 231. 

Bridges, William E., vii 

Brown, John Nicholas, 51 

Brown, Margaret W., viii 

Brown, Roland W., vii 

Brown, W. L., vi 

Browne, R. W. S., vi 

Brownell, Herbert, Jr., Attorney Gen- 
eral of the United States, Member of 
the Institution, v. 

Bruns, Franklin R., Jr., viii 

Buchanan, L. L., vi 

Building plans, 2 

Bureau of American Ethnology, viii, 7, 
10, 29 

Appropriation, 7 

Archives, 42 

Collections, 44 

Editorial work and publications, 43 

Illustrations, 43 

Miscellaneous, 45 

Report, 29 

449 



450 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1964 



Bureau of American Ethnology — Con. 

River Basin Surveys, viii, 32 

Staff, viii 

Systematic researches, 29 
Bush, Vannevar, Regent of the Institu- 
tion, V, 6, 175 
By as, W. J., vi 
Byrd, Mrs. Thomas, 76 



Cairns, Huntington, Secretary-Treas- 
urer and General Counsel, National 
Gallery of Art ix, 146, 158 
Campbell, Mrs. Marjorie, 85 
Campbell, William P., 154, 155 
Canal Zone Biological Area, ix, 7, 11, 131 
Acknowledgments, 136 
Appropriation, 7 
Buildings and equipment, 131 
Financial support, 135 
Needs, 132 
Rainfall, 134 
Report, 131 

Scientists and their studies, 132 
Visitors, 11, 134 
Cannon, Clarence, Regent of the Insti- 
tution, V, 6, 175 
Capra, F., 20 

Carmichael, Leonard, Secretary of the 
Institution, v, ix, 1, 51, 146 
Report, 1 
Carriker, M. A., vi 
Cartwright, Oscar L., vi, 28 
Cattle egret. The spread of the (Alex- 
ander Sprunt, Jr.), 259 
Chace, F. A., Jr., vi 
Chancellor of the Institution (Earl 
Warren, Chief Justice of the United 
States), V, 6 
Chapin, Edward A., 28 
Chase, Mrs. Agnes, vii 
Chief Justice of the United States 
(Earl Warren, Chancellor of the 
Institution), v, 6, 146 
Christensen, Erwin O., 154 
Clark, Austin H., vi 
Clark, Mrs. Leila F., Librarian of the 

Institution, v, 162 
Clark, R. S., vi 
Clark, Thomas F., chief, accounting 

division, v 
Clarke, Gilmore, 51 
Cloud, Preston, vii 
Cochran, Doris M., vi 
Collins, Henry B., Jr.. viii, 10, 29, 30 31 
Combs, Rear Adm. Thomas S., 75 
Commerford, Lester E., 168 
Compton, Arthur H., Regent of the 

Institution, v, 6 
Conger, Paul S., vii 
Cooper, Gustav A., vii, 20, 24 
Copper, Mrs. G. A., 24 
Cooper, Paul L., 38 
Corbett, John M., 35 
Corner, George W. (A glimpse of in- 

comprehensibles), 241 
Cott, Perry B., 154 
Cotter, John L., 35 



Craigie, Maj. Gen. Laurence C, 75 
Crockett, William D., 168 
Cultural property, protection in war- 
time, 4 
Gumming, Robert B., 38, 39 
Cushman, Robert A., vi 

D 

Dale, Chester, ix, 146, 147 

Daly, John, 85 

Deignan, Herbert G., vi, 20 

Deignan, Stella L., director of Bio- 
Sciences Information Exchange, 5 

Densmore, Frances, viii, 45 

Detection of crime. The scientific 
(Charles Sanni4), 337 

Dohrn, Reinhard, 20 

Dottreus, Emil, 20 

Drucker, Philip, viii, 10, 31, 32 

Dulles, John Foster, Secretary of State, 
Member of the Institution, v, ix 

Dunham, S. W., 86 

Dunkle, David H., vii, 24 

E 

East, C. S., vi 

Editorial Division, organization, 168 

Eisenhower, Dwight D., President of 
the United States, Presiding Officer 
ex officio, V 

Eisenmann, Eugene, 135 

Elder, R. A., Jr.. vi 

Ellis, Max M., vi 

Elstad, V. B., viii 

Emerson, J. Norman, 31 

Establishment, v, 5 

Ettinghausen, Richard, viii, 71, 72, 73 

Evans, Clifford, Jr., vi 

Evans, John W. (Solar influence on the 
earth), 9, 189 

Ewers, J. C., vi 

Exhibitions, 10, 25, 58, 61, 76, 151, 152 
Modernization, 25 
National Air Museum, 76 
National Collection of Fine Arts, 61 
National Gallery of Art, 11, 151,152 
Traveling, National Gallery of Art, 
152 

Smithsonian, 10, 58 

Exploration, 19 

Eyestone, Willard H., 110 

F 

Feen, T. van der, 20 
Feidler, Ernest R., Administrator, Na- 
tional Gallery of Art, ix, 146 
Field, W. D., vi 
Fife, Ray, 87 
Fiji, Botanical studies in (Albert C. 

Smith), 305 
Finances, 7, 169, 171 
Appropriations, 7 

Executive Committee Report, 169 
Freer Gallery of Art, 171 
Finlayson, John and Richard, 66 
Finley, David E., Director, National 
Gallery of Art, ix, 51, 146, 147 



INDEX 



451 



Flemine;, Robert V., Regent of the 

Institution, v, 6, 175 
Flight of animals, The (James Gray), 

285 
Flores, Col. Henrique, 79 
Flying progress, Fifty years of (Grover 

Locning), 201 
Foshag, W. F., vii 
Foster, Norman, 47 
Fraser, James Earle, 51 
Freer Gallery of Art, viii, 10, 63 

Attendance, 68 

Auditorium, 69 

Building, 68 

Changes in exhibitions, 66 

Collections, 63 

Herzfeld archive, 69 

Library, 67 

Publications, 67 

Repairs to the collections, 66 

Report, 63 

Reproductions, 68 

Staff, viii 

Staff activities, 70 
Friedmann, Herbert, vi 
Froiland, Alfred G., viii, 48 
Fujii, T., 23 
Fulton, John F. (Medicine, warfare, and 

history), 427 
Fyfe Howard, 110 



G 



Garber, Paul E., ix, 92 

Gardner, P. V., viii 

Garroway, Dave, 85 

Gazin, C. L., vii, 24 

Gettens, Rutherford J., viii, 66, 71, 73 

Gifts, 56, 88, 89, 94, 135, 159, 174 
Canal Zone Biological Area, 135 
Library, 159 

National Air Museum, 88, 89 
National Collection of Fine Arts, 56 
National Zoological Park, 94 
{See also under Accessions) 

Glance, Grace E., vi 

Coins, Alvin E., vii 

Coins, Craddock R., Jr., viii 

Gomez, Mrs. Adela, 131 

Goodloe, W. L., vi 

Goodrich, Lloyd, 51 

Graf, John E., Assistant Secretary of 
the Institution, v 

Graham, D. C, vi 

Grants, 135, 174 

Canal Zone Biological Area, 135 

Gray, James (The flight of animals), 285 

Greeley, Frederick A., viii 

Greene, Charles T., vi 

Griff enhagen, George B., vii 

Guest, Grace Dunham, viii 



H 



Hancock, Walker, 51 
Handley, Charles O., vi 
Harrington, John P., viii, 10, 31, 45 
(Our State names), 373 



Harrison, J. H., viii, 47, 48 

Hartmann, Alois, 22 

Hartmann, Armageddon, 21 

Henderson, E. P., vii 

Hess, Frank L., vii 

Hintlian, Neshan G., 61 

Hobby, Mrs. Oveta Gulp, Secretary of 

Health, Education, and Welfare, 

Member of the Institution, v 
Holden, F. E., vii 
Holthuis, Lipke, 20 
Holzer, John, 79 
Hoover, William H., 46, 48 
Howard, John D., Treasurer of the 

Institution, v 
Howell, A. Brazier, vi 
Hower, R. O., vi 
Hummelinck, Wagenaar P., 20 
Humphrey, George M., Secretary of the 

Treasury, Member of the Institution, 

v, ix, 146 
Hunsaker, Jerome C, Regent of the 

Institution, v, 6 
Huscher, Harold A., 39 

I 

Incomprehensibles, A glimpse of 

(George W. Corner), 241 
International Exchange Service, ix, 7, 
11, 137 

Appropriation, 7 

Foreign depositories of govern- 
mental documents, 138 
Foreign exchange services, 144 
Interparliamentary exchange of the 

official journals, 141 
Publications received and sent, 137 
Report, 137 



James, Macgill, Assistant Director, 
National Gallery of Art, ix, 146 

Jellison, W. L., vi 

Johnson, D. H., vi 

Johnson, Leroy, Regent of the Institu- 
tion, V, 6 

Johnston, Harriet Lane, and the Na- 
tional Collection of Fine Arts (Thom- 
as M. Beggs), 443 

Jones, Alphonso, 168 

Judd, Neil M., vi 

E 

Kainen, Jacob, vii 

Kanazawa, Robert H., vi 

Keddy, J. L., Assistant Secretary of the 
Institution, v 

Kellogg, A. Remington, Director, Na- 
tional Museum, vi, 28 

Kempton, James H., 21 

Kendall, Edward C, vii, 25 

Kestner, F. B., chief, photographic 
laboratory, v 

KiHip, E. P., vii 

Klapthor, Frank E., viii 

Klein, William H., viii 



452 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



Knight, J. Brookes, vii 

Koyen, Kenneth, 80 

Kress, Samuel H., President, National 

Gallery of Art, ix, 146, 147 
Krieger, H. W., vi 

L 

Lachner, E. A., vi 

Lawless, B. W., viii 

Laybourne, E, G., vi 

Lea, John S., assistant chief, editorial 
and publications division, v, 168 

Lectures, 8, 9, 69, 156 
Abbot, Charles G., 9 
Evans, John W. (Arthur), 8 
Freer Gallery of Art, 69 
National Gallery of Art, 156 
Rowell, Henry Thompson, 9 

Leonard, E. C., vii 

Lewis, Frederick, 86 

Lewton, F. L., vii 

Library: 

Freer Gallery of Art, 67 
National Gallery of Art, 156 
Smithsonian, 12, 159 
Accessions, 12, 162 
Gifts, 159 
Report, 159 
Statistics, 1C2 

Link, Marilyn, 86 

Link Foundation, 86 

Lippincott, Harvey, 80 

Lloyd, C. G., vii 

Loeblich, A. R., Jr., vii, 23 

Loeblich, Mrs. Helen Tappan, 24 

Loehr, Max, viii 

Loening, Grover, ix, 75 

(Fifty years of flying progress), 201 

Lowe, Frank O., ix 

Lyon, Rowland, viii, 60 

M 

MacDonald, T. H., 47 

MacKay, D. M. (On comparing the 

brain with machines), 231 
Maguire, Bassett, 21 
Main, Robert J., Jr., vii 
Male, Walter M., ix, 81 
Mann, William M., Director, National 

Zoological Park, vi, ix, 130 
Manship, Paul, 51 
Mar})le, J. P., vii 
Marsh, Reginald, 51 
Marshall, W. B., vi 
Martinetti W. T., vi 
Massey, H. S. W. (The nature of the 

upper atmosphere), 179 
Mather, Frank Jewett, 51 
Matthews, L. Harrison (The migration 

of mammals), 277 
Matthews, W. Bruce, 110 
McBride, Co!. Harry A., 146 
McCarthy, Mrs. Eileen M., 168 
McClure, F. A., vii 
McCormick, Robert, 80 
McKay, Douglas, Secretary of the 

Interior, Member of the Institution, v 



Medicine, warfare, and history (John F. 
Fulton), 427 

Mellon, Paul, ix, 146, 147 

Members of the Institution, v 

Metcalf, George S., vi 

Microscope, The electron, in biology 
(Ralph V/. G. Wyckoff), 251 

Migration of mammals, The (L. Har- 
rison Matthews), 277 

Miller, Carl F 34, 35 

Miller, Gerrit »., Jr., vi 

Mitchell, James P., Secretary of Labor, 
Member of the Institution, v 

Mitchell, Gen. WiUiam, statute, 75 

Modernization of exhibits program, 1 

Moh, Chao C, viii 

Mongan, Elizabeth, 154, 155 

Moore, Bruce, 75 

Moore, J. Percy, vi 

Morrison, Joseph P. E., vi 

Morton, C. V., vii, 23 

Mosher, S. M., viii 

Muir-Wood, Helen M., 24 

Multhauf, Robert P., vii, 28 

Mundy, Maj. Gen. George W., 75 

Murray, James, 87 

Murrow, Ed, 85 

Myers, George Hewitt, 51 

N 

National Air Museum, ix, 7, 74 

Accessions, 89 

Advisory Board, ix, 75 

Appropriation, 7 

Conditions, General statement of, 
74 

Cooperative and educational serv- 
ices, 82 

Improvements in exhibits, 79 

Link, Edwin A., Foundation, 86 

Reference material. Improvements 
in, 86 

Report, 74 

Research, 85 

Special events and displays, 76 

Staff, ix 

Stephenson, George H., bequest, 75 

Storage, 80 
National Collection of Fine Arts, viii, 
7, 10, 51 

Accessions, 51, 52 

Appropriation, 7 

Art works lent, 54 

Barney, Alice Pike, memorial fund, 
56 

Gifts, 56 

Information service and staff ac- 
tivities, 50 

Loans accepted, 53 

Loans returned, 55 

Meyer, Catherine Walden. fund, 52 

Ranger, Henry Ward, fund, 56 

Repairs and improvements to the 
collection, 60 

Report, 51 

Smithsonian Art Commission, 10, 
51 

Smithsonian lending collection, 56 



INDEX 



453 



National Collection of Fine Arts — Con. 

Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition 
Service, viii, 10, 58 

Special exhibitions, 61 

Staff, viii 

Withdrawals by owners, 53 
National Gallery of Art, ix, 11, 146 

Accessions, 11, 147 

Appropriation, 147 

Attendance, 147 

Audit of private funds of the Gal- 
lery, 158 

Curatorial activities, 154 

Educational program, 156 

Exchange of works of art, 149 

Exhibitions, 11, 151 

Gifts, 148 

Index of American Design, 157 

Library, 156 

Loaned works of art returned, 150 

Maintenance of building and 
grounds, 157 

Officials, ix, 146 

Organization, 146 

Personnel, 147 

Publications, 155 

Report, 146 

Restoration and repair of works of 
art, 155 

Trustees, ix, 146 

Works of art lent, 150 

Works of art on loan, 149 
National Museum, vi, 7, 9, 13 

Accessions, 9 

Appropriation, 7 

Buildings and equipment, 27 

Changes in organization and staff, 
28 

Collections, 13 

Exhibition, 25 

Exploration, fieldwork, and re- 
lated travel, 19 

Report, 13 

Staff, vi 

Visitors, 27 
National Zoological Park, ix, 7, 11, 93 

Accessions, 11, 93, 94 

Animals in the collection on June 
30, 1954, 113 

Appropriation, 7 

Cooperation, 110 

Depositors and donors and their 
gifts, 97 

Exhibits, 93 

Gifts and deposits, 94 

Maintenance and improvements, 
107 

Needs of the Zoo, 112 

Report, 93 

Rock Creek- Potomac Parkway, 111 

Staff, ix 

Status of the collection, 130 

Visitors, 11, 109 
Newman, Jack B., chief, personnel 

division, v 
Newman, Marshall T., vi, 19, 38 
Nicol, David, vii, 24 
Nicol, Mrs. David, 24 



Nixon, Richard M., Vice President of 
the Institution, Member of the Insti- 
tution, V, 6 

O 

Oehser, Paul H., chief, editorial and 
publications division, v, 168 

Officials of the Institution, v 

Oliver, L. L., superintendent of build- 
ings and grounds, v 

Oliver, S. H., vii 

Ostroff, Eugene, 31 



Pachasa, E. T., 87 
Palmer, T. S., vi 
Pardi, L., 20 
Parfin, Sophy, vi 
Pearce, Franklin L., vii, 24 
Pearson, Mrs. Louise M., Administra- 
tive Assistant to the Secretary, v 
Pearson, Morris M., vi 
Perry, K. M., vii 
Perry, S. H., vii 
Perrygo, W. M^ vi 
Peterson, Mrs. L. W., vi 
Peterson, Mendel L., viii 
Peyer, Bernard, 20 
Phelps, Mr. and Mrs. William H., Jr., 

21 
Phillips, Duncan, ix, 146, 147 
Phillips, J. Harry, Jr., vii 
Piltdown hoax. The great (William L. 

Straus, Jr.), 363 
Plants, The romance of domesticated 

(Gelnn W. Blaydes), 317 
Pope, Mrs. Annemarie H., Chief, Smith- 
sonian Traveling Exhibition Service, 
viii 
Pope, John A., Assistant Director, Freer 

Gallery of Art, viii, 71, 72 
Pora, John A., viii. 48 
Potter, Stanley, ix 

President of the United States (Dwight 
D. Eisenhower, Presiding Officer ex 
officio), V 
Presiding Officer ex officio (Dwight D. 
Eisenhower, President of the United 
States), V 
Price, Leonard, viii 

Protection of cultural property in war- 
time, 4 
Publications, 12, 43, 67, 155, 163 

American Historical Association, 

Report, 168 
Bureau of American Ethnology: 
Annual Report, 43, 167 
Bulletins, 43, 167 
Daughters of the American Revolu- 
tion, Report of the National So- 
ciety, 168 
Distribution, 12, 163 
Freer Gallery of Art, 67 
National Collection of Fine Arts, 

167 
National Gallery of Art, 155 



454 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1954 



Publications — Continued 
National Museum: 

Annual Report, 166 

Bulletins, 166 

Contributions from the United 
States Herbarium, 166 

Proceeding, 166 
Report, 163 
Smithsonian : 

Annual Reports, 165 

Miscellaneous Collections, 164 

Special publications, 165 
Traveling Exhibition Service, 60 

R 

Randolph, Jennings, 78 
Read, Sir Herbert, 156 
Reeside, J. B., Jr., vii 
Regents, Board of, v, 5 
Annual meeting, 6 
Executive Committee, 5, 175 
Members, v, 175 
Report, 169 
Members, v, 6 
Rehder, Harald A., vi 
Reynolds, C. D., 21 
Rhoades, Katherine N., viii 
Richards, Charles M., 154 
River Basin Surveys, viii, 4, 7, 32 
Appropriation, 7, 32 
Report, 32 
Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr., Associate 
Director, Bureau of American Eth- 
nology and Director, River Basin 
Surveys), viii, 10, 29, 32, 34 
Roberts, Owen J., Regent of the Insti- 
tution, v, 6 
Rogers, Grace L., vii 
Rowell, Henry Thompson (Rome of the 

Flavians), 9 
Rudd, Velva E., vii 

S 

Saltonstall, Leverett, Regent of the 
Institution, v, 6 

Sannie, Charles (The scientific detection 
of crime), 337 

Sawyer, Charles H., 51 

Schaller, W. T., vii 

Schmitt, Waldo L., vi, 20 

Schultz, Leonard P., vi, 22 

Schumacher, E. G., viii, 43 

Schwartz, Benjamin, vi 

Schwarz, Herbert F., 135 

Searle, Mrs. Harriet Richardson, vi 

Secretary of the Institution (Leonard 
Carmichael), v, ix, 1, 51, 146 

Setzer, Henry W., vi, 20 

Setzler, Frank M., vi 

Shanidar cave, a Paleolithic site in 
northern Iraq (Ralph S. Solecki), 389 

Shapley, Mrs., 155 

Shaw, Winthrop S., ix 

Shepard, Donald D., 146 

Shepard, Katherine, 154 

Shoemaker, C. R., vi 

Sinclair, Charles C, assistant superin- 
tendent of buildings and grounds, v 



Sirlouis, J. R., viii 
Sm-ith, Albert C, vii, 23 

(Botanical studies in Fiji), 305 
Smith, G. H 39 
Smith, H. Alexander, Regent of the 

Institution, v, 6 
Smith, Lyman B., vii 
Smithsonian Art Commission, 10, 51 
Snodgrass, R. E., vi 
Sohns, Ernest R., vii, 23 
Solar influence on the earth (John W. 

Evans), 189 
Solecki, Ralph S., 34, 45 

(Shanidar cave, a Paleolithic site in 
northern Iraq), 389 
Soper, Cleveland C, 131 
Soucek, Rear Adm. ApoUo, ix, 75 
Speicher, Eugene E., 51 
Sprunt, Alexander, Jr. (The spread of 

the cattle egret), 259 
Staff, v-ix 
Stair, Ralph (Tektites and the lost 

planet). 217 
State names. Our (John P. Harrington), 

373 
Stephenson, Robert L., 35, 39 
Stern, Harold P., viii, 70, 71, 73 
Stevenson, John A., vii 
Stewart, T. Dale, vi, 19 
Stirling, Matthew W., Director, Bureau 

of American Ethnology, viii, 10, 29, 45 
Stout, William B., ix, 75 
Straus, William L., Jr. (The great PUt- 

down hoax), 363 
Strobell, Robert C, ix, 85 
Stubbs, Burns A., viii 
Summerfield, Arthur E., Postmaster 

General of the United States, Member 

of the Institution, v 
Swallen, Jason R., vii 
Swanton, John R., viii, 45 
Switzer, George S., vii, 25 



Taft, Robert A., 6 

Takewaki, K., 23 

Talbert, D. G., viii 

Taylor, Frank A., vii, 25 

Taylor, W. W., Jr., vi 

Taylor, William E., 29, 31 

Tektites and the lost planet (Ralph 

Stair), 217 
Ternbach, Joseph, 61 
Todd, M. W., 86 
Tomiyama, Ichiro, 23 
Traveling Exhibition Service, viii, 10, 58 
Tregouboff, G., 20 
Tremaine, Marie, 31 



U 



Umehara, S., 66 
Utinomi, Huzio, 23 



VerviUe, Alfred, 76 



INDEX 



455 



Vinson, Fred M., Chief Justice of the 
United States, 5 

Visitors, 7, 8, 27, 68, 109, 132, 134, 147 
Canal Zone Biological Area, 11, 

132, 134 
Freer Gallery of Art, 68 
National Gallery of Art, 147 
National Museum, 27 
National Zoological Park, 109 
Snaithsonian buildings, 7, 8 

Vorys, John M., Regent of the Institu- 
tion, V, 6 



W 



Walker, E. H., vii, 23 

Walker, Ernest P., Assistant Director, 
National Zoological Park, ix 

Walker, John, Chief, Curator, National 
Gallery of Art, ix, 146, 154, 155 

Waring, Antonio J., Jr., viii, 45 

Warren, Earl, Chief Justice of the 
United States, Chancellor of the In- 
stitution, V, ix, 6, 146 

Watkins, C. M., vi 

Watkins, W. N., vii 

Wedderburn, A. J., Jr., vii 

Wedel, Waldo R., vi, 29 

Weeks, Sinclair, Secretary of Commerce, 
Member of the Institution, v 

Weiss, Helena M., vi 

Wenley, A. G., Director, Freer Gallery 
of Art, viii, 51, 71, 72, 73 



Wetmore, Alexander, vi, 21, 22 

Wetmore, Mrs. Alexander, 21 

Wheeler, Doanda, 61 

Wheeler, Richard Page, 40 

White, Lawrence Grant, 51 

Wilding, Anthony W., chief, supply 
division, v 

Williams, D. G., Chief, International 
Exchange Service, ix, 145 

Wilson, Charles E., Secretary of De- 
fense, Member of the Institution, v 

Wilson, Mrs. Mildred S., vi 

Withrow, Mrs. Alice P., viii 

Withrow, R. B., viii, 48 

Woolworth, Alan R., 39 

Wright Brothers Golden Anniversary 
celebration, 76-79, 83, 84, 85 

Wulf, Oliver R., 48 

Wyckoflf, Ralph W. G. (The electron 
microscope in biology), 251 

Wyeth, Andrew, 51 



Young, Mahonri, 51 



Zetek, James, Resident Manager, Canal 
Zone Biological Area, ix, 136 

Zimmerman, James E., viii, 48 

Zoological Park {See National Zoologi- 
cal Park) 

Zuloaga, Guillermo, 21 



o 



