IMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVINOSH1IWS S3IHVH8I1 LIBRA 

<" 5 ._ co = 






iviNOSHiiws saidvaan libraries Smithsonian institution noiidj 

^ r- 2 r 2 

— CO ± CO 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVINOSH1IWS S3IHVH8n LIBRA 

^ Z \ <S> Z V> Z 

- /*&> ~ /<2S>\ - J0* - 





V. 




IVINOSH1IWS SHiaVHBn LIBRARIES^SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIini 
60 5 CO — CO 

-J 2 -J 2 -J 

IMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVIN0SH1IWS S3ldVMan LIBRA 

r* 

w 
> 

73 

w ± co \ E to 

IVINOSH1IIMS S3IMVyai1 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinJ 

CO 2 .... CO 2 

CO >< ^. 

1 '^J 

2 CO * 2 CO k Z 

MITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVINOSH1IWS S3iaVb8H LIBRA 
^ — ^ w ^ ^ .-, ^> ^ ^ i ^_ 






CO 



«/ 





CO 



vinoshiiws S3 1 a vy an libraries smithsonian^institution Noiinj 

V Z r- 2 <2 2 ^_ 

— 

MITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVIN0SH1IWS S3IHVHai~) LIBRA 

2 T to 






SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOHfUIJLSNI NVINOSH1IWS S3iaVH9ll_LIB 
co 5 __ ^ co — co 

j nvinoshiins S3iavaan libraries smithsonian^institution noij 

Z r- 2 

00 

co — co £ co 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVIN0SH1MS S3IHVyail LIB 
in 2»oo z co z , 

x A *«lns? o z^ 7 C> x 






CO Z co 




CO 



NVIN0SH1MS S3l«VH9n LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOI. 

co — CO — 00 

u /&£&\ co xT^X ^ ^^> co 




Z _J z — _J Z -1 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVIN0SH1IWS S3 I UVH 8 II LIB 




>- 




- VcW^y •- vxAiy?/ - ^^£s •- v^Coruy - \? 

m X^noc^/ co Xivg^/ m > co \^u^y m N 

co £ co v ? co 

nvinoshiiws S3iavaan libraries Smithsonian institution noi 

co z .... co z co 

CO Z CO * Z CO 4 z 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVIN0SH1IWS S3IUVHail LIB 
co 5 00 - co 2 

j _i z • _i z 

NVIN0SH1MS S3IHVdail LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOI 

Z r- z r- 

CD 
> 

co _ co ^z to 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVIN0SH1IWS S3ldVyan LIB 

CO Z CO z ■, 

o 







>VA^V^ 



ANNUAL REPORT 



OF THE 



BOAED OF KEGENTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF 
THE INSTITUTION 



THE YE^lR 1879. 



WASHINGTON? 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 

1880. 



FORTY-SIXTH CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION. 

In the Senate of the United States, 

May 22, 1880. 
The resolution to print extra copies of the report of the Smithsonian Institution / 
1879 has heen agreed to hy hoth Houses to read as follows : 

Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), That fifteen thouafl 
five hundred copies of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 187y e 
printed; two thousand five hundred copies of which shall he for the use of the Sei '• 
Bix thousand copies for the use of the House of Representatives, and seven thou^d 
copies for the use of the Smithsonian Institution. 
Attest: 

JOHN C. BURCH. 

Secrc'l)- 
2 



LETTER 



FBOM THE 



SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



ACCOMPANYING 



The annual report of the Board of Regents of that Institution for the year 

1879. 



March 10, 1880. — Ordered to be printed. 



Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, March 10, 1880. 
Gentlemen : In behalf of the Board of Eegents, I have the honor to 
submit to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the 
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution 
for the year 1879. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

Spencer F. Baird, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. Wm. A. Wheeler, 

President of the United States Senate, and 

Hon. S. J. Randall, 

Speaker of the House of Representatives. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



RUTHERFORD B. HAYES, President of the United States, ex officio Presiding Officer. 
MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor of the Insti- 
tution (President of the Board of Regents). 
SPENCER F. BAIRD, Secretary (Director of the Smithsonian Institution and of the 

National Museum). 
WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk. 



EEGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States, 

President of the Board. 
WILLIAM A. WHEELER, Vice-President of the United States. 
HANNIBAL HAMLIN, member of the Senate of the United States. 
NEWTON BOOTH, member of the Senate of the United States. 
ROBERT E. WITHERS, member of the Senate of the United States. 
HIESTER CLYMER, member of the House of Representatives. 
JAMES A. GARFIELD, member of the House of Representatives. 
JOSEPH E. JOHNSTON, member of the House of Representatives. 
JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey. 
PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington, D. C. 
ASA GRAY, citizen of Massachusetts. 
HENRY COPPfiE, citizen of Pennsylvania. 
WILLIAM T. SHERMAN, citizen of Washington, D. C. 
NOAH PORTER, citizen of Connecticut. 



EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOAED OF EEGENTS. 

PETER PARKER. JOHN MACLEAN. WILLIAM T. SHERMAN. 



MEMBEES EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION. 



RUTHERFORD B. nAYES, President of the United States. 
WILLIAM A. WHEELER, Vice-President of the United States. 
MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States. 
W II.LIAM M. EVARTS, Secretary of Stat.'. 
JOHN SHERMAN, Secretary of the Treasury. 
ALEX. RAMSEY, Secretary of W a r. 
RICHARD W. THOMPSON, Secretary of the Navy. 
DAVID M. KEY, Postmaster-General. 
CARL SCHURZ, Secretary of the Interior. 
(II AKLES DEVEXS, Attorney-General. 
EDGAR M. MARBLE, Commissioner of Patents. 
4 



OFFICERS AND ASSISTANTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI- 
TUTION AND NATIONAL MUSEUM, JANUARY, 1880. 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, 

Secretary, Director of the Institution 
WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Cleric. 
Daniel Leech, Corresponding Clerk. 



Clarence B. Young. 
H. Diebitsch. 
J. A. Turner. 
L. Stoerzer. 
Hexry Gass. 



Assistants and Clerks, 

Wm. B. Taylor. 

G. H. BOEHMER. 

M. E. Griffin. 

H. de C. Daingerfield. 

S. G. Brown. 



NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

G. BROWN GOODE, Curator of the Museum. 
F. M. ENDLICH, Assistant, Mineralogy. 
ROBT. RIDGWAY, Assistant, Ornithology. 
TARLETON H. BEAN, Assistant, Ichthyology. 
CHAS. RAU, Assistant, Archceology. * 
EDWARD FOREMAN, Assistant, Ethnology. 
F. H. GUSHING, Assistant, Ethnology. 
CHARLES A. WHITE, Assistant Paleontology. 



HENRY HORAN, Superintendent of Building. 

JOSEPH HERRON, Janitor. 

W. J. GREEN, Carpenter and Electrician. 

J. H. RICHARD, Artist. 

A. Z. SHINDLER, Artist. 

S. C. BROWN, Clerk, Property and Records. 

E. P. UPHAM, Clerk, Archaeological Collections. 

JOSEPH PALMER, Taxidermist. 

T. W. SMILLIE, Photographer. 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 

THE YEAR 1879. 



CONTENTS. 



1. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations 
and condition of the establishment for the year 1879, with the statistics 
of collections, exchanges, &c. 

2. Eeport of the Executive Committee, exhibiting the financial affairs 
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, the re- 
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1879, and the estimates for 1880. 

3. Proceedings of the Board of Eegents for the session of January, 
1880. 

4. General appendix, consisting of scientific papers, original ami 
selected, of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institu- 
tion, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. 

6 



CONTENTS. 



I. REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Page. 

Resolution of Congress to print extra copies of the report 2 

Letter from the Secretary submitting' the Annual Report of the Institution to 

Congi'ess 3 

Regents, Executive Committee, and members ex officio of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution 4 

Officers and assistants of the Institution and National Museum, January, 1880.. 5 

Contents of the report <i 

Report or the Secretary 11 

Introductory 11 

Finances 14 

Habel bequest 15 

Henry Memorial Services and volume 11 

Statue of Professor Henry 13 

Appointment and election of Regents. 13 

Meeting of the "Establishment" 14 

Researches : Solar eclipses, by Mr. Todd 17 

Apparatus for testing stone 17 

Laboratory j 17 

Telegraphic announcement of astronomical discoveries 11) 

List of minor planets discovered in 1879 22 

Publications of the Institution 23 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge 23 

Palenque Tablet, by C. Rau 23 

Miscellaneous Collections 2(i 

Writings of James Smithson 27 

History of the Institution, by W. J. Rhees 27 

Journals of the Board of Regents 28 

Toner Lectures (seventh), by Dr. E. O. Shakespeare 28 

Monograph of Chitonida?, by P. P. Carpenter 28 

List of Zoological Genera, by S. H. Scudder 29 

Bulletins of the National Museum 29 

Bulletin 15. — Contributions to the Natural History of Arctic 

America, by L. Kumlien 31 

Proceedings of the National Museum, Volume 1, for 1878 32 

Smithsonian Annual Report for 1878 37 

Reports of the United States Fish Commission 37 

Anthropology 38 

Appropriat ion for ethnologic researches 38 

Order of War Department to transport articles intended for National 

Museum 39 

Catlin collection of Indian paintings 40 

Casts of Indian heads 42 

7 



8 CONTENTS. 

Page. 
Report of the Secretary— Continued. 

Explorations 43 

E. W. Nelson, Northwestern Alaska 44 

L. M. Turner, Aleutian Islands 41 

Capt. L. A. Beardslee, Alaska 44 

Captain Bailey, North Pacific 45 

Lieutenant DeLong, " The Jeannette," Arctic seas 45 

Prof. D. S. Jordan, Pacific Coast 45 

S. T. Walker, west coast of Florida 46 

James W. Milner, west coast of Florida 46 

Silas Stearns, Mexico 4g 

R. Ridgway, eastern shore of Virginia 46 

F. A. Oher, West Indies 47 

Prof. J. B. Steere, Amazon River 47 

Dr. C. J. Hering, Surinam 47 

Dr. Otto Finsch, Polynesia 47 

Exchanges 48 

Foreign agencies employed 48 

Commission francaise des ^changes intcrnationaux 48 

Charge made to government hureaus 49 

Free transportation 50 

Statistics for ten years 51 

Foreign institutions in correspondence 51 

Exchange of government documents 52 

International exchange in 1879 52 

Library 52 

Statement of additions in 1879 53 

Titles of some of the more valuable works received 53 

Correspondence 57 

Co-operation of the departments , 57 

Co-operation of the Institution in the work of others 57 

Communication from the Belgian Government in regard to a prize for 

the improvement of harbors 58 

Centennial Commission 59 

Armenian history 59 

Manitoba library 60 

Zoological Society of London 60 

Gallery of Art 60 

List of articles deposited in Corcoran Art Gallery in 1879 61 

Buildings 61 

Smithsonian Institution 61 

Art building and laboratory 62 

Armory 62 

Special donations 63 

Fire-ex tinguisher 63 

Herring safe 63 

Yale Lock Company, post-office box 63 

Meetings 63 

National Academy of Sciences 63 

A nt hropological Society of Washington 64 

Lectures by Prof. C. S. Hastings on astronomical physics- 64 

Death of employe's and collaborators 64 

Tobias N. Woltz 64 

Fielding B. Meek 64 

Dr. James Aitken Meigs 64 



CONTENTS. y 

Page. 
Report OF the Secretary — Continued. 

National Museum , 65 

Increase 66 

Mammals 66 

Birds 66 

Reptiles 68 

Fishes 68 

Marine invertebrates 68 

Insects 69 

Plants 69 

Minerals 69 

Present condition 69 

New Museum building 70 

United States Fish Commission 71 

Account of operations 71 

Co-operation with census 74 

Appendix to the Report of the Secretary 77 

Entries in record-books 77 

Distribution of duplicate specimens 77 

Additions to the collections in 1879 78 

Statistics of exchanges 107 

Boxes sent abroad in 1879 107 

Packages received from Europe for distribution in America 108 

Acts and resolutions of Congress relative to the Smithsonian Institution 

and the National Museum 115 

Forty-fifth Congress, 3d session, 1878-'79 115 

Forth-sixth Congress,[2d session, 1879-'80 116 

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 117 

Condition of the funds » 117 

Receipts in 1879 118 

Expenditures, 1879 119 

Repayments 120 

Estimates for 1880 120 

National Museum : Appropriations by Congress 121 

Receipts and expenditures 122 

Summary 123 

Report of the National Museum Building Commission 125 

Report of the Architects 130 

Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Regents 141 

Meeting January 17, 1880 141 

James Smithson and his Bequest, by Wm. J. Rhees 143 

II. GENERAL APPENDIX. 

A Study of the Savage Weapons at the Centennial Exhibition, Philadelphia, 

1876, by Edward H. Knight 213 

Anthropology 299 

The Preservation of Antiquities and National Monuments in Denmark, 

by J. J. A. Worsaae 299 

The French Half-Breeds of the Northwest, by V. Havard, M. D., As- 
sistant Surgeon, U. S. A 309 

Prehistoric Remains in Montana, between Fort Ellis and the Yellow- 
stone River, by P. W. Norris, Superintendent of the Yellowstone 

National Park 327 

The Shoshone or Snake Indians: their Religion, Superstitions, and 

Manners, by Col. Albert G. Brackett, U. S. A 328 



10 CONTENTS. 

Anthropology— Continued. Pa e e - 

Ruins in White River Canon, Pima Comity, Arizona, by R. T. Burr, M. 

D. , Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S.A 333 

Mounds in Winnebago County, Wisconsin, by Thomas Armstrong, of 
Eipon, Fond du Lac County, Wis 335 

Mounds near Quincy, 111., and in Wisconsin, by William Gilbert An- 
derson, of Quincy, 111 341 

Notes on Some of the Principal Mounds in the Des Moines Valley, 
by Samuel B. Evans, of Ottumwa, Iowa 344 

Composition of Ancient Pottery found near the Mouth of Chequest 
Creek, at Pittsburg, on the Des Moines Eiver, by Robert N. and 
Charles Dahlberg 349 

Prehistoric Evidences in Missouri, by G. C. Broadhead 350 

Mounds in Muscatine County, Iowa, and Rock Island County, Illinois, 
by Theron Thompson 359 

Antiquities of Rock Island County, Illinois, by Adolph Tcellner 363 

Stone Cists nfear Highland, Madison County, Illinois, by Arthur 
Oehler 366 

Mounds in Pike County, Illinois, by Brainerd Mitchell 367 

Mounds in the Spoon River Valley, Illinois, by W. H. Adams 368 

Mounds in Franklin County, Indiana, by Edgar R. Quick, of Brook- 
ville, Ind 370 

Mounds and Earthworks of Rush County, Indiana, by F. Jackman 374 

Primitive Manufacture of Spear and Arrow Points along the Line of the 
Savannah River, by Charles C. Jones, Jr., of Augusta, Ga 376 

Mica Beds in Alabama, by William Gesner, of Birmingham, Jeffer- 
son County, Ala - 382 

Mounds in Washington County, Mississippi, by James Hough, of Ham- 
ilton, Ohio 383 

Mounds in Moorehouse Parish, Louisiana, by Benjamin H. Brodnax, 

of Plantersville, La 386 

Wampum Belts of the Six Nations, by W. M. Beauchamp, of Bald- 

winsville, N. Y 389 

Indian Relics from Schoharie, N. Y., by Frank D. Andrews, of Vine- 
land, N. J 391 

Preliminary Explorations among the Indian Mounds in Southern Flor- 
ida, by S. T. Walker, of Clear Water, Florida 392 

Report on the Shell Heaps of Tampa Bay, Florida, by S. T. WALKER, 
of Clear Water, Fla 413 

Mounds on Gideon's Farm, near Excelsior, Hennepin County, Minnesota, 
by Frank II. Nutter, of West Roxbury, Mass 422 

Summary of Correspondence of the Smithsonian Institution previous 
to January 1, 1880, in answer to Circular No. 316, by Otis T. Mason. 428 

Anthropological Investigations during the Year 1879, by Otis T. Mason. 449 

Index to Papers on Anthropology published by the Smithsonian Iu- 

si it ut ion, 1847 to 1878, by George H. Boehmer 476 

On the Present Fundamental Principles of Physics, by Prof. Dr. Franz Joseph 

PlSKO 485 

A Universal Meteorograph, designed for Detached Observatories, by E. H. VON 
BaumhaUER, Permanent Secretary of the Netherland Society of Sciences, 

Harlem 519 

Reports of American Observatories, by Prof. E. S. Holden 535 



REPORT OF PROFESSOR BAIRD, 

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR 1879. 



To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution ; 

Gentlemen : I have the honor to present herewith the report of the 
operations and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 
1879 : 

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

INTRODUCTORY. 

The year just passed h is been marked by a number of interesting and 
important incidents in the history of the Institution, which will be de- 
tailed in their proper places; the most noteworthy being the memorial 
services, held in the United States Capitol, in honor of Professor Henry, 
and the commencement of work upon the new lire-proof building for the 
National Museum. 

The usual routine of business has been prosecuted by the Institution 
during the year, the various departments receiving their share of atten- 
tion and expenditure. 

HENRY MEMORIAE SERVICES AND VOLUME. 

In conformity with the action of the Board of Regents in reference to 
the holding of a public commemoration of Prof. Joseph Henry, a joint 
resolution of Congress was passed appointing January 1G, 1871), as the 
time, and the Hall of the House of Representatives as the place, of such 
memorial services. These proceedings took place at the time announced, 
in the presence of a very large and distinguished auditory. Dr. Asa 
Gray was appointed by the Board of Eegents to "prepare a sketch of 
the life, character, and public services of Professor Henry," which it was 
ordered should form part of the exercises at the Capitol. 

The Vice-President of the United States, supported by the Speaker 
of the House, presided on the occasion. After prayer by the Eev. Dr. 
James McCosh, president of Princeton College, addresses Avere deliv- 
ered by Hon. Hannibal Hamlin, Senator and Regent (the address being 
read by Vice-President W. A. Wheeler) ; Hon. R. E. Withers, Senator 
and Regent; Prof. Asa Gray, of Harvard University, Regent; after 
which Hon. Hiester Clymer, Member of the House and Regent, read 
the telegrams received on the occasion. The remaining addresses were 
delivered by Prof. William B. Rogers, of Boston ; Hon. James A. Gar- 
field, Member and Regent ; Hon. S. S. Cox, Member, and formerly a 

11 



12 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Eegent, and by General William T. Sherman, a Eegent. The exercises 
were concluded with prayer by the chaplain of the Senate, Bev. Dr. 
Byron Sunderland. 

In addition to the Senators and Members of the House assembled, 
the President of the United States, members of the Cabinet, justices of 
the Supreme Court, and other dignitaries, were present ; and the pro- 
ceedings were solemn and impressive, as befitted the occasion. 

By joint resolution of Congress, these memorial addresses were 
ordered to be printed in the " Congressional Becord," which was accord- 
ingly done on the 4th of March following. The same resolution also 
directed the printing of fifteen thousand copies of the said proceedings 
in a "Memorial Volume," which volume should include also "such arti- 
cles as may be furnished by the Board of Begents." A selection has ac- 
cordingly been made by the special committee of the Begents appointed 
January 17, 1879 (consisting of Messrs. Gray, Parker, and Baird), em- 
bracing a few commemorative discourses delivered elsewhere, to form a 
concluding portion of the memorial volume. This material is now in 
the hands of the Public Printer, and it is hoped will soon be published. 

Among other gratifying illustrations of the respect in which the mem- 
ory of Professor Henry is held by the community, we may mention the 
efforts made to perpetuate it by means of works of art. Beference has 
been made in previous reports to the life-size portrait, painted, at the 
request of the Board of Begents, by Mr. Le Clear, of New York ; and, 
also, to a similar portrait as to size and general character, by Mr. Henry 
Ulke, of Washington. A copy of the latter has been ordered by gen- 
tlemen in Philadelphia for the American Philosophical Society. A 
crayon portrait, also by Mr. Ulke, and considered an excellent likeness, 
has been furnished by him to Princeton College and other institutions. 

Mr. Clark Mills, the well-known sculptor, has modeled a bust of Pro- 
fessor Henry partly from a cast taken after his death. A copy of this 
in plaster has been placed in the Smithsonian Institution. 

Mr. C. V. Burton spent some time during the year at the Institution 
in modeling a small-sized bust, of which he has disposed a large number 
of copies. 

A medallion likeness was made by Mr. Barber, the engraver of the 
Philadelphia mint, and a medal has been struck with this as the obverse 
side. 

A likeness has also been engraved on steel at the Treasury Depart- 
ment, to accompany the Memorial Volume, an appropriation of five hun- 
dred dollars having been made by Congress for the purpose. 

Another steel portrait has been engraved and published by the Messrs. 
Appleton, of New York, in their Annual Cyclopedia for the year 1878. 

The Institution is also in possession of an oil painting of Professor 
Henry, painted from one or two sittings only, and presented by the 
artist, Mr. Ingalls. Excellent photographs have been taken of him by 
Gutekunst, of Philadelphia, and by Messrs. Smillie, Gardner, Brady, 
and Fassett, of Washington. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13 

A statue of Professor Henry. — A few weeks ago (December 10, 1S70) 
the Hon. Mr. Booth introduced in the Semite the following bill provid- 
ing for a statue of Professor Henry in the grounds of the Smithsonian 
Institution : 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United. 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the sum of twenty thou- 
sand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby appro- 
priated, out of any money in the Treasury of the United States not 
otherwise appropriated, for the purpose of erecting a statue of Joseph 
Henry on the grounds of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Sec. 2. The money herein appropriated shall be expended under the 
direction of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.* 

APPOINTMENT AND ELECTION OF REGENTS. 

By the terms of the act of Congress, the three members of the Board 
of Kegel its selected by the Speaker of the House to act in that capacity 
are appointed for a single Congress, or for two years; their term of 
service expiring on the fourth Wednesday of December, on which day, 
according to law, the appointment of new members is to be made. 

These appointments were made by the Speaker on the 4th of April, 
1879, by renewing the terms of service of lion. Hiester Clymer, of Penn- 
sylvania, and Hon. J. A. Garfield, of Ohio, and by appointing Hon. Joseph 
E. Johnston, of Virginia, in the place of Hon. Alexander H. Stephens, 
of Georgia. It is for the Board of Begents to say whether this apparent 
informality will in any way vitiate the appointments, and render it desi- 
rable that they be renewed at the present session. 

The vacancy in the Senatorial Regents, caused by the expiration of the 
term of Hon. A. A. Sargent, was filled by the appointment, by the Presi- 
dent of the Senate, on the 21st of March, of Hon. Newton Booth, of Cali- 
fornia. 

The terms of four of the six citizens at large, namely, of Dr. John 
Maclean, of Princeton, Hon. Peter Parker, of Washington, Prof. Henry 
Coppee, of Pennsylvania, and Prof. Asa Gray, of Cambridge, having 
also expired, a joint resolution reappointing them, introduced in the 
Senate by Hon. Hannibal Hamlin, was passed, and approved by the 
President on the 17th of December. 

* It is gratifying to lie. able to state here that since the date of the above, a modifica- 
tion of this bill (introduced into the Senate by the Hon. Justin S. Morrill, of Vermont, 
and into the ! louse of Representatives by the Hon. Hiester Clymer, of Pennsylvania) 
passed Congress unanimously and was signed by the President on the lstof June, 1880. 
The act is entitled "An Act for the erection of a bronze statue of Joseph Henry, late 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution," and is in the following terms: "Be it 
enacted, <)'c, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution be, and are hereby 
authorized to contract with W. W. Story, sculptor, for a statue in bronze of Joseph 
Henry, late Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, to be erected upon the grounds 
of the said Institution; and for this purpose, and for the entire expense of the founda- 
tion and pedestal of the monument, the sum of $15,000 is hereby appropriated out of 
any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated." 



14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

In this connection I would also call the attention of the Board of Re- 
gents to the fact that the law of Congress, in establishing six years as 
the term of service of the six Regents elected as citizens at large, pro- 
vides, at the same time, that two vacancies shall occur at the beginning 
of each new Congress and be filled by election. I am unable to say in 
what manner there happened to be four vacancies at a time ; but in this, 
as in the case previously mentioned, it is for the Board of Regents to 
determine what action, if any, shall be taken in the premises. 

MEETING OF THE ESTABLISHMENT. 

The act of Congress organizing the Smithsonian Institution provides 
for an annual meeting of the establishment, although there is no special 
business to be prosecuted by that body, with the exception of a general 
inspection of the condition of the Institution. The meetings, although 
proposed by the Secretary, have, by the direction of the President, 
mostly been omitted. The following table shows the number of meetings 
held since the commencement of active operations by the Institution : 
August 1, 1849. June 6, 1853. July 15, 1854. 

May 3, 1853. May 2, 1854. June 4, 1873. 

May 17, 1853. June 6, 1854. May 5, 1877. 

The usual notice of a meeting on the 6th of May, 1879, was made to 
the President ; but, in the absence of any special necessity, it was, by 
his authority, indefinitely postponed. 

FINANCES. 

In the report of the Executive Committee will be found a detailed 
statement of the finances of the Institution, which are believed to be in 
better condition than at any previous time, all arrearages having been 
paid and a larger balance than usual being on hand. 

The following is a statement of the condition of the Smithsonian fund 
at the beginning of the year 1880 : 

The amount originally received as the bequest of James 
Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the 
United States, in accordance with the act of Congress of 

August 10, 184G $515, 1G9 00 

The residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 18G5, deposited 
in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance with 
the act of Congress of February 8, 1867 26, 210 63 

Total bequest of Smithson 541, 379 63 

Amount derived from savings of income and increase in 
value of investments, and deposited in the Treasury of 
the United States, as authorized by act of Congress of 

February 8, 1867 108, 620 37 

Amount of bequest of James Hamilton, of Carlisle, Pa., 
February 24, 1874 1, 000 00 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15 

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the 
United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent., payable 
semi-annually $651, 000 00 

In addition to the above, there are Virginia bonds and cer- 
tificates, viz, consolidated bonds, $58,700 ; deferred cer- 
tificates, $29,375.07 ; fractional certificate, $50.13 ; total, 
$88,125.20, valued January, 1880, at 32, 000 00 

Cash balance deposited in the Treasury of the United 
States at the beginning of th'e year 1880, for current ex- 
penses 20,894 06 

Total Smithson fund January 2, 1880 $703, 894 06 

The receipts in 1879, were $02,004.08, and the expenditures $41,110.02, 
leaving a balance on hand of $20,894.00. 

THE HABEL BEQUEST. 

Previous reports of the Institution contain allusions to the explora- 
tions and researches of Dr. Simeon Habel. This gentleman was of 
Austrian birth ; graduated in 1846 at the Vienna University, and for 
several years had been the resident-physician in charge of a public hos- 
pital. In consequence of his liberal views, he was obliged to leave 
Europe and seek a home in America. His love of nature and the 
desire to advance science led him to undertake an extended tour 
through Central and South America. Before doing this, however, he 
spent several months at the Smithsonian Institution, in making himself 
familiar, under the direction of Professor Egleston, then in charge of the 
Geological Department, with the most important species of minerals and 
rocks. Subsequently, during seven years, he made collections in natural 
history and observations in meteorology, geography, geology, and ar- 
chaeology. 

Among the regions of South America to which Dr. Habel devoted 
special attention were those of the guano deposits of Peru and of the 
remarkable group known as the Galapagos Islands. Of the peculiar 
bird fauna of these islands, Dr. Habel made large collections, which 
were fully described by Messrs. Sclater and Salvin in the proceedings 
of the Zoological Society of London. 

Keturning to New York about the year 1877, he devoted himself 
to the elaboration of his researches and, in time, prepared for the In- 
stitution, a memoir entitled "The Sculptures of Santa Lucia Cosumal 
whuapa, with an account of travels in Central America and on the North- 
western coast of South America." This work was published by the In- 
stitution in 1878, and contains a brief account of Dr. Habel's ethnologi- 
cal and archaeological researches, and a minute description of a group of 
sculptures discovered by him at Santa Lucia Cosumalwhuapa, a small 
town in Guatemala. The variety of ornamentation, the skill in execu- 
tion, and the grade of refinement exhibited in the designs upon these 
bas-reliefs, as well as the almost total absence of sculptures hitherto re- 



16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

ported on the southern side of the Sierras, induced the Institution, on 
the recommendation of Profs. W. D. Whitney and J. H. Trumbull, to 
include Dr. HabePs paper among its publications. 

The author was invited to visit Washington, where a room was pro- 
vided for him at the Institution, ami the drawings of these sculptures 
were reproduced by an artist, under his personal supervision. Dr. Ha- 
bel highly appreciated the aid thus rendered him, and informed Profes- 
sor Henry of his intention to leave a part of his estate to the Institution, 
to repay, at least in part, the cost of the'publication of his memoir. 

The Institution having learned of the death of Dr. Habel on the 1st 
of January, 1879, steps were taken to secure the legacy which he had 
promised as indicated in the following letter, deposited by him in the 
Emigrant Industrial Savings Bank, New York : 

"David Ledwith, Esq., 

" Comptroller of the Emigrant Industrial Savings Banlc : 

" Dear Sir : I have left with the Emigrant Industrial Savings Bank, 
for safe-keeping, three account-books in my name, with the order that 
the money deposited in the bank on each respective book should be paid 
after my death to the following persons and institution, namely: 

" 1. One thousand dollars of the account on book No. 12242G to Ernest 
Haeckel, of Jena, in Germany, and the remainder of said account to the 
Smithsonian Institution at Washington. 

" 2. All the amount in my favor on book No. 125437 should be paid to 
Stephen Pearl Andrews. 

"3. The money in trust for Lizzie Fleischman on book No. 125136 
should be paid to said person. 

" Bequesting the bank will comply with said order, 
" I am, respectfully, yours, 

"Dr. Habel." 

Mr. Ledwith, the comptroller of the bank, on the 2Gth of February, 
1879, presented a statement to the Institution of the amount to the credit 
of Dr. Habel on the account-book No. 122420, above referred to, showing 
a balance of $1,402.59. Of this $1,000 was paid to Professor Haeckel in 
accordance with the instructions of Dr. Habel, and the remainder, 
$402.59, paid to the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

It is proper to state that every facility was rendered by the officers of 
the bank in turning over to the Institution the bequest of Dr. Habel. 

As it is the policy of the Institution to fund all moneys that may be 
received other than as income, I Mould suggest that the amount received 
from Dr. Habel be increased from the income of the Institution to $500, 
and that this sum be added to the Smithson fund as the Habel be- 
quest. It will be remembered that, by a law of Congress, the Institution 
is authorized to increase its principal in the United States Treasury to a 
million dollars. In a somewhat similar case, that of Mr. James Hamil- 
ton, of Carlisle, Pa., the amount of $1,000 was deposited in the Treasury 
as the Hamilton fund. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17 



RESEARCHES. 



Ill the last report an account was given of an investigation of the 
ancient solar eclipses by Mr. Todd, of the Nautical Almanac Office. 
Among a number of eclipses added to the list then given are three ob- 
served in China in 709 B. 0., 001 B. C, and 549 B. C, being the eclipses 
which have formed the subject of a paper by Schjellerup, of Copenha- 
gen. During the past year the work of this investigation has consisted 
mainly in the collection of data and their preparation for discussion. 
As the research progresses, there seems reason for extending the scope 
of the research to include a large number of ancient ecliptic dates. 

Apparatus for Testing titone. — Many years ago a series of experiments 
were conducted at the Smithsonian Institution, under the direction of 
Professor Henry, in regard to the strength and durability of building 
materials, primarily for the purpose of determining what varieties of 
marble and other stones were best adapted for the construction of the 
extension of the United States Capitol. The apparatus used in these 
experiments has since been lying idle in the Smithsonian building, and 
as it occupied valuable space it has been returned to the arsenal, from 
which it was originally borrowed. It has there been put in order, and 
is now again in use by the Ordnance Bureau of the Army. 

LABORATORY. 

As stated in the last report, after a partial suspension of active opera- 
tions in that direction, the laboratory of the Institution was put in order, 
and again made available for scientific research. This lias always been 
an important feature in the operations of the Institution, and is one of 
those especially required by the act of Congress. 

A thorough overhauling of the old instruments and equipment w; is 
made under the direction of Dr. Endlich, the chemist in charge, and all 
obsolete apparatus and unserviceable material was eliminated. The 
chemical and physical departments of the colleges in the District, such 
as the Columbian, Georgetown, and Howard University, wer j invited 
to select from this unserviceable matter what they could use for pur- 
poses <>f instruction, the remainder being suitably disposed of. The 
apartments were then altered to meet the requirements of the present 
day, and a sufficient amount of apparatus and equipment obtained to 
make a fairly efficient working establishment. 

The work of the laboratory consists partly in determining the charac- 
ter of various minerals belonging to collections in the National Museum, 
and partly in carrying on researches asked for by the various depart- 
ments of the government. No private work of this kind is undertaken 
by the Institution; but whenever a chemical investigation of any sub- 
ject is required by the proper authorities it is carried out, if the time of 
the chemist will permit. 

Under the first head, the identification of large numbers of specimens, 
previously undetermined, has been completed, the series placed in the 
S. Mis. 54 2 



18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

mineralogical department, and the duplicates made up into sets for dis- 
tribution to various educational establishments throughout the country, 
or to be held for exchange for other minerals. Further reference to this 
subject, however, will be found under the head of the National Museum. 

Among the investigations carried on by the Institution for the benefit 
of the government may be mentioned the following : 

An examination of the character and cbemical composition of the 
Appolinaris water, at the request of the Secretary of the Treasury, a 
controversy having arisen between the custom-house authorities in New 
York and the importers of Appolinaris water, as to whether the article 
imported under that name really came unchanged from the springs or 
was artificially charged with other substances, especially carbonic acid. 
To solve this problem the services of several chemists were invoked, but 
these furnished contradictory results, and the Smithsonian Institution 
was therefore asked by the Treasury Department to give the subject 
proper attention, specimens of the water being duly supplied. This was 
among the most laborious researches ever intrusted to the Institution 
for prosecution, requiring the constant labor of the chemist for several 
weeks for its accomplishment. A report was finally made and trans- 
mitted to the Secretary. 

Another investigation was as to the comparative percentages of carbon 
in different brands of steel, made at the request of Chief Engineer Shock, 
of the Bureau of Steam Engineering of the Navy Department. 

In addition to the chemical work actually performed in its laboratory 
for the government, the Institution has also acted as adviser to the de- 
partments in securing specialists for investigations too extensive for 
the time and apparatus of its chemist, or which, for other reasons, could 
not be undertaken by him. Among these may be mentioned an ex- 
amination of crude opium, for the amount of morphine it contained, 
made for the Treasury Department by Dr. Theodore G. Wormley, of 
the University of Pennsylvania, and by Dr. W. M. Mew, U. S. A., of 
Washington, &c. 

The attention of the inspector of marine products for the city <>t" 
'Washington having been attracted by the occurrence of green oysters 
among those offered for sale, the health department, under Dr. Smith 
Townshend, requested of the Smithsonian Institution an investiga- 
tion as to the cause of this color, the popular impression being that it 
was due to the presence of copper in the water, and denoted a poisonous 
condition of the oysters. Although this phenomenon is quite well known 
in Europe, and green oysters are considered in Francean especial delicacy, 
the examination desired was made by Dr. Endlich with very perfect tests 
and without detecting any copper. In this connection it may be stated 
that recent investigations in Europe have shown that the green color is 
due to the presence of minute algae on which the oyster feeds voraciously. 
In France the oysters are kept in pits along the seashore, where the 
highly prized tinge is very soon acquired. 

By a resolution of Congress the Secretary of the Institution was ap- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19 

pointed a member of a commission to investigate the merits of signal 
apparatus to give warning of the accidental occurrence of fire, and dur- 
ing 1879 Mr. Watkins made experiments in the laboratory of the Insti- 
tution to test his invention for this purpose. 

In this connection it may be stated that the Secretary of the Institu- 
tion has, by resolution of Congress, been appointed a member of the 
commission on improving the ventilation of the hall of the House of 
Representatives at the Capitol, and that he has attended the meetings 
of this commission and rendered it such service as his time and oppor- 
tunity permitted hirn. 

TELEGRAPHIC ANNOUNCEMENTS OF ASTRONOMICAL DISCOVERIES. 

There are many astronomical discoveries, which, for the purpose of 
co-operative observation, require immediate announcement to observers 
in distant localities. Among such discoveries are those of planets and 
comets, or of bodies which are generally so faint as not to be seen except 
through the telescope, and which being in motion require that their place 
in the heavens be made known to the distant observer before they so far 
change their position as not to be readily found. For this purpose the or- 
dinary mail conveyance requiring at least ten days, is too slow, since in 
that time the body will have so far changed its position as not to be found, 
except with great difficulty ; and this change will become the greater if 
the body is a very faint one, for in that case it could only be discovered 
on a night free from moonlight, which of necessity, in ten or twelve 
days, must be followed by nights on which the sky is illuminated by the 
moon, and all attempts to discover the object would have to be post- 
poned until the recurrence of a dark night. Indeed, even then the 
search would often prove in vain ; and it would not be, in some cases, 
until after a set of approximate elements had been calculated and trans- 
mitted, that the astronomers on the two sides of the Atlantic would be 
able fully to co-operate with each other. 

These difficulties were discussed by some of the principal astronomers 
of America and Europe, and an application was made to the Smithsonian 
Institution, through Dr. C. H. F. Peters, of Clinton, N. Y., to remove them 
by transmitting intelligence immediately through the Atlantic telegraph 
cable. For this purpose the Institution, in 1873, applied to the New York, 
New t'oumlland and London Telegraph Company and to the Western Union 
Telegraph Company to be allowed free transmission of this kind of in- 
telligence, and received through Cyrus W. Field, esq., and William Or- 
ton, esq., with that liberality which has always attended applications of 
a similar character by the Institution, the free use of all the lines of 
these companies for the object in question. 

Similar privileges were granted in Europe for transmitting the intel- 
ligence between some of the principal centers of astronomical research 
in Europe and the eastern ends of the Atlantic cables. 

The transmission of intelligence is not restricted to the discovery of 
planets and comets, but includes that of any remarkable solar phenom- 
enon which may suddenly present itself in Europe, and of which obser- 



20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

vation in America may be practicable for several hours after the sun 
has set to the European observer ; also the sudden outburst of a star 
like that in the "Crown" in 1SG6, together with unexpected showers of 
shooting stars, &c. 

To carry out the proposition the following arrangements have been 
adopted, which are essentially those published in 1873, but with such 
additions and modifications as subsequent experience has proved nec- 
essary. 

I. — Center of communication in the United States. 

1. The Smithsonian Institution. Spencer F. Baird, director. 
Centers of communication in Europe. 

1. Greenwich Observatory. Sir George B. Airy, astronomer- 
royal. 

2. Paris Observatory. Admiral Mouchez, director. 

3. Berlin Observatory. Prof. W. Foerster, director. 

4. Vienna Observatory, Academy of Sciences. Prof. Edmund 
Weiss, director. 

5. Pulkova Observatory. Otto von Struve, director. 

II. — Telegrams received at the Smithsonian Institution from observ- 
ers in the United States will be forwarded immediately by Atlantic 
cable to Greenwich, Paris, Berlin, Vienna, and Pulkova, and thence by 
telegraph to other observatories in Europe. 

III. — Discoveries made in Europe of new comets, planets, &c, will 
be announced without delay from Greenwich, Paris, Berlin, Vienna, and 
Pulkova, by Atlantic cable, to the Smithsonian Institution, and thence 
by telegraph to American observatories * and the Associated Press. 

IV. — The telegraphic dispatch announcing a discovery should be as 
brief as possible, and, after conference with astronomers, the following 
form has been agreed upon: 

After the single word "planet" (or " comet"), is given — 

1. Its right ascension in time, hours, minutes, and seconds (the latter 
only to the nearest round tenth, i. e., ten, twenty, thirty, forty, or fifty); 
next, separated by the word — 

2. North or south, is given its — 

3. Declination, to the nearest minute. 

4. Then, in the case of a planet, the magnitude expressed by the 
nearest ordinal number. 

*The list of these observatories is at present as follows: 

Shattuck Observatory Hanover, 25". H. i United States Naval Observa- 

Observutorv of Harvard College. Cambridge, Mass. tory Washington, D.C. 



y/ali College Observatory NewHaven,Conn. 

Dudley Observatory Albany, X. Y. 

Litchfield Observatory Clinton, X. T. 

Eobarl College Obsen atory I l-eneva, X. Y. 

Bed House Observatory Phelps, X. Y. 

Warner Observatory Rochester, X. Y. 

Allegheny Observatory Uleghenj , Pa. 

Observatory d1' College of XVw 
Jersey Princeton, M\ J. 



Cincinnati < Observatory Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Dearborn University Observa- 

fcorj Chicago, 111. 

A mi A 1 1m u ( Observatory Ann Arbor, Mich. 

University of state of Missouri.. Columbia, Mo. 

Morrison Observatory Glasgow, Mo. 

Observatory of Carlcton College .Northfield, Minn. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

In the case of a comet, the word bright or faint should be added. 

5. Next, the daily motion, as near as the first observations allow it to 
be estimated. 

For a minor planet in opposition, the motion in right ascension is ap- 
proximately evident, and it is therefore sufficient to indicate the motion 
in declination, in minutes of arc, preceded by the word north or south. 

For a comet, the direction of motion should be indicated by south, 
west, north, east, or by a combination of two of these words, which must 
be understood always (also below the pole) in reference to the equator, 
not in reference to the horizon. If the comet has a rapid motion, the 
number of degrees per day, as estimated, may follow. 

G. Finally, the date of the position (having regard to Art. V) indicated 
by the day of the week. 

The day of sending (civil reckoning, of course) is always written 
at the head of the dispatch by the telegraph operator (the United 
States law requires also the hour), and it may be presumed that the com- 
munications only exceptionally fail to reach the center stations (Art. I), 
even those on the other side of the Atlantic, on the same day. In 
order, however, to be independent of any delay of the operator, and 
agreeably to the wishes expressed by high astronomical authority, the 
date is now embodied in the dispatch by naming the week day, whereby 
at the same time all ambiguity is removed as to whether astronomical or 
civil date be meant. 

7. Should it be deemed desirable to communicate the authority for the 
discovery, the shortest way would be to insert the name as the second 
word in the dispatch (after "planet" or "comet"). For example, the 
following dispatch, " Planet K. 1ST. twenty-three thirty-five forty north 
twenty-one forty-six eleventh south three Wednesday," would be inter- 
preted thus : A new planet is discovered by X. N. At midnight (see 
Art. V) between Wednesday and Thursday it will be in right ascension 
23 1 ' 35 m 40 s , aud declination +21° 46' ; it is of the 11th magnitude, and 
has a daily motion of 3' towards the south. 

Or a dispatch like the following, " Comet N. N. twenty-two forty- 
three ten north sixty-five thirty-one bright southeast two Monday," 
would announce the discovery made by N. 1ST. of a bright comet, that at 
midnight Monday — Tuesday will be in right ascension 21 >h 43" 1 10 s and 
declination -f 05° 31', the declination decreasing, the right ascension in- 
creasing, moving daily about two degrees. 

The preceding examples contain the greatest number of words (10) 
required for any dispatch, if composed according to the rules adopted 
above. Usually the number will be less. Sometimes, however, the dis- 
patch thus composed would become equivocal, and it has, therefore, 
been established as an additional rule that the number expressing the 
minutes of right ascension or declination shall always be expressed in 
words, even when zero occurs. Therefore 23 h m 40 s should be written 
" twenty three nought forty," while " twenty three forty" will be under- 



22 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



stood to mean 20 h 3 m 40 8 . Again, "north thirty six" would be +20° 
6', but " north thirty six nought" is +36° 0'. In a similar way h of 
right ascension, or s of declination are to be distinctly expressed by the 
word " nought." Only for the seconds of right ascension when they are 
zero, that word for brevity's sake is omitted as unnecessary. 

V. — The right ascension and declination in the dispatch will be under- 
stood to give the position (by proper motion approximately reduced) for 
the midnight following the date of the dispatch : Washington time 
for American discoveries ; Greenwich time for European. 

Usually the discoverer himself has more complete data on hand 
than others for bringing the position up in advance, and for this 
reason the following midnight is given preference to any preceding time, 
as, for example, that of the discovery. 

YI. — Since in conformity with the preceding article, only an approx- 
imate estimate of a later position, and not that of the first observation 
itself, is giveu, the dispatch is not to be considered as a document for 
deciding the question of priority of discovery. 

On the other hand, it is expected that observers, in communicating 
their discoveries, will adhere to the form of the programme explained 
in the foregoing articles, and thus save much time and labor to those 
that wish to co-operate. 

List of minor planets discovered in the year 1879. 



No. 


Name. 


Date. 


Discoverer. 


Discover- 
er's No. 


Observatory. 


19-2 
193 
194 
195 
196 
197 


Nausikaa 

Ambrosia 

Procne 

Philomela 

Arete 


February 17 
February 28 
March 21 
April 19 
Mav 14 
May 21 
Juno 13 
July 9 
July 27 
August 7 
September I 
September 25 
October 8 
October 13 
October 13 
October 17 
October 21 
October 22 


Palisa 

Coggia 

Peters 

Palisa 

Peters 

Palisa 

Borrelly 

Peters 

Peters 

Palisa 

Peters 

Palisa 

Palisa 

Peters 

Palisa 

Palisa 

Peters 

Palisa 


15th 
3d 

33d 

16th 
34th 
17 th 

11th 

35th 

36th 

18th 

37 th 

38th 

19th 

20th 

39th . 

21st 

22(1 

40th 

23d . 

24th 


Pola. 

Marseilles. 

Clinton. 

Pola. 

Cliuton. 

Pola. 


198 

19<> 


Byblis 


Marseilles. 
Clintou. 


200 
201 
202 


Dynamene 

Penelope 


Clinton. 
Pola. 


2d.'. 






204 

205 

20;; 

'->M7 


Callisto 

Hersilia 


Pola. 
Pola. 
Cliuton. 
Pola. 


908 




Pola. 


»U') 


Dido 


Clinton. 


210 
211 




November 12 
December 10 


Tola. 
Pola. 



LIST OF COMETS DISCOVERED IX 1879. 



A.. 
B . 

C . 

E .. 
D. 



Brorson's Comet. 

Periodic 

Comet 1^1)7. 11. 

Periodic 

1879. Ill 

L879. IV 

1879. V 



February 2G 



April 
June 
August 
August 



24 
15 

21 
21 



Tenipel 

Lewis Swii'i 

llartwig 

Palisa 



Windsor, N. S. W. 

Florence. 
Rochester, N. Y. 

Pola. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23 

PUBLICATIONS. 

The publications of the Institution consist of three classes: The first, 
the " Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge"; the second, the " Smith- 
sonian Miscellaneous Collections'"; and the third, the "Annual Reports 
of the Regents" of the Institution. The works of the first class, the 
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, are published in quarto form, 
and are intended to embrace original memoirs, either the result of special 
investigations authorized and directed by the Institution, or prosecuted 
under other auspices and presented to it. The works of the second 
class, the Miscellaneous Collections, are similar in plan and construc- 
tion to the " Contributions," but are in octavo form, and embrace more 
particularly monographic and descriptive papers in natural histoiy, for- 
mal or systematic lists of species of animals or plants, physical tables, 
reports on the present state of knowledge in some department of physi- 
cal or biologic science, &c. As with the " Contributions," each volume 
b composed of several distinct and independent papers, having no nec- 
essary connection with each other, the combination being determined 
chiefly by the aggregate number of pages suitable for a volume of average 
size. The average number of pages in the quarto volume is about 000; 
in the octavo volume, about 800. Each paper or memoir in either class 
is separately paged and indexed, with its own title-page, so as to be 
complete in itself, and separately distributed according to its subject. 
Of the quarto " Contributions," twenty-one volumes, and of the octavo 
" Collections," fifteen volumes have been published. 

The Smithsonian annual reports, commenced in 1S47, being made 
to Congress, are published by that authority, and not at the expense of 
the Smithson fund. The earlier reports of the Secretary were printed 
in small pamphlet editions, but were collected and reprinted with the 
report for 1853, and with this the series of bound volumes may be said 
to have begun. The number, or edition, ordered by Congress has varied 
from year to year, but the proportion of copies placed at the disposal of 
the Institution has been distributed to its correspondents as fully and 
liberally as possible. 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. — The Institution has now 
enough material ready for two volumes of the quarto series of Contribu- 
tions, the twenty-second volume of which will be issued early in the 
year 1880, and will consist of the following memoirs: 

1. Antiquities in Tennessee. Joseph Jones. 

2. Sculptures of Santa Lucia. S. Habel. 

3. Archaeological Collections of the National Museum. Charles Rau. 

4. The Palenque Tablet. Charles Rau. 

5. Remains of Man in the Aleutian Islands. W. II. Dall. 

These papers have all been described in previous reports with the 
exception of the one on the Palenque tablet, by Charles Rau. This 



24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

publication relates to a stone tablet covered with glyphic designs which 
was formerly in the possession of the National Institute for the Promo- 
tion of Science (established at Washington about forty years ago) and 
became afterward the property of the Smithsonian Institution. The 
records state that the fragments constituting this tablet were presented 
to the National Institute by Mr. Charles Russell, consul of the United 
States at Laguna, island of Carmen, Mexico. They had been obtained 
at Palenque in a manner not explained, and arrived in Washington in 
1842, and were deposited in the Patent Office with the collections of the 
National Institute. The transfer of these collections to the Smithsonian 
Institution took place in 1858. 

The archaeological importance of this tablet was first pointed out in 
18G3 by Dr. George A. Matile. While engaged in making a cast of it, 
at the request of the late Professor Henry, he recognized it as one of the 
three stone slabs which, placed together, bore on their surface the sculpt- 
ure of the famous group of the cross, forming the chief ornament of one 
of the temples at Palenque. The earliest explorers of the ancient city, 
Del Rio and Dupaix, still saw the Smithsonian tablet in its proper place 
in the "Temple of the Cross," and figured it, though in a very defective 
manner, as a part of the group ; but it probably was already broken in 
1832, when Waldeck explored the ruins of Palenque. Stephens, who 
was there eight years afterward, noticed its scattered pieces. As a Con- 
sequence, neither of the last-named explorers has left a representation 
of this valuable complement of the celebrated sculpture. 

Impressed with the importance of the subject, the author undertook 
to prepare this monograph, which is not merely confined to a description 
of the tablet but embraces also a number of cognate topics. Of the two 
accompanying plates, which were specially executed for the work, one 
represents the Smithsonian tablet in juxtaposition with Catherwood's 
well-known delineation of the Tablet of the Cross in Volume 1 1 of Ste- 
phens's "Incidents of Travel in Central America, Chiapas, and Yuca- 
tan"; the other is an artotype showing the Smithsonian tablet as it 
appears after its restoration. Most of the illustrations in the text were 
kindly lent by Mr. II. II. Bancroft, of San Francisco; the others were 
expressly engraved for the publication. 

The work comprises five chapters, to which an appendix is added. 

In the first chapter the author gives the history of the Smithsonian 
tablet as far as he could trace it by an examination of the existing re- 
cords. The second chapter treats in chronological order of the expedi- 
tions undertaken for the purpose of exploring the ruins of Palenque, 
and of the works and minor publications resulting from these explora- 
tions. It is a curious circumstance that the existence of the ancient 
city remained unknown until the second half of the eighteenth century, 
when accident led to the discovery of these remarkable ruins, hidden 
for centuries in the shadows of a Guatemalan forest. Cortez, on his 



EEPOET OF THE SECEETAEY. 25 

famous expedition to Honduras (in 1524), doubtless passed at no great 
distance from the locality now called Palenque, and if it had been an 
inhabited city at that time the daring conquistador probably would have 
turned aside from his march for the purpose of conquering and plunder- 
ing it. Moreover, no mention of the city is made in the Spanish records 
of that period, and it may be assumed that it was deserted and in a 
ruinous condition at the time of the conquest.* 

The principal explorations of Palenque were undertaken by Del Rio, 
Dupaix, Waldeck, and Stephens, between the years 1787 and 1839, thus 
extending over a period of more than half a century • but while the 
reports of the three first named explorers remained unpublished for 
many years, Mr. Stephens's account appeared in print within a year or 
two after his visit to the ruins, which thus became known to a large 
body of readers, both in this country and abroad. 

In the third chapter the author describes, according to the accounts 
of the different explorers, the Temple of the Cross and the celebrated 
bas relief from which it derives its name. These accounts, though not 
absolutely harmonious, coincide in the main points and give a pretty 
good idea of the edifice and its appurtenances. 

The fourth chapter is devoted to a consideration of the Group of the 
Cross, including the Smithsonian tablet. It will be seen that the earlier 
representations of this interesting piece of ancient American sculpture 
are incorrect and fanciful, more particularly with regard to the design 
and arrangements of the glyphs surrounding the cross, and the human 
figures standing at its sides. In speaking of the significance of the 
bas-relief, the author combats the theory that the adoration of the cross 
among the aborigines of certain parts of America was due to the influence 
of Christian missionaries, said to have gone to the New World long 
before its discovery in the fifteenth century. He adduces facts showing 
that the cross had a symbolic meaning in America in times long ante- 
dating the Columbian era. 

The fifth chapter treats of aboriginal writing in Mexico, Yucatan, and 
Central America. The Mexicans, it is well known, had already made 
some steps toward phonetization, being able, as Humboldt says, " to write 
names by writing some signs which recalled sounds." The Yucatecs 
and Central Americans, however, used signs of a different character, 
denominated calculiform by M. Aubin, the distinguished French savant. 
The question of their significance has been revived of late years by Bras- 
sour de Bourbourg's discovery and publication of Bishop Landa's manu- 
script of the sixteenth century, which had lain for many years unnoti- 
ced in the archives of the Royal Academy of History at Madrid. The 
celebrity of the bishop's work is chiefly due to the circumstance that it 
contains delineations of what he calls the alphabetic signs of the Yucatecs. 
The discovery of this supposed key was hailed with great enthusiasm by 
scholars interested in the decipherment of the glyphs sculptured on the 
walls of ancient edifices in Central America and Yucatan, and of the few 



26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

manuscripts in similar characters which have escaped the destructive 
fanaticism of Spanish priests, namely, the Dresden Codex, the Codex 
Peresianus and the Codex Troano, yet the results have thus far not 
justified the high expectations at first entertained. 

The author endeavors to show, by an analytical process, the affinity 
between Bishop Landa's characters and the glyphs on the Palenquean 
tablets, to which he consequently ascribes a Maya origin. He thinks 
it probable that the Yucatecs employed in their writing certain charac- 
ters as equivalents for sounds, perhaps syllabic and at the same time, 
possibly to a great extent, conventional figures imparting a definite 
meaning. On the other hand, he strongly doubts whether the Mayas 
and kindred tribes ever went so far as to express the elementary signs 
of their speech by corresponding signs; in short, whether they possessed 
a written language in the modern sense. He hardly believes that the 
meaning of Central American and Yucatec glyphs will ever be revealed 
through Landa's key, which, if it really was what the bishop claims, 
would apply to the Maya as spoken at the time of the conquest, but, 
owing to the mutability of languages, not to the earlier kindred vernac- 
ular of the builders of Palenque and other now ruined cities of the 
same regions. 

The appendix relates to the ruins of Yucatan and Central America 
and forms a complement to the chief topics of the publication. 

The twenty-third volume of Contributions will probably contain : 

1. Lucernarire. H. J. Clark. 

2. Geology of Louisiana. E. W. Hilgard. 

3. Internal Structure of the Earth. J. G. Barnard. 

4. Monograph of the Trochilidre. D. G-. Elliot. 

5. Fever, a Study in Morbid and Normal Physiology. H. C. Wood, jr. 

Miscellaneous Collections. — Several volumes of Miscellaneous Collec- 
tions will be pnbbshed in a few months, the articles composing them 
having already been printed and stereotyped. 

Volume XVI of this series will contain : 

1. Monograph of Strepoinatidre. G. W. Tryon. 

2. Catalogue of Hiptera. K. Osteu-Sacken. 

3. Toner lecture: Nature of Preparatory I uilammation in Arteries after 
Ligature. E. O. Shakespeare. 

4. Circular relative to Smithsonian Literary and Scientific Exchanges. 

5. Circular relative to Business Arrangements of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution. 

6. List of Humming Birds. I). G. Elliot. 

7. List of the Principal Libraries in the United States. 

8. Check list of Smithsonian Publications to July, 1879. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

Volume XVII of the Miscellaneous Collections will consist of — 

1. Documents relative to the Origin and History of the Smithsonian 
Institution. W. J. Ehees. 

Volume XVIII of the Miscellaneous Collections will be composed of — 

1. The Scientific Writings of James Smithson. 

2. An Account of James Smithson and his Bequest. W. J. Ehees. 

3. Journals of the Board of Regents, reports of committees, statistics, 
&c, from 1816 to 1877. 

Volume XIX of Miscellaneous Collections will consist of — 

1. Proceedings of the National Museum for 1878. 

2. Proceedings of the National Museum for 1879. 

Writings of James Smithson. — The scientific writings of James Smith- 
son, the distinguished founder of the Smithsonian Institution, have 
been collected and are published in accordance with the instructions of 
the Board of Regents. These memoirs were originally contributed to 
the " Transactions of the Royal Society of London," of which Smithson 
was a member between the years 1791 and 1817, and to Thomson's 
"Annals of Philosophy," between 1819 and 1825. They are twenty- 
seven in number and embrace a wide range of subjects, from the origin 
of the earth, the nature of the colors of vegetables and insects, the anal- 
yses of minerals and chemicals, to an improved method of constructing 
lamps, and of making coffee. Some of these papers were translated into 
French by the author and others, and published in the " Journal de 
Physique, dc Chimie, ct WHistoire N~aturelle. v They prove conclusively the 
scientific character of Smithson and his title to distinction as a contrib- 
utor to knowledge. 

Among the personal effects of the founder of the Institution were 
several hundred manuscripts, besides a large collection of scraps and 
notes on a great diversity of subjects, including history, the arts, lan- 
guage, rural economy, construction of buildings, &c, which, unfortu- 
nately, were destroyed by the fire in the Smithsonian building in 18G5. 
It is probable that Smithson also contributed articles to scientific and 
literary journals other than those mentioned, but none have been found, 
though the leading English periodicals of the day have been carefully 
examined. 

Appended to the writings of Smithson are reviews of their scientific 
character, by Prof. Walter R. Johnson, communicated to the National 
Institute of Washington in 1844, and by J. R. McD. Irby prepared for 
the Institution in September, 1878. The material for this work has 
been collected and the volume edited by Wm. J. Rhees, chief clerk of 
the Institution. 

History of the Institution. — The work mentioned in the last report rel- 
ative to the origin and history of the Institution, as ordered by the 
Board of Regents, has been completed under the efficient editorshiij of 



28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Mr. William J. Eliees, chief clerk of tlie Institution, and has been pub- 
lished. This history forms an octavo volume of 1,027 pages. It con- 
tains the will of Smithson, a republication of all the debates and legis- 
lation of Congress relative to the bequest, the correspondence and 
official papers of Mr. Rush, the agent of the United States in procuring 
the legacy, the history of the investment of the fund, the opinions of 
learned men as to the best disposition of the bequest, and many other 
documents of value in connection with the history of the establishment. 
The work has a full index. 

Journals of the Board of Regents. — Another volume of the history of 
the Institution has been compiled by Mr. Rhees, containing the journal 
of proceedings of the Board of Regents from its first meeting, Septem- 
ber 12, 184G, to January 20, 1870, together with the reports of the execu- 
tive, building, and special committees for the same period. The eulo- 
gies on deceased members of the Board and distinguished collaborators 
of the Institution are given, and also a full account of the Bache scien- 
tific fund, the Tyndall trust, Corcoran Gallery of Art, Toner lectures, 
Hamilton bequest, the report of the committee of the board on the in- 
vention of the electro -magnetic telegraph, the report of the examination 
of Professor Henry by the English scientific commission, statistical 
tables, and valuable information relative to the history and operations 
of the Institution. 

Toner lectures. — The seventh Toner lecture has been published by the 
Institution, and is a concise and interesting presentation of" The nature 
of reparatory inflammation in arteries after ligature, compressure and 
torsion," by Dr. Edward O. Shakespeare, of Philadelphia, delivered in 
Washington, June 27, 1878. The bleeding of wounds afresh has formed 
a favorite theme of study from time immemorial ; its nature and the most 
efficient means for its arrest have drawn to it the attention of physicians 
in all ages. Dr. Shakespeare gives an epitome of the successive efforts 
made by skilled hands to stay the subsequent bleeding of wounds and 
amputations, from the first recorded authority, Jean Louis Petit, in 
1731-32, to date; this valuable summary is followed by one of the prev- 
alent opinions in regard to the question, and he then sketches,in minute, 
succinct detail, his own personal observations. This concluding chapter 
is illustrated by four carefully prepared plates. 

Monograph of Chitonidce. — Reference has been made in previous re- 
ports to a monograph of the Chitonidce prepared by Dr. Philip P. Car- 
penter, of Montreal, with a view to publication by the institution. 

At Dr. Carpenter's death, this manuscript, in a still unfinished (condi- 
tion, was discovered to eonsisi largely of notes and memoranda, written 
in a peculiar and antiquated short-hand, with which no one in this coun- 
try was familiar. The skeleton of classification was almost completed, 
but the details in regard to particular species were often deficient or 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29 

existed only in the form of these short-hand notes. As the usefulness of 
the work and especially its completeness depended largely on the com- 
prehension of these notes, search was made, for a long time unsuccess- 
fully, for some one able to decipher them. At last an old classmate and 
personal friend of Dr. Carpenter, Mr. R. D. Darbishire, of Manchester, 
England, undertook the task, with the assistance of the Rev. W. II. Her- 
ford. To the knowledge of the short-hand possessed by Mr. Darbishire 
(one of the few living persons who can read it) and to his generous willing- 
ness to devote his time to the wearisome duty for the benefit of science 
and out of regard for Dr. Carpenter's memory we are very greatly in- 
debted and owe the translation of the above-mentioned notes. Mr. 
Darbishire declined any remuneration for his services, and the labor be- 
stowed by Mr. Herford was quite beyond the value of any honorarium 
which the Institution was able to make him. The thanks of the Institu- 
tion and of men of science generally are therefore due to these gentle- 
men. The illustrations for the monograph, which are quite numerous, are 
yet to be engraved, though they have already been beautifully drawn by 
Mr. Emerton, under Dr. Carpenter's direction, at the cost of the Institu- 
tion. This and a not inconsiderable amount of editing, which has been in- 
trusted to Mr. W. H. Dall, remain to be accomplished before the mono- 
graph will be ready for publication, a task which cannot be wholly com- 
pleted under a year or two. 

List of zoological genera. — Among the works offered to the Smithsonian 
Institution for x>ublication is a list of the zoological genera, giving the 
time of publication and the class of the animal kingdom referred to. 
Such works, if properly executed, are of great value to the investigator, 
since, although imposing an immense labor upon the compiler, they ena- 
ble the student to at once determine points of synonym} 7 and priority of 
date; also whether a name proposed for a new genus has already been 
used, thus sparing an enormous aggregate of individual effort. This 
work, by Mr. Samuel n. Scudder, of Cambridge, will probably be com- 
pleted and published in the course of the year 18S0. 

Bulletins of the National Museum. — In the Secretary's Report for 1875 
it was stated that another series of publications, which would form a 
part of the Miscellaneous Collections, had been commenced under the 
above title. This series is intended to illustrate the collections of natural 
history and ethnology belonging to the United States, and constituting 
the stock of the National Museum, of which the Smithsonian Institution 
is the custodian. These bulletins, prepared at the request and mainly 
by the attaches of the Institution, have been printed under the authority 
of the Secretary of the Interior. They form an independent series, 
which has proved very acceptable to naturalists, as enabling them to 
obtain prompt information as to the additions to and the components 
of the National Museum. 

The following is a list of the titles and contents of the bulletins already 
published: 



30 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Bulletin 1.— Check-List of North American Batrachia and Reptilia ; 
with a Systematic List of the higher groups, and an essay on geo- 
graphical distribution based on the specimens contained in the United 
States National Museum. By Edward D. Cope. 1875. Svo., 104 pp. 

Bulletin 2. — Contributions to the Natural History of Kerguelen Island, 
made in connection with the American Transit of Venus Expedition, 
1874-'75. By J. H. Kidder, M. D., Passed Assistant Surgeon, United 
States Navy. I. Ornithology. Edited by Dr. Elliott Coues, United 
States Army. 1876. Svo., 51 pp. 

Bulletin 3. — Contributions to the Natural History of Kerguelen Island, 
made in connection with the American Transit of Venus Expedition, 
1874-75. By J. H. Kidder, M. D., Passed Assistant Surgeon, United 
States Navy. II. 187G. 8 vo., 122 pp. The contents are as follows : 



Oology.— By J. H. Kidder and Elliott 

Coues. 
Botany : 

A. Phamogamia, Filices, et Lyeopodi- 
acese. 

Revised by Asa Gray. 

B. Musci. By Thomas P. James. 

C. Liclienes. By Edward Tuckerinan. 

Algae, By W. G. Farlow. 
Crozkt Flora: 
Geology. By F. M. Endlich. 
Mammals. By J. H. Kidder. 



Fish. By Theodore N. Gill. 
Mollus'ks. By W. H. Dall. 
Insects : 
Diptera. By C. R. Osten-Sacken. 
Pseudo-Neuropteia. By H. A. Hagen. 
Crustaceans. By S. I. Smith. 
Annelids, Echiuoderms, and Anthozoa. 

By A. E. Verrill. 
Surgeon E. Kershner's Collection. 
A Study of Chioxis Minor. By J. H. 
Kidder and Elliott Coues. 



Bulletin 4. — Birds of Southwestern Mexico. Collected by Francis E. 
Sumichrast for the Uni ted States National Museum. Prepared by George 
N. Lawrence. 1875. 8vo., 56 pp. 

Bulletin 5. — Catalogue of the Fishes of the Bermudas. Based chiefly 
upon the collections of the United States National Museum. By G. 
Brown Goode, M. A., Curator United States National Museum. 1876. 
8vo., 82 pp. 

Bulletin 6. — Classification of the Collection to illustrate the animal 
resources of the United States. A list of the substances derived from 
the animal kingdom, with synopsis of the useful and injurious ani- 
mals, and a Classification of the methods of capture and utilization. 
By G. Brown Goode. 1876. 8vo., 126 pp. 

Bulletin 7. — Contributions to the Natural History of the Hawaiian 
and Fanning Islands and Lower California, made in connection with the 
United States North Pacific Surveying Expedition, 1873-75. By Thomas 
H. Streets, M. D., Passed Assistant Surgeon, United States Navy. 1877. 
8vo., 172 pp. The subjects treated of are : 



Ornithology. 
Herpetology. 
Ichthyology : 
I. Fishes of Upper and Lower Califor- 
nia. 



II. Fishes of the Hawaiian Islands. 

III. Fishes of the Fannin* Islands. 

IV. Fishes of the Samoau Islands. 
Crustacea. 

Botany. 



Bulletin 8. — Index to the Names which have been applied to the Sub- 
divisions of the Class Brachiopoda, excluding the Budistes, previous to 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



31 



the year 1877. By W. H. Dall, United States Coast Survey. 1877. 
8vo., 88 pp. 

Bulletin 9. — Contributions to North American Ichthyology, based pri- 
marily on the Collections of the United National Museum. I. Review 
of Rafinesque's Memoirs on North American Fishes. By David S. Jor- 
dan. 1ST 7. 8vo., 53 pp. 

Bulletin 10. — Contributions to North American Ichthyology, based pri- 
marily on the Collections of the United States National Museum. II. A. — 
Notes on Cottidce, Mheostomiatidce, Percidce, Centrarchidw, Aphredode- 
ridce, Borosomatidcv, and Cyprinidce, witb Revisions of the Genera and 
Descriptions of New or Little Known Species. B. — Synopsis of the Si- 
I iir idee of the Fresh Waters of North America. By David S. Jordan. 
1877. Svo., 120 pp. 

Bulletin 11. — Bibliography of the Fishes of the Pacific United States. 
By Theodore N. Gill. (In Press.) 

Bulletin 12. — Contributions to North American Ichthyology. III. A. 
— On the Distribution of the Fishes of the Alleghany Region of South 
Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee, with Descriptions of new or little 
known species. By David S. Jordan and Alembert W. Brayton. B. — 
A Synopsis of the Family Catostomidev. By David S. Jordan. 1878. 
Svo., 237 pp. 

Bulletin 13. — Flora of St. Croix and the Virgin Islands. By Baron 
H. F. A. Eggers. 1879. 8vo., 139 pp. 

Bulletin 11. — Catalogue of Collection illustrating the animal resources 
and the Fisheries of the United States. Prepared under the direction 
of G. Brown Goode. 1879. 8vo., 351 pp. 

Bulletin 15. — Contributions to the Natural History of Arctic America, 
made in connection with the Ilowgate Polar Expedition, lS77-'78. By 
Ludwig Kumlien, Naturalist of the Expedition. 1879. 8vo., 179 pp. 



Ethnology, Mammals, and Birds. By 

Lnchvig Kumlien. 
Fishes. By Tarleton II. Bean. 
Annelidts, Molluscoids, and Radi- 
ates. By A. E. Verrill. 
Mollusks. By W. II. Dall. 
Insects : 

Diurnal Lepidoptera. By W. H. Ed- 
wards. 



Insects : 
Hymenoptcra, Nocturnal Lepidoptera, 
Diptera, Coleoptera, Neuroptera, and 
Araclmida. By S. H. Scudder and 
others. 

Plants. By Asa Gray. 

Lichens. By Edward Tuckerman. 

ALii.E. By W. G. Farlow. 



Bulletin 10. — Synopsis of the Fishes of the United States. By David 
S. Jordan. (In Press.) 

The fifteenth number of the Bulletin of the National Museum is wholly 
made up of the interesting and novel notes of Mr. Ludwig Kumlien, who, 
under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, in 1877-78, accom- 
panied the Ilowgate polar expedition as naturalist. He passed the long 
arctic winter of 1877-'78 in the little harbor of Annanactook, Cumber- 
land Gulf, latitude 07° north, longitude G8^ 50' west. This sound, gulf, 
or inlet of Cumberland extends from about latitude 05° north to latitude 



32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

87° + north. It is the " Cumberland Straits" of Baffin, who was its orig- 
inal discoverer at the end of the sixteenth century ; again rediscovered 
by Captain Penny in 1839, who named it Hogarth Sound; and still again 
it was visited by Captain Wareham in 1841, who, unconscious of his 
predecessors, named it once more anew as Northumberland Inlet. It 
has become latterly a frequented place of resort for Scotch and American 
whalemen, whose ships frequently winter on the southwest shores of its 
boundaries. 

Here Mr. Kumlien passed seven or eight months in close intercourse 
with the Eskimo, and neglected no opportunity for study of this people. 
His detailed account of the curious habits and mental characteristics ox 
the Innuit is one of the most complete and finished descriptions ever 
given of them ; clear, succinct, and comprehensive, it is a valuable 
ethnological pen picture. 

Mr. Kumlien paid attention to the various subdivisions of natural 
history, and made as full notes as possible, under the circumstances, upon 
the mammals, birds, and fishes of the region. His limited means for 
action, his scant accommodations on the little schooner, and the forced, 
hasty departure from winter quarters gave no opportunity for exhaustive 
collections of any kind whatever ; but the insects, the plants, the uiol- 
lusks, and the algce secured have been carefully examined by experts in 
these branches, and reported on in this bulletin, thus rendering it a 
most valuable contribution to our knowledge of circumpolar life. 

Proceedings of the National Museum. — It had frequently been sug- 
gested as desirable that the National Museum should have some medium 
of prompt publication for announcing descriptions of specimens received 
(many of which are new species), as well as presenting other interesting 
facts relative to natural history, &c, as furnished by the correspondents 
of the institution. The publication of the "Proceedings of the National 
Museum" was accordingly commenced, the work comprising short de- 
scriptions of the additions to the museum, accounts of new species, faunal, 
and other lists, &c. It is printed in successive signatures, as fast as 
copy sufficient for sixteen pages is prepared, each signature having 
printed at the bottom of its first page the date of actual issue, for decid- 
ing questions as to priority of publication. It is at once distributed to 
scientific societies and leading naturalists in this country and in Europe. 
The list of important articles of greater or less length already printed, 
and forming the volume for 1878, is as follows : 

ByTarleton II. Bean. Description of a new sparoid fish from Savan- 
nah bank; on the occurrence of Stichceus punctatus, at Saint Michaels, 
Alaska; on the identity of Euehalarodus putnami, Gill, with Pleuronectes 
glaber (Storer) Gill, with notes on the habits of the species; description 
of a species of Lycodcs from Alaska, believed to be undescribed. 

By L. Belding. A partial list ot the birds of Central California. 

By Caleb Cook. The manufacture of porpoise oil. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33 

By W. H. Dall. Descriptions of new forms of inollusks from Alaska, 
contained, in the collections of the National Museum ; Post-pliocene 
fossils in the coast range of California; fossil mollusks from later Ter- 
tiaries of California; note on shells from Costa Rica, Kitchenmidden, 
collected by Drs. Flint and Bransford; distribution of Californian Ter- 
tiary fossils; descriptions of new species of shells from California in the 
collections of the National Museum ; report on the limpets and chitons 
of the Alaskan and Arctic region, with descriptions of genera and 
species believed to be new. 

By Yinal N. Edwards. On the occurrence of the oceanic bonito in 
Vineyard Sound, Massachusetts. 

By Theodore Gill. Synopsis of the pediculate fishes of the eastern 
coast of extratropical North America; note on the Antennariidce ; on 
the proper specific name of the common pelagic autennariid Pterophryne; 
note on the Geratiidce ; note on the Maltheidas. 

By G. Brown Goode. The Clupea tyrannus of Latrobe. The occur- 
rence of Belone latimanus in Buzzard's Bay, Massachusetts ; the voices 
of crustaceans; a revision of the American species of the genus Brevoortia, 
with a description of a new species from the Gulf of Mexico; the oc- 
currence of Hippocampus antiquorum or an allied form on Saint George's 
banks ; the occurrence of the Canada porcupine in West Virginia; on two 
fishes from the Bermudas, mistakenly described as new by Dr. Giinther. 

By G. Brown Goode and Tarleton H. Bean. The Craig flounder of 
Europe on the coast of North America; the oceanic bonito on the coast 
of the United States; description of Caulolatilus microps, a new species 
of fish from the gulf coast of Florida ; on a new serranoid fish from the 
Bermudas and Florida; descriptions of two new species of fishes from 
the coast of Florida ; a note upon the black grouper of the southern 
coast; descriptions of two gadoid fishes from the deep-sea fauna of the 
Northwestern Atlantic ; description of Argentina syrtensium, a new 
deep-sea fish from Sable Island bank ; the identity of Ehinonemus 
caudacuta, Gill, with Gadns timbrius, Linn. ; note on Platessa ferruginea, 
D. II. Storer, and Platessa rostrata, H. B. Storer; on the identity of 
Brosmius am< rieantis, Gill, with Brosmius brosme, White. 

By J. B. S. Jackson. Arsenic acid for protecting anatomical prepara- 
tions from insects. 

By Lieut. J. P. Jefferson. On the mortality of fishes in the Gulf of 
Mexico in 1878. 

By Lieut. J. P. Jefferson, Dr. Joseph Y. Porter, and Thomas Moore 
On the destruction of fish in the vicinity of the Tortugas during the 
months of September and October, 1878. 

By David S. Jordan. Notes on a collection of fishes from Clackamas 
River, Oregon. 

By David S. Jordan and Charles H. Gilbert. Notes on the fishes of 
Beaufort Harbor, North Carolina. 

By George N. Lawrence. Catalogue of the birds of Dominica, from 
S. Mis. 51 3 



34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

collections made for the Smithsonian Institution by Frederick A. Ober, 
together uith his notes and observations; catalogue of the birds of 
St. Vincent, from collections made by Mr. Fred. A. Ober, under the 
directions of the Smithsonian Institution, with his notes thereon ; cata- 
logue of the birds of Antigua and Barbuda, from collections made for 
the Smithsonian Institution by Mr. Fred. A. Ober, with his observa- 
tions ; catalogue of the birds of Grenada, from a collection made by 
Mr. Fred. A. Ober for the Smithsonian Institution, including others 
seen by him, but not obtained; catalogue of the birds collected in 
Martinique by Mr. Fred. A. Ober for the Smithsonian Institution ; cata- 
logue of a collection of birds obtained in Guadeloupe for the Smithsonian 
Institution by Mr. Fred. A. Ober ; a general catalogue of the birds noted 
from the islands of the Lesser Antilles, visited by Mr. Fred. A. Ober, 
with a table showing their distribution and those found in the United 
States. 

By Prof. X. T. Lupton. On the breeding habits of the sea catfish. 

By Dr. James C. Merrill. Notes on the ornithology of Southern 
Texas, being a list of birds observed in the vicinity of Fort Brown, 
Tex., from February, 1876, to June, 1878. 

By Felipe Poey. Notes on the American species of the genus Cybium. 

By Captain R. H. Pratt. Catalogue of casts taken by Clark Mills, 
esq., of the heads of sixty-four Indian prisoners, of various Western 
tribes and held at Fort Marion, Saint Augustine, Fla., in charge of Capt. 
E. H. Pratt, 

By Robert Ridgway. On a new humming-bird (Atthis ellioti) from 
Guatemala; a review of the American species of the genus Scojjs Sav- 
igny; descriptions of several new species and geographical races of 
birds contained in the collection of the United States National Museum; 
description of two new species of birds from Costa Bica, and notes on 
other rare species from that country ; descriptions of new species and 
races of American birds, including a synopsis of the genus Tyrannus. 

By Silas Stearns. A note on the gulf meuhaden. 

By Dr. Franz Steiudachner. Note on Perca flavescens. 

By Samuel Wilmot. Notes on the Western gizzard shad. 

The above collection constitutes Vol. I of the Proceedings of the 
United States National Museum, comprising 521 pages, octavo, and em- 
bellished with S plates and 10 wood-cuts. 

Chief among those interesting papers is the digest of Mr. F. A. Ober's 
researches in the Lesser Antilles, as given by Mr. Geo. N. Lawrence. 
The labors of Mr. Ober were principally devoted during two years to 
ornithological observation and collection on the island of Dominica, 
which is about midway in the group known as the Lesser Antilles, being 
in latitude L5° 20 7 to lo° 45', north; longitude 01° 13' to 61° 30' west. 
The island is mountainous, possessing a range of high peaks and hills 
from two to three thousand feet in height. It is only in these mount- 
ainous sections that land birds of any moment are found, for, in 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35 

fact, along the coast aud in the low valleys very few species other than 
ordinary sparrows, humming- birds, &c, can be obtained. Owing to the 
bold, precipitous character of the island coast and the absence of small 
outlying islands or detached rocky islets, Mr. Ober found that only a 
few sea birds were resident. 

As far as known, the most significant result of Mr. Ober's collection 
and investigation of the avifauna of the Lesser Antilles is embodied in 
the statement that each one of these several little islands constituting 
that group has one or more species peculiar to itself alone. 

Mr. W. II. Dall has contributed several papers to the Proceedings, de- 
scribing new forms of mollusks, both recent and belonging to the Ter- 
tiary formation, nearly all of which are from the western coast of the 
United Slates, several being particularly interesting. One of these 
forms was brought up ou a sounding line by Oapt. Geo. E. Belknap, of the 
U. S. S. Tuscarora, on his celebrated sounding expedition from Japan to 
California via the Aleutian Islands, in 187f . This mollusk, a species of 
Chiton, came from a depth of G,0GG feet below the surface, a much greater 
depth than that in which any other species of the genus has yet been 
known to exist. Many of the other shells and fossils described were due 
to the exertions of Mr. Henry Hemphill, of California, whose ability as 
a collector stands unrivalled, and who kindly presented those objects, 
which he believed to be new, to the National Museum. 

Small but interesting collections of shells from " Kitchen Middens," 
on the Pacific coast of Costa Eica, were also identified by Mr. Dall. 
These species, collected by l)rs. Flint and Bransford, are still found liv- 
ing in adjacent waters, and are now used for food by the natives. 

Mr. Dall also contributed a paper on the Limpets and Chitons of the 
Alaskan region, with descriptions of genera and species believed to be 
new. This was illustrated by five plates, representing chiefly the teeth 
of these animals, worked out by microscopical investigations of his own. 
Some forty-two forms were figured, only three or four having previously 
been known. The paper contains a review of the general classification 
of the Chitonidce, based on the researches of P. P. Carpenter and the 
author, together with a summary of the known facts in regard to the 
anatomy and development of these animals, some of which are here 
stated for the first time. A number of genera and subgenera, proposed 
by Dr. Carpenter in his unpublished monograph of the Chitonidcv, to- 
gether with others heretofore only partially characterized, are here fully 
described for the first time. 

Mr. R. Pidgway has contributed the following: 

(1) On a new humming-bird (Althis ellioti) from Guatemala (pp. 8-10). — 
Certain constant differences, previously overlooked by authors, between 
specimens of Atthis heloiscc (Less. & Delattr.) from Mexico and the 
birds from Guatemala referred to that species are pointed out and illus- 
trated by outline figures. The Guatemalan bird is characterized as a 
new species, and named in honor of Mr. Daniel Giraud Elliot, the well 
known ornithologist, and a special authority on this family of birds. 



36 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

(2) A review of ike American species of the genus Scops Savigny (pp. 84- 
117). — This article is an elaborate monograph of the American Scops 
owls (species allied to the common screech-owl of the United States), 
embracing the full synonymy and descriptions of the known species, 
two of which, S. brasilianus cassini, from Eastern Mexico, and S. cooperi, 
from Costa Eica, are new to science. The owls of this genus have been 
particularly perplexing to ornithologists on account of remarkable vari- 
ations of plumage, some species being " dichromatic," while all vary to 
an unusual degree, according to locality, the amount of individual vari- 
ation also being extraordinary. The present paper is an attempt, based 
upon ample material contained chiefly in the National Museum, to clear 
away the confusion which has hitherto existed in regard to the relation- 
ships and nomenclature of certain forms. 

(3) Notes on the ornithology of Southern Texas, being a list of birds ob- 
served in the vicinity of Fort Brotcn, Texas, from February, 187G, to June, 
1878. By James C. Merrill, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. Army (pp. 118- 
173). — The critical remarks and synonymy relating to the species 
noticed in this article were prepared by Mr. Kidgway, although in sev- 
eral instances, through an oversight of his own, his initials do not 
appear in connection with his portion of the work. The species thus 
treated by Mr. Kidgway, are : Thryomanes bewiclci leucogaster (p. 121), 
Yireosylvia favo-viridis (p. 125), Molothrus ceneas (pp. 130-131), Sturnclla 
magna neglccta (p. 134), Myiarchus erythrocercus cooperi (pp. 138-141), 
Nyctidromus albicollis (pp. 142-145), Amazilia fuscicaudata (pp. 147-148), 
A. yucatanensis (pp. 148-149), Buteo albicaudatus (pp. 154-156), jffichmop- 
tila albifrons (p. 158), and Parra gymnostoma (pp. 1G0-1G8). Mr. Kidgway 
is also responsible for the nomenclature adopted in the catalogue. 

(4) Descriptions of several new species and geographical races of birds 
contained in the collection of the United States National Museum (pp. 247- 
252). — The new forms described in this article are the following : Rhod- 
inocichla rosea schistacca, from Mazatlan, Western Mexico; Umbemagra 
rufivirgata cra:-:sirostris, from Eastern Mexico, and the E. r. verticaliSj 
from Yucatan ; Loxigilla violacea bahamensis, from the Bahamas ; and 
Anas aberti, from Mazatlan. A description is appended (p. 253) of the 
adult female of Anas u-yvilliana, Sclater, a recently discovered Sandwich 
Islam! duck, the female of which was previously unknown. 

(5) Description of tiro new species of birds from Costa Pica, and notes 
on other rare species from that country (pp. 252-255). — The new species 
here described are Thryophilus zeledoni and Pseudocolaptes lau-rencii. 
The others noticed are the very rare Ca/rpodectes nilidns, the young male 
of which is here for the first time described, and the "Zouotrichia". 
vulcani, of Boucard, which is referred to the genus Junco, as the most 
southern form of that genus, of which the common snowbird (J. hye- 
malis) is the representative in Eastern North America. The Costa Rican 
bird inhabits the almost alpine summit of the volcano of Irazu. 

(G) 4 partial list of the birds of Central California. By L. Belding, of , 



KEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 37 

Stockton. Edited by R. Ridgway (pp. 388-449). Mr. Ridgway is to be 
credited merely with the editing of this paper and the nomenclature 
adopted. The list is the most complete catalogue extant of Central Cal- 
iforiiian birds, being based upon the observations of Mr. Belding, made 
during a residence of about twenty years in the State, and includes 220 
species, which, with very few exceptions, are represented in the collection 
of the National Museum by specimens (upwards of GOO in number) sent 
by Mr. Belding. 

(7) Descriptions of new species and races of American birds, including 
a synopsis of the genus Tyrannus, Cuvier (pp. 46G-48G). — The new species 
here described are Tyrannus luggeri, from Demerara and Cayenne; 
Lichenops perspicillatus andinus, from Western South America (Chili to 
Colombia); Dacnis pulclierrima aurcinucha, from Ecuador; Parus rufes- 
cens negleetus, from the coast of California. 

Smitltsonian Annual Report. — The report of the Institution for the 
year 1878 was presented to Congress on the 8th of February, 1879, and 
10,500 copies were ordered to be printed, 1,000 being for the use of the 
Senate, 3,000 for that of the House of Bepresentatives, and 6,500 for 
the Smithsonian Institution. 

For almost the first time in the history of the Institution, this report 
has failed to make its appearance, and to be distributed before the close 
of the following year. Under ordinary circumstances it should have 
been printed by the 1st of July, but the year has come to an end, and 
not more than half the number of pages have been set up. This is due 
to the fact that the extra session of Congress held in March last found 
the Public Printer without any special appropriation to meet the cost of 
printing ; and instead of going on with the work ordered at the previous 
session, he was obliged to postpone it. Work was, however, resumed 
upon the report late in the autumn, and it will probably be finished in 
the course of a few months. It is earnestly to be hoped that a similar 
delay will not occur again. The same cause has pre vented the printing 
of the 1 ien ry Memorial volume authorized by Congress last winter, but 
the work on this will soon be begun. 

Reports of the United States Fish Commission. — A series of publications 
which may be considered as in some respects connected with the work 
of the Institution, not only in the personnel, but in the subjects of natu- 
ral history discussed and in the resulting contributions to our knowledge, 
may properly be here noticed. The present Secretary being at the head 
of the United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries, and the work 
accomplished by this agency in increasing and diffusing scientific as 
well as practical information being quite within the objects and prov- 
ince of the Institution, much of the material would legitimately form a 
portion of the Smithsonian Contributions or Miscellaneous Collections. 
These reports are, however, published by the government, and are dis- 
tributed by Congress. 



38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

ANTHROPOLOGY. 

It is well known to the Board that the natural history of primitive 
man, especially in North America, has always been a special object of 
the attention of the Smithsonian Institution. The first volume of its 
series of publications consisted of a work by Messrs. Squier and Davis, 
entitled "The ancient monuments of the Mississippi Valley," which, 
appearing in 1818, gave a stimulus to archaeological research in America, 
and added greatly in exciting that high degree of interest in the sub- 
ject, which now pervades the whole country. The work, although thirty 
years old, is still a standard publication, and greatly sought after. It 
had been in contemplation to reprint this work, to meet the great de- 
mand ; but the destruction of all the wood-cuts by the disastrous fire of 
1805 involved so great a cost in their reproduction that nothing has 
yet been done in the matter. 

For the purpose of a more definite inquiry into the subject of mounds, 
earth- works, and other remains of early man in America, a large edition 
has been distributed, within a few years past, of a circular prepared at 
the request of the Smithsonian Institution by Prof. O. T. Mason, and 
a great many returns have been received, containing more or less valu- 
able information on the subject in question. Some of these responses 
will appear in the reports of the Institution. The entire material is in 
Professor Mason's hands for elaboration and the preparation of part of 
a new and systematic account of the whole subject, taking the memoir 
of Squier and Davis as a basis. 

Iu view of the fact that some of the most interesting localities of 
archaeological remains in the United States are now being systematically 
explored and the "finds" removed by foreign governments, it is very 
desirable that Congress should make the necessary appropriation to en- 
able this work to be done for the benefit of the National Museum. The 
remains of prehistoric man, as well as illustrations of the life and man- 
ners of living savage races, have of late years been considered the most 
interesting objects of exhibition in all civilized nations, and especially 
within the last twenty or thirty years, and the greatest efforts are now- 
made everywhere not only to complete the material for each country 
itself, but to obtain supplementary matter from elsewhere; indeed, so 
greatly are these aboriginal objects valued in many countries thai posi- 
tive laws prohibiting their exportation are in vogue, as in Denmark, 
Mexico, &c. The English, German, and French Governments have of 
late years been particularly active in archaeological research in America. 
Central and South America being until recently the chief field of inves- 
tigation. Within a short time, however, the French Government, 
through its agents, has been diligently occupied in collecting prehistoric 
remains along the coast of California, and is aboul extending its work 
into New .Mexico and Arizona, Oregon and Alaska., and many tons ol 
the choicest objects have already been removed to Paris. Whateverthe 
feelings of regret on the part of Americans at seeing the removal oC 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39 

articles of such value from our country, and which can never be re- 
placed, there is uo redress in the way of prohibiting their collection 
and its exportation. We may, however, prevent it in the future by our 
preoccupying the ground. It is, therefore, to be hoped that Congress 
will make suitable appropriations for the purpose in question. Ten or 
twenty thousand dollars expended annually would enable us in a man- 
ner to defy foreign competition. 

In the sundry civil appropriation bill of March 3, 1S79, the following 
item was included : 

" For completing and preparing for publication the contributions to 
jSorth American ethnology, under the Smithsonian Institution, twenty 
thousand dollars : Provided, That all the archives, records, and mate- 
rials relating to the Indians of North America, collected by the geo- 
graphical and geological survey of the Rocky Mountain region, shall be 
turned over to the Smithsonian Institution, that the work may be com- 
pleted and prepared for publication under its direction : Provided, That 
it shall meet the approval of the Secretary of the Interior and of the 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution." 

Under the authority of this enactment, Major Powell sent out a party 
to make a renewed examination of the pueblo villages of New Mexico, 
for the purpose of obtaining more accurate information for publication 
in the final report, as authorized. Accordingly, Mr. James Stevenson 
was placed by Major Powell at the head of an expedition, and was ac- 
companied by Mr. Frank II. Cashing, one of the assistants in charge of 
the ethnological department of the National Museum. With Santa IV 
as a starting-point, they explored several localities in that vicinity and 
elsewhere, and succeeded in obtaining a large collection of everything 
illustrating the manners and customs of the pueblo towns. The collec- 
tions made have all been shipped by the Quartermaster's Department, 
under the order already referred to, and are expected to arrive in a few 
weeks. The whole mass occupies nearly one hundred boxes. 

The operations of Messrs. Stevenson and dishing have been much 
facilitated by means of letters furnished by the Secretary of War aud 
Generals Sherman and Meigs to the officers of the military posts.* Gen- 
eral Hatch took a special interest in the subject, and issued a circular 
calling attention to the mission of the party, and inviting cooperation 

*War Department, 
Quartermaster-General's Office, 

Washington, D. C, June 19, 1879. 
Sir: Yon are respectfully informed that your communication of the 12th instant, re- 
questing thai a circular lie issued authorizing the Quartermaster's Department to receive 
from parties living at or near military posts and to forward to Washington any articles 
intended for the National Museum, has been referred by the Secretary of War to thi3 
office for report, and this day returned with the following remarks: 

"The Quartermaster's Department, under existing orders, transports to the National 
Museum the collections of United States surveys and exploring expeditions, organized 
under the War Department. 

"The law of March 3, 1879 (Forty-fifth Congress, third session, chap. 182), makes 



40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

from all quarters. The effect of this was seen in the ready assistance 
rendered, and in the numerous contributions by both the military and 
civil residents of the district. The material result of this expedition 
will perhaps be thrown in the shade by the information obtained by Mr. 
Gushing in regard to the manners and customs of the Indians. Secur- 
ing their confidence to a greater degree than any preceding traveller, 
his presence has been permitted at the performance of their most sacred 
rites ; and the publication of his report by Major Powell may be looked 
for as promising to be of intense interest. 

A very important addition made during the year to the ethnological 
department of the National Museum is the collection of Indian por- 
traits and scones painted by Mr. George Catlin, and presented by 
Mrs. Harrison, widow of Thomas Harrison, of Philadelphia. 

There have been two of the so-called Catlin collections. The first is 
that which was exhibited by Mr. Catlin many years ago, in the United 
States, and afterwards taken to Europe and shown in the principal 
capitals. It made Mr. Catlin's reputation as an artist and ethnologist, 
and furnished the material for his great work on the Xorth American 
Indians. 

Several years ago, Mr. Harrison, being in Belgium, found Mr. Catlin 
there very much embarrassed financially, and in danger of having his 
entire gallery sold for a trifle. He advanced the money to relieve Mr. 
Catlin's embarrassment, and took the collection as security, with the 
understanding that at any time withiu a certain period of years it could 
be redeemed. This was out of Mr. Catlin's power, and the collection 
was transferred to Philadelphia, where it was stored for many years, 
and, as stated, has just been presented by Mrs. Harrison. 

After parting with his first gallery, Mr. Catlin traveled extensively 
in Western North America and through South America, and obtained 
many additional sketches of much interest. This second collection was 
brought some years ago by him to Washington in the hope of selling 
it to the government, and was exhibited in the upper hall of the Smith- 

tlie National Museum the ultimate' place of deposit and safe custody of all these collec- 
tions. 

"Ir, under the Laws and orders relating to the Centennial Exhibition, transported 
to Philadelphia various and extensive collections for that exhibition; many, if not 
most, of which were finally brought to Washington, for deposit in the National 
Museum. 

"I recommend that the requesl of the director of the National Museum and Secretary 
of the Smithsonian Institution be granted." 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

M. C. Meigs, 

Quartermastcr-G encral , Brevet Major-General, U. S. A. 
Prof. Spexcer F. Baird, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. 

War Department, 

Washington, J). ('., June 21, ld?9. 

Sir: Replying to your letter of the 12th instant, in which you request that the 
Quartermaster's Department be authorized to receive from parties living at or near 



EEPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 41 

sonian Building (then otherwise unoccupied), under the care of Mr. Cat- 
lin himself. He, however, died before anything was accomplished, 
and the pictures were packed up and stored in the Smithsonian base- 
ment until 187G, when the heirs had them transferred, for the purpose 
of exhibition at the Centennial. They are still displayed in Philadel- 
phia as a part of the collections of the permanent exhibition. 

Among particularly noteworthy contributions to the Museum during 
the year is a series of specimens of North African pottery, furnished by 
Mr. George Maw, of England, to whom the National Museum is indebted 
for the donation of his display of ceramic wares made at Philadelphia 
and which is now in the permanent exhibition building. 

The National Museum of Mexico has furnished a cast of the calendar 
stone of the city of Mexico, and the originals of many rare and remark- 
able articles. 

A collection of Brazilian pottery by Mr. Steere has already been men- 
tioned, as also a fine collection of New Mexican objects by Mr. Metcalfe. 
An extremely interesting collection of prehistoric articles of France and 
other localities in Europe was presented by Mr. Gaston L. Feuardent, of 
New York. The great archaeological knowledge of this gentleman ren- 
ders this collection particularly valuable in the authentic indication of 
the character of the different pieces. 

Under the general head of "Explorations" will be found mentioned a 
considerable number of researches, having in view the collecting of 

military posts, and to forward to Washington, by the usual military channels, any ar- 
ticles intended for the National Museum, I have the honor to inform you that instruc- 
tions have been given in accordance with your wishes. 

Very respectfully, 

G. W. McCRARY, 

Secretary of War. 
Prof. Spencer F. Baird, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 

[General Orders Xo. 65.] Headquarters of the Army, 

Adjutant General's Office, 

Wash ivy ton, July 1, 1879. 

By direction of the Secretary of War, the following is published: 
The Quartermaster's Department is anthorized to receive from parties living at or 
near military posts any articles intended for the National Museum, and forward them 
to Washington, under the regulations governing transportation of military property, 
and on the same forms of bills of lading. The packages to be marked, "National Mu. 
seum, care Depot Quartermaster, Washington, D. C," and settlement to be made by 
the Quartermaster's Department. 

By command of General SHERMAN: 

E. D. Townsend, 

Adjutant General. 

Headquarters District of New Mexico, 

Santa F4, A. M., September 5, 1679. 
To all officers ,,f the Army serving in the district of Neio Mexico: 
The following letter is published for your information: 
As Mr. James Stevenson may find it impossible to visit all posts of the district, offi- 



42 REPORT OP THE SECRETARY. 

archaeological and anthropological material, and the list of donations 
gives an account of those of less moment. The most important explora- 
tions are those of Major Powell and Mr. E. W. kelson. 

Considering the subject geographically, we may refer, for Alaska, to 
the labors of Messrs. Nelson and Turner ; for New Mexico, to those of 
Messrs. Metcalfe, Stevenson, and Cushing. From the interior of the 
United States the archaeological collections have been very many, and 
will be found detailed in the list of donations. 

From Mexico the most important material has been furnished by the 
National Museum of Mexico and by Professor Duges. From the former 
have been received a very excellent model of the famous calendar-stone, 
and numerous articles of obsidian, stone, pottery, &c. Professor Duges 
has contributed a diminutive human face carved in iron pyrites, with 
small opals for eyes. The collections of Professor Steere, from Brazil, 
have already been referred to. From Europe we have a very interest- 
ing collection of prehistoric remains, especially from France, presented 
by Mr. Gaston L. Feuardent ; and pottery from Persia, Morocco, and 
other countries, by Mr. George Maw, of London. 

Casts of Indian heads. — Eeference was made in the report for 1877 to a 
series of casts, made by Mr. Clark Mills, at the joint expense of the Smith- 
sonian Institution and the Peabody Museum at Cambridge, of the faces 
of sixty-five Indians held as i>risoners f Wlir a t Saint Augustine, in 
Florida, these representing quite a number of different tribes and fur- 
nishing a very rare opportunity of securing life-like reproductions of the 
Indian physiognomy. The Indians, as a rule, are averse to such an opera- 
tion, and but few such casts are extant in any anthropological museum. 
The few series distributed of duplicates of these representations have 
been inueh appreciated. 

After the discharge of the Saint Augustine prisoners, or their trans- 

cers serving therein are solicited to contribute any Indian relics, specimens of natural 
history, curiosities, &c, that may bo obtainable in their neighborhood, and address 
them to Mr. Stevenson, care of chief quartermaster, district of New Mexico, sending 
the same by any government transportation leaving their posts for Santa IV. 

Edwakd IIatcu, 
Colonel Ninth Cavalry, Commanding. 

"Smithsonian Institution, Washington, Jul./ 7, 1879. 
"Mr. James Stevenson, the bearer of this letter, lias been instructed by the Smith- 
sonian Institution to visit New Mexico, Arizona, and other portions of the Southwest 
for the purpose of prosecuting investigations in ethnology and natural history. 

"I therefore commend him to the kind attention of officers of the United States 
Army, civilian officers of the United States Government, correspondents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, and the friends of science generally. All aid rendered him in his 
work or contributions of specimens through him to the National Museum of the United 
Slates, will be duly acknowledged by the Smithsonian Institution. 

" Mr. Stevenson is authorized to make use of all facilities granted to the Smithsonian 
Institution by railroad companies and the War Department in the transportation of 
collections made or otherwise obtained by him. 

" SPENCER P. I3AIRD, 
"Secretary Smithsonian Institution." 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43 

fer to other stations, Capt. E. H. Pratt, United States Infantry, who had 
them in command, and who had become greatly interested in all meas- 
ures looking towards the education of the Indians, was authorized by the 
government to bring a number of young Indians of both sexes to the 
school for colored youth so successfully conducted by General Armstrong 
at Hampton, Va. This having been accomplished, an opportunity was 
furnished of extending the series of casts, and Mr. Clark Mills again 
volunteered his services to do the work, simply for his expenses. Cap- 
tain Pratt accordingly made the arrangements for its execution. This 
second series makes the entire number of representations of Indians in 
the museum about one hundred. These casts are valuable to us, both as 
anthropologic representations in themselves and as furnishing the means 
of producing lay figures in great number and variety to display the many 
sets of Indian clothing and equipment now forming x^art of the general 
collection. 

In this connection it may be mentioned that Captain Pratt has more 
recently established a special school for the education of Indian youth, 
of both sexes, at Carlisle, Pa., using the government barracks for its ac- 
commodation. Here he expects to bring together between three and 
four hundred individuals and has every assurance of a successful experi- 
ment. 

EXPLORATIONS. 

Among the operations of the Smithsonian Institution, especially fos- 
tered from the beginning by my predecessor, and looked upon by him as 
one of its most important functions, is that of exploration in little-known 
regions of North America. It was his policy not to use the funds of the 
Institution in purchasing collections already made, but rather, by means 
of occasional grants of money in small sums, either to fit out small parties 
starting from Washington, or to assist correspondents of the Institution, 
wherever they might be resident, in making researches in their own 
vicinity. These labors generally included more than one branch of sci- 
ence, and in their aggregate have tended very largely to give the Na- 
tional Museum its remarkable number of type specimens. Thus grants 
of money were made, of various sums, from $5 to $250, very rarely ex- 
ceeding the latter amount in any one year to any one agent. 

The results of the explorations condensed in whole or in part by the 
Smithsonian Institution, in 1879. have not been inferior in importance 
to those of any previous year; in fact they have seldom been exceeded ; re- 
sulting not only in bringing together many new facts in natural history 
and ethnology, but also in adding large collections to those already in 
hand. The prospect of having a new building capacious enough to ac- 
commodate whatever may be received in this direction was an encour- 
agement to utilize opportunities of obtaining objects, from which we 
were formerly deterred by want of space. 

Among the more important explorations made under the auspices of 
the Smithsonian Institution in 1879, may be mentioned that of Mr. E. W. 



44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Nelson in Northwestern Alaska. As explained in previous reports, Mr. 
Nelson was nominated by the Smithsonian Institution to General Myer 
as a signal observer at Saint Michael's, a station on Norton Sound, south 
of Behring Strait — a district of very great interest in both an ethnologi- 
cal and natural-history point of view; and although numerous collec- 
tions had previously been received from that region, as made by Messrs. 
Dall, Kennicott, Pease, Bannister, and Turner, there was still enough 
unaccomplished to make it important that the work should be con- 
tinued. The institution was fortunate in being able to secure the aid of 
Mr. Nelson, as being a most excellent naturalist and particularly well 
acquainted with the vertebrate animals of North America. 

Mr. Nelson proceeded to his station at Saint Michael's, and has re- 
mained there ever since, of course devoting the principal portion of his 
time to his duties as signal observer, and, it is understood, to the satis- 
faction of his superiors, while bis leisure has been employed in making 
observations and collections of natural history. Previous reports have 
noted the additions already made by him. The collection of 1879 is 
especially important in an ethnological point of view; not less than three 
thousand specimens of Indian and Esquimaux work in the way of carv- 
ings, implements, clothing, domestic and household utensils, games, &c, 
have been received. These filled fourteen large boxes, the remainder of 
the collection consisting chiefly of birds, eggs, and fishes. The total 
number of pieces furnished by Mr. Nelson amounts to 2,935. 

Mr. Nelson is preparing an elaborate report on the natural history 
and ethnology of Northwestern Alaska for publication after his return. 

The labors of Mr. Lucien M. Turner in the Aleutian Islands have also 
been prosecuted during the year, and bave furnished, as heretofore, a 
large amount of interesting material for the National Museum. 

Mr. Turner, as mentioned in previous reports, like Mr. Nelson, is one 
of the observers of the United States Signal Service, and has under his 
cbarge a number of temporary stations along the entire extent of the 
Aleutian Islands. The supervision of these stations makes it necessary 
for him to go from point to point as an opportunity is furnished, thus 
allowing a chance to study the natural history and ethnology of a 
widely-extended region. The greater part of the season of 1879 was 
passed at Sitka, his principal station, however, being Unalaska. 
Among the collections sent down by him, besides some very finely- 
prepared specimens of birds (among them species of great rarity), was 
a series of very elaborate and delicate carvings in bone made by the 
Aleutian Islanders. 

('apt. L. A. Beardslee, of the Navy, who for several years had been 
detailed by the Navy Department to take charge of the steamers fur- 
nished to the United States Pish Commission, especially the "Blue 
Light" and the " Speedwell," was sent out during the early part of the 
year in command of the sloop-of-war Jamestown to look alter the 
interest of the citizens of the United States in Alaskan waters. With 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45 

Sitka as his headquarters lie was enabled to exercise a supervision over 
tbe Indians of the adjacent parts of the country. 

The experience which Captain Beardslee acquired during his service 
with the Fish Commission, in making observations on the natural and 
physical conditions of the water, prepared him more fully for his re- 
searches in this new field, and the Institution gladly accepted his offer 
of service and supplied him with necessary apparatus. No specimens 
have so far been received from Captain Beardslee, but a consignment is 
expected in the early part of 1880. 

An extensive exploration of the islands and waters of the North 
Pacific, indeed even through Behring Strait, was made during the 
last summer by the "Richard Rush," Captain Bailey, commander. 
Before starting, her surgeon, Dr. White, of the Marine Hospital Serv- 
ice, offered his services to the Institution in making such collections as 
might be designated; and as a trained naturalist, experienced in re- 
search, having prosecuted his studies in Edinburgh under the direction 
of Sir Wyville Thompson and others, his proposition was gladly ac- 
cepted. Many collections of much interest were made by Dr. White 
and duly received by the Smithsonian Institution. They consist for 
the most part of embryonic or foetal seals, porpoises, &c, various fishes, 
and many marine invertebrates. Skins and skeletons of several spe- 
cies of seals were also included. 

The "Jeannctte." — Much interest was excited during the past year by 
the announcement that the " Pandora," an English vessel, which had 
already been engaged in Arctic research iu the hands of Capt. Allen 
Young was to be employed in a similar service, entirely at the expense 
of Mr. James Gordon Bennett, of New York, as the " Jeanuette," 
under the command of Lieutenant De Long, an officer of the United 
States Navy, who had already had a Northern experience in the Green- 
land Seas while in search of the " Polaris." The " Jeannette " was taken 
by Lieutenant De Long to San Francisco, by way of Cape Horn; her 
commander returning overland to the East, and spending some time in 
Washington in obtaining his outfit and instructions. The Smithsonian 
Institution was requested by Mr. Bennett to nominate a competent 
naturalist for the expedition, and selected Mr. Raymond L. Newcombe, 
of Salem, Mass., who joined the steamer in San Francisco, and with her 
left tor the North. Letters received, both from him and Captain De 
Long, and written at Saint Michael's, Alaska, show that a large amount 
of work has been accomplished in the way of natural history research ; 
and it is hoped that the results of the expedition will be commensurate 
with the expectations of all interested. At the last advices from the 
"Jeanuette" she was seen by a whaling captain in the vicinity of Wrau- 
gel Land, this being her main objective point. 

Professor Jordan, who has been detailed by Mr. Goode to work up 
the fisheries of the Pacific coast of the United States, reported at the 
Smithsonian Institution in Washington, in December, 1879, and there 



46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

received the necessary instructions for his work. At the latest advices 
he had reached San Diego and commenced his investigations of the 
fisheries, with the promise of exhaustive results there and at other 
points on the coast. He is provided by the National Museum with the 
necessary apparatus for making collections on a liberal scale, to serve 
as illustrations of the fishery statistics. 

The collecting and exhibition of what may be considered vouchers of 
his labors are very necessary, since the names of our Eastern species 
are largely applied to Western forms in every respect different from 
them ; and without the means of examination and comparison much 
confusion would result. Thus, what is called cod in San Francisco has 
no relation to the cod of the Eastern coast, belonging to an entirely 
different group. 

Among the explorations of the year, and especially rich in ethno- 
logical results, is that prosecuted by Mr. S. T. Walker, on the west 
coast of Florida. With this gentlemen the Institution has been in com- 
munication for several years, and lias received from him many valuable 
archaeological objects. During the past year he has been engaged in 
a systematic survey of the mounds in the vicinity of Clear Water, Fla., 
and has found evidence to show that at the time of their construction 
white men were in the vicinity, from whom were obtained numerous 
articles of ornament, &c. Conspicuous among these are gold and silver 
beads, portions of bronze fittings of gun locks, Venetian beads, frag- 
ments of Spanish pottery, &c. From all the indications, it is possible 
that these were obtained from some of the early Spanish invaders, or 
other whites, at no distant period from the time of De Soto's conquest. 

Many collections of reptiles, living and in alcohol, fishes, mammals, 
and birds have also been furnished by Mr. Walker. 

Mr. James W. Miluer, the. Assistant Fish Commissioner of the United 
States, was obliged by ill health to spend the winter of 1878-'70 in 
Florida, making his home at Homosassa, on the west coast. Here, 
although greatly enfeebled by disease which in a great measure crippled 
his efforts, he obtained, with the help of those about him, very valuable 
collections of prehistoric remains, birds, fishes, and other natural-history 
objects. 

Mexico. — Mr. Silas Stearns, formerly of Tensac-ola, and for several 
years a valued correspondent of the Smithsonian Institution, in the early 
part of last summer was detailed by Mr. Goode to collect the statistics 
of fish and the fisheries on the Gulf of Mexico in the interest of the fish- 
eries branch of the census. For this purpose he chartered a small sloop 
for use in prosecuting his work. Prom time to time, without interfering 
with his regular duly, he has succeeded in securing numerous objects of 
natural history for the National Museum, among them quite a number 
of fish, some of these, probably, new to science. 

Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of ornithology in the National Museum, 
accompanied by a friend, Mr. II. W. Henshaw, made an expedition to 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47 

Cobb's Island, off the Eastern Shore of Virginia, during the past sum- 
mer, for the purpose of collecting skins of the adult and young water 
birds abounding in that vicinity. Although rather late in their under- 
taking (July 29) they were quite successful, obtaining a number of in- 
teresting species during their stay of ten days. 

For several years past Mr. F. A. Ober has been engaged, under the 
auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, in making observations and 
collections in natural history and archaeology in the West India Islands ; 
this group, strange as it may appear, furnishing almost a virgin field of 
research. In the course of his labors, beginning in 1877, Mr. Ober 
visited a number of the islands and collected many specimens; of these 
the birds have already been worked up, fully catalogued, and described 
by Mr. Lawrence in the proceedings of the National Museum. No less 
than twenty new species of birds have been added to science, and a great 
deal of information obtained in regard to their geographical distribu- 
tion. The National Museum is now in possession of what is believed to 
be the most complete collection of West Indian birds extant ; a very 
important corollary to its North and Central American series. The other 
collections made by Mr. Ober were mainly of archaeological objects and 
reptiles. 

Mr. Ober has lately published an interesting account of his travels, 
entitled "Camps in the Caribees." 

Prof. J. L\ Steere, of the University of Michigan, at Ann.Arbor, who 
has an excellent record as an explorer in China, Formosa, and else- 
where, invited the Smithsonian Institution to a co-operation in a pro- 
posed exploration of the Amazon River during the past summer. He 
was accordingly provided with certain apparatus and material for col- 
lecting, and made excellent use of his opportunities. Since his return 
he has contributed to the National Museum a collection of the ancient 
pottery from the island of Maranon, and other localities in the Amazon 
Biver, thus filling a very serious gap in our archaeological museum. 
During Professor Steere's previous explorations in the East, the Smith- 
sonian Institution was the consignee of his collections, and rendered 
much service in securing their safe and inexpensive transmission to 
America. 

Dr. Cliarles J. tiering, of Paramaribo, Surinam, still maintains his 
interest in the Smithsonian Institution, by sending to it collections in 
natural history and archaeology. Several parcels have been forwarded 
by him during the past year, flu 1 contents of which will be mentioned 
nnder his name in the list of acquisitions. 

Dr. Otto Finsch, the eminent ornithologist and naturalist, and for 
many years director of the Natural History Museum at Bremen, in 
Germany, alter completing his recent explorations in Siberia, under- 
took to visit the islands of tin 1 . Pacific Ocean, partly in the interest of 
the !'>(". 1 in Museum, partly at the expense of the Ilumboldt Exploration 
Fund, and partly at his own. 



48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Having offered his services to .the United States Fish Commission in 
any way connected with his labors, he was requested to bring over a 
consignment of German carp, a fish which promises to be of great value 
in American pisciculture. This was done by him, and be delivered to 
the United States carp ponds, in Washington, a number of these fishes 
in a healthy condition, which, it is hoped, will, in a few years, be the 
progenitors of a large number of that species of fish. 

In order to enable Dr. Finseh to carry on his Polynesian researches to 
better advantage and at less expense to himself, free passes and reduced 
passage tickets for himself and party were obtained from several of the 
transcontinental railroad companies. The Smithsonian Institution pro- 
vided Dr. Finseh with a partial outfit for marine exploration, including a 
supply of alcohol for the preservation of reptiles and fishes. Dr. Finseh 
proceeded first to the Sandwich Islands, and then to the Fijis, and at 
the latest advices he had reached one of the groups of the Marshall 
Islands. 

EXCHANGES. 

As was explained in the report for 1878, the system of international 
exchanges organized by the Smithsonian Institution nearly thirty years 
ago has long been considered one of its most important functions, and 
no greater obstruction to the intercourse between the scientific institu- 
tions of the Old World and New can be imagined than that of an inter- 
ruption of this work. As already stated, an organization intended pri- 
marily to aid in the prompt transmission of the publications of the Insti- 
tution to its correspondents, at home and abroad, was extended so as to 
include the corresponding exchanges of other institutions ; this has now 
resulted in furnishing by far the most extensive system of exchanges in 
existence, the benefits of which are experienced and appreciated all over 
the world. 

The foreign agencies employed in the Smithsonian exchanges are of 
three classes. 

First. Individuals or firms, some of them salaried by the Institution 
and devoting more or less of their time to its work. 

Second. Learned societies or universities, which do on a small scale in 
their respective countries what the Smithsonian Institution does on a 
largo- scale for the world in general. 

Third. Special government bureaus of international exchange, organ- 
ized for the purpose. It is quite probable that the number of this class, 
now restricted to four, namely, the Commission Beige des ^changes 
internal ionaux, the Commission Francaise des ^changes internationaux, 
the Bureau central scientifique of Haarlem, and the Bundes Canzlei 
for Switzerland, Mill be increased until, possibly, in time, the greater part 
of the service in Europe in connection with the Smithsonian Institution, 
may be performed by them. This will, of course, constitute a very de- 
sirable ;iid to the Smithsonian Institution and to the second class men- 
tioned, especially as to the expenses of the work. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49 

The operations of the Commission Francaise des ^changes interna- 
tionaux, inaugurated in 1878, have constantly improved in extent and 
efficiency through 1879, a large number of boxes having been exchanged 

between it and the Smithsonian Institution to the entire satisfaction of 
both parties. Numerous applications have been made by the French 
bureau to the Smithsonian Institution forspecial works, public or private, 
required by the governmental bureaus, especially for the national library, 
the ministry of public instruction, etc. On receipt of these applications 
circulars were sent to various parties interested, and a large number of 
acceptable returns promptly received and duly forwarded by the Insti- 
tution. On the other hand applications by the Institution in behalf of 
American bodies have been satisfactorily answered. This feature of the 
system of international exchanges is one of great importance. 

In addition to the official applications for special publications of the 
United States, made through the system of international exchanges, one 
was presented by the French minister to the Smithsonian Institution 
for the reports of the United States Fish Commission, those of the sev- 
eral State fish commissions, and any other documents serving to illustrate 
the steps taken for the propagation and utilization of fishes in the 
United States. This request was in behalf of the Senate of France, 
which recently appointed a commission to investigate the relations 
between citizens and the State in respect to the rights and conditions 
of fishing in both fresh and salt waters. A circular was accordingly 
addressed to the parties indicated, and quite a complete series of doc- 
uments was obtained and transmitted to Monsieur Outrey, the minister. 
He has acknowledged with thanks the receipt of the package, and 
given assurance of his appreciation of the courtesy. 

It has already been explained that the Smithsonian Institution not 
only serves as a medium of exchange to institutions and individuals in 
the United States, but also to these of Canada, Central America, 
Mexico, the West Indies, and South America. An extra amount of labor 
has been imposed upon the Institution, during the past year, owing, in 
large part, to the interruption of operations in 1878, caused by the death 
of Professor Henry. The accumulated material of that year has, how- 
ever, all been disposed of, together with the receipts of 1879; the aggre- 
gate being shown in the accompanying schedule. It is quite likely that 
operations in this line during 1880 willbe but little, behind those of 1879, 
as, for years, there has been a steady increase in the bulk of the ex- 
changes; and this is not likely to be interrupted. 

In the preceding report reference was made to the adoption of a rule, 
under authority granted by the Board of Eegents, by which packages 
received from the government bureaus were charged a uniform rate of 
five cents per pound for packing, boxing, and shipping to destination. 
This has been carried into effect, but has only secured the return of 
about a hundred dollars, evidently not a sufficient sum to affect ma 
terially the expense of the exchange system — a very onerous burden 
S. Mis. 54 4 



50 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



upon the funds of the Institution, and greatly affecting its operations. 
Formerly, when the cost of the exchanges amounted to only two or 
three thousand dollars a year, the publications of the Institution were 
of much greater extent than they are now; and it is to be hoped that 
some provision may be made by which the expenses of exchange may 
be materially lessened, and the former very desirable prominence of 
the publication department be restored. It is a question whether the 
assistance of Congress might not be invoked to make an appropriation 
to bear at least a part of the cost. If a few thousand dollars were fur- 
nished by the Government, it would be of very material aid and tend 
greatly to relieve the Institution of a burden which is fast becoming 
oppressive. One special argument in favor of such Congressional 
action is found in the fact that, while this system of exchanges benefits 
equally all the libraries and societies of the country, the benefit of the 
returns inuring to the Smithsonian Institution is experienced directly 
by Congress ; the expenditures for both publications and exchanges 
being actually in the interest of the Congressional Library, in which 
all the Smithsonian books are now deposited. It may safely be said 
that if the amount of money used in carrying on the exchanges was 
expended directly in the purchase of books for the Library of Congress, 
it would not produce the same yield, in view of the fact that these re- 
turns to the Smithsonian Institution consist largely of the publications of 
societies interested in the prosecution of theoretical and applied science, 
which, while embracing the earliest announcement of important discov- 
eries, are for the most part not on sale, and only to be obtained by a 
system of exchange. 

As in previous years, the following transportation companies have 
favored the Institution by a remission of charges upon its packages, and 
thus enabled it to carry on its system of international exchanges with a 
fraction of the expense which would otherwise have been required. 



Anchor Steamship Company. 
Atlas Steamship Company. 
Companie Generale Transatlantique. 
< lunard Steamship Company. 
Hamburg American Packet Company. 
Inman Steamship Company. 
Merchants' Line <>t' Steamers. 
Netherland-American Steam Navigation 
Company. 



New York and P>razil Steamship Company, 
New York andMexico Steamship Company, 
North German Lloyd Steamship Company, 
Pacific Mail Steamship Company. 
Pacific Steam Navigation Company. 
Panama Railroad Company. 
White Cross Line of Antwerp. 



The special thanks of the Institution are again tendered to the above- 
mentioned companies for their enlightened liberality. 

In addition to this, through the mediation of Mr. Isaac Hinckley, 
president of the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad 
Company, the four roads forming the connection betweenUew York and 
Washington, namely, the Pennsylvania Railroad, the Philadelphia, Wil- 
mington and Baltimore, the Baltimore and Potomac, and Baltimore and 
Ohio, have agreed to areduction to one half of the usual charges on first- 
class freight. The saving from this concession, although not quite 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



51 



equal to that of free freights by the ocean steamers, is a matter of 
very great importance, and is deserving of special acknowledgment. 
Messrs. Murray, Ferris & Co., of G:i South street, New York, have 



granted free freight to the Bahamas. 



Statistics of exchanges sent (luring the last ten years. 



Number of boxes. . 
Bulk in cubic feet 
Weight 



121 

1, 180 

31,383 



28, 950 



170 

934 

26,850 



196 
1,476 

44, 2.;0 



1874. 



131 
933 

27, 990 



208 
1, 503 

45, 300 



323 
2, 261 

80, 750 



397 

2, 779 
99, 250 



309 
2, 100 
69,220 



311 

2,177 
CO, 975 



The following table exhibits the number of foreign establishments 
with which the Institution is at present in correspondence, or, in other 
words, to which it sends publications and from which it receives others 
in return: 



Foreign institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian Institution. 



Algeria 6 

Argentine Republic 17 

Australia and Tasmania 44 

Austria-Hungary 103 

Belgium 112 

Bolivia 1 

Brazil 11 

British America 20 

British Guiana 3 

Cape Colonies aud St. Helena 7 

Central America 2 

Chili S 

China 6 

Colombia 3 

Denmark 29 

Dutch Guiana 1 

Ecuador 1 

Egypt 8 

Fiance 358 

Germany 541 

Greal Britain and Ireland 401 

Greece 10 

Holland 74 

Iceland 4 



India 

Italy 

Japan 

Java 

Liberia 

Mauritius 

Mexico 

New Zealand 

Norway 

Paraguay 

Peru 

Philippine Islands. 

Portugal 

Russia 

Sandwich Islands.. 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Turkey 

Uruguay 

Venezuela 

West Indies 



34 

198 

5 

5 

1 

4 

18 

16 

25 

1 

4 

3 

35 

163 

2 

25 

22 

76 

13 

5 

2 

12 



International societies. 



Total 2,481 



Exchange of Government documents. — It will be remembered that some 
years ago Congress directed that fifty sets of all government publica- 
tions, whether printed by order of Congress or of the departments, 
should be placed at the command ox the Joint Library Committee for 
the purpose of exchange for corresponding publications of other nations. 
This work was intrusted to the Smithsonian Institution, by which it 
was carried on for a number of years. 

An appropriation of one thousand dollars is made by Congress for 

'purposes connected with this exchange, of which a portion is paid for 

freight and expenses on boxes of books received by the library through 

the Institution. The returns received are increasing rapidly in value, 



52 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



and in a few years may be expected to nearly or quite equal the trans- 
missions. 

In accordance with the law relative to the exchange of the official pub 
lications of the United States Government for those of foreign nations, 
sixty boxes of documents were forwarded during the past year, as shown 
by the following list of distribution : 



International exchange of government publications in 1879. 



Boxes. 

Argentine Republic 1 

Bavaria 1 

Belgium 1 

Brazil 1 

Buenos Ayres 1 

Canada (Ottawa) 1 

Canada (Toronto) 1 

Chili 1 

Denmark 10 

France 11 

Germany 1 

Greece 1 

llavti 1 

Holland 1 

Japan 1 

Mexico 1 

Ne w South Wales 1 



Boxes 



New Zealand... 

Norway 

Portugal 

Prussia 

Queensland 

Saxony 

South Australia . 

Spain 

Sweden , 

Switzerland 

Tasmania 

Turkey 

Venezuela 

Victoria 

Wtirtemberc 



Total. 



60 



LIBRARY. 



A steady increase in the number of additions to the library of the 
Institution has, as usual, characterized the year just past, the aggre- 
gate, amounting to 10,203 books, pamphlets, and charts, as compared 
with 8,729 in the previous year. The greater portion of these works 
have already been transferred to the library of Congress, in accordance 
with the arrangements of previous years, where, however, owing to the 
very crowded condition of the shelves, they are not very serviceable. 
It is much to be hoped, in the interest of the Institution, that some 
measures may soon be adopted by Congress for increasing the accom- 
modations of the library, and consequent accessibility to its volumes on 
the part of students. 

As heretofore, tho great mass of additions to the library consists of 
the transactions of learned societies, which, indeed, constitute its most 
important feature. Books published in the regular way can be pur- 
chased without any difficulty through established agencies. Transac- 
tions of societies, however, are for the most part, only to be had by an 
exchange, and it would be almost impossible to secure the works ob- 
tained by the Institution through its exchanges, with any reasonable 
amount of money and to any degree of completeness. Every year new 
scientific associations are being formed, and these, for the most part, 
take the initiative in seeking an exchange with this establishment. 

Of course the older societies are seldom able to furnish volumes of 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53 

their series which date very far back ; but the Smithsonian Institution 
has succeeded in completing its sets, partly by purchase of such as have 
drifted into the second hand or antiquarian book trade, and partly by 
exchange with public libraries possessing duplicates. It is confidently 
believed that the library of the Institution, and consequently that of Con- 
gress, is in possession of a linger and more perfect series of such transac- 
tions, as also, of scientific periodicals than any other library extant. 

The accompanying memorandum gives an indication of some of the 
more important additions to the library. 

The receipts from the system of Congressional exchanges already re- 
ferred to, by which fifty sets of the publications of the government are 
available for exchanges with foreign governments have also been very 
great ; but as these are not catalogued, but transferred directly to the 
library of Congress, it is, of course, to the report of Mr. Spofford that 
reference must be had for details. 

Statement of the boohs, maps, and charts received by the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution during the year ending December 31, 1879. 

Volumes : 

Octavo, or smaller 1, 509 

Quarto, or larger 410 

1,919 

Parts of volumes : 

Octavo, or smaller 3, 210 

Quarto, or larger 2, G12 

5, 852 

Pamphlets : 

Octavo, or smaller 1, G28 

Quarto or larger 591 

Maps and charts 183 

Total 10, 203 

List of some of the more valuable works received in 1879. 

From the Norwegian Geographical Institute, Christiania : Historisk 
Beretning om Norges Geogratiske op Maaling, 1873-1876, af C. M. do 
Seue. Kristiania, 1S78. 8vo. Aarbog for Handelsmarinen. 1875, ii ; 
1870, i, ii ; 1S77, i, ii; 1878, i. Kristiania. Svo. And 19 maps. 

From the Society of Agriculture, Sciences, and Arts, Valenciennes: 
Memoires. vols, iii, vi, ix. Valenciennes, 1841-1855. Svo. Memoires 
historiques sur l'arrondissement de Valenciennes, vols, ii, v. Valencien- 
nes, 1868-'78. Svo. Revue agiicole, industrielle, litteraire et artistique. 
vols, v-xxxi. Valenciennes, 1853-78. Svo. 

From the Imperial Society of Friends of Natural Sciences, Anthropol- 
ogy, and Ethnology, Moscow: Ezoyistia (Bulletin, 55 parts), 1800-78. 
Moscow. 4to. 



54 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

From the Bodleian Library, Oxford : Calendar of the Clarendon state 
papers, 1523-1657. vols, i-iii. Oxford, 1872-7G. 8vo. Calendar of 
charters and rolls preserved in the Bodleian Library. Oxford, 1878. Svo. 

From the Ministry of Public Instruction and Worship, Paris : Coinpte 
general du materiel du dep. de la marine et des colonies, 1874. Paris, 
1878. folio. Journal des savants, 1877, 1878, 1879. Paris. 4to. (35 parts.) 
Xouvelles archives du Museum d'histoire naturelle. 2° serie, tome 
i. 1878. Paris. 4to. (2 copies.) Exposition universelle de Vienne, 
1873. France. Rapports, vols. 1-5. Paris, 1875. Svo. Annuaire de 
la marine et des colonies. 1878, 1879. Paris. Svo. (2 copies.) 
Tableaux de population, de culture, de commerce et de navigation. 
1865-76. Paris. 8vo. (24 vols.) Voyage geologique dans les repu- 
bliques de Guatemala et de Salvador, par MM. A. Dollfus et E. de Mont- 
Serrat. Paris. 1878. 4to. Annuaire statistique de la France. Annee 
i, 1878. Paris. Svo. Notice sur la deportation a la Nouvelle-Caledonic, 
1874, 1876, 1878. Paris. Svo. (6 vols.) Notice sur la transportation a la 
Guyane franchise et a la Nouvelle-Caledonie, 1868-75. Paris. Svo. 
Statistique des peches maritimes. 1875. Paris. Svo. (2 copies.) 
Monnaies a legendes arabes frappees en Syrie par les croises par 
Henri Lavoix. Paris, 1877. Svo. Enumeration des arbres et ar- 
brisseaux cultives a Legrer, par A. Lavallee. Paris, 1877. Svo. Gram- 
maire Malgache, par Marre de Marin. Paris, 1876. Svo. Theorie des 
functions de variables imaginaires, par Maximilien Marie, vols, i-iii. 
Paris, 1874-76. 8vo. Inventaire general et methodique des manu- 
scrits francais de la Bibliotheque nationale. vol. ii. Paris, 1S78. Svo. 
Etudes egyptologiques. 8, 10, 11. Paris, 1877, 1878. 4to. Melanges 
d'archeologie egyptienne et assyrienne. 9, 10. Paris, 1877, 1878. 4to. 
Catalogue de la Bibliotheque de la ville de Lille, and other works. 8 
vols. Lille, 1839-79. Svo. CEuvres completes de La Place, vols, 
i-iii. Paris, 1878. 4to. Dionysii Byzantii de Bospori navigatione, par 
C. Wescher. Paris, 1874. 4to. De la temperature du corps humain, 
par P. Lorain. Tomes i, ii. Paris, 1877. Svo. Dictionnaire de la langue 
Dene" Dindji6, par le R. P. E. Pelitot. Paris, 1876. 4to. Vocabulaire 
francais-esquimau, par le E. P. E. Pelitot. Paris, 1876. 4to. Diction- 
naire d'archeologie egyptiemie, par Paul Pierret. Paris, L875. Svo. 
Theorie des fonctions de variables imaginaires, par M. Marie. Paris, 
1S74-76. Svo. Tome i-iii. Six charts and 31 volumes, 36 parts and 34 
pamphlets, government documents. 

From the Belgian Commission of International Exchanges, Brussels: 
Messager des sciences historiques de Belgique, 1833-7."). Gaud. Svo. 
(44 vols.) Documents et rapports de la Soci6t6paleontologique et archeo- 
logique de Charleroi. vols, i-iii. Mons, 1866-70. Svo. Bullet in de la 
Soeiete royale linn^enne de Bruxelles. vols. i-vi. Bruxelles, 1872-77. 
Svo. Bulletins de l'Academie royale des sciences, des lettres et des 
beaux arts de Belgique, 1832-75. Bruxelles. Svo. Aunales des tra- 
vaux publics de Belgique. vols, i-xxxiii. Bruxelles, 1843-75. Svo. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55 

Annuaire de l'Academie royale de Belgique. vols, i-xliii. Bruxelles, 
1835-75. 12uio. Annales de l'Academie d'arckeologie de Belgique. 2" 
serie. vols. i-x. 3 e serie. vol. i. Anvers, 1865-75. 8vo. Bulletin de 
l'Academie d'arckeologie de Belgique. Fasc. i-xi. Anvers, 1808-74. 
Svo. Documents inedits coueernant l'liistoire de la Belgique, publies par 
L. P. Gachard. vols, i-iii. Bruxelles, 1834-35. Svo. Compte-rendu 
des seances de la Commission royale d'kistoire, ou recueil de ses bul- 
letins. 1831-713. Bruxelles. Svo. (45 vols.) Fraissart. Etude litte- 
raire. vols. i-2. Bruxelles, 1857. Svo. Histoire de la maison de Saxe- 
Coburg-Grotha, par A. Scheler. Bruxelles, 1840. Svo. Dictionnaire 
d'etymologie franeaise, par A. Scheler. Nouvelle edition. Bruxelles, 
1873. Svo. Revue de la numismatique beige. Annees i-xxxiv. 1842-78. 
Bruxelles. Svo. Histoire du regne de Charles Quint en Belgique, 
par A. Henne. Tomes i-x. Bruxelles, 185S-00. Svo. Histoire de la 
Flandre, par L. A. Warnkcenig. vols. i-ii. Bruxelles, 1835-30. Svo. 
Imprimeurs beiges et neerlandais a l'etranger. Tome i. Gaud, 1850. 
Svo. Histoire des biliotheques de Belgique, par A. Voisin. Gaud, 
1840. Svo. Bulletin des commissions royales d'art et d'archeologie. 
Annees i-xvi. Bruxelles, 1802-77. Svo. Histoire politique et militaire 
de Belgique, par M. B. Renard. vol. i, parts 1 and 2. Bruxelles, 1847-51. 
Svo. Tresor national, vols. i-iv. Second series, i-iv. Bruxelles, 
1842-44. Svo. Lectures relatives a l'liistoire des sciences, des arts, des 
lettres, des moeurs et de la politique en Belgique, par F. V. Goetlials. 
vols. i-iv. Bruxelles, 1837-38. Svo. Le proces du cointe d'Egmout, 
par M. De Bavay. Bruxelles, 1853. Svo. Etudes sur les constitutions 
nationales, par C. Faider. Bruxelles, 1842. Svo. Le socialisme depuis 
Fantiquite jusqu'a la constitution franeaise du 14 Janvier 1842, par J. J. 
Thoinissen. vols. i-ii. Louvain, 1852. Svo. Documents sur le systeme 
des assurances par l'etat. Tome i-ii. Bruxelles, 1S47-49. 4to. Canaux 
et rivieres de la Belgique, par B. L. De Rive. Bruxelles, 1835. Svo. 
Histoire de la viile de Gaud, par L. A. Warnkonig. Bruxelles, 184C. 
Svo. Revue de l'instruotion publique en Belgique. 185S-77. Bruges 
and Gaud. Svo. (20 volumes.) Bulletin de la Commission centrale dj> 
statistique beige. Tome i-xii. Bruxelles, 1843-72. 4to. Revue (l'liis- 
toire et d'arckeologie. vols. i-iv. Bruxelles, 1859-64. Svo. Etudes 
sur Salluste, par C. O. de Gerlache. Bruxelles, 1847. Svo. Etudes poli 
tiques sur l'liistoire ancienne et moderne, par Paul Devaux. Bruxelles, 
1875. Svo. Bulletin and Annales de la Soeiete beige de microscopic 
vols. i-ii. Bruxelles, 1875-70. Svo. CEuvres completes de J. J. Baep- 
saet. vols, i-vi, and notice necrologique. Gaud. 1838-41. Svo. Des 
voies navigables en Belgique. Bruxelles, 1842. Folio. Bibliographic 
de Belgique. vols, i-iii. 1875-77. Bruxelles. Svo. Actes des ctats 
generaux de 1600-32. Bruxelles, 1849-66. 4to. (8 vols.) 

From the Societe de medecine, Marseille : Bulletin des travaux. An- 
nees i-xii. 1857-08. Marseille. Svo. Marseille medical. 1809-78. 
Marseille. Svo. 115 parts. 



56 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

From the National Institute of France, Paris : Meinoires de i'Academie 
des sciences, vols, xxxviii, xxxix, xl. Paris, 1873-77. 4to. Comptes- 
reudus des stances de I'Academie des sciences, vols, lxxi-lxxxvi. 
Paris. 4to. 1871-78. Annuaire, 1865-79. 8vo. (13 vols.) Meinoires 
de I'Academie des inscriptions et belles-lettres. 8 parts. Paris. 1871-78 
4to. Notices et extraits de manuscrits de la bibliotheque nationale, etc. 
vols, xv-xxii, i; xxiii; xxiv, ii; xxvi, ii; xxvii, ii; xxviii, ii. Paris, 
1870-78. 4to. Recueil des discours, rapports et pieces diverses. 
1800-09-70-79. Paris. 4to. Eecueil des meinoires, rapports, etc., 
relatifs A l'observation du passage de Venus sur le soleil. T. i, ii,<i. 
Paris, 1870-78. 4to. And 40 pamphlets. 

From the Academy of Montpellier, Faculty of Medicine : Theses. 
187(5-77-78. Montpellier. 4to. (9 vols, and 158 parts.) 

From the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences, Copenhagen: Nye 
Samling af det kongelige Danske videnskabers Selskabs Skrifter. vols, 
i-v. Copenhagen, 1871-1799. 4to. Det kongelige Danske Videnska- 
bernes Selskabs Skrifter. Naturv. og Malhem. Aid. viii, 3, 4, 5. x, 3-0, 
xii, 3. 1809-78. Historisk og Philos. Afd. iv, 1-3, 5, 0, 10. 1808-73. 
Copenhagen. 4to. Oversigtover det Kgl. Danske Videnskabernes Sels- 
kabs Forhandlinger. 1870, 3 ; 1873, 1874, 1. Copenhagen. 8vo. De- 
scription de la Cathedrale de Ribe en Jutland, par Jacob Helms. Annee 
xvi. Plumes lithographiques. Copenhagen, 1870. Folio. Roskilde 
Domkirke Beo-Kreven, af J. Kornerup. Med 24 lithogi apherede, og 
Chemity Tanler. Copenhagen, 1877. Folio. 

From the Turkish Government, Constantinople : " Destour," or collec- 
tion of the laws and regulations of the empire. vols. 8vo. "Salu- 
ame," or official annuary. 8vo. (In Turkish.) 

From the Hellenic Philological Society, Constantinople : Publications. 
1871-79; Constantinople. 8vo. 9 vols, in Greek. 

From the Von Malzan Natural History Museum, Waren, Mecklen- 
burg Schwerin : Archiv des Vcreins der Freundc der Naturgeschichte in 
Mecklenburg. Years i-xxx. Neubrandenburg, 1847-70. 8vo. And 21 
natural-history pamphlets. 

Fro a Daniel Oehlert, Laval: Trait6 des maladies chirurgicales, par 
le Baron Boyer. vols. i-xi. Paris, 1814-22. Svo. Nosographie chi- 
rurgicalc, ou nouveaux elemens de pathologic, par M. le Chevalier Riche- 
rand. vols. i-iv. Paris, 181"). 8vo. Nouveaux elemens de physiologie, 
par A. Kicherand. vols, i, ii. Paris, 1814. Svo. Nouveaux elemens de 
therapeutique et de matiere medicale, par J. L. Alibert. Paris, 1877. 
Svo. Concours d'animaux r^producteurs, etc., 1857, 1800, 1802. Paris,. 
1859-00. 8vo. Knqneteagricole. Deuxieme serie. Enqu6t*S departe- 
mentale. 2'' circonscription. Paris, 1S07. 4to. (2 copies.) Agricul- 
ture francaise, par MM. les inspecteurs de l'agriculture. vols. 
Paris, 1843-47. Svo. Thomae Sydenham. Opera medica. vols, i, ii. 
Geneva, 1757. small 4to. Rapports au ministre sur la collection des 
documents inedits de l'histoire de France. Paris, 1874. 4to. Rapport 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 57 

sur l'Exposition universelle de 1855. Paris, 1857. Svo. Rapport 
general sur les travaux du eonseil d'hygiene publique et de salubrite 
du departement de la Seine, 1819-58. Paris, 18G1. 4to. Lecons de 
medecine legale, par M. Orfila. 3 vols. Paris, 1821 -23. 8vo. Tra- 
vaux du eonseil d'hygiene publique et de salubrite du departement de 
la Gironde. Tome xx. Bordeaux, 1879. 8vo. Bulletin de la Societe 
de Findustrie de La Mayenne. vols. i-iv. Laval, 1853-08. 8vo. Rap- 
port sur Pasile de La Roche Gandon, 1869, 1870, 1873, 1874, 1875. May- 
enne, 1870-7(3. 8vo. Traite" d'assainissement industriel, par C. de Frey- 
cinet. Paris, 1870. 8vo. L' Agriculture allemande, par Royer. Paris, 
L847. 8vo. Documents statistiques concernant le cholera en 1854. Paris, 
1802. 4to. Theorie nouvelle concernant les maladies concereuses, etc., 
par J. M. Garnet, i, ii. Paris, 1772. 8vo. Bulletin de la Societe d'agri- 
culture de Mayenne, 1859-08. Mayenne. Svo. And 22 pamphlets. 

From the Maguetical and Meteorological Observatory, Zi-ka-wei, 
China: Cursus litteraturse Sinicas. vols, i, ii. Changhei, 1879. Svo. 
L'infanticide et l'ceuvre de la saint-enfance en Chine. Changhei, 1878. 
4to. And 84 volumes of theological works, written in Chinese, and 
published by the Catholic mission of Kiangnan. 

CORRESPONDENCE. 

In the report of 1878, under this head, an explanation was given as 
to the causes of the large increase in the correspondence during that 
year. This statement will apply also to the period of 1879, with the 
exception that, while letters of condolence on account of the death of 
Professor Henry have necessarily been fewer, the number of communi- 
cations relative to exchanges has exceeded that of any previous year, 
the increase in this direction being largely due to renewed activity in 
that department of the Institution, and especially in the international 
branch of the system. 

CO-OPERATION OF THE GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS. 

Very important service has been rendered to the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, and to the National Museum under its charge, by an order from 
the Secretary of War authorizing the use of the Quartermaster's Depart- 
ment in the transportation of collections, &c. As many of these come 
from regions where there is no established mode of transportation, the 
benefit of this arrangement promises to be very great, and under it quite 
a number of boxes have been already transferred to Washington. 

CO-OPERATION OF THE INSTITUTION IN THE WORK OF OTHERS. 

Ill previous years requests have frequently been received from foreign 
governments, especially those of Japan and China, and of Central and 
South America, for the selection of persons to carry on certain opera- 
tions, particularly those relating to engineering and mining geology, 
nearly every year bringing at least one call of this character. To this 
the year 1879 furnished no exception, the Government of Salvador, 



58 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

through the American minister, Mr. George Williamson, having asked 
to be supplied with an experienced geologist to explore the recently dis- 
covered gold fields of the state. Of coarse in such cases the advice of 
experts is always solicited, and several of these uniting on the name of 
Mr. Goodyear, a resident of California, and formerly connected with the 
geological survey of that State, he was selected for the mission in ques- 
tion, and has already entered upon his duties. 

Communication from the Belgian Government in regard to a prize for the 
improvement of Belgian harbors. — On the 27th of December, 1879, the 
following communication was received from the charge d'affaires of Bel- 
gium : 

[Translation.] 

"Belgian Legation, 
" Washington, December 27, 1879. 
" Sir : Inclosed in a communication dated March 29, 1875, Mr. Del- 
fosse, the Belgian minister at Washington, transmitted to Prof. Joseph 
Henry a copy of a royal decree of December 11, 1871, instituting an 
annual prize oi* 25,000 francs for the purpose of encouraging intellectual 
labors iu Belgium, and to induce foreigners to take part in this move- 
ment. 

"According to the terms of article 12 of this decree, the prize to be 
contested for in an international competition will be awarded in 1881 for 
the best paper on the means of improving harbors situated on low and sandy 
coasts like those of Belgium. 

"The government desires again to call the attentiou of foreigners to 
this subject, inviting them to compete with Belgian authors. To this 
end I shall be obliged to you if you will have a translation of the in- 
closed notice published in the annual report of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, or in any other manner you may see fit, to insure it the greatest 
possible publicity in the United States. 

"Accept, sir, the assurance of my most distinguished considerations, 

"Geo. Neyt, 
"Charge 1 d/ 'Affaires of Belgium. 
"Prof. Spencer F. Baird, 

"Secretary Smithsonian Institution, Washington, I). C. n 

"Xotice. — By a decree of December 11, 1871, Uis Majesty the King 
of* the Belgians has instituted an annual prize of 25,000 francs ($5,000) 
for the purpose of encouraging intellectual labors. 

"The prize to be contested for in an international competition will be 
awarded in 1881 for the best paper on the means of improving harbors situ- 
ated oit loir and sandy coasts like those of Belgium. 

" Foreigners desiring to take part in the competition should send their 
papers, printed or manuscript, before the 1st of January, 1881, to the 
minister of the interior at Brussels. 

"The manuscript which wdl receive the prize will be published in the 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 59 

course of the year following that in which the award will have been 
made. 

" The latter is to be made by a jury appointed by the King of the Bel 
gians. This jury will be composed of seven members, three Belgians 
and four foreigners of different nationalities." 

In reply Mr. Neyt was informed that his letter would be published in 
the current report of the Institution, as being the place most likely to at- 
tract the attention of persons interested in the offer of a prize, and the 
fact that it was open to international competition. 

Centennial Commission. -~ An application was received during the year 
from the executive council of the International Exhibition of 187G to take 
charge of the archives of the exhibition, believed to be of great historical 
importance and value, and the permanent preservation of whieh is con- 
sidered a matter of much importance. It is accordingly proposed to 
devote one of the fire-proof rooms in the new [National Museum to that 
purpose; this being especially appropriate, since the building itself was 
erected to receive the exhibition of the United States made at Philadel- 
phia, as also the large mass of donations of objects of art, industry, and 
economy presented to the United States by foreign nations. 

Armenian History. — The Institution has received from the Archbishop 
of Trajanof, and general abbot of the Armenian Mekitrarian Institution 
of Venice, the following letter, dated November 11, 1879 : 

" Knowing the interest taken by your Institution in the diffusion of 
knowledge throughout the world, of whieh we have continued proofs in 
the gifts Of books with which we are honored by you, I have the honor 
to submit to your kindness the following request: 

" Considering the want of education of the eastern nations, who 
now, by new political conditions, awake to a new life of progress, and 
considering also their scanty means of partaking of all those benefits 
which are the enjoyment of civilized nations, especially in these years 
of great poverty, we have undertaken to procure means by which we 
might publish and distribute gratuitously useful books of general and 
popular knowledge. As this, our object, involves great expense, we 
hope that the societies of the Old and New Worlds will hasten to our 
assistance. We have already prepared in our monastery, in the Ar- 
menian language, a large work on Armenia, comprising a description 
connected with ancient and modern history of its towns, villages, public 
establishments, monuments, churches, monasteries, &c, a complete work 
which we hope will be very interesting, not only to Armenian scholars, 
but also to such orientalists as make a particular study of the old history 
of eastern nations. We are about to begin its publication, which win 
be with many maps and illustrations. This will be a difficult task, 
especially at this time; wherefore we hope that your Institution will fee' 
the interest of such work and generously help us to publish it worthily." 



60 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Manitoba Library. — The Institution has been informed of the organiza- 
tion of the u Historical and Scieutitic Society of Manitoba," at Winnipeg, 
Manitoba, Canada, for the purpose of collecting a library of books, a 
cabinet and museum, &c, generally illustrative of the civil, religious, 
literary, and natural history of the lauds and territories lying to the west 
and north of Lake Superior. Aid has been solicited in carrying out these 
objects by the donation of books and specimens, and the attention of the 
correspondents of the Institution is especially called to this request. 

Zoological Society of London. — The services of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution were invoked by this Society to assist it in procuring some speci- 
mens of American mule deer (Gcrvus macrotis) two males and three fe- 
males being desired. The commission was intrusted to the Hon. J. D. 
Caton, of Ottawa, 111., a gentleman who is better acquainted with the 
American ruminants, deer, antelope, &c., than any other jierson, and 
who has written an admirable treatise upon them. Judge Caton was 
able to secure a fine specimen in his neighborhood, which was trans- 
mitted to the Central Park Menagerie, New York, for safe keeping, Mr. 
W. A. Conklin, the superintendent, very kindly agreeing to receive and 
ship anything of the kind which might be sent to him for the purpose. 
Messrs. Henderson & Co., the agents of the Anchor Line of steamers to 
Great Britain, with their usual liberality, offered to forward this animal 
free of charge; and it was consequently shipped per steamer Victoria on 
the 26th of February. 

GALLERY OF ART. 

It was not deemed desirable by my predecessor that there should be 
any antagonism of interests by the duplication of collections in the dif- 
ferent departments in Washington, and an arrangement was made, many 
years ago, by which all specimens of plants and matters derived from 
the vegetable kingdom, as well as all insects, were to be placed in charge 
of the Department of Agriculture, and everything relating to the human 
subject, such as crania, pathological preparations, &c., in that of the 
Army Medical Museum. These establishments, in return, were to de- 
liver to the Institution all animals, minerals, and articles of ethnology or 
archaeology received by them. This arrangement has been maintained, 
to mutual advantage. In a similar manner it was proposed to deposit) 
acceptable works of art in the Corcoran Art Gallery, and quite a number 
of articles have already been placed there. During the past year the 
following deposits have been made. It is, of course, understood that 
these are not gifts but simply loans, to be returned whenever occasion 
requires. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61 

List of articles transferred from the Smithsonian Institution to the Corcoran 

Art Gallery in 1879. 
Museum No. 

34776. Female sitting, with two infants Plaster cast. 

34777. Equestrian statue, Andrew Jackson Model. 

34778. Bust of Col. Peter Force Plaster cast. 

34779. Bust of lion. Dixon H. Lewis Plaster cast. 

34780. Medallion of William Wilson Plaster cast, 

34781. Statue of the Venus de Medici . Plaster cast. 

34782. Female recumbent, with a lamb Model. 

34783. Female, nude, half rising Model. 

34784. Two females, standing Model. 

34785. Do , Model. 

34786. Sleeping child •. Model. 

34787. Marble medallion, Bacchante Marble. 

34788. Female bust, wife of Ferdinand Pettrich Plaster cast. 

34789. Bust of son of Ferdinand Pettrich Plaster east. 

34790. Statuette, Duke of Orleans Plaster cast, 

34791. Statuette, Daniel O'Connell Plaster cast, 

34792. Bust, bronzed, of Baron Cuvier Plaster cast. 

34793. Bust of George Washington , Plaster cast. 

34794. Six small busts of F. Pettrich's children Plaster cast, 

34795. Statuette, boy holding a ewer Plaster cast. 

34796. Female crouching Plaster cast. 

34797. Nude figure, "The hunter," with birds or game Plaster cast. 

34798. Bust of LeClear .Plaster cast. 

34799. Bust of Laplace Plaster cast* 

34800. Bust of Ferdinand Pettrich Plaster cast. 

34801. Bust of Gustav Adolph Pettrich Plaster cast. 

34802. Bust of Dr. Kane Plaster cast, 

34803. Bust of Benjamin Hallowell Plaster cast. 

34804. Nelson monument in London, model Wood, &c. 

BUILDINGS. 

Smithsonian Building. — Many of the original plans of this building 
were either lost or greatly defaced in the fire of 1865, and it was thought 
desirable to have new drawings made to exhibit the details of the edifice, 
especially as the interior contraction had been considerably altered : 
first, in consequence of the falling down of the central part while in 
process of erection 5 and, second, as a consequence of the repairs re- 
quired by the fire of 1865. These drawings have been carefully executed 
by Mr. Gorham, and, after being photographed, the originals have been 
deposited in a fire-proof safe. Upon these drawings have been plotted 
all the pipes connected with the water, gas, and steam apparatus, with 
the various stops and connections. 

New Yale locks have .been applied to all the rooms throughout the 



62 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

building, and so arranged that while persons occupying a room, or suite 
of rooms, are provided with keys that will open them only, a single 
pass-key opens every door in the building ; this, of course, being held 
only by the proper authority. 

Other alterations have been made in the building for the purpose of 
increasing to the utmost its efficiency and reducing the expense of super- 
intendence and maintenance. The document room has been enlarged, 
by the removal of numerous obstructions, and refitted. The eastern 
wing of the building, formerly occupied by Professor Henry as a dwell- 
ing-house, has been converted into a series of offices, and a door cut from 
the old document room to an adjacent apartment, which is now used for 
the reception and classification of a portion of the exchanges. 

Eleven large fire-proof doors have been placed in the building to iso- 
late the different wings and floors. 

The laboratory has been rearranged and many other improvements 
have been made. These were commenced late in the autumn of 1878 
and finished in the spring of 1879. It is believed that the building is 
now in a condition of thorough efficiency and adaptation to its scientific 
purposes. 

Art building and laboratory. — The provision by Congress for an exhibi- 
tion by the United States Government at the Centennial Exposition, at 
Philadelphia, in 1870, made it necessary for the Smithsonian Institution 
to construct a special building for the purpose of preparing its share of 
the display, and a small edifice was accordingly erected on the grounds 
for the purpose of giving increased accommodation to the modelers, 
artists, and photographer. This building has been in use for nearly five 
years, and has rendered excellent service by the facilities it has afforded. 
It is, however, now inadequate to its object, and in the new museum 
building, provision has been made for the various departments referred 
to. Some suitable occupation will be found for the old building. 

Armory building. — Another building in charge of the Smithsonian 
Institution is that formerly occupied as an armory by the militia of the 
District of Columbia, but which, ceasing to discharge that function, was 
placed by Congress in the care of the Institution for the storage of its 
material which could not be received in the present edifice. This armory 
building, the dimensions of which are one hundred feet by fifty, is very 
massive in construction and contains four floors, at present entirely filled 
with boxes containing the Centennial collections which arc to constitute 
the material for exhibition in the new National Museum building. 

The surveys of Professors Hayden and Powell having been discon- 
tinued by order of Congress, a portion of the public property belonging 
to them has been stored in the Armory building and Smithsonian 
Institution during the past year, Mr. King, the director of the new 
geological survey, making use of such of these materials as he requires. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63 

SPECIAL DONATIONS. 

Among the contributions or donations to the Institution, during the 
year, are several that <lo not belong directly under the head of natural 
history, but of which mention should be made. 

Mr. F. B. Sanborn, agent of the Hydropneumatic Fire Extinguishing 
Company, presented to the Institution a specimen of his apparatus in 
working order. This has been placed where it will be most available 
in the very undesirable contingency of a fire in the building. 

The Herring Fire-proof Safe Company, of New York, some months ago 
intimated its willingness to present to the Institution a first-class speci- 
men of its work, and, as among the specimens in the National Museum 
are some masses of native gold, precious stones, and other valuable 
property, it was thought best to request that the offer be supplied in 
the form of a safe suitable for exhibiting such objects.* 

A plan of a safe was accordingly prepared with doors on opposite sides 
and when opened revealing series of glass shelves, inclosed and secured 
by plate glass fronts; the whole apparatus to be seven feet high, four 
feet wide, and two feet deep. This was put under construction by the 
company, has been completed, and is now ready for transmission to 
Washington whenever called for. It is proposed to use this as part of 
the fixtures of the new National Museum. 

Another contribution of a somewhat similar character was made to the 
Institution by the Yale Lock Company, who constructed and presented 
a post-office box for the use of the employes. In addition to the clerks 
and assistants of the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum, 
there are a number of gentlemen having rooms in the building, who, 
although receiving no salary, render important service in the supervision 
of collections and identification of specimens. Nearly all these persons 
receive their mail at the Institution, and it has heretofore been difficult 
to properly subdivide and place such matter in the hands of those for 
whom it was destined. Under the new arrangement each individual now 
has his own box, with a key which alone will open it, and the mail as 
received is properly assorted in the boxes. This post-office box consti- 
tutes quite an ornamental piece of furniture, and supplies the desired 
accommodations. 

MEETINGS, ETC. 

National Academy of Sciences. — For several years after its organization 
the annual meetings of the National Academy of Sciences were held at 
the Smithsonian Institution, although, even with the limited number 
usually attending, it was difficult to furnish the necessary accommoda- 
tions. In view of the increasing number of members of the academy, 
and of the visitors attending the reading of papers, it was concluded to 
make other arrangements for 1879, and, accordingly, the pastor and 
vestry of All Souls' Church having kindly consented to grant the use 



64 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

of their new and very convenient edifice for the purpose, the meeting 
was held therein on the 14th-18th of April, 1879, the accommodations 
being entirely satisfactory. A similar favor will probably be asked of 
the church for 1880 ; but it is thought that with the completion of the 
new National Museum building a suitable room can be furnished in it 
by 1881, so that the academy will again have its headquarters under 
the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Anthropological Society of Washington. — An Anthropological Society 
has lately been organized in the District of Columbia for the purpose of 
bringing together those especially interested in the study of man, and 
the use of a room in the Institution was cheerfully accorded, on its appli- 
cation. Here meetings are regularly held every other week throughout 
the year, and the large and increasing attendance shows the appreciation 
of the subject in Washington. No similar American society appears to 
be in a more flourishing condition or more earnest in its investigations. 

Lectures. — The Eegents' room was also accorded to Prof. C. S. Hastings, 
of the Johns Hopkins University, for a special course of lectures on 
astronomical physics. This was attended by the gentlemen connected 
with the Observatory, Nautical Almanac, Coast Survey, and other scien- 
tific establishments in the city. 

LOSS OF EMPLOYES AND COLLABORATORS. 

It is proper to mention the sudden death, by apoplexy, of Mr. Tobias 
N. Woltz, on the 9th day of March. He had been connected with the 
Institution, as master mechanic and superintendent of the building 
for twenty-two years ; was always diligent, industrious, and faithful, 
and, as he left nothing to his family, I would recommend that, on 
account of his long and useful services to the Institution, an allowance 
be made for his funeral expenses. 

The report for 1877 contained a notice of the death of Mr. Fielding 
B. Meek, a gentleman who, although not salaried by the Institution, 
made the building his home for many years, while engaged in his spe- 
cialty, as a paleontologist, with the government surveys. Mr. Meek died 
intestate, and letters of administration were granted to Professor Henry 
upon his property. Diligent search was made in various directions for 
several years for heirs, but without success. Lately, however, a distani 
relative has appeared to claim the estate, and the matter is now before 
the courts. 

The library and notes of Mr. Meek were purchased by the Institution 
to secure them for the use of paleontological students. 

Among the collaborators of the Institution whose death has occurred 
during the past year is Dr. James Aitken Meigs, of Philadelphia. He 
was born in Philadelphia on the 31st of July, 1829, received his ednca- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65 

tion in the public schools of that city, graduated at the Jefferson Medi- 
cal College in 1851, and devoted himself with zeal and energy to the 
practice of his profession. He was professor of climatology and physi- 
ology at the Franklin Institute for eight years, and during this period 
lectured frequently on physiological and ethnological subjects before 
various associations in our prominent cities. 

In 1857 he accepted the chair of institutes of medicine in the Phila- 
delphia College of Medicine ; and was, after a few years, transferred to the 
Pennsylvania College. His lectures on physiology attracted much at- 
tention, as no sustained systematic attempt to teach physiology experi- 
mentally had been made before in either of the four medical schools then 
existing in Philadelphia. In 18G8 he was elected to the Jefferson Medi- 
cal College to succeed the late Prof. Eobley Dunglison, on the recom- 
mendation of the highest medical authorities in this country and Eu- 
rope. He was an active member of the leading scientific societies; con- 
tributed numerous and valuable papers to medical and other journals. 
He arranged and classified the extensive collection of human crania in 
the Academy of Natural Sciences, and prepared a systematic catalogue 
of the collection. He also devoted much time to physiological and ethno- 
logical researches, and in all his relations in life was eminent for purity 
of character, clearness and vigor of intellect, and ardor alike in the pur- 
suit of knowledge and imparting instruction to others. He died in 
Philadelphia on the 9th of November, 1879. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The act of Congress of 1846, establishing the Smithsonian Institution, 
placed under its charge, in proportion as suitable arrangements could 
be made for their reception, all objects of natural history, mineralogy, 
and geology, antiquities, &c, belonging to the United States. At the 
time of tbe passage of the act the government collections consisted es- 
sentially of the objects gathered by the celebrated exploring expedition 
of Capt. Charles Wilkes, which even to the present time has been by 
far the most extensive and exhaustive enterprise of its kind conducted 
by any government. Its results would have been very much larger but 
for the loss of one of the vessels, the " Peacock," off the mouth of the 
Columbia River. In this were contained an immense number of articles 
from the islands of the Pacific Ocean and from the coast of Oregon and 
California. 

The objects brought back to Washington were placed in charge of the 
Commissioner of Patents, and an appropriation was made regularly by 
Congress for their maintenance and superintendence. 

In 1850 the completion of the central part of the Smithsonian build- 
ing and the need by the Patent Office of the space in its building occupied 
by the collections of the Wilkes' expedition, brought about an arrangement 
S. Mis. 54 5 



Q6 KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

between the Committee on Patents in the House of Eepresentatives and 
the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, by which the latter agreed 
to accex>t the custody of the collections, on condition that the necessary 
appropriations for their maintenance in the Smithsonian building should 
be continued by Congress, to include also the expense of the construc- 
tion of cases and other requirements. This was carried into effect, and 
in 1857 the government collections were transferred; since which time 
they have been in the custody of the Institution. Prior to that date, 
however, large numbers of government and other specimens had been 
received and cared for at the Smithsonian Institution, but not displayed. 
These, with the Wilkes' collection and a few others received with them, 
may be considered as marking the beginning of the National Museum. 
The institution now points with great satisfaction to the progress that 
has been accomplished in about twenty-two years, at the end of which 
time one of the largest and best appointed collections of natural history 
and ethnology extant has been developed. 

INCREASE OF THE MUSEUM. 

Coming now to the consideration of the condition and history of the 
National Museum for the year 1879, and beginning with its increase, 
the general nature of the additions to the Museum during the year will 
be readily gathered by reference to the alphabetical list of donations 
and the memoranda in regard to explorations. It may be noted that 
the donations in 1879 very greatly exceeded those of any previous 
year, amounting to 1,173 separate entries, while those of 1878 were 
1,075. A large portion of the number consists of contributions made 
by the fishing vessels of Gloucester, Mass., as referred to more par- 
ticularly under the head of operations of the United States Fish Com- 
mission. The additions to the Museum are derivtd from four princi- 
pal sources, viz: 1. Government exploring and surveying parties. 2. 
Explorations and researches of the Smithsonian Institution. 3. Miscel- 
laneous contributions. 4. By exchanges of specimens. A fifth element 
of increase in most museums is by purchase. This, however, amounts 
to very little in the case of the National Museum, and is for the most 
part confined to an occasional specimen of archaeology needed to fill a gap. 

As the Institution has not been hitherto prepared to undertake the 
gathering of universal collections, but has confined its efforts more par- 
ticularly to the representation of the animal and mineral kingdom of 
the New World, there has been less opportunity to increase its display 
by exchanges, while its own collections from government expeditions 
and by contributions of its correspondents covered the greater part of 
what is absolutely desired. The opportunity of extensive exchanges is 
still open, however, and may possibly be resorted to hereafter. 

Among the more important collaborators in the way of exchanges 
may be mentioned the educational authorities of Japan, who have 
placed the National Museum under direct obligations by the transmission 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 67 

of well-arranged and preserved collections of the natural history of that 
country. The most important of these is a series of the fishes, partly 
preserved in alcohol and partly dried. These came in excellent condi- 
tion and has been accurately identified by Japanese naturalists attached 
to the Museum. Already over two hundred species have been furnished, 
constituting an extremely valuable means of investigating the fishes of 
the North Pacific coast. Their particular importance is in their relation- 
ship in illustration of the ichthyology of the waters of the western coast 
of the United States. 

These specimens were furnished by the Mombusho or Educational 
Museum of Tokio, which has also supplied a large series of minerals and 
rocks of the country. 

A very valuable collection of the fishes of Norway was presented to 
the Institution by the University of Christiania, as prepared by Profes- 
sor Esimark, at the request of Mr. Robert Collett, a correspondent of the 
Institution. These are particularly acceptable as furnishing the means 
of comparison with the many species obtained from the off-shore fishing- 
grounds by American fishermen. 

From the National Museum of the City of Mexico some very interest- 
ing articles have been received in exchange, principally of an archaeo- 
logical character. 

An important exchange of birds with the American Museum of Natu- 
ral History in New York will be found mentioned further on. 

The additions to the museum from the operations of government 
parties, or those fitted out in whole or in part by the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, will be found in a brief mention under the head of Explorations. 
The details, as also those of the miscellaneous contributions, are given 
in the alphabetical list of donors and their donations. 

Mammals. — The collections of mammals sent by Mr. Turner and Mr. 
Nelson, from Alaska, and by Lieutenant Wheeler, of the Engineers, 
from Colorado, &c, are most important. 

Birds. — Of birds, an extremely valuable donation of 205 species and 
318 specimens was made by the American Museum of Natural History 
in New York; these being for the most part either specimens not rep- 
resented in the National Museum or in better condition than any it had 
been able to procure. A suitable return will be made in duplicate birds 
and other objects. 

The collections of birds made by Mr. Nelson and Mr. Turner, already 
referred to under the head of Explorations, are of very great interest, 
embracing, as they do, large numbers of excellent specimens. 

Lieutenant Wheeler is also to be mentioned in this series for his 
deposit of many valuable skins beautifully prepared by Mr. Henshaw, 
constituting part of the collections of the United States Geographical 
Survey of the One-hundreth Meridian. 

The birds collected by Mr. Eidgway at Cobb's Island, mentioned 
under the head of explorations, were also of much value. 



68 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Some specimens were collected on the Grand Banks by the fishermen, 
and by Messrs. Osborne and Scudder, which are also noteworthy. 

Several rare specimens of Texas birds were obtained by Mr. Ragsdale. 

Kept lies. — A miscellaneous collection of reptiles was received from 
various sources, more especially of living serpents, salamanders, turtles, 
and lizards, from many different contributors. These came in part from 
Mr. Frank W. Hayward, of South Carolina, Mr. S. T. Walker, of Florida, 
Dr. Lightburne, of Fort Mohave, and many others, and have served a 
most admirable purpose for making the series of plaster casts of Ameri- 
can reptiles, which is superior in interest and extent to anything extant 
in x>ublic museums at home or abroad. 

To Mr. Edward Newton, colonial secretary of Jamaica, we owe a living 
specimen of the yellow boa, a rare serpent of great size, of which admi- 
rable copies have been made. 

Fishes. — The collections in this department, as might be expected, 
from the relations of the United States Fish Commission to the Smith- 
sonian Institution, have included many new and rare species from the 
Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, the Gulf of Mexico, the lakes, and the interior 
waters. The amount of the collections is entirely too great to attempt 
a specification, although among the most important may be mentioned 
a series furnished by the Museum of the University of Christiania of 
seventy-one species of Norwegian fishes, and the collection from Japan, 
from the Mombusho Museum, already referred to under the head of 
Exchanges. 

To Mr. E. G. Blackford, the enterprising fish-rlealer of Fulton Market, 
New York, the Institution has for years been under many obligations 
for his zeal in collecting all the rare fishes that came to the New York 
market, and forwarding such of them to the Institution as he had reason 
to believe were desirable. Many new species, and others of great rarity 
have been thus selected by Mr. Blackford, who has also rendered most 
important service in receiving various consignments of fish packed in 
ice from various parts of the country and even from Europe, and in 
repacking and forwarding them to Washington. 

To the masters and crews of the Gloucester fishing-fleet most special 
acknowledgments are due for their earnest desire to place at the com- 
mand of the government the means of information in regard to the fields 
of labor traversed by them. A full statement of these contributions 
will be found in the list of donations to the United States Fish Com- 
mission. 

The United States Fish Commission itself was stationed at Province- 
town, Mass., during the last summer, and secured great numbers of fishes. 

Murine invertebrates. — Of marine invertebrates, by far the most im- 
portant collections are those furnished by the Gloucester fishing-fleet, re- 
ferred to under the head of Fishes, and by the United States Fish 
Commission at Provincetown. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 69 

The labors of Dr. White iu the Northern Pacific also resulted in an 
important contribution. 

Insects. — No extensive collections of insects came to hand during the 
year; perhaps the most important being" that from Central Mexico, 
furnished by Professor Duges. These, as before, have been sent to the 
United States Agricultural Department. 

Plants. — Various packages of plants, of no great importance, have 
been received during the year, and, like the insects, have been trans- 
ferred to the Department of Agriculture. 

Minerals. — Many important collections of minerals, geological speci- 
mens, &c, have been received during the year; a valuable contribution 
being that already referred to, as sent by the Mombusho Museum of 
Japan, consisting of what professes to be a complete series of the 
minerals and rocks of that country. 

Mr. Thomas Donaldson, a member of the United States Land Commis- 
sion, while visiting the West in connection with his duties, made a large 
collection of minerals and ores from Leadville, Deadwood, and other 
parts of the country ; the whole filling some fifteen large boxes. This 
collection constitutes a very desirable supplement to the immense series 
of a similar character gathered by him at the request of the Smithsonian 
Institution in 1874, 1875, and 1870, constituting the larger part of the 
great display of the mineral wealth of the country made under the 
auspices of the Institution in the government building at the Inter- 
national Exhibition of 187(3. 

PRESENT CONDITION OF THE MUSEUM.' 

The administration of the Museum by the various assistants employed 
during the year has been entirely satisfactory. The work has been under 
the special charge of Mr. G. Brown Goode, having as collaborators: Dr. 
Charles Rau, Dr. E. Foreman, and Mr. F. H. dishing, for the department 
of anthropology; Dr. F. M. Endlich, curator of mineralogy ; Mr. Robert 
Ridgway, curator of ornithology; Dr. T. IT. Bean, curator of ichthyology; 
Dr. H. C. Yarrow, assisted by Mr. S. C. Brown, curator of herpetology ; 
Dr. Elliott Coues, curator of mammalogy; Mr. William H. Dall, curator 
of marine and aquatic invertebrates. Mr. Dall, Dr. Coues, and Dr. Yar- 
row perforinecl their services without any compensation. 

All the collections, as received, have been properly treated for preserva- 
tion from destruction by insects or otherwise, and entered in the several 
record books; the total number of entries for the year 1879 being 11,552. 

The distribution of duplicate specimens, already referred to, has also 
been carried on on a large scale. The details will be found in the ap- 
pended tables. 

As usual, the material of the institution has been made use of by ex- 
perts and specialists for the prosecution of their researches. Although it 
is most convenient to have this done at the institution, yet wherever the 
interest of science requires it, collections are sent to any part of the world. 



70 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Among the more important of these researches are those of Mr. 
George N. Lawrence, Mr. Eidgway, and Dr. Cones, upon American 
birds; of Mr. J. A. Allen, of Cambridge, upon the mammals; of Pro- 
fessor Gill, Mr. Goode, Dr. Bean, and Professor Jordan, upon the fishes; 
and Prof. Edward D. Cope, upon the reptiles. 

The marine invertebrates collected by the United States Fish Com- 
mission are in process of investigation by Prof. A. E. Verrill, assisted 
by Mr. Oscar Harger, Mr. Sanderson Smith, Prof. S. J. Smith, and Mr. 
E. Eathbun. 

A series of skulls and skeletons of the Central American tapir was 
sent to Mr. Edward Alston, of London, for a critical examination. By 
such assignments, facts of more or less importance can be obtained ; 
and it is in this way that the Institution best carries out the will of its 
founder for " the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men." 

An immense mass of duplicate material belonging to the National 
Museum lias been used in the way of a distribution of an educational 
scries of objects to various colleges, academies, and learned societies of 
the United States, special provision having been made for the same by 
act of Congress. 

NEW MUSEUM BUILDING. 

For a detailed account of the measures taken to secure additional ac- 
commodations for the collections belonging to the National Museum, 
especially those gathered for the Philadelphia Exhibition and obtained 
from other parties at its close, reference is made to the reports of 187G, 
1877, and 1878. It will here be sufficient to say that after several fruit- 
less efforts, Congress, in the sundry civil bill of March 3, 1879, made an 
appropriation for a National Museum, in the following terms: 

" For a tire-proof building for the use of the National Museum, three 
hundred feet square, i.o be erected under the direction and supervision 
of the Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution, in accordance with the 
plans now on file with the Joint Committee of Public Buildings and 
Grounds, on the southeastern portion of the grounds of the Smithsonian 
institution, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars; said building to 
be placed east of the Smithsonian Institution, lea\ ing a roadway be- 
tween it and the latter of not less than fifty feet, with its north front on 
a line with the south face of the buildings of the Agricultural Depart- 
ment and of the Smithsonian Institution; and all expenditures for the 
purposes herein mentioned, not including anything for architectural 
plans, shall be audited by the proper officers of the Treasury Depart- 
ment." 

The estimates had been furnished by Messrs. Cluss & Schulze, con- 
sulting architects, as to the cost of such a building, and upon their rep- 
resentations the sum of $250,000 was asked for and granted, with the 
understanding that it would be sufficient for its purpose, although no 
limitation to that effect was made by Congress. As soon as possible 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 71 

after the passage of the act, the whole subject was carefully reviewed, 
and the accuracy of the estimates confirmed by Mr. Edward Clark, 
Architect of the Capitol, and General M. C. Meigs, of the Army. Con- 
tracts were then entered into, and as labor and material were at the 
time at the very lowest figures, several of the estimates were found to be 
greater than the amount of the contract entered into. Owing to the excep- 
tionally moderate winter and the freedom from rain and storms, only four- 
teen days were lost during the year by non-preventable causes. For a 
full report of the details connected with the construction of the building 
reference may be made to the report of the National Museum Building 
Commission, herewith communicated. There is every reason to believe 
that the whole work will be accomplished within the appropriation, by 
June next. 

No provision was made in the appropriation by Congress for the con- 
struction of the necessary cases, but an estimate has been presented, 
which it is hoped will be granted, so that this work may be started with 
the beginning of the next iiscal year. The period of complete installa- 
tion of collections on hand, and the opening of the building to the public, 
will depend upon the amount of the appropriation and the rapidity with 
which the contractors may complete their work. The new building will 
be devoted more particularly to industrial exhibits, intended to show 
the animal and mineral resources of the United States and their prac- 
tical applications to the wants or luxuries of man. The department of 
anthropology will also be largely represented. How far natural history 
can find a place in the building will depend upon the space required 
for the collections mentioned. It is confidently expected that this build- 
ing when finished will be one of the most attractive objects of the kind 
extant, and but little inferior to the celebrated museums of foreign 
countries. 

UNITED STATES FISH COMMISSION. 

Eeference has been made in many previous reports to the part taken 
by the United States Fish Commission in the investigation of the condi- 
tion of the sea fisheries and in the propagation of food-fishes in the 
United States, your Secretary having been appointed by the President, 
in 1871, to the duty of carrying out the objects designated by a law of 
Congress in the same year. Serving without any compensation and re- 
ceiving simply his own board and necessary personal expenses while 
actually engaged in the work, he has been obliged, in the increasing 
extent of his Fish Commission work, to devote to it more and more of 
the hours that would be usually allowed for leisure and recreation, his 
prime duty being, of course, to the Smithsonian Institution. 

The work of the Commission is divided into two branches: First, an 
inquiry into the condition of the fisheries on the Atlantic and Pacific 
and Great Lake coasts ; and second, the propagation of useful food-fishes 



72 KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Under the bead of " inquiry " the summers of successive years have been 
spent at various stations from the Bay of Fundy to Long Island Sound, 
and the information obtained has been published in the annual reports 
of the Fish Commission. The information obtained by this commission 
was of great importance to the United States Government at the Halifax 
convention. 

For the work of 1879, Provincetown, at the extreme end of Cape Cod, 
was selected as the central station, and with the assistance of the steamer 
"Speedwell," under the command of Capt. Z. L. Tanner, a successful 
investigation was prosecuted in regard to the natural history and 
physics of the adjacent seas. The steamer, with its crew, were furnished 
by lion. II. W. Thompson, Secretary of the Navy, in accordance with 
the law of Congress to that effect. It may not be out of place to men- 
tion in this connection that of the departments of the government that 
of the Navy has been especially liberal in its construction of the law, and 
has rendered the greatest possible aid in the work of the Commission. 

The labors of the commission in 1879 were made directly conducive 
to the success of the efforts in connection with the census, as already 
referred to. 

An incident of the summer's work was, as before, the collection of 
vast numbers of specimens of marine animals, a full series of which will 
be reserved for the National Museum, and the duplicates arranged for 
distribution to various educational establishments throughout the conn- 
try. At the present time, of all the means of instruction in general 
natural history — a subject attracting much attention in schools and 
colleges — there arc none more difficult to obtain than objects illustrating 
the botany and zoology of the ocean. The expense of the apparatus 
for securing such specimens is far beyond anything but what the most 
favored persons can command. On this account it was thought proper 
to do the work as far as possible for the whole country as well as for 
the National Museum, and numerous objects of this kind have been 
obtained and are now being properly arranged and packed under com- 
petent direction for distribution. Many sets of these will be in this way 
scattered throughout the country, to the very great advantage of science. 

One material result of the work of the past summer has been the 
discovery of an entirely new food-iish off the coast, both genus and 
species being previously unknown to science. This is the Lopkolatilus 
clttimcleontieeps, or tile-fish. A banK where this fish is found was dis- 
covered near Nomairs Land, where it can be taken in any desired quan- 
tity; some specimens obtained weighing as much as ninety pounds. 
As the fish has very much the same general food characteristics as the 
cod, there is reason to believe that in time it will become an imporant 
article of trade. , 

A great extension was also established in the distribution of the new 
fish discovered in June, 1877, off the coast of Gloucester, namely, the 
pole flounder, or Glyptoccphalus cynoglossus. This is a species of flat-fish, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 73 

the occurrence of which along our shores was entirely unknown at the 
time, not being taken on the trawls of the fishermen, while at the same 
time it is possibly the most abundant species of its family on the coast. 
In the smallness of its mouth, which prevents its being captured by the 
hook, and the lack of use of the beam-trawl as a fisherman's engine, 
are to be found the explanation of the ignorance of the fishermen in 
regard to the species. 

The second division of the work of the United States Fish Commis- 
sion, that of the multiplication and distribution of useful food-fishes, 
has also been carried on during the year on a greatly enlarged scale. 

Special work was done at Avoca, in Albemarle Sound, in connection 
with the shad and fresh-water herring, many millions being hatched out, 
of which the greater part were distributed to the interior waters of 
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and other States. A very 
important extension of the work consisted in the successful experiment 
of the artificial propagation of the striped bass or rockfish, a species of 
great economical importance, but which had hitherto eluded all our 
search during its spawning season. 

The second station for the hatching of shad was established as in pre- 
vious years at a point a short distance below Havre de Grace, on the 
Susquehanna River, where also many millions were produced. About 
half of the number were planted in the Susquehanna itself, for the pur- 
pose of keeping up the supply. The remainder were distributed to. 
numerous States throughout the Union. 

The station on the McCloud River, California, for procuring the eggs 
of the California salmon, was efficiently worked by Mr. Livingston 
Stone, the superintendent. About eight millions of eggs were obtained 
and distributed, for the most part, to the commissioners of the different 
States. One hundred thousand eggs were presented to each of the 
governments of France, Holland, and Germany, where the California 
salmon is greatly appreciated from its promise of furnishing a very 
important addition to the food resources of Europe. 

Arrangements are now being made on the McCloud River for the 
hatching of the California trout, which has some peculiarities which 
render it desirable for introduction to the Eastern States. 

Other stations were at Bucksport, Me., for the propagation of the sea- 
salmon, and at Grand Lake Stream for land-locked salmon, both being 
in charge of Mr. Charles G. Atkins, and furnishing their quota of mate- 
rial for the multiplication of food -fishes. 

After several years of effort, the commission has been able to obtain 
a stock of German carp for distribution. This fish promises to be of 
great economical value, and the demand for it is very great, numerous 
applications being received every day from all parts of the country. 
About ten thousand have already been distributed, at the rate of about 
eight pairs to each applicant, meeting but a small part of the demand. 
The stock for the year 1880, it is hoped, will supply this in a measur- 
able degree. 



74 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

| 

The experiments initiated at Gloucester in 1878, looking towards the 
artificial propagation of the cod, were carried to completion in February, 
1879, about one and a half millions of fish having been hatched out and 
placed in Gloucester Harbor. The experiment was in every way satis- 
factory, and the experience gained will be of the utmost benefit in the 
future. The harbor of Gloucester, during the past summer, was full of 
young codfish hatched out in this way, presenting a palpable feature of 
the work, which was appreciated by all the inhabitants of that city. 

For the purpose of more efficiently conducting the work of the com- 
mission in connection with the shad, herring, striped bass, codfish, and 
other species, an appropriation of $15,000 was made in March last by 
Congress for the construction of a suitable steamer, which should serve 
as a floating- hatching establishment. This vessel is nearly completed, 
and will, it is hoped, be ready for the work of 1880. 

Mr. Newton P. Scudder was sent, during the summer of 1879, to study 
the halibut fisheries on the coast of Greenland. For a number of ymrs 
the Holsteiuburg Banks, a short distance south of Disco, Greenland, 
were visited by from one to seven vessels from Gloucester, annually. 
These Tessels remained three or four months on the fishing-ground, and 
salted down in their holds the halibut which they caught, and which 
were brought home to be prepared in the smoke-houses. 

Mr. Scudder sailed from Gloucester on the schooner Bunker Hill, June 
10, 1879, and on his return arrived in Gloucester September 17. He 
secured a fine collection of Arctic marine birds, also, an interesting series 
of Arctic fishes and invertebrates, and some valuable ethnological speci- 
mens. 

Mr. H. L. Osborne was sent to the Grand Banks to study the methods 
of the deep-sea cod fishery of that region. He left Gloucester on the 
schooner Victor, July 10, and returned home in the latter part of Oc- 
tober. His natural history collections were quite extensive, especially of 
the different species of niollusks; and he has in preparation an elaborate 
report upon the methods of this fishery and the characteristics of the 
fishermen and the results of his natural history exploration. 

Mr. J. P. Gordy made a short cruise on a Gloucester mackerel schooner, 
and lias presented a report upon the mental and moral characteristics 
of the fishermen and niton the methods of this fishery. He returned to 
Gloucester August 3, after an absence of three weeks. 

CO-OPEKATION OF THE UNITED STATES FISII COMMISSION AND OF THE 

CENSUS OF 1880. 

In the previous reports of the Census Department, the almost ludi- 
crous incompleteness of that portion relating to the fisheries has been 
a matter of notoriety ; and it was with much pleasure that I received 
an invitation, as Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and United 
States Fish Commissioner, from General Walker, Superintendent of the 
Census, to suggest a plan by which this defect might be remedied. At 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 75 

General Walker's request, I undertook the work of organizing that 
department, and of employing all the machinery of the United States 
Fish Commission in its behalf. 

Mr. G. Brown Goode, the curator of the National Museum, was assigned 
to the special work of direction, and with the assistance of the regular 
force of the commission and persons especially employed at the expense 
of the census appropriation, a systematic plan of operations was laid 
out and is now being carried into effect. Experienced and trained 
observers have been sent to diiferent portions of the coast as canvassers 
atfi investigators, it being the intention that every fishing village on 
the Atlantic, Pacific, Gulf, and Great Lake coasts shall be properly 
canvassed. Numerous circulars have been sent out to the interior, ask- 
ing for information. 

For the purpose of better supervising the collation of data and the 
tabulation of results, accommodations have been furnished in the east 
wing of the Smithsonian budding, where the parties have been at work, 
under the direction of Mr. Goode. Mr. Charles W. Smiley is in charge 
of 'the office, with a number of clerks detailed by General Walker for 
his assistance. The principal canvassers at work in the field are Mr. 
E. E. Earll, for the New England coast generally; Mr. Charles G. Atkins, 
having special charge of the statistics of the salmon, herring, alewife, 
and smelt fisheries in Maine; Mr. Silas Stearns, assisted by Mr. S. T. 
Walker, for tbe Gulf of Mexico ; Col. Marshall McDonald, for the shad 
fisheries of Virginia and the southern coast ; Mr. R. T. Edmunds, the 
oyster and fresh fish trade of the Chesapeake Bay and Baltimore; Mr. 
B. Phillips, for the fish manufacturing industry of New York; Mr. L. 
Kumlien, for the fisheries of the Great Lakes ; and Prof. D. S. Jordan, 
for the fisheries of the Pacific Coast. In addition to these, Mr. Ernest 
Ingersoll has general charge of the statistics of the oyster trade of the 
whole eastern coast. All these gentlemen have been at work for a 
greater or less time, some of them since July last, and have transmitted 
to the office in Washington an immense amount of information. 

It is confidently expected that the report of General Walker on the 
subject of the fisheries will be not inferior in any respect to other special 
reports for which he has made arrangements. 

In addition to the collecting of statistics, the employes of this division 
have been instructed to obtain illustrations of the fisheries, such as 
specimens or models of fishing-gear, nets, boats, traps, &c. ; samples of 
prepared fish and the like; they are also gathering a great deal of infor- 
mation relating to the natural history of the marine and fresh-water 
animals. 

A very important corollary of this work is the information it will 
furnish for use in any future arbitration between the United States and 
the British Provinces in regard to the value of its coast fisheries. It 
is well known that the cause of the United States, at the meeting in 
Halifax in 1877, went almost by default in consecpience of the absence 



76 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

of this information. While the Canadians possessed the fullest data on 
the subject of the fisheries, as the result of many years inquiry, the 
United States had nothing whatever but what was gathered with spec- 
ial reference to the emergency. The results gathered in connection 
with the census of 1880 will, it is hoped, be tabulated and published by 
the time this is needed for diplomatic use, and it will be of inestimable 
advantage in strengthening any position that the American Government 
may take in reference to the nature of the American fisheries. 

Respectfully submitted. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 

Washington, D. C, January, 1880. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Table showing the number of entries in the record-books of the United States 
National Museum at the close of the years 187S and 1871), respectively. 

[These tables show only what lias been recorded or entered in tbe detailed catalogue, 
constituting but a small proportion of the whole.] 



Class. 


1878. 


1879. 


Mammals 


13, 069 

76,666 

10, 015 

22, 000 

16, 155 

17, 791 

2, 324 

100 

31,268 

3, 230 

8, 020 

20, 135 

34,600 


13, 144 


Birds 


79, 093 


Reptiles and amphibians 


10,407 


Fishes 


23, 561 

io 3(n ; 




Eggs 


18, 049 




2, 324 


Annelids .' 


100 


Mollusks 


33, 169 


Radiates 


3, 230 

8 075 




Minerals 


20 450 


Ethnological specimens 


39, 017 






Total 


255, 373 


266, 925 
11 552 


Increase for 1879 









Approximate table of the distribution of duplicate specimens to the end 

of 1879. 



Class. 


Total to the end of 

1878. 


Distribution during 
1879. 


Total to the end of 
1879. 




Species. Specimens. 


Species. 


Specimens. 


Species. 


Specimens. 


Skeletons and skulls 
Mammals 


540 

2,167 

27,717 

2, 356 

6,145 

7,906 

4, 308 

1,087 

90,548 

593 

1,892 

29, 943 
4, 391 
9,105 

3,623 

874 


1,878 
4, 822 
42, 014 
3,840 
9, 651 

19, 350 
9,741 

2, 664 

197, 347 

793 

5, 225 

51,984 
10, 518 
16,869 

5,268 

1,628 


46 


46 


586 

2, 167 

27, 940 

2, 566 

6,443 

8, 234 

4, 538 

1,097 

90, 702 

593 

1,907 

30, 442 
4,391 

in, hoc. 

3,849 
1,174 


1, 924 

4 822 


Birds 


223 
210 

298 

328 

230 

10 

154 


304 
318 
325 

1,161 

350 

25 

481 


42, 318 

4,158 


Reptiles 


Fishes 


9 976 


Nests and eggs of 
birds 


20, 511 
10 091 


Insects 


Crustaceans 


2 689 


Shells 


197 828 


Radiates 


793 


Other marine in- 
vertebrates 

Plants and packages 
of seeds 


15 

499 


15 

877 


5, 240 

52 861 




10. 518 


Minerals and rocks.. 
Ethnological speci- 
mens 


901 
226 
300 


4,538 
226 

300 


21, 407 

5, 494 


Diatomaceous earths 
(packages) 


1,926 


Total 


193, 195 


383, 592 


3,440 


8,966 


196, 635 


392, 558 



77 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS OF THE NATIONAL 

MUSEUM IN 1879. 

Adney, W. H. G. Specimens of shells and fossils ; from Virginia. 

Alaska Commercial Company, San Francisco, Col. Two heads of sea- 
lion (Rosmarus obesus) ; from Nushagak, Alaska. 

Alden, Capt. Oscar W., and crew of schooner Andrew Leighton. (See 
Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Aldernethy, George. Samples of coal ; from Washington Territory. 

Allen, C. A. Two specimens Anser rossii (purchased) ; from California. 

Allen, George E. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Anderson, Capt. Charles, and crew of schooner Alice G. Wonson, Gloucester, 
Mass. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Anderson, John. Insect; from Texas. 

Anderson, W. W. Small collection of stone implements; from Sumter 
County, South Carolina. 

Andrews, Miss Fannie. Box of stone implements and minerals; from 
Georgia. 

Ardendall, Edward, schooner Sea Foam. (See Washington, D. C, United 
States Fish Commission.) 

Aspinwall, Dr. F. E. Specimens of arrow-heads; from New York and 
Ohio. 

Atkins, Charles G. Specimen of togue (Cristivomer namaycush) ; from 
Grand Lake Stream, Maine. 

Augir, Viola. Two mounted specimens of birds; from Illinois. 

Baird, G. W., P. A. Engineer, TJ. S. N. Specimens of Medusa ',; taken at 
Yille Franche, France. 

Baird, Prof. S. F. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Babcock, A. L. Specimens of birds (Cyanura cristata and Sialia sialis), 
and red squirrel (Sciurus hudsonius); from Massachusetts. 

Baden, George P. Living milk-snake (Ophibolus doliatus); from Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

Baker, J. D. Specimen of insect ; from Perry County, Pennsylvania. 

Barker, H. L. Living specimens of glass-snake (Opheosaurus ventralis), 
turtles (Pseudemys scabra), and amphiumas (Amphiuma mains): from 
South Carolina. 

Barringer, A. L. Living snakes (Bascanion constrictor, Ophibolus rhom- 
bomaculatus and Storeria dekayi) and terrapins (Cistudo clausa); from 
North Carolina. 

Bates, W. H. H. Specimens of minerals ; from Maine. 

Bauermeister, Rev. William. Box of minerals; from Indiana. 

Beach, IT. Box of stone implements, pottery, &c, from Illinois and 
Wisconsin. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 79 

Beal, William. Two living bull-snakes (Pityophis melanoleucus) ; from 
Tennessee. 

Bean, Barton A. Unfinished dulled stone implements ; from Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Bean, Br. T. BT. Box of Indian implements and terrapin (Cistudo clausa) ; 
from Pennsylvania. 

Beauchamp, Rev. William M. A collection of shells ; from Western New 
York. 

Belding, B. Five boxes of birds-skins, eggs, and dried plants ; from Cali- 
fornia. 

Belknap, Lieut. C, TJ. S. N. Samples of the woods of Japan and the 
Philippine Islands. 

Bell, Charles W. Specimen of iron-pyrites ; from Texas. 

Beitner, F. M. Box of stone relics ; from Ohio. 

Bennett, Henry B. Fragments of pottery; from near Cape Henlopen, 
Delaware. 

Bennett, J. C. Specimens of Indian stone implements; from Ohio. 

Benton, John H. A living alligator (Alligator mississippiensis ; from 
Florida. 

Bessels, Br. Emit. Alcoholic specimens of Amphioxus; from the Eastern 
shore of Maryland. 

Bigclow, Otis 21. Cast of Indian bird-shaped pipe; from New York. 

Bissel, E. H. Specimens of insects ; from North Carolina. 

Blackford, E. G., Fulton Fish Market, New York. A large and varied 
collection of fishes, brought into the New York fish-market, among 
which are Cryptacanthodcs, Centropomus, Sargus Bolhrookii, Pagrus 
vulgaris, Sahno solar, Onchorhynchus quinnat, Coregonus sp., Bomato- 
rnus saltatrix f Scomber scombrus, &c. 

Bland, Thomas. Specimen of abnormal egg of chicken ; from Jamaica, 
L. I. 

Bloom field, James C. Pharyngeal teeth cf Haploidonotus grunniens. 

Boardman, George A. Two birds-skins, nests, and eggs; from Maine. 

Bomar, Thomas II. Specimen of calcite ; from South Carolina. 

Boars, R. Case fishery apparatus ; from Norway. 

Bonhright, Stephen B. Three skins of birds ; from Iowa. 

Booth, A. Specimens of California salmon (0. Quinnat). 

Booth, M. A. Small package of recent diatoms; from Massachusetts. 

Booth, Lieut. S. M., U. S. N. Suit of armor worn by the natives of the 
Kingsmill group of Pacific Islands. 

Bowers, W. W. Sample of meat prepared by the Chinese from the 
abalone (Baliotis). 

Boyd, Miss E. S. Human cranium ; from the Hawaiian Islands. 

Boyd, Dr. S. B. Double-headed snake ; from Tennessee. 

Boyle, Br. Bavid, Flora Museum, Ontario. Beads found in cavern on 
Grand Eiver, Ontario ; and slate tablet (lent). 

Brace, Lewis J. K. A box of general natural history collections ; from 
Nassau, New Providence. 



80 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

BracJcett, Col. A. G., U. S. A. A specimen of the black-footed ferret 

{Putorius nigripes) ; from Montana. 
Bracking, Alfred. Specimen of mineral; from North Carolina. 
Brady, Henry B. Microscopic mountings of Carboniferous foraminifera; 

from Newcastle-on-Tyne, England. 
Brantley, W. S. Living specimen of ground rattle {Caudisona miliaris); 

from Georgia. 
Bregazzi, Miss Marie. Living bat {Scotophilus fuscus) ; from Washing- 
ton, D. C. 
Brewer, Dr. T. M. Box of birds' skins. 

Brewster, William. Nest and four eggs of brown creeper ; from Massa- 
chusetts. 
Brown, James, Schooner David A. Osier. (See Washington, D. C, United 

States Fish Commission.) 
Broicn, Dr. J. J. Jar of alcoholic reptiles ; from the West Indies. 
Brown, Heavy & Co, Boston, Mass. Specimens of mackerel {Scomber 

scombrus) and viscera of same. 
Broicnell, W. A. A collection of minerals. 
Bruner, J. Human mummy, encased; from Cuzco, Peru. 
Budd, James. Specimen of moth {Enyo lugubris) ; from North Carolina. 
Bunnell, P. D. Specimen of mineral ; from Washington Territory. 
Burbage, John. Skin of weasel {Putorius erminea), pupa-state of tobac- 
co-worm, living snakes {Heterodon platyrhinus and Eutcenia sirtalis), 
and mineral concretion ; from Missouri. 
Burford, H. Specimen of tarantula ; from Georgia. 
Burnham, E. K. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 
Burr, R. T., A. A. Surgeon, U. S. A. Small box of pottery, and alco- 
holic specimens of fishes, reptiles, &c. ; from Arizona. 
Cairns, William. Stone-gouge; from Westchester County, New York. 
Cambridge, Mass., Harvard Botanical Gardens, Prof. C. S. Sargent, in 

charge. Eight species of living water-plants. 
Campbell, Capt. David, and crew of schooner Admiral. (See Washing- 
ton, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Campbell, D. H. Specimen of insect ; froni Illinois. 
Campbell, Kent. Cocoons of insects j from Ohio. 
Capehart, Dr. W. R. Specimens of rock-fish, shad, alewives, and a jar 

of herring-roe ; from Albemarle Sound. 
Capps, C. Henry. Specimens of minerals; from Calvert County, Ala- 
bama. 
Carlin, W. M. A collection of fishes ; from Wyoming. 
Carr, J. G. Fragments of fossils; from Tennessee. 
Carr, H. H. Specimens of shed skin of snake and rattle of rattlesnake; 

from Texas and Wyoming. 
Carter, C. Shirley. Two specimens in alcohol of Ancistrodon contortrix; 
from Virginia. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 81 

Castleman, D. J. Specimen of insect; from Alabama. 

Cavanaugh, Capt. Joint, and crew of schooner Alfred Walen. (See Wash- 
ington, D. C, United States Fish < lommission.) 

Chapin, Dr. E. M. Small box of fragmentary mound-pottery ; from 
Scott Comity, Georgia. 

Chesley, Edward. Wooden model of the shad. 

Chester, Capt. H. G. Specimen of flying-fish (Dactylopterus volitans); 
from Noank, Conn. 

Choate, Warren. Specimen of ore; from Leadville, Colo. 

Christiania, Norway, Museum of through Prof essors Collett and Esmark. 
Seventy-one species of Norwegian fishes. 

Church, I). F. Specimens of menhaden and menhaden-spawn ; from 
Narragansett Bay. 

Clark, E. T. Specimens of fishes and worms; from Gloucester, Mass., 
Harbor. 

Cleneay, Thomas. Collection of Indian stone axes, pestles, hammers, 
scrapers, &c. ; from Ohio. 

Collins, Capt. David E., and crew of schooner Gussie Blair sdell. (See 
Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Collins, Capt. John, and crciv of schooner Albert 3. Harding. (See Wash- 
ington, D. C.j United States Fish Commission.) 

Collins, Capt. J. W., schooner Marion. (See Washington, D. C, United 
Suites Fish Commission.) 

Copley, C. J., Stapleton, 8. I., L. I. Specimens of fishes, Xoicm'ujonus 
chrysoleucus, Argyreiosus capellaris, Catostom us commerson ii. 

Cooh, Diehard E. Specimens of mineral; from Clay Comity, Alabama. 

Cooper, W. A. Box of birds, nests, and eggs, and a few shells; from 
California. 

Corn /rail, A. B. Bear's tooth. 

Core;/, Warren H. Specimens of two water-beetles from Minnesota. 

Corson, Joseph K., A. A. Surgeon, U. 8. A. Two living turtles; from 
California. 

Couch, Dr. Elliott. Type specimens of Dendroica Tcirtlandi; and two 
specimens of Budytes taivamts, from Formosa ; eggs of Perisoreus can- 
adensis, from Vermont. 

Covert, A. B. Specimens of albino mouse, Hesperomys leucopus, from 
Michigan. 

Crane, U. D. Specimens of stone relics; from Florida. 

Craicford, 8. W. Box of bird-skins from Iceland. 

Critchett, Capt. John F., and crew of schooner Commonwealth. (See Wash- 
ington, D. O.j United States Fish Commission.) 

Crooks, Nathaniel, schooner Helen M. Dennis. (See Washington, D. C, 
United States Fish Commission.) 

Cunningham, Cap/. Augustus, schooner Geo. A. Upton. (See Washing- 
ton, I). C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Curzon, Capt., schooner Mist. (See Washington, D. C, United States 
Fish Commission.) 
S. Mis. 54 6 



82 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Curtis, Capt. George H., and crew of schooner Conductor. (See Wash- 
ington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Cttshing, F. H. Medicine war-dress of "Moon Plume," a Cheyenne 
chief (purchased), and box of Indian relics; from mound near Saint 
Louis, Mo. 

Ball, W. 11. Skull and horns of deer (Cervus aristotelis); from the 
highlands of India. 

Davis, A. J., through Thomas Donaldson. Specimens of silver and gold 
bullion from the Lexington Mine Butte, Montana. 

Davis, Henry. Specimens of birds' nests, and eggs, fossils, minerals, and 
Indian relics ; from Iowa. 

Davis, lion. Horace. Pair of Chinese shoes; from California. 

Davis, W. F. Fourteen living turtles (Pseudemys scabra) ; from North 
Carolina. 

Dawson, Prof. J. W., Montreal, Canada. Specimen of Fozoon canadense. 

Dempsey, Capt. William. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

Derry, C. W. Specimens of silver ore ; from Leadville, Colo. 

De Tarr, D. N. Skin of neck and heads of double-headed calf. 

Dickinson, E. Box of birds' nests from Massachusetts. 

Diggs, Meredith, Washington, D. C. Prepared skeleton offish, Lutjanus 
blackfordii. 

Dodd, Andrew W. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Dollivcr, Capt. Peter, and crew, of schooner Grace L. Fears. (See Wash- 
ton, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

DoJph, John M. Specimens of fish parasites. 

Dosch, Samuel F. Specimens of minerals; from District of Columbia. 

Douglass, Albert. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish ( 'omrnis- 
sion.) 

Douglass, W. Grooved stone axe ; from Fauquier County, Virginia. 

Dowell, John. Specimen of .shad (Alosa sapid issi ma); from the Poto- 
mac River. 

Downman, 1L Tf. A fresh specimen of blue-fish [Pomatomus saltatrix) 
and living snakes (Ophibolus getulus, Spiloties erebennus) and turtles 
(Chelydra serpentina)'} from Virginia. 

Driggs, -J. W. Collection of birds' skins (purchased) and skeleton of Tan- 
talus loculatos ; from Florida. 

DybovosM, W., Russia. Box of shells (purchased); Baikal Sea. 

Jhi/'ir.I!. W. Insect from Arkansas. 

Dunny, Lathrop, through Thomas Donaldson. Specimens of silver ore ; 
from the Alice Mine, Butte, Montana. 

Duges, Prof. Alfredo. Box of birds, insects, antiquities, shells, &c. ; 
from Mexico. 

Dunham, James C. Skins of dog-fish ; from Provincetown, Mass. 

Dupre, D. A. Specimens of minerals ; from Virginia. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83 

Dyer, Captain. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Earle, J. W. Box of Indian stone relics, pottery, &c. ; from South 
Carolina. 

Earll, R. E. Photographs of pogie steamers and living specimen of 
Amblystoma punctatum ; from Maine. 

Edwards, Vinal N. Eighteen boxes of general marine collections ; from 
Wood's Holl, Mass. 

Edmunds, Hon. J. E., Washington, D. G. Three birds, two linnets, one 
woodpecker. 

Edmunds, Hon. J. M., city postmaster, Washington, D. C. Wings of mal- 
lard duck. 

Egan, W. G. Box invertebrate fossils; from Niagara Group, Illinois. 

Eldridge, Woodbury, through W. OaJces. Vertebra of whale ; from Ips- 
wich Bay. 

Emanuel, J. M., P. A. Engineer, U. S. N~. Specimen of insect; from 
James River, Virginia. 

Ernst, A. Dr. Box of pottery and stone implements; from Venezuela. 

Evans, S. B. Three fossils ; from Iowa. 

Feuardent, Gaston L. A collection of pottery and implements of the 
Archieolithic, Neolithic, Lacustrine, and Bronze ages. 

Ferguson, T. B. Specimens of fish (Prioriotus, Tetrodon, Achirus, &c), 
from the Rappahannock River; box of fishes, from Crislield, Md. 

Ferguson, S. Specimen of Diemictylus miniatus. 

Ferguson, 8. W. Living snapping-turtle (Chelonura temminckii) ; from 
the Mississippi River. 

Fickel, Isaac H. Arrow-head chip. 

Finsch, Dr. Otto. Three human skulls, and tooth of Rhinoceros tichorhi- 
nus ; from Western Siberia. 

Flaherty, Michael. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Forbes, Gapt. Maurice, schooner Eastern Light. (See Washington, D. C, 
United States Fish Commission.) 

Fowles, Franl; schooner Young Sultan, of Wiscasset. (See Washington, 
1). C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Fowles, Gapt. M. V., and crew of schooner Young Sultan. (See Washing- 
ton, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

French, John //., McMinnville, Tenn. Specimen carved stone tube. 

Friele, Prof. H. Small collection of shells collected by the Norwegian 
Deep-Sea Expedition, in the North Atlantic Ocean. 

Frid, Joseph. Box of Indian relics from Kentucky. 

Friend, George. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Friend, Lemuel, through Gapt. J. W. Collins. ' v See Washington, D. C, 
United States Fish Commission.) 



84 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Galbraith, Frank G. Two boxes of Indian implements and water-worn 
pebble, from Eastern Pennsylvania; sculptured rock, from the Susque- 
bauna Eiver. 

Garman, S. W.,from Prof. A. Agassiz. Living turtle (Testudo tdbulata) ; 
from Trinidad. 

Gartley, A. M. Specimens of minerals ; from Pennsylvania. 

Gatke, H. Collection of birds' skins; from Heligoland, Germany. 

Gatschet, Prof. Albert S. Seven arrow-beads from Rhode Island. 

Geeks, A., Hospital Steward, IT. S. A. Specimens of fragmentary pottery, 
and copper disk found in skull taken from mound near Fort Sisseton, 
Dak. 

Gere, J. F. Specimens of copper and stone implements, minerals, hor- 
net's nest, &c. ; from Wisconsin. 

Gerend, John. Insect ; from Wiscoasin. 

Getschell, Capt. John, Q., schooner Otis P. Lord. (See Washington, D. 
C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Gibbs, George J. A collection of birds' eggs, and seeds of Corda irex, 
sponge, and specimen of gypsum; from Turk's Island, West Indies. 

Gill) Capt. Russell G., schooner Maud Gertrude. (See Washington, D. 

C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Gilpatrick) Capt. Briggs, and crew of schooner Herbert M. Rogers. (See 

Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Gilpatrick, Capt. Gilman, schooner Seth Stock-bridge. (See Washington, 

D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Gilpin, Dr. Bernard. Jar of alcoholic specimens of Insectivora ; from 
Nova Scotia. 

Glidden, Albert. Hornet's nest; from Damariscotta. 

Goldsmith, J. B. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Goldsmith, S. Living specimens of garter-snake (Eutcenia sirtalis) ; from 
Maryland. 

Goode, Prof. G. Broicn. Specimens of fish (Cynoscion, Lagodon rhom- 
boides, Orthopristis fulvomaculatus), from Norfolk, Va. ; and spinning 
wheel and appurtenance of the eighteenth century. 

Goode, F. C. Can of alcoholic specimens of lishes, reptiles, &c; from 
Florida, 

Goodwin, Capt. Thomas, and crew of schooner Howard. (See Washing- 
ton, D. C, United States Fish Commission. 

Goodwyn, T. Gray. Eggs of the thrush, bluebird, and swallow ; from 
West Virginia. 

Gore, J. H. Skull of rabbit with prolongated teeth. 

Gorham,R. P. Pharyngeal bone of drum-fish. 

Gorman, Capt. John, and <■>•<■!(% of schooner Geo. S. Boutwell. (See Wash- 
ington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Gorringc, Lieutenant Commander. U. S. N~. Piece of water-pipe and slab; 
froin the ruins of ancient Troy. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 85 

Gorton, C. Specimens of soapstone mask and box of Indian relics (lent). 
Goti, Addison. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 
Gourville, dipt. John, and crew of schooner Rebecca Bartlett. (See Wash- 
ington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Goward, G. An article of apparel, lava-lava, worn by the natives of the 

Samoan Islands. 
Graham. Dr. A. II. A Spanish spear and living specimens of scorpion 

and centipede; from Bagdad, Tex. 
Graces, A. Three jars of fishes, some new to science; from Georgia. 
Green, Fred. C. Specimens of chain and honey-comb coral ; from the 

Mississippi Eiver. 
Green, Dr. J. B. Living specimen of garter-snake (Eutamia sir talis) ; 

from Fairfax Comity, Virginia. 
Green, W. V. Box of minerals from Virginia. 
Grcenleaf, Capt. Nathaniel, and creic of schooner Grace L. Fears. (See 

Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Grcenleaf, Capt. Thomas F., and crew of schooner Chester R. Lawrence. 

(See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Green wood, Captain, and crew of schooner Sultana. (See Washington, D. 

C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Gretan, Capt. John. Very large specimen of lump-fish (Cyclopterus lum- 

pus) ; from Kettle Island, Massachusetts. 
Git nter, Hon. T. M. Specimen of ore. 
Habirsham, F. Microscopic slides of diatoms put up by Prof. P. T. Cleve 

and J. D. Muller, of Upsala, Sweden. 
Habersham, AYm.Xegle. Photograph of a Histiophorus gladius ; taken off 

Florida. 
Hamilton, A. M. Specimens of minerals ; from Virginia. 
Hamilton, Hugh. Water beetle ; from Pennsylvania. 
Hamlin, F. M. Three boxes of general natural history collections ; from 

Bermuda. 
Hamlin, Capt. Peter, and creiv of schooner Andrew Leighton. (See Wash- 
ington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Ha una, G. B., through Mrs. X. S. Lincoln. Sx>eeimen of mounted owl; 

from Xorth Carolina. 
Hanson, James, schooner Sarah P. Ayer. Specimens of tree-coral, Para- 

gorgia, with barnacles attached. 
Harrell, Alexander, through lion. R.W. Toicnshend. Box of minerals and 

a stone ax ; from ('lay County, Illinois. 
Harrison, Joseph, estate of. A large collection of paintings, by Catlin, of 

North American Indians. 
Harrison, M. E. Box of Indian stone implements, fossils, &C.; from 

Missouri. 
Ilarsha, W. W. Specimens of slag ; from Illinois. 
Hartjield, John M. A living turtle ; from North Carolina. 



86 APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Hartman, Dr. W. D. A collection of shells {Partulas). 

Eayden, Dr. F. Y. A collection of plants of the Yellowstone region. 

Hayes, Dr. W. W. A specimen of Dendrocygna fulva ; from California. 

Hay ward, F. W. A jar of alcoholic specimens of sirens, frogs, and 
toads ; from South Carolina. 

Heffleman, Dorr. Specimen of ore ; from Dakota. 

Hemphill, Henry. Twenty-two species and varieties of shells ; from Cali- 
fornia. 

Hereford, Hon. Frank. Specimens of coal ; from Monroe County, West 
Virginia. 

Bering, Dr. C. J. A large collection of plants and alcoholic specimens 
of reptiles, mammals, &c. ; from Surinam, Dutch Guiana. 

Herran, Thomas. A box of Indian pottery and specimens of locusts ; 
from Antioquia, United States of Colombia. 

Herrick, Capt. William, schooner Augusta Herrick. (See Washington, 
D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Hessel, Dr. Rudolph. Living snake {Tropidonotus sipedon) ; from Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

Hess y G. F. Indian arrow-head; from Mississippi. 

High, Augustus. Specimen of silver ore. 

Hill, H. H. Five casts of Indian relics. 

Hitchcock, George N. Head, shell, and claws of turtle (Chelopus marmo- 
ratus) ; from California. 

Hohbs, George S. Living turtle and snake and bull-minnow ; from Wash 
ington, D. C. 

Hodgdon, Capt. Thomas, and crew of schooner Bessie W. Somes. (See 
Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Hodgdon, Capt. W. F., and crew of schooner Proctor Brothers. (See Wash- 
ington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Hodgkins, Joshua. Living snake (Ophibolus doliatus) ; from Georgetown, 
D. C. 

Hoffman, Dr. W. J. Bone fish-hook; used by the Indians of Grand 
1 fiver, Dakota. 

Holhrook, A. F. Large specimen of sea-cucumber {Pentacta frondosa) : 
from off Cape Cod. 

HolbrooTc, Joseph E., schooner Jennie T. Phillips, of Sirampscott. (See 
Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Holloman, W. H. Samples of quartz; from Lonsiana. 

Hoover, Edward. Skins of short-eared owl and albino red-wing black- 
bird [Agekvus phccniceus)', from Washington, D. C. 

Horan, Henry. Living snakes (Bascanion constrictor. Heterodon platy- 
rltiims, Tropidonotus sipedon, Eutcenia si rial is) and stink-pot turtle 
(Aromochelys odoratus) ; from Virginia. Also specimen of American 
sole (Achirus lineatus). 

Horn, Dr. George H. Fragments of fossils (Orthoccras and Favositcs); 
from the Indian Territory. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 87 

House, J. C. and 0. A. McClain. Model of fish-hatching box. 
Houston, Senator George S. Specimen of mineral ; from Alabama. 
Howard, E. B. Specimens of ore ; from Arkansas. 
Hoy, George W., schooner Mary F. Chisholm. (See Washington, D. C, 

United States Fish Commission.) 
Hoijt, Edward F. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 
Hoyt, W. E. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Humphreys, Prof. John T. Three boxes of minerals and Indian relics; 

from North Carolina. 
Hurlbert Capt. B. H., schooner Sultana. (See Washington, D. C, United 

States Fish Commission.) 
Hurlbert, Capt. William, schooner Franklin S. Schenck. (See Washing- 
ton, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Huston, S. Box of stone implements ; from Ohio. 
Ingersoll, Ernest. Four boxes of oyster shells ; from New Brunswick 

and from various places along the New England coast. 
Isaac, J. C. Specimen of tufa; from Hot Springs, Arkansas. 
Irwin, Dr. B. J. I)., U. S. A. Spy-glass case covered with skin of Gila 

monster {Heloderma suspectum). 
Jack, J. Allen. Loan of the St. George Stone from New Brunswick. 
James, Dr. Frank L. Four boxes of Indian stone implements, [tottery, 

and images; from Arkansas and Mississippi. 
Jefferson, Lieut. J. P. A bottle of sea- water; from the Dry Tortugas, 

Florida. 
Jcnison, 0. A. Box of stone implements; from Michigan. Lent for the 

purpose of making casts. 
Johnson, Captain. Occipital portion of the skull of a whale taken on 

the Southern coast. 
Johnson, ('apt. Benjamin, schooner Alaska. (See Washington, ]). C, 

United States Fish Commission.) 
Johnson, Capt. Charles, schooner Lucille Curtis. (See Washington, D. C. 

United States Fish Commission.) 
Johnson, Christian, schooner Wm. Thompson. (See Washington, D. C, 

United States Fish Commission.) 
Johnson, ('apt. George A., and crew of schooner Augusta Johnson. (See 

Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Johnson, G. W. Five birds' skins ( Yireo pusillus, Melospiza Heermanni, 

&c); from California. 
Johnson, Capt. Otis, schooner Helen 31. Dennis. (See Washington, D. C, 

United States Fish Commission.) 
Johnson, Capt. P., schooner John Smith. (See Washington, D. C, United 

States Fish Commission.) 
Jones, Mrs. Ellen. Samples of soil from Frederick, Md. 
Jones, Samuel II. A specimen of the rare field-mouse (Hcspcromyx ait 

reolus) ; from Florida. 



88 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Jordan, Prof. D. 8. A collection of Venetian fishes ; also, a collection 
of fishes and reptiles from Indiana. 

Jouy, P. L. A specimen of lizard (Desmognathus fusca) and turtle ( Cistudo 
clausa). 

Joyce, Captain. Specimens of mackerel spawn; from Swan's Island, Cas- 
tine, Me. 

Joyce, John A. Specimen of magnetite; from Montana. 

Kaufman, J. Specimen of mineral ; from Texas. 

Keller, F. K. Duck, hybrid between mallard and pintail. 

Kelly, Alfred W. P. Photographs of New Zealand and Australian abor- 
igines. 

Kerr, Prof. W. C. Indian stone spade ; from North Carolina. 

Kilbourne, 8. R. Specimens of fishes (Salmo and Cottus) ; from Long 
Lake, New York. 

King, T. W. Specimen of mineral ; from Texas. 

Kingsbury, W. W. Specimens of clay; from Pennsylvania. 

Kirby, Gapt. W. H, and crew of schooner Wm. V. Hutching s. (See Wash- 
ington, D. C, United States Pish Commission.) 

Kirk, Isaac 8. Specimens of stone implements and minerals ; from Ches- 
ter County, Pennsylvania. 

Knight, La F. Human bones; from Indian grave. 

Koch, L. L. Box of Unionidce ; from Illinois. 

Jtoclc, August. Parent and nest and eggs of the rough-winged swallow. 

Kumlien, L. Specimens of birds, reptiles, and fishes; from Wisconsin 
and Michigan. 

IJAcee. Specimen of mineral ; from Florida. 

La Barre, Miss Mollie. Living owl {Bubo virgin ianus); from Washing- 
ton, D. C. 

Lamasure, Edwin. Living turtle (Cistudo clausa). 

Lane, H. B. Specimen of bug ; from Virginia. 

Langdon, F. W. Two specimens of crania ; from Ohio. 

Layard, E. L. British consulate of Noumea. Small collection of New 
Caledonian birds. 

Larkin, Dr. Frederick. Flint arrow-heads from New York. 

Lawrence, Geo. JY. Mounted specimen of Labrador duck (purchased). 

Lea, Dr. Isaac. Specimens of fossil (Goniobasis Lawrencii) ; from Arkan- 
sas ; and minerals from Pennsylvania. 

Iiee, Thomas, schooner Wm. H. Oakes. (See Washington, D. C, United 
States Fish Commission.) 

Leonard, Albert. Mineral; from Pennsylvania. 

Leppelman, Louis (through Mr. Webb Hayes). Loan of a collection of stone 
implements from Ohio for casting. 

Lewis, C. A. Specimen of pompano (Trachynotus earolinensis). 

Lea-is, Dr. 'lames. Box of living shells ( Viriparus) ; from New York. 

Lewis, L. L. Pour eggs. 

Ligsworth, Copt. John E., and crew of schooner Mary Story. (See Wash- 
ington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 89 

LJghtburne, Dr. B. E., TJ. S. A. Box of living snakes, horn-toads, and 
lizards; from Arizona. 

Lindah I, Prof. Joshua, and Prof. A. Nordenskjold. Meteorite ; from Ovifac, 
Greenland. (Deposited.) 

LinebacJc, E. W. Water-worn pebble. 

Locke, J. H. Specimen of mineral ; from New Hampshire. 

Locke, Kate H. Specimens of rocks ; from New Hampshire. 

Locke, W. M. Portion of jaw of Scicmoid fish. 

Long, D. B. Specimen of lish (Etheostoma caprodes); from Eock Creek, 
Kansas. 

Lord, W. Blaine. Salmon (Salmo salar) ; from Matapediac, Canada. 

Loud, P. H. Specimen of salamander (Amblystoma punctatum) ; from 
Edgefield County, South Carolina. 

Love, J. G. Two shells; from Illinois. 

Low, Charles F. Box of fragments of pottery; from Ohio. 

Low, John. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission. 

Lowe, F. A. Specimens of Ruutitc and Animitite ; from Silver Islet, On 
tario. 

Lurrci/, William. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Lyon, V. W. Fossil (Galceola); from Kentucky. 

McCakb, Vinal. (See Washington, D. C, United States' Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

McCauley, Mr., schooner Wachusett. (See Washington, D. C, United 
States Fish Commission.) 

McClenahan, B. E. Fresh specimen of pike-perch; from the Susquehanna 
River. 

HcCormaclc, Capt. John A., and crew of schooner Wachusett. (See Wash- 
ington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

McGormick & Connable. Specimens of trout and white-fish. 

McCormick, Lewis. Living snake (Heterodon), from Virginia; skink [Eu- 
mcces fasciatus) and newt; from Virginia. 

McDonald, Capt. James, and crew of schooner Magic. (See Washington, D. 
C, United States Fish Commission.) 

McDonald, Capt. James, and, crew of schooner Willie M. Stevens. (See 
Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

McDonald, Lewis {through Boston Fish Bureau). (See Washington, D. 
C, United States Fish Commission.) 

McDonald, Prof. Marshall. Specimens of menhaden [Brevoortia ti/ran- 
nus) with parasites and a model of McDonald's fishway ; also speci- 
mens of iisli and Indian stone, implements; from Virginia. 

McDonald, Capt. William, and crew of schooner N. II. Phillips. (See 
Washington, D. C, United Slates Fish Commission.) 

McDowell, IV. U r . Specimen of pike-perch (Lucioperea)', from Tennessee. 

McEachern Daniel, schooner Gup Cunningham. (See Washington, D. C, 
United States Fish Commission.) 



90 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

McEachcrn, Daniel, schooner Rutherford B. Hayes. (See Washington, D. 

C, United States Fish Commission.) 

McElwain, Robert. Fragments of bone ; from Indian mound near Har- 
ris ville, Penn. 

McGalliard, W. M. Insect. 

McGratv, Phillip. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

McGuire, F. B. Collection of fishes; from Teneriffe. 

McGuire, J. D. Skin of bird; from Maryland. 

Mclnnis, Capt. John, and crew of schooner M. H. Perldns. (See Washing- 
ton, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Mcintosh, Capt. Colin, and crew of schooner Nathaniel Webster. (See 
Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

McKinnon, Capt. Daniel, and crew of schooner Mary F. Chisholm. (See 
Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

McKinnon, Capt. John, and crew of schooner Ivanhoe. (See Washington, 

D. C, United States Fish Commission ) 

McKinnon, Capt. John, and crew schooner Rutherford B. Hayes. (See 
Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

McKinnon, Thomas. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

McLean, T. P. Living snake [Coluber obsoletus obsoletus); from Cheat 
River, Maryland. 

McPhee, Capt. Neil, and. crew of schooner Carl Schnrz. (See Washington, 
D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

MacRitchie, Lieutenant, U. S. N. A brick from the house General Wash- 
ington was born in. 

Maddox, W. M. A large hornet nest; from Anacostia, Md. 

Main, Mrs. Mary E. Box of fragmentary Indian pottery ; from New 
York. 

Mandeville, Walter. Box of stone arrow-heads and minerals; from 
Pennsylvania. 

Mansfield, James, and Sons. (See Washington, D. C, United States 
Fish Commission.) 

Marchant, Capt. Jabcz. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish 
Commission.) 

Marhnson, Capt. C. K., and crew of schooner Notice. (See Washington, 
D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Marnock, a. W. Specimens of Lithodytes latrans, Eumeces semilincatus, 
Holbroolia lacerta, and Synophus marnocltii; from Texas. 

Marsh, Prof. 0. C. Cast of femur of Atlantosaurus immanU. 

Marshall, George. Living snake (Heterodon platyrhinus and Tropidonotus 
sipedori); from Maryland. 

Marshall, Henry. Specimens of living snakes (Uutcenia sirtalis, Bas- 
canion constrictor, Heterodon platyrhinus) , skink [Eumeces fasciatus), 
and lizards (Amblystoma opacum and Sceleporns undulatus); from 
Maryland. 



APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 91 

Martin, Capt. Charles, and crew of schooner Martha C. (See Washington, 
D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Martin, Capt. George M., and crew of schooner Northern Eagle. .(See 
Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Martin, Capt. 8. J. Young catfish (Anarrhichas) ; from Ipswich Bay. 

Mason, George E. Nests of humming-bird and swallow. 

Massey, Mr., through William Palmer. Living copperhead snake (Ancis- 
trotlon eontorrix) ; from Virginia. 

Mathews, J. E. Small reptile, picked up after rainstorm in Kansas. 

Mather, Fred. Model of Mather's box for transporting salmon-eggs. 

Mauler, Prof. Eugene. Samples of diatomaceous earths; from Central 
Europe. 

Maw, George. Specimens of North African, Levantine, and Spanish 
pottery. 

Meigs, General M. C, U. S. A. Owl (Butco pennsylvanieus) ; from Wash- 
ington, D. C, and saddle used by the Northern Cheyenne Indians. 

Mendoza, Prof G., director Musco Nacional, Mexico. Cast of obsidian 
vessel and specimens of axolotls (Amblystoma Mavortium) and cast of 
Mexican calendar stone, and box of dried plants. 

Merchant, George, through Procter Brothers. (See Washington, D. C, 
United States Fish Commission.) 

Merchant, Orlando. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 

Merchant, Capt. Phillip, and crew, of schooner Marion. (See Washington, 
D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Merrill, Mrs. C.E. Stone and copper relics and concretions; from Mis- 
sissippi. 

Metcalfe, Lieut. H., U. S. A. Drawings of relics found in cave at Silver 
City, New Mexico. 

Metz, Dr. C. L. Collection of crania, pottery, bone tools, and carbon- 
ized corn ; from Ohio. 

Meyer, Julius. Photographs of Indians. 

Meyer, Br. J. 8. Sample of composition metal. 

Mexico, Museo Nacional. (See Mendoza, Prof. G.) 

Micldeborough, Prof John. Specimens of fossils; from Ohio. 

Middletown, Conn., Wesleyan University. Four specimens of Ecuador- 
birds. 

Miller, Mrs. Lois. Specimen of mineral. 

Miller, 8. B. Two arrow-heads; from Mississippi. 

Miller, T. J. Specimen of stone implement from Wisconsin. 

Mills, Clark. A collection of casts of the heads of the Indians at Hamp- 
ton, Va. 

Mills, 8. V. Spear-head ; from Pennsylvania. 

Milner, J tones, W. A large collection of plants, fishes, reptiles, and 
birds ; from Florida. 

Moore, N. B. Small viviparous fish (Cyprinodont); from Florida. 



92 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Moose, G. W. Specimens of rocks; from South Carolina. 

Morey, M. A. A collection of minerals ; from Minnesota. 

Morrison, Capt. R. L., and crew of schooner Laura Nelson. (See Wash- 
ington, 1). C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Morrison, J. M. Decorated buckskin used by the Wichita Indians 
for shield cover. 

Morrissey, Capt. James D., and crew of schooner Alice M. Williams. (See 
Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Morrissey, Capt. James D., and creic of schooner Plymouth Rock, (See 
Washington, 1). C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Moulton, Capt. Charles V., and crew of schooner Peter D. Smith. (See 
Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Mueller, I>r. R. Three Indian spear-heads; from Indiana. 

Murphy, Capt. C. D., and crew of schooner Alice M. Williams. (See 
Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Murphy, dipt. Thomas, and crew of schooner Wm. H. Oakes. (See 
Washington, D. 0., United States Fish Commission.) 

Murphy, James 11. Living snake (Htterodon platyrhinus) ; from Washing- 
ton, D. C. 

Mynstcr, William A. Specimens of quinnat salmon ; from Iowa. 

Neihardt, M. N. Specimen of quartz from Missouri. 

Nelson, Judge. Specimen of trilobite. 

Nelson, Capt. Andrew, schooner Carlcton. (See Washington, D. C, 
United States Fish Commission. 

Nelson, E. W. Twenty -four packages of general natural-history collec- 
tions ; from Saint Michael's, Alaska. 

Newcomb, R. L. Feathers from tail of fan-tailed pigeon. 

Newlon, Dr. W. 8. Specimens of fossils (Pinna peracuta and Terehratula 
hastata)-, from Kansas. 

Newman, W. P. Specimen of mineral ; from Missouri. 

Newton, Edward. A living yellow-bellied boa (Chilobothrus inornatus), 
three living turtles, and a collection of bird skins; from Jamaica, West 
Indies. 

New York, N. Y. Museum of Natural History, Prof A. S. Biekmore, 
curator. Two hundred and ninety-five species, three hundred and 
eighteen specimens of birds. 

Nichols, Dr. H. A. A. Specimen of gannet (Sula piscator); from Do- 
minica, West Indies. 

Nickerson, Capt. James, and crew of schooner Bellerophon. (See Washing- 
ton, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Nickerson, Capt. James, and crew of schooner Commonwealth. (See Wash- 
ington, I). C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Norris, P. W. Specimen of silicitied wood ; from Yellowstone iSTational 
Park. 

Noricood, Ferdinand. (See Washington, D.C., United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 93 

Olmstead, Anthony J. Five arrow-heads and chips of jasper; from Pike 
County, Perms viva nia. 

Olmsted, K. B. Pox of Indian relics ; from Illinois. 

Olsen, Capt. Chris., and crew of schooner William Thompson. (See Wash- 
ington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Olsen, Capt. (iconic, and crew of schooner Willie M. Stevens. (See Wash- 
ington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Olsen, Copt. Thomas, and crew of schooner Epcs Tarr. (See Washington, 
D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

OLsen, Capt. Thomas, and crew of schooner Polar Wave. (See Washing- 
ton, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Oram, F. F. Specimens of minerals; from Alabama. 

Ova all, Capt. M. C. Small box of minerals ; from Virginia. 

Overton, />'. F. Fragments of fossils, &c. ; from Indian Territory. 

Palmer, Br. E. Box of ethnologica ; from California. 

Palmer, William. Specimens of living snakes ; from Virginia. 

Paries, Capt. Matthew, and crew of schooner Pari/ Crockett. (See Wash- 
ington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Parrish, W.J. A small collection of fossils ; from Kansas City, Mo. 

Pat rid; Br. J.J. B. Two casts of the "Cahokia monnd," of Madison 
County, Illinois. 

Pease, W. B. Collection of minerals, skull of swift, and heads and wings 
of two wild ducks ; from New Mexico. 

Peclc, Br. T. I. Stone muller and specimen of epidotic sienite; from Ten- 
nessee. 

Peeples, William A., schooner Addison Center. (See Washington, D. C, 
United States Fish Commission.) 

Peichardiere, Prof. 0. de la. A collection of birds' skins, nests, and eggs, 
reptiles, insects, and fishes; from Louisiana. 

Perlins, E., of schooner Grace B. Fears. (See Washington, D. C, United 
States Fish Commission.) 

Perry, J. A. Specimen of diatomaceous earth ; from Tun ta de Lobos, 
Barbadoes. 

Pettibone, William. Stone axe ; from Maryland. 

Phelps, W. W. Flint spear-head. 

Philbrick, E.E. Specimens of phosphates ; from Florida. 

Pirz, Anthony. A large collection of chemicals and products derived 
from animal matter, canned meats, wax candles, albuminum, &c. 

1'il is, A. Skeleton of turtle {Emys guttata) and skull of rodent. 

Poey, Prof. Felipe. A living specimen of Emysjamai. Cope ; from Cuba. 

Polcn, M. Boot of herb used by the Indians of San Bernardino, Cal., 
for heart disease. 

Poppelein Silicated Phosphate Company, Baltimore, Aid.. Samples of in- 
fusorial earths, samples of fertilizers, &c. 

Poiccl, Samuel. Specimen of lump-fish (Cyclopterus lumpus); from New- 
port, B. I. 



94 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Preston, B. E., Acting Director of Philadelphia Mint. Annual Assay 
Medal of 1879; obverse, H. 11. Linderinann ; reverse, tomb of Joseph 
Henry. 

Proctor, G. E. Specimen of flounder ; from the Squam River, Glouces- 
ter, Mass. 

Pyhas, Ben. Box of fossil plants from Alabama. 

Quick, Edgar B. Specimens of field mice {Synaptomys cooperi) • from In- 
diana. 

Bagsdalc, G. H. Collection of birds ; from Texas. 

Bandle, Bev. E. H. Two specimens of minerals. 

Bea, James E. Specimen of mineral. 

Bead, E. F. Box of Indian relics ; from Alabama. 

Beisinger, Lieutenant TJ. 8. JT. Fragments of Peruvian and Aztec pot- 
tery. 

Beynolds, J. E. Specimens of silicified woods and a box of stone imple- 
ments; from- Tennessee. 

Bhees, William E. Specimen of living snake and toad ; Washington, 
D. C. 

Bhees, William J. Living garter-snake {Entamia sirtalis) and toads 
(Bufo americanus) ; from Washington, D. C. 

Rhodes, Thomas. Specimens of leaf-shaped stone implements; from 
Ohio. 

Rhodes, W. E. Fossil shark's tooth ; from marl beds near the Bigbee 
Biver, Alabama. 

Richards, John E. Two boxes of living turtles (Cistudo clausa and Chcl- 
opus insculptus) ; from Pennsylvania. 

Bidgicay, Robert. Collections of birds ; from Illinois, Florida, and Cobb's 
Island, Virginia. 

Bison, John L. Two bottles of mineral water from Alabama. 

Bodgers, John. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 

Boessler, A. B. Twelve boxes of stone implements and minerals; from 

Tennessee and North Carolina. (Deposited.) 
Rogers, Thomas. Specimens of shells ; from England. 

Boper, Capt, B. I., of schooner Esther Ward, (See Washington, D. C, 
United States Fish Commission.) 

Bose, G. W. Specimens of ozockerite ; from Utah. 

Bose, Capt. Medeo,and cr^w of schooner Hiram Powers. (See Washington, 

D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Buth, J. A. Sinai 1 collection of Indian relics ; from Bucks County, Penn- 
sylvania. 
Buckley, Capt. Charles, of schooner Wm. A. Pew. (See Washington, D. 

C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Buckley, Charles, schooner Electric Flash. (See Washington, D. C, 
United States Fish Commission.) 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 95 

RiicJcley, Capt. Charles, of schooner Frederick Gerring, jr. (See Wash- 
ington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Fucker, James 8. Two boxes of ethnologica; from Indiana. 

Ryan, John J. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion. ) 

Ryan, Capt. Joseph, and crew of schooner David A. Story. (See Washing- 
ton, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Ryan, Matt., of schooner Lizzie. (See Washington, D. C, United States 
Fish Commission.) 

Ryan Matt., of schooner Seth StocJcbridge. (See Washington, D. C, 
United States Fish Commission.) 

Salvin, Prof 0. Eight species, nineteen specimens, of birds; from the 
Gallapagos Islands. 

Sawyer, David, schooner Constitution. (See Washington, D. C, United 
States Fish Commission.) 

Sawyer, R. J. Specimen of California salmon (Oncorhyuchus quinnat); 
from Green Bay, Michigan. 

Saycr i(; Fisher. Samples of adamantine bricks from New Jersey. 

Schanno, Joseph. Bulbs of the wild Camas; from Washington Terri- 
tory. 

Schneck, Dr. J. Collection of living turtles (Malacoclcmmys geographicus, 
M. pseudoyeographicus, Cistudo clausa, &c.) ; from Illinois. 

Schuermann, C. W. Pouch of opossum with foetal young, bottle of rep- 
tiles, and a living specimen of tbe stink-pot (Aromochelys odoratus) ; 
from Texas. 

Srh iirr.. Hon. Carl, Secretary of the Interior. Collection of minerals. 

Scott, George IT., of schooner Edwin C. Dolliver. (See Washington, D. 
C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Scott, George W., of schooner II. A. Durham. (See Washington, D. C, 
United States Fish Commission.) 

Scott, George ^Y., schooner Mary Story. (See Washington, D. C, United 
States Fish Commission.) 

Seudder, Newton P. Skins of the bobolink and blue-bird ; from New 
York; also large collection of sea birds, marine animals, &c.j from 
the Grand Banks. 

Seiler, I). W. Two trout affected with worms in bladder. 

Sellman, Henry. Box of different preparations of sardines. 

Sharp, J. M. Fragments of human skulls; from mounds in Louisiana. 

Shean, John, schooner Ida May. (See Washington, D. C, United States 
Fish Commission.) 

Shemelia, J (ones F, of schooner Wm. H. Raymond. (See Washington, D. 
C, United States Fish Commission.) 

Shepherd, Ii. T. Specimens of arrow-heads and Silurian shells; from 
Ohio. 

Sherman, Gen. W. T. Two specimens of siliciiied wood ; from Ari- 
zona. 



96 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Shoemaker, Ernest. Living snake (Ophibolus geiulus and Eutcenia sirta- 

Us) ; from Virginia. 
Sill, J. M. B. Mounted specimen of bunting ; from Michigan. 
Slater, Senator James H. Samples of coal ; from Oregon. 
Slatery, G. A. Stone sinker ; from Maryland. 
Small, E. E. Humpback whale (Megaptera) ; from Provincetown, Mass. 

(Purchased.) 
Smith, J). Living snake (Bascanlon constrictor) ; from Georgetown, D. C. 
Smith, Edwin W., schooner Storm King, of Provincetown. (See Washing- 
ton, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Smith, Greene. A large collection of birds' skins. 
Smith, Prof. H. L. Mounted diatoms. (Purchased.) 
Smith, 'John P. Eleven arrow-heads ; from Maryland. 
Smith, Mrs. ButhL. Stone pestle, lent for casting. 
Smith, Capt, Seicell W., and crew of schooner S. B. Lane. (See Washing- 
ton, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Snow A. Specimen of mineral; from Tennessee. 
Southwick, J. M. K. Samples of fishing-tackle ; from Ehode Island. 
Spainhauer, J. M. Insect ; from North Carolina. 

Spalding, B. W., through Bev. F. B. Scheetz. Hematite celt; from Mis- 
souri. 
Spangler, George. Fresh specimen of buffalo-fish. 
Spencer, Senator George E. Two specimens of minerals. 
Spurr, Capt. Alfred, and crew of schooner J. T. Wonson. (See Washing- 
ton, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Stabler, James P. Specimens of living snakes (Eutcvnia sirtatis, Opli ibohts 

doliatustriangnlus, 0. getulus) and owl (Scops asio); from Maryland. 
Stacy, Fred, (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Starr, Frederick. Box of minerals; from New York. 
Stearns, Silas. Specimens offish (Seriola, Pimelepteriis, Batrachus, Car- 

angus, Trachynotus, Ophichthys), and sponges ; from Florida. 
Steed, Aug nst us M. Specimen of insect. 

Stecdman, Dr. J. G. W. Specimen of catfish (Amiurus nigricans), weigh- 
ing 150 pounds, and two perch (Morone interrnpta); from the Missis- 
sippi River. 
Steele, Hon. Walter L. Specimens of rosy quail z crystals. 
Steere, Professor J. B. Box of ancient pottery ; from Brazil. 
Stevens, Levi. Two boxes coke; from Illinois. 

Stevenson, James. Large stone pestle; from near Great Salt Lake, Utah. 
Stokes, John H. An insect taken from a piece of ore 50 feet below the 

surface of the ground. 
Story, Lieut. J. P., Signal Service, U. S. A. Piece of telegraph-wire 

melted and disintegrated by lightning; from Texas. 
Stout, W. C. Stag-beetle ; from Arkansas. 
Statford, W. 0. Beetle (Dynastes herailcs)', from North Carolina. 



APPEXDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 97 

Sturm, Isaac. Worm found in Madeira vino, Alabama. 

Sumichrast, Prof. F. Box of birds and reptiles; from Tehauntepec. 

Sutton, John TT. Modern Japanese bow and arrows. 

Surveyor- General's Office, San Francisco, Gal. Box minerals; from Cali- 
fornia. 

Swan, James G. Specimens <>f fishes and shells, liber of common nettle 
used by the Makah and Quillehayte Indians for lines and fish nets; 
also smelt net made of nettle liber; from Neeah Bay, Washington Ter- 
ritory. 

Street, William. Specimens of minerals; from Xew York. 

Sweet, ('apt. William, of schooner Grace C. Hadley. (See Washington, 
D. C, United States Pish Commission.) 

Swigert, Lieut. S. M., TJ. S. A. Three dried fish skins. 

Syme, George B. Specimens of minerals; from Wyoming. 

Symmes, Rev. Francis. Cast of Indian stone implement; from Indiana. 

Tate, Benjamin II. Specimen of Gila monster (Heloderma suspectum) ; 
from Arizona. 

Taylor, Will. II. Two boxes of stone relics; from Tennessee. (Pur- 
chased.) 

Tasmania, Government of through H. M. Hall, Hon. Secretary Royal Com- 
mission. Specimens of Ornithorhynchus and Tachyglossus ; from Tas- 
mania. 

Teller, Hon. II. M. Specimens of nickel ore; from Colorado. 

Temple, J. II. Worked pieces of porphyry designed for implements. 

Tevis, J. B. Specimen of fish {Tetrodon lacigatus); from Delaware 
Bay. 

Thetford, S. B. Specimens of mineral. 

Thompson, G. H., passed assistant paymaster, U. S. N. Silver enameled 
cigar-case, match-box, and tray of Siamese workmanship ; also por- 
trait of II. R. II. Princess Sei Yelay Larna received by Paymaster 
Thompson from the King of Siam. 

Thompson, WArcy W. Pressed sertularian from Australia and New 
Zealand. 

Thompson, Henry. Specimen of ore:- from Utah. 

Thompson, Capt. William, and creiv of schooner Magic. (See Washington, 
D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 

TJwrpe, T. M. Two shad {Alosa sapidissima) ; from the Washita Hi ver, 
Arkansas. 

Tibbets,J. If. Mineral; from Washington Territory. 

Tokio, Japan, Mombusho Museum, Fujimaro TausJca, Director. A collec- 
tion of minerals and fishes; from Japan. 

Toner, Dr. I. M. Living alligator [Alligator Mississippiensis) ; from 
Florida. 

Townshend, Smith, M. J), A green oyster; sent for examination. 

Trevoy, ('apt. Edward, and crew of schooner Proctor Brothers. (See Wash- 
ington, 1). ('., United States Fish Commission.) 
S. Mis. 54 7 



98 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OP THE SECRETARY. 

Tristram, Rev. R. B. Specimens of New Caledonian birds. 
True, F. W. Specimens of living turtles and snakes; from Washing- 
ton, D. C. 
Tuggle, W. 0. Stone implement ; from Georgia. 
Tuller, A. Eggs of mud lien ; from California. 

Turin, Italy, Royal Zoological Museum of Turin. A collection of mam- 
mals and reptiles, in alcohol; from Italy. 
Turner, L. M. Twenty-five boxes of general natural history and ethno- 
logical collections ; from Alaska. 
Tyler, E. Specimens of herring ; from Lake Ontario, New York. 
Valentine, M. 8. Stone ax; lent for casting. 
Van Dyck, W. T. Parasite taken from Tamias. 
Van Wyek, P. A. M. Specimens offish {Pomolobus mediocris and P. verna- 

lis); from the Hudson River. 
Vaux, William S. Specimens of garnets and mica schist; from Fort 

Wrangel, Alaska. 
Velie, Dr. J. W. Box of alcoholic specimens of Florida fishes and two 

ruddy ducks. 
Vibert, Capt. John, and crew of schooner Argonaut. (See Washington, 

D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Wadsworth, Capt. Thomas, and crew of schooner Conductor. (See Wash- 
ington, D. C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Walker, II W. Specimen of mineral. 

Walker, 8. T. Sixteen boxes of birds, living and alcoholic reptiles, in- 
sects, birds' nests, human crania, and ethnological collections ; from 
Florida. 
Wallace, John. Mounted Bassaricyon gabhii (purchased). 
Wallace, Ren. Peter. Indian stone ornament ; (lent for casting). 
Wallace, Rev. 8. J. Small hematite celt; (lent for casting). 
Waller, Mr. Specimen of duck ; from Virginia. 
Washington, 1). C. : 
Interior Department : 

General Land Office. (See under the names of Surveyors-General A. 
R. Hardenburg, R. C. Mason, -and John Mason.) 
Nary Department: 

Bureau of Steam Engineering. (See under the names of Passed As- 
sistant Engineers (I. W. Baird and J. M. Emanuel.) 
Navigation Bureau, Cunt. W. D. Whiting. Box of soundings made 
by the U. S. S. Essex, W. S. Schley commander, off the coasts of 
Africa and South America. 
United States Navy. (See under the names of Lieut. Commanih r 
II Gorringe and Lieut. C. Belknap, G. M. Book, Capt. D. G. Mite- 
Ritchie.) 
Treasury Department : 

United states Mint, Philadelphia, Pa. Hon. R. E. Preston, acting di- 
rector. Copies of the annual assay medal. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF TIIE SECRETARY. 99 

Washington, I). C. — Continued. 

United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries. [Prof. Spencer F. 
Baird, Commissioner.) One hundred and forty-one packages 
zoological collections from Provincetown and Gloucester, Mass., 
and vicinity, put up by Prof. A. E. Verrill, C. Broivn Goode, and 
Tarleton II. Bean. (See also under the names of Charles G. 
Atkins, Tarleton II. Bean, II. C. Chester, F. N~. Clark, Yinal N. 
Edwards, G. Brown Goode, James W. Milner, and Livingston 
Stone.) Specimens have also been obtained by the Commission 
from the following parties : 

Alden, Capt. Oscar IV., and even- of the schooner Andrew Leighton. Rock cov- 
ered with crustaceans and sea-anemone. 

Allen, George K., schooner Gertie Foster. Portion of skull of black-fish. 

Anderson, Capt. Charles, and crew of the schooner Alice G. Wonson. A large 
collection of corals (Primnoa reseda, Paragorgia, &c), star-fishes, ascidians, 
barnacles, and rudder-fish (Palinurichthys perciformis). 

Ardendale, Edward, schooner Sea Foam. Spiny spider-crab (Liihodes main); 
from off Jeffrey's Ledge. 

Brown, James, schooner David A. Osier. Living pipe-fish (SipJwnostoma) ; from 
off Plymouth, Mass. 

Burnham, E. K. Several very large cod and hake sounds. 

Campbell, Capt. David, and crew of schooner Admiral. A collection of fishes 
(Myxine glutinosa, Simenchelys pai-asUicns. Pctromyson marinus, Scopelus, 
Synaphobranchus pinnatus, Anarrhichas minor), corals, sea-feathers, anem- 
ones, star-fishes, &c; from the Grand Banks and Banquereau. 

Cavanaugh, Capt. John, and crew of schooner Alfred Whalen. Rock covered 
with sponges and shells, hermit crabs, &c ; from George's Bank. 

Collins, ('apt. David E., and crew of schooner Gussie Blairsdell. Specimens of 
star-fish, sea-cucumbers, corals, bryozoans, &c, from George's Bank. 

Collins, Capt. John and crew, schooner Albert II. Hasting. Specimens of fishes 
(Phycis, Clvpea, Trachurus, Prionotus, tfc), beetles, lobsters, &c. ; from off 
South Shoal light ship. 

Collins, Capt. Joseph IV., and crew of schooner Marion. A collection of fishes 
(Somniosus, Synaphobranchus, Zoarces, Alacrurus, Centroscyllium, &c.)corais 
(Alcyonium, Paragorgia), star-fishes, sponges, &c; from the Grand, 
George's, and Banquereau banks. 

Critchett, Capt. John F., and crew of schooner Commonwealth. Specimens of 
corals (Primnoa, &c), spider-crabs {Lilhodes), and star-fishes; from 
( reorge's Bank. 

Croolts, Nathaniel, schooner Helen M. Dennis. Eggs of mollusk; from George's 
Bank. 

Cunningham ('apt. Augustus, schooner Geo. A. Upton. Sea-mouse (Aphrodita), 
taken from stomach of cod, caught off coast of Nova Scotia. 

Curtis, ('apt. George //., and crew of schooner Conductor. Specimens of corals 
(Acanthogorgia), sea-feathers, star-fishes, sea-anemones, &e. ; from Ban- 
quereau. 

Cm:, in, Captain, schooner Mist. Vertebra of whale; from Grand Banks. 

Dodd, Andrew IV. Jaw-bone of black-fish, taken on Coffin's Beach, Ips- 
wieli Bay. 

Dolliver, Captain I'ctcr and crew of schooner Grace h. Fears. Specimens of 
great northern sea-feather (Pennatula borealis), warty sea-rose (I'riieina) 
fishes (Synaphobranchus and Mepidosaurus), &c.; from La Have Bank. 

Don, //ass, Albert. Webb-fingered sea-robiu (Prionotus carolinw); from oil' 
Norman's Woe. 



100 APSEND1X TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Washington, J). C. — Continued. 
U. S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries — Continued. 

Dyer, Captain, of Provincetown, Mass. Piece of skin, two teeth of sperm- 
whale, and tooth of alligator; from the West Indies. 

Forbes, Maurice, schooner Fasten) Light. A curious piece of perforated clay 
slate, in the shape of a horse's hoof, taken from Grand Bank. 

Fowles, Frank, schooner Young Sultan. Specimens offish (Sebastes, Petromyzon, 
Anarrhichas, Leptoblennius, &c), star-fish, corals, sea-anemones, &c, from 
off Gloucester, Mass. 

Fowles, ('apt. M. V., and crew of schooner Young Sultan. Specimens of Norway 
haddock (Sebastes), sea-anemones, holoihurians, &c, from off Gloucester, 
Mass. 

Friend, George. Two specimens of split and dried leopard-fish (Lopholatilus 
clucmt leonliccps). 

Friend, Samuel. Osseous growth, taken from head of fifty-pound codfish. 

Getchell, ('apt. John (>., and crew <>f schooner <>iis I'. Lord. Specimens of fish 
(Sebastes, Ammodytes, Pomolobus, Cyclopterus, Squalus, Myxine, Prionotus, 
Clupea), &c. ; sponges, corals, crabs, sea-auemones, bryozoans, &c. ; from 
Brown's and George's Banks. 

Gill, Capt. Russell G., and crew of schooner Maud Gertrude. Large golden 
codfish, from Ipswich Bay, and flukes and part of the shank of an anchor 
of pattern used thirty years ago, covered with varieties of marine, ani- 
mals ; taken off Gloucester, Mass. 

Gilpatrick, ('apt. Briggs, and crew of schooner Herbert M. Rodgers. Specimens 
offish (Alepidosaurus, Synaphobranchus, Myxine, Petromyzen-, Ceniroscyllium, 
&c); corals (Aconella), sponges, sea-feathers, &c. ; from BanqueAau. 

Gilpatrick, Capt. Gilman, schooner Seth Stockbridge. Stones covered with 
Bponges and corals, and a crab ; from Banquerean. 

Goldsmith, J. B. Specimens of fungus (Phallus impudicus) ; from Rockport, 
Mass. 

Goodwin, Capt. Thomas, and crew of schooner Howard. Specimens of fishes 
(Centroseymnus, Chimoyra, Synaphobranchus, Macrurus, Haloporphyrus, Myx- 
ine. Arc): corals, star-lishes, sponges, sea-feathers, anemones, &c. : from 
Grand Banks. 

Gorman, Capt. John, and crew of schooner Geo. S. Boutwell. Specimens of 
fishes (Lophopsetta, Seomberesox, Hemitripterus), hermit crab, and a large 
sea-mouse (Aphrodita) ; from Western Bank. 

Gourville, Capt. Joint, and crew of schooner Rebecca Bartlett. Specimens of 
fishes (Zoarces, Murcenoides, Liparis), corals, anemones, hydroids, bryo- 
zoans, &c. ; principally from George's Bank. 

Colt, Addison. Bock, taken from George's Bank in is?r> by schooner Rival. 

Greenleaf, ('apt. Nathaniel, and crew of schooner Grace I.. Fears. Specimens 
of fishes (Macrurus, Centroscyllinm, Anarrhichas), &c, corals, star-fishes, 
sponges, sea-feathers, Ac: from Banquerean and the (hand Banks. 

Greenleaf, ('aid. ThomasF., and crew of schooner Chester I!. Lawrence. Speci- 
mens of corals (Paragergia and Keraloisis)j star-lishes (Asterias stellionura) 
sponges, hydroids, Ac: from Banquerean. 

Greenwood, captain, and crew of schooner Sultana. Specimens of crabs, lob- 
sters, corals, sponges, sea-lemons (lioltenia). and sea-eucunihcrs ( I'mtacla); 
from Clark's Bank. 

Hamlin, Capt. Peter, and crew of schooner Andrew Leii/hton. Specimens of 
corals and lishes ; from Banquereau. 

Herrick, Capt. William, schooner Augusta Werrick. Specimens of Hypsiptera 
argentea, found on deck while dressing mackerel; lance (Ammodytes), &c. ; 
from (Jeorge's Hank. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 101 

Washington, 1>. C. — Continued. 
U. 8. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries — Continued. 

Fodgdon, Capt. Thomas, and creir, of schooner Bessie W. Somes. Specimens of 
sea-feathers (Fennatula borealis and Balticina Finmarchica) and sea-anein- 
oncs; from the Grand Banks, 

Hodgdon, dipt. W. /•'., and cr&iv, of schooner Procter Brothers. Specimens of 
fishes (Synaphobranchus and Petromyzon), corals (Acanthogorgia, Paragor- 
gia), sea-feathers, &c. ; from Western Dank. 

Holbroolc, Joseph E., schooner Jennie T. Phillips. Specimen of cramp or tor- 
pedo fish (Torpedo occidentalis), weighing 250 pounds; taken ten miles 
south of Gloucester, Mass. 

Hoy, George W., schooner Mary /'. Chisholm. A very beautiful specimen of 
great free-coral (Paragorgia arborea), nearly five feet high and three feet 
broad, and some basket star-fisb (Astrophyton); from the Grand Banks. 

Hoyt, Edward F. A specimen of pipe lisli (Siphonosioma). 

Hoyt, W. E. Specimen of sea-bass (Centropristris); taken in weir off Nor- 
man's Woe. 

Hurlbert, ('apt. U. JL, schooner Sultana. Specimens of shells, hydroids, bryo- 
zoans, ascidians, holothurians, &c. ; from George's Bank. 

Hurlbert, Capt. William, schooner Franklin <s r . Scheclc. Specimen of finger- 
sponge (Chalina); from off Sankoty Head, Mass. 

Johnson, Copt. Benjamin, schooner Alaska. Specimens of sea-mice (Aphrodi- 
tea); from George's Bank. 

Johnson, Capt. Charles, schooner Lucille Curtis. Specimens of crabs (Neptunus 
Sayi) ; from NT. lat. 20° 45', W. long. 61° 32' ; shrimps from N. lat. 25° 14', 
W. long. 59° W ; also specimens of fish from South America and the 
West Indies. 

Johnson. Capt. Christian, schooner William Thompson. A specimen of fish 
new to science (Alepocephalus bairdii); from the Grand Banks. 

Johnson, ('apt. George A., and < r< ir, of schooner Augusta Johnson. Specimens 
of fishes (Macrurus Fabrieii, M.bairdii, Scombcresox, Centroscymnus, Centros- 
cyllium, Macrurus rupestris, Synaphabranchus), corals, sponges, sea-feath- 
ers, &c. ; from Banquerean. 

Johnson, Capt. Otis, schooner Helen M. Dennis. Specimen of finger-sponge 
(Chalina) ; from Brown's Hank. 

Johnson, t apt. /'., schooner John Smith. Specimen of lamper-eel (Petromyzon), 
sea-corn (eggs of Buccinum); from Brown's Bank. 

Kirby, Capt. William, schooner Wm. V. Hutchings. Specimens of important 
food iish new to science (Lopholatilus chamceleonticeps) ; from off Neman's 
Land; and ghost-fish (Crypiacanthodes), barnacles, star-fishes, sea-anem- 
ones, &c. j from George's Bank. 

Lee, Thomas. A very rare squid (Loligopsis pavo)', from the edge of the Gulf 
Stream. 

Ligsworlh, ('apt. John E., and crew, of schooner Mary Story. Specimens of 
sponge (Phakellia) and hydroids attached to rock; from La Have Hank. 

Low, John. A large branch of tree-coral (Primnoa resida); from George's 
Bank. 

Lurvey, William. Specimens of sea-corn (eggs of Buccinum). 
UcCalib, Final. A young blue-fish (Pomatomus saltatrix) ; from Gloucester 
Harbor. 

Met 'an ten, Mr., schooner ttachusett. Specimens of fishes ( Synaphabranchus and 
Myxine), sea-feathers (Pennatula, Balticina), corals (Acanella, Keratoisis), 
star-fishes, &c. ; from Banquereau. 

McCormack, Capt. John, and crew, of schooner Wachusett. Specimens of free- 
coral (Paragorgia arborea}, Bea-feather (Balticina Finmarphica), basket- 
fish (Astrophyton), sea-anemones, sponges, &c» ; from Banquereau. 



102 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Washington, D. C. — Continued. 

TJ. S. Commissioner of Fink and Fisheries — Continued. 

McDonald, Capt. James, and crew, of scliooner Magic. Specimens of corals 
(Acanella, Flabellum), sponges (Phalcellia), sea-cauliflowers, &c. ; from 
Grand Banks. 

McDonald, Capt. James, and crew, of schooner Willie M. Stevens. Specimens 
of fishes (Scombcresox), basket-fish (Astrophyton), &c. ; from La Have 
Bank. 

McDonald, Leu-is. A large perforated rock covered with hydroids and bryo- 
zoans; from North Bay. 

McDonald, Capt. William, and crew, of scjiooner X. If. Phillips. Specimens 
of tisbes (Lycodcs, Macrurus), corals, sponges, &c. ; from Grand Banks. 

McEachern, Daniel, schooner Rutherford I!. Hayes. Two chicken-halibut 
(Ifippoglossus vulgaris), from Jeffrey's Bank, and two small fiying-fish 
(Exoceetus). 

McEachern, Daniel, schooner Guy Cunningham. Specimens of fishes {Macrurus, 
Scopelus, Myxine), sea-feathers, star-fish, corals, sponges, &c. ; from the 
Grand Banks. 

McGraw, Philip. A small stickle-back (Gastcrosteus pungitius); from Glou- 
cester Harbor. 

Mclnnis, Capt. John, and crew, of schooner M. H. Perlcins. Specimens of 
fishes (Ammodytes, Myxine, Synaphobranchus), sea-feathers (Yirgularia, 
Pcnnatula), star-fishes (Asterias, Hippastcrias), sponges, anemones, &c; 
from off Newfoundland, Sable Island, and La Have. 

Mcintosh, Capt. Colin, and creiv, of schooner Nathaniel Webster. Specimens of 
fishes (Synaphobranchus), sea-feathers (Pennaliila),waity sea-rose ( Urticina), 
corals {Acanella); from Western Bank. 

McEinnon, Capt. Daniel, and crew, of schooner Mary F. Chish-olm. Specimens 
of fishes (Myxine), corals (Primnoa, Alcyonium, Flabellum), sponges, Mar- 
fishes, sea-anemones, &c. ; from Banquereau. 

McEinnon, Capt. John, and crew, of schooner Rutherford B. Hayes. Specimens 
of fisbes (Sebasles, Cyclopterus, Myxine, Zoarces, Merlucius, Cryptacanthodes, 
Melanogr animus, Hippoglossus, &c), star-fishes (Asterias, Cteuodiscus), 
worms, crustaceans, &c. ; from George's Bank. 

McEinnon, Capt. John, anclcrew, of schooner Ivanhoe. A small devil-fish (Oc- 
topus bairdii); from Jeffrey's Ledge. 

McEinnon, Thomas. A specimen of American sole (Achirus lineatus); from 
Brown's Bank. 

McPhee, Capt. Neil, and crew, of schooner Carl Schurz. Specimens of coral 
(Aram Ha), sea-feather (Balticina), sea-rose (Urticina), anemones, A. c. ; 
from Banquereau. 

Mansfield, James, and sons. Specimens of cod-fish, with small fisb imbedded 
in flesh ; from Grand Banks. 

Marchant, Capt. Jain:. Portion of jaw of shark, with teeth. 

Marlcuson Capt. A'., ami crew, of schooner Notice. Specimens of Qshes (Ma- 
crurus), corals, sea-feathers, star-tithes, shells, &c. ; from Banquereau. 

Martin, ('apt. Charles, ami creiv, of schooner Martha ,C. A tine specimen of 
honey-comb coral, fromoflfCape Negro, N. S. ; and rock-eel (Murcenoides 
gunnellus); from Gloucester Harbor. 

Martin. Capt. George If., and crew, of schooner Northern Eagle. Specimens of 
fishes (Zoarces, Raia, Seiiola, Cyclopterus, &c), star-fishes, &c. ; from Ips- 
wich Hay. 

Merchant, Ccorgc. Specimen of cake-urchin (Echinachnius parma), from 
Narragansett Bay ; also specimens of qua it z and mica, &c, from Barne- 
gat. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 103 

Washington, I). G. — Continued, 
r. 8. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries — Continued. 

Merchant, Orlando. A perfect specimen of rock-eel (Muramoides gunnellus). 

Merchant, Capt. Phillip, and arte, of schooner Marion. Specimens of fishes 
{Synaphobranchus, Anarrhichas, Macrurus, Myxine, Stomias, Chimcera, &c), 
corals, sponges, star-fishes, anemones, A:c. ; from Banquereau and the 
( (rand Banks. 

Morrissey, Capt. James D., and crew, of schooner- Plymouth Rock. Specimens 
of fishes (Raloporphyrus, Centroscyllium) corals, star-fishes, sponges, sea- 
feathers, &c. ; from Grand Banks. 

Morrissey, Capt. Janus I)., and crew of schooner Alice M. Williams. Speci- 
mens of fishes (Sebastes, Scopelus), sea-feathers (Balticina), and basket star- 
fish) from the Grand Banks. 

Morrison, Capt. R. L., and crew, of schooner Laura Nelson. Specimens of slime- 
eels {Myxine glutinosa), corals (Alcyonium), sea-anemones, &c. ; from the 
Grand Banks. 

Moulton, Capt. Charles V., and crew, of schooner Peter D. Smith. Specimens of 
fishes (Squalus, Prionotus, Petromyzon, Centroscyllium, Centroscymnus, Syna- 
phobranchus), corals (Primnoa, Paragorgia, Acanella, Acanthogorgia, Alcyo- 
nium, &c), sponges, &c. ; from George's and Clark's Banks. 

Murphy, Capt. C. D. , and crew, of schooner Alice M. Williams. A collection of 
corals (Alcyonium, Primnoa, Keratoisis, Acanella), sea-feathers, star-fishes, 
lamp-shells, anemones, &c. ; from the Grand Banks. 

Murphy, Capt. Thomas, and crew, 0/ schooner William H. Oales. Specimens of 
slime-eel {Myxine glutinosa), bush-coral (Primnoa reseda), sea-feathers (Bal- 
ticina Finnmarchica), and basket star-fish; from Banquereau. 

Kelson, Capt. Andrew, schooner Carlton. Rock covered with bryozoans and 
barnacles, and a finger-sponge (Chalina); from Brown's and George's Banks. 

Nickerson, Capt. James, and crew, of schooner Commonwealth. Specimens of 
fishes (Synaphobranchus, Myxine), sea-feathers, sponges, sea-anemones, &c. ; 
from the Grand Hanks. 

Nickerson, ('opt. James, and creu\ of schooner Bellerophon. Specimens of bush- 
coral (Acanella Xormani), sea-feathers (Pennatula borealw), warty sea-rose 
( Urticina), and shells; from La Have Bank. 

Norwood, Ferdinand. Specimens of sea-robiu (Prionotus carolinus)', caught 
oft' Rockport, ^la^s. 

Olsen, Capt. Christian, and crew, of schooner William Thompson. Four alcyo- 
nium corals, tube-making actiniana (Cerianlhus borealis), and a number of 
basket star-fish; from Grand Banks. 

Olsen, Capt. (;<<>r<jc, and crew, of schooner Willie M. Stevens. Specimens of 
fishes (Palinurichthys, Simenchelys, Anarrhichas, Synaphobranchus, Petromy- 
zon, Scopelus, &c), corals (Flabellum Goodei), sea-feathers (Pennatula), 
star-fishes, &c. ; from Banquereau. 

Olsen, Capt. Thomas, and crew, of schooner Epes Fair. Specimens of fishes 
(Cycloptt nts, Simenchelys, Synophabranchus, &c), corals {Primnoa, Keratoisis, 
Paragwgia), sea feathers {Pennatula, Balticina), star-fishes, anemones, 
&c. ; from Banquereau. 

Olsen, Capt. Thomas, and crew, of schooner Polar Ware. Specimens of pug- 
nosed eels, eggs of Buccinum, sea-feathers (Pennatula borealis) and anemo- 
nes ; from the Grand Banks. 

Parks, Capt. MattJmv, and crew, of schooner Davy Crockett. Specimens of fishes 
(Synaphobranchus), sea-mice (Aphrodytes), crabs, worms, &c. ; from the 
< irand Banks. 

Peeples, William A., and crew, if schooner Addison Center. Specimens of fishes 
(Synaphobranchus, Simenchelys), corals (Keratoisis, Paragorgia, Acanella), 



104 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Washington, D. C. — Continued. 

U. S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries — Continued. 

sponges, sea-feathers (Pennatula), shells (Terebratulina, Neptunea), anem- 
ones, &c. ; from Banquereau. 

Perkins, E., schooner Crave L. Fears. Specimens of fishes (Myxine, ICumicro- 
tremus), star-fishes (Asterias, JIij> paster ias, &c), corals, sponges, sea-feath- 
ers, anemones, &c. ; from the Grand Banks. 

Rodycrs, John. A living hair-worm (Gordius). 

Roper, Capt. R. /., schooner Esther Ward. Rock covered with shells, barna- 
cles, and hydroids; from George's Bank. 

Hose, Capt. Medeo, and crew, of schooner Hiram Powers. Specimen of Norway 
haddock (Sevastes marinus) ; from Jeffrey's Bank. 

Buckley, Charles, schooner Electric Flash. Specimens of fishes (Cyclopterus, 
Phycis, Lophopst ita, Gasterosteus), squid (Ommastrephes), and sand-fleas; 
from off Seguin Light, Maine. 

Buckley, Ch'arles, schooner Frederic Gerring, jr. Specimens of slime-eels 
(Myxine glutinosa), corals, sponges, Crustacea, star-fishes. &c. ; from the 
Grand Banks. 

Buckley, Capt. Charles, schooner William A. Pew. Rock covered with slid Is, 
hydroids, and bryozoans ; from George's Bank. 

Byan, John J. Perforated rock ; from George's Bank. 

Byan, Capt. Joseph, and crew, of schooner David A. Story. Specimens of 
sponges, (Phah Ilia, &c.) ; from the Grand Banks. 

Byan, Matthew, schooner Lizzie. Specimens of fishes (Scopelus), star-fishes, 
corals, and two tube-making actinias; from the Grand Banks. 

Byan, Matthew, schooner Seth Stockbridge. Specimens of sea-anemones, sea- 
feathers I Pennatula borealis), &c. ; from Green Bank. 

Sawyer, Hariri, schooner Constitution. Ovaries of blue-shark ; from Middle 
Bank. 

Scotl, George W., schooner Edwin C.Dolliver. Specimens of fishes (Macrurus, 
Synaphobranchus, &c), sea-feathers (Pennatula borealis, P. aculata, Balti- 
cina Finnmarchica), craw-fishes, star-fishes, shells, &c. ; from Sable Island 
Bank. 

Scott, George II'., schooner, TLA. Duncan. Specimensof fishes (Macrurus, 
Sebastes, Haloporphyrm, Centroscyllium, Myxine), corals, sea-feathers, 
sponges, &c. ; from the Grand Banks. 

Scott, George W., schooner Mary Story. Specimens of fishes (Sebastes, Orcy- 
mis. Lophopsetta, Achirus, Pomatomus), shells (Pect en, Modiola, Cyrptodaria, 
&c), Crustacea, sponges, hydroids, worms, &c. 

Shean, Joint, schooner Ida May. Specimens of herring (Clupea harengus) ; 
from off Norman's Woe. 

Shemelia, Joseph /'.. schooner Wm. 1L Raymond. Specimens of fishes and 
shells; from George's Bank. 

Smith, Edwin, IV.. schooner Storm Liny. Specimens of coral, sea-fan (Gor- 
gonia), and plastrons of large turtles; from Grand Cayman, Wesi Indies. 

Smith, Capt. Sewell ""., and crew, of schooner S. 2. Lane. Specimens of fishes 
(Petromyzon, Myxine, Synaphobranchus, Saloporphyrus, &c), corals (Alcyo- 
uimn, Acanthogorgia, (star-fishes) Crossaster, &c), sea-feathers ( Virgularia, 
Balticina), anemones, &<$»; from the Grand Banks and othesriocalities. 

Spurr, Capt. Alfred, andcrew, of schooner ./. F. Wonson. Specimens of star- 
fishes, anemones, ascidians, hydroids, &c. ; from off Chatham Island, 

Mass. 

Stacy, Fred. A large smelt i Osmerus mordax), taken in Squam River. 

sine!, Capt. William, schooner Grace C. Hadley. Specimens of fishes (Sebas- 
tes), star-fishes, sponges, crabs, shells. Ac. ; from George's and Browns 
Banks. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 105 

Washington, D. G. — Continued. 
U. S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries — Continued. 

Thompson, Capt. William, and crew, of schooner Magic. Specimens of capelin 
(Mallotus villosus), sea-feathers (Pennatula, Virgularia), corals, star-fishes, 
&c. : principally from Banquereau. 
Trvr<>;i, Capt. Edward, andcrew, of schooner Procter Brothers. Specimens of 

sea-anemones and barnacles; from Grand Banks. 
Vibert, Capt. John, and crew, of schooner Argonaut. Specimens of sponges, 
shells, bryozoans, crustaceans, &c. ; from the Grand and Western Banks. 
Wadsworth, Capt. Thomas, and crew, of schooner Conductor. Specimens of 
Norway haddock (Sebastes marinus), and a perfect individual of a rare fish 
(Scopelus sp.), that was washed on board the vessel; from the Grand 
Banks. 
Wells, Capt. Michael, schooner Water Spirit. Specimens of star-fishes and sea- 
spiders; from Western Bank. 
Williams, Frank. A line specimen of bill-fish (Scomberesox saurus) ; from 

the Sqnam River. 
Wilson, Charles. Egg-cases of the shell-iish (Sycotypus canaliculars); from 

l'ii>\ idence River. 
Wilson, Henry, schooner Flash. Specimens of boring-sponge, sea-anemones, 
warty sea-rose, (Urticina), star-fishes, shells, and three Kittiwake gulls, 
(Rissa tridactyla)', from the Grand Banks. 
Wilson, John J., schooner Volar Wave. Specimens of fishes (Centroscyllium, 
Centroscymnus, Synaphabranchus, Lycodes,) corals (Primnoa, Paragorgia, 
Acanthogorgia, Acanella, Alcyonium, Anthromastus), star-fishes, sponges, 
anemones, Arc. ; from George's Bank. 
Wonson, Everett 1'. A line collection of several varieties of bryozoans (Flus-> 
Ira, &c.,) taken by schooner Reporter on the (hand Banks; also a rare 
holothurian from off Gloucester. 
Wonson, John F. A large boulder covered with bryozoans, shells, hydroids, 

sponges, Ac; from George's Bank. 
Wonson, Samuel ('<.. schoontr John S. McQuinn. Specimens of fishes, (Phycis, 
Palinurichthys, Lophius, Sgjtalus, Petromyzon), and samples of mackerel- 
food (Scomber scombrus), taken off the coasts of .Maine and Massachusetts. 
Woodbury, Capt. ./., schooner Barracouta. Rock covered with barnacles, hy- 
droids, sponges, and shells from the George's Bank. 
War Department: 
Signal Service. (See under the names of Privates E. W. Nelson and 

Jj. M. Turner. 
Surgeon- GeneraVs Office, Ann;/ Medical Museum. Specimen of snake 
from Fort Davis, Tex. (See also under the names of Drs. R. T. 
Burr, Elliott Coues, B.J. D.Irwin, and Hospital Steward A. Geelcs. 
Surveys west of the one-hundredth meridian (Capt. G. M. Wheeler in 
charge). Sixty-lour boxes of minerals and volcanic rocks; a large 
collection of birds' skin s, eggs, and nests; specimens of mammals, 
fishes, reptiles, ;iii(l insects. 
United S'tates A rim/. (See under the names of (lateral W. T. Slier. 
man, General M. C M<i<js. Col. A. (I. Brackett, Lieuts. 11. Metcalfe, 
S. M. Swigert, J. /'. Jefferson.) 
Wasson, lion. 'John, surveyor-general Arizona. Specimens of minerals 

of various mines in Pinal, Pima, and Yamapai Counties, Arizona. 
Wayman, J. F. Small box of fossils from West Virginia. 
Webb, John S. Specimens of shells from Kentucky. 



106 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Weigcl, John. Specimen of hair-snake (Gordius aquations.) 

Wells, Capt. M. and crew, of schooner Water Spirit. (See Washington, 

D. 0., United States Fish Commission.) 
Wheatley, Charles M. Specimens of minerals. 
Wheeler, Capt. George M., U. S. A. (See Washington, D. C, survey west 

of the one hundredth meridian.) 
Wheeler, L. R. Specimen of mineral. 

Whitney, Oscar M. Gatlinite figure-pipe (lent for casting). 
Widman, Otto. Nests and eggs of Empidonax traillii and E. acadicus. 
Wilkinson, E., Jr. Box of beetles ; from Central and South America. 
Willeox, Joseph. A box of minerals ; from Pennsylvania. Crystals of 

siaurolite; from Georgia. 
Williams, Charles. Living snake (Cyclophis cestivus). 
Williams, Uev. C. Foster. Collection of stone relics (lent for examination) 
Williams, Frank, through Procter Brothers. (See Washington, D. C, 

United States Fish Commission.) 
Williams, Joseph. Malformed hen's egg. 

Wilson, Charles. (See Washington, D.C., United States Fish Commission.) 
Wilson, Henry, schooner Flash. (See Washington, D. C, United States 

Fish Commission.) 
Wilson, John I., schooner Polar Wave. (See Washington, D. C, United 

States Fish Commission. 
Wilson, Pv. A. Specimens of minerals ; from Ohio. 
Wiltheiss, C. T. Two inscribed tablets ; from Ohio. 
Window, Senator William. Specimens of ore; from Minnesota. 
Wingatc, Dr. J. T). Specimens of fossils ; from Pennsylvania. 
Woitz, Willie. Specimens of fish (Acipenser oxyrhynchus and Lepidosteus 

osseus) ■ from the Potomac River. 
Wonson, Everett P. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Com- 
mission.) 
Wonson, John F. (See Washington, D. C, United States Fish Commis- 
sion.) 
Wonson, Samuel S., schooner John S. McQuinn. (See Washington, D. 

C, United States Fish Commission.) 
Woodbcry, Capt. J., schooner Barracouta. (See Washington, D. C, 

United States Fish Commission.) 
Woodbury, Eldridge. Specimen of vertebrae of whale; from Massachusetts. 
Wood, John E. Specimen of soapstone ; from Virginia. 
Wood, Preston. Specimens of stone relics; from Illinois. 
Wood/cord, A.J. Specimens of living snakes and skins of rattlesnake 

( total us adamanteus) ; from Florida. 
Wotddridge, George. Tail of ray; from Florida. 
Wooldridge, Mrs. Two small living alligators; from Florida. 
Wooster, A.F. Specimens of birds* nests and eggs, and arrow-heads. 
Worthen, C. K. Two boxes of birds' skins. 
Yarrow, I>r.H. C, U.S.A. Living snake (Ucterodon jilatyrhinus), from 

.New Jersey. 



APPENDIX TO TIIE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



107 



Yates, Br. L. G. Human crania, &c, from cave in Alameda County, 
California. 

Zimmerman, (!. 11'., through F. G. Galbraith. Carved stone head of Iudiau 
design; from Pennsylvania. 

Unknown. Specimens of minerals from Virginia, Georgia, &c. ; speci- 
mens of fish (Raia and Diodon); two living owls (Bubo virginianus); 
arrow-heads, celts, &c; insects, cocoons, &c. ; and plants. 

STATISTICS OF EXCHANGES. 

BOXES SENT ABROAD IN 1879. 



Country. 


a X, 

5 a 
"a =* 
o a 

si 


a So 

!§. 

s * 

2 

1 

2 

1 

1 
1 

1 

1 

1 
1 
1 
1 

1 
1 

1 
10 
11 
14 

1 

1 
1 

1 

1 
1 
1 
1 


« 
O 
H 


AMERICA. 


3 
1 

3 

1 


5 




1 






Brazil 


4 




1 




2 


Cbili 


2 
1 
3 
3 
1 


3 




1 








3 




1 


Hayti 


1 




1 
4 
1 

1 
1 
1 
1 

2 
3 


1 




1 




2 




1 




1 




2 




1 


ASIA. 


3 


AUSTRALIA. 


3 




4 




1 




1 


2 




1 




o 

5 
4 
29 
63 

13 
7 
3 
3 

10 
3 
7 

1 


3 


EUROPE. 


G 




14 




411 












3 


Italy 


13 




8 




4 




4 




10 




4 




8 


Switzerland 


8 


Turkey 


2 









RECAPITULATION". 










32 

8 

209 


9 
1 
(i 

44 


41 




3 


Australia 


14 


Europe 


253 








Total 


251 


00 


311 







*Tho list of Smithsonian exchanges for Canada in contained in the report on domestic exchanges. 

Note. — Number of li«>\<-s, ::i 1 ; bulk in cubic feet 2,177; weight in pounds, 69,975; containing 14,059 
miscellaneous packages, of which 25 contained specimens of natural history. 



108 



APPEXDIX TO TTIE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



PACKAGES RECEIVED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FROM EUROPE 
ETC., FOR DISTRIBUTION IN AMERICA. 



ALABAMA. 

Tiini'fdoosa: 

Alabama University 

Geological Survey of Alabama 

ARIZONA. 

Prescott: 
Territorial Library 

ARKANSAS. 

Holly Grove: 
Literary Institute 

Little Hock: 

Governor of Arkansas 

State Library 

CALIFORNIA. 

Oakland: 
Universitj of California 

Sacramento : 
Agricultural and Horticultural Society 

Medical Society of California 

Sfate Agricultural Society 

State Library ' 

Han Francisco : 

Academy Of Sciences 

California Historical Society 

Mercantile Library Association 

Geological Society 

( l-eological Survey of California 

Stockton : 
Society of Natural History 

COLORADO. 

Denver : 

Agricultural Societj 

Governor of Colorado 

Territorial Library 

Golden : 
School of M iocs 

CONNECTICUT. 

Hartford : 

Board of Agriculture 

< onnecticul Societj of Natural Eistory 

State Agricultural Society 

SToun^ r\ i » ii s Institute... 

Middletown : 
Wesleyan College 

New Haven .■ 
American Journal of Arts and Sciences 

American (Menial Society 

Connecticut Academy of Sciences 

Sheffield Scientific School 

State Board of Agriculture 

Yale College 

Yale College Observatory 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. 

Georgetown : 

Georgetown College 

Georgetown College Observatory 

Washington : 

Agricultural Department 

American Medical Association 

Army Medical Museum 

Botanic Garden 

Coast Survey 

Census Bureau 

Columbian University 

Construction, Bureau of 



3 

1 
2 

2 

105 
1 
1 
2 
(i 



39 

1()4 
2 
2 
27 

1 



119 
37 

ii 

53 
11 
2 

1 



District of Columbia— Continued. 

Washington — Continued. 

Corporation of city 

Education, Bureau of 

Engineer Bureau 

Entomological Commission 

Geological Survey of the Territories ... 
Governor of the District of Columbia .. . 

Hydrographic ( >fiice 

Indian Commissioners 

Interior Department 

Land Office 

Library of Congress 

Light-House Board 

Marine Hospital 

Mint, Director of ... 

National Ac: ninny of Sciences 

National Museum 

Nautical Almanac 

Naval Observatory 

Navigation, Bureau of 

Navy Department 

< (rdnanee Office 

Patent Office. 

Philosophical Society 

Provost- Marshal-General 

Signal ( Mice 

SpencBrian Business College 

State Department 

Statistics, Bureau of 

Surgeon-General's Office 

Treasury Department 

War Department 

Washington Sentinel 



FLORIDA. 

Tallaha 
Academy of Tallahassee . . 



GEOEG] \. 

Savannah : 

ElSt-31 I ll SOI 1- t\ ol G : O! .,1 I 

Atlanta : 
City Library 



Carbondab . 
Southern Illinois Normal University. 

Chicago : 

Academy of Science 

American Electrical Society 

Astronomical Society 

Board of Trade 

1 learborn • Observatory 

Free Librarv 

Museum of Nat oral History 

Observat ory 

Public Library 

Society of Natural History 

University ' 

State Microscopical Society 

Galesbu-rg .- 

Academy of Music 

Lombard Cni\ ersity 

Moro : 
American Pomological Society 

\ ormal : 

State Natural History Society 

Rock Island : 
Augustanat !ollege 

Springju Id : 

Geological Survey 

State Board of Agriculture 

State Library 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



109 



INDIANA. 

<lr, , ncastle: 
Asbury University 

Indianapolis : 

Academy of Science 

( i-eclogica] Society 

Geological Survey of Indiana ... 

Indiana Historical Society 

Public Library 

Richmond : 
Richmond Scientific Association 



IOWA. 

Davenport : 
Academy of Natural Sciences 

It, corah: 
Norwegian Lutheran College 

Des lf< 

Governor of Iowa 

State Horticultural Society 

State Library 

Stair University 

Dubit 
Iowa Institute of Science and Arts ... 

Iowa City : 

State Historical Society 

Slate Hniveisity 

KANSAS. 

Leavenworth : 

Kansas Acadeni> of Music 

Kansas State Academy of Science 

Topelca: 
Kansas Historical Society 

KENTUCKY. 

Franl-fort: 
Geological Sui vey of Kentucky 

Louis 

Hlsti ric'al Societj of Kentucky 

Public Library 

/,' ism Iril/c : 

Logan female College - 

1 "i ISIAXA. 

Baton Rouge •' 
State University. 

us: 

New (iiii-.iiN Academy of Science 

State Library ' 

MAINE. 

.1 ugvsta : 

Commissioner of Fisheries 

Historical Society el' Maine 

Brunswick : ' 
Dowdoin College 

/.< W \st01\ : 

Androscoggin Natural History Society 

Norway : 
High School ami Academy 

Portl 
Port] ml So< iety el' Natural History . . 

Saeo : 
\ oi I institute. 

r, at, rvill 
Coiby University 

MARYLAND. 

.-1 it nit pnl is : * 
Saint .1 ell li s College 

United States Naval Academy 

Baltimore: 
American Journal of Mathematics ... 

A. Mil: la \ el Si ■ U< es 

Historical Socii t\ of Maryland 

Johns Hopkins University 

Mercantile Lfbrars ' 

PcaboiH institute 

Superintendent Public Instruction ... 



lllll 

5 

4 
2 

1 

1 

7 

2 
17 



MASSACHUSETTS. 

Amherst: 

Astronomical Observatorv 

College Library... 

Massachusetts Agricultural College 

Boston: 

Agricultural Society 

American Academy of Aits and Sciencea . .. 

American < 1 \ aaecdlogical See iety 

American Statistical Association 

Art Museum 

Boston Medical and Surgical Association ... 

Boston Observatory , 

Boston Society of Natural History 

Boston University 

Bowditch Library 

( Commonwealth of Massachusetts 

City Library 

Library of Boston Hospital 

Massachusetts Historical Society 

Massachusetts Horticultural Society 

Massachusetts Institute of Technology 

Massachusetts State Board of Agriculture.. 

Massachusetts Si ate Board el' Charities 

Massachusetts State Heard of Health 

Massachusetts State Library 

Medical and Surgical Journal 

New England Historical and Genealogical 

Sec iety 

Public Library 

Sanitary Commission 

Sanitary Institute — . 

Worcester County Hort [cultural Sec iety 

( 'ambridge : 

Entomological < !lub 

Harvard College 

Harvard < !ollege ( (bservatory 

Lawrence Scientific School 

Museum of Comparative Zoology 

Peabody Museum 

Jamaica Plain .- 
r.ussey Institution 

Leicester : 
Public Free Library 

Manchester : 
Literary and Philosophical Sec iety , 

I'cm -ivjc Island : 
Andersen School 

Salem ■ 
American Association forthe Advancement 

el' Science 

Essex Institute 

Pea in iily Academy 

WeUesley : 
WeUesley College 

Worcester : 

American Antiquarian Society 

Technological Institute, 

MICHIGAN. 

A mi .! rbor : 

Geological Survey of Michigan 

Observatory 

University of Michigan 

( 'oldwater : 
Michigan Librarv Association 

Detroit: 

( rcological Survey el' Michigan 

State Agricultural Sec iety , 

Lansing: 

State Agricultural Society 

State Heard of Health ...' 

State Library 

MINNESOTA. 

Minneapolis : 

Minnesota Academy of Sciences 

Saint Paul .■ 

Academy el' Natural Sciences 

Chamber of Commerce - 

Minnesota Historical Society 



1 
1 
1 

1 

228 

2 

1 
1 

1 

1 

314 

1 



3 

1 
2 
3 
1 
(i 
13 
14 

3 

■18 
1 

1 
1 

1 
59 
33 

1 

135 

15 



58 
111 
131 



110 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



MISSOURI- 

Columbia : 

Geological Survey of Missouri 

University of Missouri 

Jefferson: 

< reological Survey of Missouri 

Governor of .Missouri 

7hst::ir. ;il S:::r'\ 1 Missouri 

State Board of Agriculture 

Kansas < 'ity : 
Western K<\ Lew of Science and Industry... 

Rblla : 
Missouri School of Mines 

Saint Louis: 

Academy of Sciences 

Mercantile Library - 

Polytechnic Department of the Washington 

University 

Public School Library 

University 

NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

Concord : 

New Hampshire Historical Society 

New Hampshire State Lunatic Asylum 

Hanover : 

Hart on iu tli College 

Observatory 

NEW JERSEY. 

Burlington: 
Geological Survey of New Jersey 

Hoboken : 
Stevens Ins' ttnte of Technology 

Mount Holly: 
Burlington County Lyceum of History and 
Natural Sciences 

Newa rk : 
Historical Society of New Jersey 

New Brunswick ; 

< reological Survey of New Jersey 

Rutger's Scienl i tic School 

Princeton: 

C illege of New Jersey 

Green School of Science 

NEW YORK. 

Albany: 

Albany Institute 

Adirondack Survey Office 

Dudley Observatory 

Governor of New York , 

New York Literary Society 

New York Medical Society 

New York Museum of Natural History 

New York State Agricultural Society 

Xew Voi K State Cabinet of Natural History. 

Regents of New Fork University '.. 

State Library 

Brookh/n : 

Brooklyn Librarj - 

Long Island Historical Society 

Buffalo: 

Buffalo Historical Society 

Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences 

( Observatory 

< i nton .- 
Hamilton College Observatory 

Ithaca : 
Corrn 11 University 

\ ew 1 m k City : 

Academj of Si ienccs 

American Agriculturist 

American ( 'in mical Society 

American Chemist 

American ethnological Society 

American Geographical Society 

American Institute 

American Institute of Architects 

Amcrii inJ tire I of Microcopy 

American Naturalist - 

American Public Health Association 



1 

1 

IG9 
3 

1 
2 

2 



13 
4 

IS 
1 
1 
1 
7 

44 
1 
5 

58 

1 

1 

1 
99 

1 

4 

10 

142 

1 

10 

7 

6 

89 

30 

7 

1 

1 

2 



New York— Continued. 

New York City — Continued : 

American Society of Civil Engineers 

Aster Library 

Columbia College 

Cooper l"n ion 

Engineering and Mining Journal 

Historical Society 

Insurance 1 >epartment 

Lenox Library 

Mann fact uter and Builder 

Medical Society 

Mercantile Library Association 

Meteorological ( Observatory 

Metropolitan Museum of Art 

Museum of Natural History 

Xew York Academy of Medicine 

New York Medical Journal 

New York Stat istical Society 

New York Times 

Numismatic and Archaeological Society... 

Prison Association 

Public School Society 

Sanitarian 

Scientific American 

School of Mines , 

Society of Civil Engineers 

University of New York 

United States Sanitary Commission 

Poughkeepsie : 
Vassar Female College 

Syracuse : 
University 

Troy:" 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute 

West Point : 
United States Military Academy 

NORTH CAROLINA. 

Raleigh : 
State Library 

OHIO. 

Ashtabula : 
Anthropological Society 

Cincinnati : 

American Medical College 

Historical and Philosophical Society 

Mercantile Library 

( Observatory 

Public Library 

Society of Natural History 

Zoological Society 

Cleveland : 

Academy of Natural Sciences 

Kirtland Society 

Observatory 

Columbus: 

Geological Survey of Ohio 

Horticultural Society 

State Agricultural Socii ty 

State Loan! of Agriculture 

state Library 

Delav 
Ohio. YVeslevan University 

Gambier .• 
Ken\ on College , 

PENNSYLVANIA. 

Allegheny: 

Observaton ■ ■ 

Socictj of Natural Sciences of West Penn 
sylvania 

BcthU 
Packer University 

Carlisle : 
Carlisle Societj of Literature. 

Easton ; 
Institute of Mining Engineers 

Germ: i. o on : 
Germantown Literary Association 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Ill 



Pennsylvania— Continued. 

Harrisburg i: 
Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania. . 

State Agricultural Society .. 

State Library 

Lev isburg : 
University. 

Media ■ 
Delaware County Institute of Science. 

Philadelp) 

Academy of Natural Sciences 

American Entomological Society 

American Journal of Conchology 

American Naturalist 

American Philosophical Society , 

Board of Public Charities 

Board of trade 

Board of Public Education 

Central High School 

Franklin Institute 

Franklin Journal 

Historical Society 

Horticultural Society 

Library Company 

Library of Pennsylvania Hospital 

Medical and Chirurgical Journal 

Medical Society 

Medical Times 

Numismatic and Archaeological Society. . . . 

( )l>ser van >r\ of Girard College 

Pharmaceutical Society 

Royal Bavarian ( lonsulate 

Soi ii tv for Alleviating the Miseries of Pub- 
lic Prisons 

Universitj of Pennsylvania 

United States Mint.' 

Wagner Free Institute 

Zoological Society 



KnODE ISLAND. 

Newport : 
Society of Science 

Providence : 

American Naturalist 

Brown University .... 

Rhode island Historical Societj 



smi | H CAROLINA. 

Charleston .- 
Charleston Medical Journal and Review. 
Charleston Museum of Natural History . 

College of Charleston 

Elliot Society of Natural History 

Library Society 

South Carolina College Library 

South Carolina Historical Society 

South Carolina Medical Association 

Columbia : 
State. Library 



TENNESSEE. 

Kno tville: 
Tennessee Philomatesian Society 

/.. banon 
Cumberland Unit ersity 

Nashville : 
Historical Society of Tennessee .. 
Stat Library... 



TEXAS. 



v mil: 
Soule University, 



Burlington : 
University of Vermont 

Castleton .• 

Orleans Countj Socil fcj Of Nal ural Sciences 

Montpelier : 
State Library 



270 

5(5 

3 

12 

187 
1 

•j 

3 

4 

23 

9 

17 
1 

24 
1 
8 
1 

12 
5 
1 

28 
1 



Charlottesville : 
T t- - rsi'\ si \ ii_,'iri 

ll,i i niitoi) : 

Hampton Normal Institute 

Lexington : 
School of Civil Engineers r 

New Market : 
Polytechnic Institute 

Richmond : 
State Library 

WISCONSIN. 

Beloit .- 
Geological Survey of Wisconsin 

Galesville : 
('.ales- ille University 

Inmanville .- 
Scandinavian Society 

Madison : 

Academy of Sciences 

College of Arts, University of Wisconsin 

Historical Society 

State Agricultural Society 

State Library -. .' 

University of Wisconsin 

Milwaukee: 
Naturhistorischer Verein 

Neenah : 
Wisconsin Scandinavian Library 



BRITISH AMERICA. 

Duhut, Canada : 
Scandinavian City Library 

Fredericton, New Brunswick: 

Legislative Library 

Library of Kings College 

University of New Brunswick 

Guelph, ('anuria : 
Ontario School of Agriculture 

Halifax, Nova Scotia : 

Department of Mines 

Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Sciences 

Hamilton, Canada: 

Scientific Association 

Kingston Canada : 
Queen's College ( iliservatory 

Montreal, Canada : 

Canadian Naturalist 

Entomological Society of Canada 

( reologieal Survey of Canada 

Ilisl orical Society ■ . . . 

Legislative Library 

L'Union Medicale de Canada. 

McGill College 

Medical Association of Canada 

Medical Record 

Medical and Surgical Journal 

Natural History Society 

Numismatic and Antiquarian Society 

Observatory 

Societe dAgriculture du Has, Canada 

Ottawa, < 'anada : 

Department of Agriculture 

Library of the House of Commons 

Library of Parliament 

Literary and Scientific Society 

Surveyor < ieneral 

Quebec, Cantata : 

Hi id a.) hec | no de la Province de Quebec . . . . 

Geographical Society 

Historical Societj 

History and Nat ural History Society 

Laval University 

Literary and Historical Society 

Literary and Horticultural Society 

Literary and Philosophical Society. 

Na I ural isle Canadien 

Observatory 



10 
1 
1 
1 
3 

2 
1 
4 

83 
1 
7 

11 
1 
2 

18 

4 



112 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Bisitisii America— Continued. 

Toronto, Canada: 

Canadian Entomologist 

Canadian Institute 

Canadian .Journal 

( lanadian Journal of Medical Science - . . 

Canadian Lancet 

Department of Marine and Fisheries — 
Entomological Society 

Fruit Growers' Association 

House of Assembly . 

Literary and Historical Society 

Magnetic Observatory 

Meteorological Office 

Observatory 

Trinity College 

l"ni\ ersity 

University College 

Saint John, New Brunswick: 
Library of the Mechanics' Institute 

Saint John's, Newfoundland: 
Geological Survey of Newfoundland 



Total number of addresses 444 

Total number of packages .">, Tsli 



INDIVIDUALS. 

Abbe, Prof. C - 

Abbot, Colonel 

Abbott, Dr. C.C 

Adams, Charles F 

Agassiz, Prof. A 

Alberdurgh, F. C. Tli 

Allen, J. A 

Andrews, K. E 

Atkins, Mr 

Bailey, II. B 

Bairrf.S. F 

Bancroft, Hon. George 

Lansott.P 

Harlow. Hon. F. C 

Barnard, President F. A. P.. 

Barnard, < S-en. J.G 

Laniard, I. M 

Lames, Hon. W 

Barnes, Professor 

Bassett, II. F 

Baxter, Mr 

Baxter, CoL J. H 

Beecher, Rev. Charles 

Bell, Robert 

Bellows, Rev. II. W 

Berkmans, Mr 

Berton, M 

Bessels, Dr. E 

Billings, Dr. J. S 

Linnev, \V. G 

Blake, Prof. W. P 

Bland, Thomas 

Blandy, John F 

Blasius, Professor 

Bleasdale, Re\ . < lannon 

Boardman, s. L 

Boehmer, < reorge II 

P-otta, \'inz.'iice 

Brachvogel, CTdo 

Liendel, Dr. F 

Brewer, Dr. T. M 

Broadhead, G. C 

Brooks, W. K 

Bronghton, Fred 

Brovi n, John C 

Brush, Prof. I reorge J 

Burgess, Edward 

Burnett, Dr. S. M 

Canby, W. M 

1 ai ]>\\ all, Mr 

Casamap, P 

Cerpmad, C 

Chamberlin, C. W 

Cliainbei lin, T. (' 

Chandler, Capt. R 

Chandler, Professor C. F 



Individuals — Continued. 

Clarke, Prof. S. F 

Clarkson, M 

Claypole, E. "W 

Clement, M 

Clinton, George W 

Collin, Prof.J.H.C 

Conn, Dr. G. P 

Cook, Prof. G. H 

Cope, Prof. K. D 

Coues, Dr. E 

Cox, Prof. E.T 

C resson, F. T 

Crosier, Dr. E. S 

Dall, W. II 

Dalv, Chief hist ice 

Dana,Prof.J. D 

Daniells, Prof. W.W 

Davis, Admiral 

Dawson, ( i. M. 

1 »a\\ son, ■T.W 

Dean,J. W 

Deane, Dr. R 

Delefontaine, Prof. Dr 

Del fosse, Hon. M 

Denham, Ld 

Dinwiddie, Robert 

Dod.A.F 

Domville, Hon. J 

Dow, (.'apt. . I. \V 

Dow lies, John , 

Draper, Prof. D , 

Draper, Prof. Henry 

Eastman, Professor 

Eaton, Dr. D. C 

Edison, T. A 

Edwards, AY. II 

Ellis, F.15 

Elsberg, Dr. L 

Emerson, Prof. B. , 

F on rso] i, Ben. K 

Emmons. S. F 

Emory, Gen. W. II 

Endeman, Dr. II 

Engelman, Dr. George 

Ericson, Capt. John 

Farlow, Prof. W. G 

Ferrell, Prof. W 

Firth, A 

Fisher, Dr.G. I 

Foerster, Doctor 

Fort in, Hon. P 

Fremont, < reneral 

Franklin, Capt. S. P 

Gabb, W. M 

i rarman, Doctor 

Gatschet, Albert S 

Genth, F. A 

Gerard, Doctor 

Gibbs, Mr 

Gilbert, G.K 

Gill, Prof.T, \' 

Gilpin, Governor 

Glover, Townsend 

< ioode, Prof. ( ;. Brown 

Goottfellow, Ed 

Cray, Prof. Asa 

Crav.O. W.,& Son 

( rreene, Lieut. F , 

Griswold, S. P. 

Gross, Dr.S. D 

Guttenberg, G 

Guyot, Prof. A 

Bagen, Prof. A. H 

Hall, Prof. A 

Hall, Prof. lames 

Hammond, I. L 

llaikness. Professor 

Harper Brothers , 

Harrington, W 

Harrison. \V . (r 

Hawkins. ('. Rush 

llayibn, Dr. F. V 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



113 



Individuals — Continued. 

Hilgard, Prof. J. E 

Hili,G."W 

Hillebrand, E 

Hind, Prof. W. Y 

Hinde, Prof. O..J 

Hinrichs, Prof. G. 

Hitchcock, Professor 

Hi: I [on. John 

Hjort, Re\ . O. I 

Holden, Prof. E. 8 

Holmes, Nut 1 1 , 

Horn, G 

Hoi 11 -I 

Hough, F. B 

Houghton, ( (sgood &Co 

Howe, T. O... 

Hiihne, J uliau 

Huart, Abbe 

Huart, Victor 

Humphreys, General A. A 

Hunt, Dr.Ch.O 

Hunt, Dr. Sterry 

Jackson, M . . . '. 

Jarvis, Dr E 

Johnson, Prof. J. L 

Jones, C. C 

Joins, Dr. J. Matthew 

Jordan. Prof., Dr. 

Kapp, William 

Norman C 

Kerr, W. C 

Kimball, J. P 

King, Prof. Clarence 

q, Prof. J. T 

Kircbloff, Theodore 

Ki ohn, Rev. .1 

Langley, Professor 

Lawrence, < i-eorge N 

Lea, I>r. Isaac, 

Le Conte, Doctor 

Lee, Dr, William 

Lridy, Dr. Joseph 

Lesley, Professor 

I eux, Leo 

Leeuh, E 

Lindau, Prof. Leopold 

Lockington, W. X 

Loomis, Prof. E 

Lyman, Prof. B. S 

McCosh. Presidenl 

Miillolt, J. W 

Manigault, Prof. <r. E 

Marsh, Prof. O.C 

Martin Prof. H.N 

Marx, Maj.G 

Mason, Prof.O.T 

Matile.G. A 

Matthew.G. F 

Meigs, Dr. J. Aitken 

Mover, A braham 

Miller, S. A 

Mitchell, II 

Myer, ( reneral A.J 

Name, A . \ on 

Newberry, Dr. J. S 

Nov. i ami 1 1. Prof. S 

Nov. ton, II 

Newton, Prof. II. A 

Nipher, F E 

Nolan, E.J 

Xonllmll, Ch 

Norton, S. A 

Non i si , Prof. J. E 

Olmstead, Dr. L.G 

Olmstead, Rev. L. E 

Ostendorfer, () 

(It is, I loot I l|' 

Ottos, n. Rev. J. A 

Packard, Doctor 

Packard, jr., Prof. A. S 

Parker & Douglas 

Patterson, Captain 

S. Mis. 54 8 



1879. 



Individuals— Continued. 

Peale, Dr. A. C 1 

Peale.T.K l 

Pearson, Jonathan 8 

IV, k, I'll. II i 

Toot, Rev. Stephen D 1 

I'll it. J; 3 

Peters, Prof. C. II. F 3 

Philbrick, John I) 1 

Pickering Professor 1 

Pinkham" Prof. G. L 1 

Poole.Dr.H ...\ 1 

Porter, Rev. Noah 1 

Pourtales, Count 2 

Powell, riot: J. W 8 

Praetorius, Doctor l 

Preuss, Rev. II. A l 

Prime, Temple 1 

Punipelly, Raph 1 

Putnam.'P.W 2 

Kan, Prof. < 'hallos 4 

Redfield, John II 1 

Redfield, Professor 1 

Rice, Hr. John A 1 

Richardson, jr 6 

Ridgway. Robert. 8 

Riley, Prof. C. V 2 

Roessler.A.K 1 

Roessler, F. E l 

Rogers, Professor :; 

Rogers, Prof. H. B 3 

Ross, Prof. A. M 1 

Rutherfurd, L. M 1 

Rust, 'I'h. N 1 

Safford, Prof. I. n 2 

Safford, Prof. W. H 1 

Salisbury, E. E 1 

Salisbury, Dr. J. H 2 

Salisbury, Stephen 1 

San ford, John E 5 

Sargent, Professor 1 

Scudder, Dr. S. II 6 

Schott, Charles A. 1 

Schumacher, Dr. II. A 1 

Schurz, Hon. Carl 2 

Schuster.M J 

Solwvn, A. R, C 7 

Sevffarth, Dr. (J- l 

Sh'epard, Prof. Ch. U 1 

Shepherd, Prof. II. E 1 

Sillhnan, Professor 7 

Simon, Prof. Dr. W 1 

Small wood, Doctor 1 

Smith, Dr. Sidney J 2 

Smith, Dr. AV r . M 1 

Smith, E. A 1 

Smit h, Prof. H. L 1 

Smith, Prof. J. Lawreneo 3 

Snow, Dr. E 5 

Snow, Prof. F. H 1 

Sparks, J 1 

Spofford,A.E 3 

Squier, E. G 2 

St. John, Prof.O 2 

Stevenson, Captain 1 

Stevenson, William C 1 

Stone, Rev.E. M 1 

Stone, 2 

St ill ham, Rev. J. F 1 

Stoecker, II 2 

Storor, Professor 1 

Sylvestor, I'lolossor 3 

Thomas, Prof. C 1 

'I' hoi 11 son, John H !• 

Thurber, Geo I 

Thurston, R. H 1 

Tryon, < reorge W. 3 

Tuckorninnn, Professor 8 

Turner, Doctor T. G 2 

Twining, Prof. II 4 

Uhler, Prof. P. R 2 

Vorrill, Prof. A. E 3 

Wagner, Prof. W 1 



114 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Individuals— Continued 

Waldo, Leonard 

Walker, Prof. F.A 

Ward, James W 

Ward, Professor 

Ward, Townsend 

Warder, Dr. A 

Watson, J. C 

Watson, Professor 

Watson, Prof. Sereno 

Wells, M. 1) 

Wheatly.Ch.M :... 

Wheeler, Capt. George M 

"Whipple, George AI 

White, Dr.C.A 

White, Dr.C.E 

While, Dr.E.A 

AV hit eaves, J. P 

Whitney, Prof. J. D 

Whitney, Prof. W. D 

AYilley, Henry 

Williams, Kev. S. Wells 

Wilson, Dr. Daniel 



Individuals— Continued. 

WinclielkN.H 

Winthrop, C 

Winthrop, R. S 

Witcher, F. W 

Woodward, Dr. J. J 

Woodworth, Doctor 

Worthen, Dr. A. H 

Wyman, Colonel 

Wyman, Commodore 

Yarnall, Professor 

Yarrow, Doctor 

Fates, Dr. L.G 

Youmans, Dr. E. L 

Young, Prof. C. A 

Young, C.B 

Zaremba, Dr. C. W 

Zehran, M. 

Total of individuals 

Total of packages 



341 
1,185 



RECAPITULATION. 





No. of addresses. 


No. of packages. 




1877. 


1878. 


1879. 


1877. 


1878. 


1879. 




392 


292 


444 
341 


3,868 
1,094 


4, 059 
1, 233 


5,780 




374 370 


1,185 










Total 


766 


662 


785 


4, 962 


5, 292 6. 971 









APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 115 



ACTS ANT) RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS RELATIVE TO THE 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, AND THE NATIONAL MU- 
SEUM. 

Forty-fifth Congress, Third Session, 1878-'79. 

AN ACT to aid in the protection of the public buildings and property against loss and 

damage by lire. 

Be it enacted by the Senate and JLm.se of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled. That a commission composed 
of the Commissioner of Patents, the Supervising Architect of the Treas- 
ury Department, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution is 
hereby constituted and authorized to examine such automatic signal 
telegraph systems as may be submitted to them by the owners and agents 
thereof and to ascertain which of the same is best adapted for the pur- 
pose of the earliest and most certain transmission by signal of the occur- 
rence of fire, and also the adaptability, usefulness, and need of the same 
for the further protection of the buildings and property of the govern- 
ment in the several departments in Washington, and to report the re- 
sults of their examination to the next session of Congress. 

Approved, December 13, 1878. 

(Statutes of the United States, Forty-fifth Congress, third session, 
chapter 4, page 257.) 

AN ACT authorizing the Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution to appoint an Act- 
ing Secretary in certain cases. 

Be it enacted by the Senate and Souse of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That in the case of the death, 
resignation, sickness, or absence of the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution, the Chancellor thereof shall be, and he is hereby, authorized 
to appoint some person as Acting Secretary, who for the time being shall 
be clothed with all the powers and duties which by law are devolved 
upon the Secretary, and he shall hold said position until an election of 
Secretary shall be duly made, or until the Secretary shall be restored to 
his health, or, if absent, shall return and enter upon the duties of his office. 

Approved, January 21, 1879. 

(Statutes of the United States, Forty-fifth Congress, third session, 
chapter 21, page 264. 

AN ACT making appropriations for the service of the Post Office Department for the 
liseal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and eighty, and for other pur- 
poses. 

Sec. 20. That mailable matter of the fourth class shall embrace all 
matter not embraced in the first, second, or third class which is not in 
its form or nature liable to destroy, deface, or otherwise damage the 
contents of the mail-bag, or harm the person of any one engaged in the 
postal service, and is not above the weight provided by law, which is 
hereby declared to be not exceeding four pounds for each package 
thereof, except in case of single books weighing in excess of that amount, 



116 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

and except for books and documents published or circulated by order of 
Congress, or official matter emanating from any of the departments of 
the government or from the Smithsonian Institution, or which is not 
declared non-mailable under the provision of section thirty-eight hun- 
dred and ninety-three of the Eevised Statutes as amended by the act of 
July twelfth, eighteen hundred and seventy-six, or matter appertaining 
to lotteries, gift concerts, or fraudulent schemes or devices. 

(Statutes of the United States, Forty-fifth Congress, third session, 
chapter 180, page 360.) 

AN ACT making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the government for tho 
fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and eighty, and for other pur- 
poses. 

* * * And all collections of rocks, minerals, soils, fossils, and ob- 
jects of natural history, archaeology, and ethnology, made by the Coast 
and Interior Survey, the Geological Survey, or by any other parties for 
the Government of the United States when no longer needed for inves- 
tigations in progress shall be deposited in the National Museum. 

(Statutes of the United States, Forty-fifth Congress, third session, 
chapter 182, page 394.) 

Forty- sixth Congress, Second Session, 1879-'80. 

JOINT RESOLUTION filling existing vacancies in the Board of Regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 

Resolved by the Senate and Rouse of Representatives of the United States 
of America in Congress assembled, That the existing vacancies in the 
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution of the class other than 
members of Congress, shall be filled by the reappointment of Asa Gray. 
of Massachusetts, Henry Coppee, of Pennsylvania, John Maclean, of 
New Jersey, and Peter Parker, of the city of Washington, whose terms 
have expired. (Public Resolution No. 2. Statutes of the United States, 
Forty-sixth Congress, second session, p. 299.) 

Approved, December 19, 1879. 

AN ACT for i lie election of a bronze statue of Joseph Henry, late Secretary of the 

Smi! hsonian Instil ution. 

Be it enacted by (he Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled^ That the Regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution be, and are hereby authorized to contract with W. 
W. Story, sculptor, for a statue in bronze of Joseph Henry, late Secre- 
tary of the Smithsonian Institution, to be erected upon the grounds of 
said I nsi it nt ion; and for this purpose, and for the entire expense of the 
foundation and pedestal of the monument, the sum of fifteen thousand 
dollars is hereby appropriated, out of any moneys in the Treasury not 
Otherwise appropriated. 

Approved, June 1, 1880. 

(Statutes of the United States, Forty-sixth Congress, second session, 
chapter 110, page 154.) 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF 
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR THE 
YEAR 1879. 



The Executive Committee of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution respectfully submit the following report in relation to the 
funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Congress for the National 
Museum, the receipts and expenditures for both the Institution and the 
Museum for 1S79, and the estimates for the year 1880. 

CONDITION OF THE FUNDS, JANUARY, 18S0. 

The amount originally received as the bequest 
of James Smithson, of England, deposited 
in the Treasury of the United States, in ac- 
cordance with the act of Congress of August 
10, 1846 $515, 169 00 

Residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 
1865, deposited in the Treasury of the United 
States, in accordance with the act of Con- 
gress of February 8, 1807 26, 210 63 

8541, 379 63 

Additional amount deposited in the Treasury 
of the United States, derived from savings, 
&c, authorized by act of Congress, Febru- 
ary 8, 1867 108, 620 37 

Amount received as the bequest of James 
Hamilton, of Carlisle, Pa., February 21, 

1874 " 1, 000 00 

109, 620 37 

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the 
United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent., payable 
semi-annually 651, 000 00 

In addition to the above, there is invested in Virginia Bonds 

and certificates, $88,125.20, valued January 1880, at 32, 000 00 

Also the cash balance in the United States Treasurer's 

hands, January 2, 1880 20, 894 06 

Total Smithson funds, January 2, 1880 $703, 894 06 

117 



118 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Virginia stoclc. — The Institution owns the following bonds and certifi- 
cates of the State of Virginia : 
Consolidated bonds : 

58 bonds, Nos. 11521 to 11578 inclusive, 

for $1,000 each. $58, 000 00 

1 bond, No. 1380, for 500 00 

2 bonds, Nos. 4191 and 4192, for $100 

each 200 00 

Deposited with the Treasurer of the United States $58, 700 00 

Deferred certificates : 

No. 4543, dated July 1, 1871, for $29, 375 07 

No. 2909, dated July 1, 1871, for 50 13 

Deposited with Riggs & Co 29, 425 20 

Total of Virginia securities 88, 125 20 

The estimate by Riggs & Co. of the value of these bonds 

and certificates, January 1, 1880, is 32, 000 00 

The coupons on the consolidated bonds for January 1 and July 1, 1879, 
were sold for the Institution, November 12, 1879, as follows: 

$3, 480 Virginia, $30 coupons, at S3 $2, 888 40 

30 Virginia, $15 coupons, at 90£ 27 08 

12 Virginia, $3 coupons, at 92 11 04 

3, 522 2, 920 52 

Uess commission on $3, 522, at h of one per cent. 17 (50 

Net proceeds of coupons $2, 908 92 

Hamilton bequest. — James Hamilton, of Carlisle, Pa., be- 
queathed to the Smithsonian Institution (February 24, 
1874) $1, 000 00 

This amount is deposited in the Treasury of the United States as an 
; addition to the Smithson Fund, in accordance with the Act of Congress 

•of February 8, 1807. 

Interest received for the year 1879 $G0 00 

RECEIPTS in L879. 

Interest on $650,000 for the year 1879, at per cent $39, 000 00 

Interest on Virginia bonds: 

Sale of coupons, by Biggs & Co., for January 1 and 
July 1, 1879, for $:5.5^ (November 12, L879), at 83, 

90;]:, 92, less commission. 2,908 92 

.Interest on Hamilton fund of $1,000 for the year L879 00 00 

Legacy of Simeon Babel, of Uew York 402 59 

Balance on hand at the beginning of 1S79 19,632 57 

Total receipts for the year 1879 $G2, 004 08 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 119 

EXPENDITURES IN 1879. 

Building : 

Repairs and improvements $2, 232 28 

Furniture and fixtures (for new offiees, 

&e.) 1,110 25 

$3,312 53 

General expenses: 

Meetings of the Board 580 80 

Lighting the building 74 50 

Heating the building 234 96 

Postage and telegrams 215 38 

Stationery 982 83 

Incidentals, insurance, ice, hauling 918 94 

Salaries 13, 150 00 

Extra clerk hire and labor 159 65 

Books and periodicals 567 13 

16, 884 19 

Publications and researches : 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 3, 129 49 
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections . . 6, 170 24 

Smithsonian annual report 97 86 

Besearches 975 85 

Apparatus 14 S~) 

Laboratory 206 84 

Explorations 683 70 

11, 278 83 

Exchanges : 

Literary and scientific exchanges 9, 554 17 

Gallery of Art : 

Purchase of busts „ 50 00 

Total expenditures in 1879 $41, 110 02 

Balance in Treasury of United States January 2, 1880 $20, 894 06 

Among the receipts for the year is a bequest of $102.59 by Dr. Sim- 
eon Habel, of Xew York, the author of one of the Smithsonian Contri- 
butions to Knowledge, published in 1878, entitled "The Sculptures of 
Santa Lucia Cosumalwhuapa in Guatemala." The author was an Aus- 
trian physician who relinquished his medical practice to make at his 
own expense a tour of exploration through Central America. The re- 
sults of his researches were presented to the Smithsonian Institution 
for publication. Professor Henry afforded every facility to Dr. Habel 
for the preparation of his work, by furnishing him a room for several 
mouths at the Institution where he could have his drawings copied by 
a skillful artist, and the doctor in appreciation of this courtesy informed 
the Secretary that on his death he would leave a part of his property to 
the Smithsonian Institution. 



120 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Notice of his death on the 1st of January, 1879, at New York, having 
been received, steps were taken to secure the promised legacy, and the 
sum actually received from the Emigrant Savings Bank of New York, 
in accordance with Dr. Habel's instructions, was $402.59. To this sum 
it is proposed that $97.41 should be added, so that the amount of $500 
may be deposited iu the Treasury of the United States as a part of the 
permanent fund. 

Repayments. — The Institution has made temporary advances during 
the year for freight, &c, the repayment of which, with the amount 
leceived from sales of the publications of the Institution, &c, have 
been deducted from the expenditures for the year. 

These repayments are as follows : 

To exchanges,. $919 G9 

To building , 1, 302 58 

To furniture 41 00 

To stationery 16 50 

To Smithsonian publications 242 07 

To incidentals 12 81 

To postage 9 46 

Total repayments in 1879 $2, 544 11 

ESTIMATES FOR 1880. 

The following are the estimates of receipts by the Institution for the 
year 1880, and the appropriations required for carrying on its operations 
during the same period. 

Estimated receipts. 

Interest on the permanent fund, receivable 

July 1, 1880, and January 1, 1881 $39, 000 00 

Interest on the Hamilton fund for 1880 60 00 

Sale of Virginia coupons, due January 1 and 

July 1, 1880 2, 800 00 

$41, 860 00 

Proposed appropriations. 

For building $2, 000 00 

For general expenses 14, 000 00 

For publications and researches 14, 000 00 

For exchanges 10, 000 00 

For books and apparatus ■ 1 , 000 00 

For contingencies 860 00 

41,860 00 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 121 

NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The following appropriations were made by Congress in 1879 for dis- 

bursal under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Preservation of collections, Smithsonian Institution : For pres- 
ervation and care of the collections of the National Museum, 
including those from the International Exhibition of 1876. 
(Forty-fifth Congress, third session, chapter 182; 1879, 
March 3) 823, 000 

Distribution of duplicates : For expenses of making up into 
sets, for distribution to colleges and museums, the duplicate 
ores, minerals, and objects of natural history belonging to 
the United States. (Forty-fifth Congress, third session, 
chapter 182 ; 1879, March 3) 5, 000 

Preservation of collections, Smithsonian Institution, Armory 
Building : For expense of watching and storage of articles 
belonging to the United States, including those transferred 
from the International Exhibition of 187G. (Forty-fifth Con- 
gress, third session, chapter 182 ; 1879, March 3) 2, 500 

Additional security against fire: For providing additional se- 
curity against fire in the Smithsonian building for. the gov- 
ernment collections, in accordance with report of the commis- 
sion appointed to examine the public buildings, December 
10, 1877. (Forty-fifth Congress, third session, chapter 182; 
1879, March 3) 3, 000 

For completing and preparing for publication the contributions 
to North American Ethnology, under the Smithsonian Insti- 
tion : Provided, That all the archives, records, and materials 
relating to the Indians of North America, collected by the 
geographical and geological survey of the Eocky Mountain 
Region, shall be turned over to the Smithsonian Institution, 
that the work may be completed and prepared for publica- 
tion under its direction : Provided, That it shall meet the ap- 
proval of the Secretary of the Interior and of the Secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institution. (Forty-fifth Congress, third ses- 
sion, chapter 182, 1879; March 3) 20, 000 

For a fire-proof building, for the use of the National Museum, 
three hundred leet square, to be erected under the direction 
and supervision of the Eegents of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, in accordance with the plans now on file with the Joint 
Committee of Public Buildings and Grounds, on the south- 
eastern portion of the grounds of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, said building to be placed east of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, leaving a roadway between it and the latter of not 
less than fifty feet, with its north front on a line with the 
south face of the buildings of the Agricultural Department 
and of the Smithsonian Institution, and all expenditures for 



122 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

the purposes herein mentioned, not including anything for 
architectural plans, shall be audited by the proper officers 
of the Treasury Department. (Forty-fifth Congress, third 

session, chapter 182 ; 1879, March 3)* $250, 000 

Smithsonian Institution: For the preservation of the speci- 
mens of the United States surveying and exploring expedi- 
tions 1879. (Forty-fifth Congress, third session, chapter 183, 

page 417; March 3, 1879) 4,000 

The following is a statement of the receipts, expenditures, and bal- 
ances of the National Museum accounts : 

PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS AND DISTRIBUTION OF DUPLICATES. 

Receipts. 
1879. 
January 1. Balance unexpended of appropria- 
tion for year endiug June 30, 1879 . $11, 389 30 
Appropriation for deficiencies, 1879 . 1, 000 00 
July 1. Appropriation for the year ending 

June 30, 1880 28, 000 00 

Cash refunded for coal and freight. 290 76 



$43, G80 00 



Expenditures. 

For the quarter ending March 31, 1879 $6, 818 41 

For the quarter ending June 30, 1879 . , 8, G26 G9 

For the quarter ending September 30, 1879 9, 900 40 

For the quarter ending December 31, 1879 0, 842 37 



32, 1S7 s7 



Balance available from January 1 to July 1, 1880 11, 492 19 

FOR ARMORY BUILDING. 

Receipts. 
1S79. 
Jan. 1. Balance unexpended of appropriation 
for the year ending June 30, L879 ... 
July 1. Appropriation for year ending June 30, 
1880 . 

Rxpnidihircs. 

For the quarter ending Mareh 31,1879 

For the quarter ending June 30, L879 

For the quarter ending September .">(>, 1879... 
For the quarter ending December 31, 1879... 



$1, 171 24 




2, 500 00 






3 671 24 


928 27 




128 38 




606 33 




970 72 






2 (i '>3 70 







Balance available from January 1 to July 1, 1880 $1, 037 54 

' I "i ;i lull account of the construction of this buiJuing see the report of the 
National Museum Building Commission. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 123 

FOR ADDITIONAL, SECURITY AGAINST FIRE. 

Receipts. 
1870. 
July 1. Appropriation for year ending June 30, 1880 $3,000 00 

Expenditures. 

For the quarter ending- September 30, 1879 .... $ 161 05 

For the quarter ending December 31, 1879 1, 230 63 

1,692 58 

Balance available from January 1 to July 1, 1880 1, 307 42 

FOR COMPLETING CONTRIBUTIONS TO ETHNOLOGY. 

Eeceipts. 
1879. 

July 1. Appropriation for the year ending June 30, 1880. $20, 000 00 

Expenditures. 
For the two quarters ending December 31, 1879 13, 769 <>o 

Balance available from January 1 to July 1, 1880 0, 231 00 

FOR FIRE-PROOF BUILDING FOR THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Eeceipts. 

1879. 

March 3. Appropriation for new building $250, 000 00 

Expenditures to Jan. 1, 1880 143, 140 38 



Balance available from January 1 to July 1, 1880. $106,853 62 

SUMMARY. 

The Executive Committee have examined 687 vouchers for payments 
made from the Smithson income during the year 1879, aud GOO vouchers 
for payments made from appropriations by Congress for the National 
Museum, making a total of 1,377 vouchers. All these bear the approval 
of the Secretary of the Institution, and a certificate that the materials 
and services charged were applied to the purposes of the Institution. 

The committee have examined the account books of the National Mu- 
seum and find the balances as before stated — preservation, $1 L,492.19; 
armory, $1,037.54 ; security against fire, $1,307.42— to correspond with the 
certificates of the disbursing clerk of the Department of the interior. 
They also find the balance of $106,853.62 of the National Museum build- 
ing appropriation corresponds with the certificate of the disbursing 
officer of the Treasury I >epartnient January 5, 1880. 

The quarterly accounts current, bank-book, check-book, aud journal 
of the Institution have been examined and found to be correct, and show 



124 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

a. balance to the credit of the Institution on the 2d of January, 1880, in 
the hands of the Treasurer of the United States of $20,894.06 available 
for the current operations of the Institution. 
Respectfully submitted. 

PETER PARKER, 
W. T. SHERMAN, 
Executive Committee Smithsonian Institution. 
Washington, January 19, 1880. 



REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMISSION. 125 

National Museum Building Commission, 

Office of Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, D. C, January 19, 1880. 
To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution: 

Gentlemen: For several years past the attention of the Board of 
Regents has been called to the rapid growth of the collections in the 
National Museum and the need of increased accommodations for the 
same. This necessity, however, was not deemed sufficiently impera- 
tive to authorize a request for special Congressional legislation until 
the close of the Centennial Exhibition, when it became evident that 
the articles gathered by the Smithsonian Institution for the exhibition 
in Philadelphia, under the act of Congress, added to the numerous cen- 
tennial exhibits presented to the United States and taken charge of by 
the Smithsonian Institution, constituted a mass of material for which 
no provision could possibly be made in the present Smithsonian build- 
ing. Under these circumstances, the Board of Eegents on the, 5th of 
February, 1877, memorialized Congress for an appropriation of 8250,000 
for the "immediate erection of a spacious building," and a few weeks sub- 
sequently a bill for the purpose passed the Senate, but too late in the 
session to secure consideration in the House of Representatives. The 
effort was renewed during the winter of 1877-'78, but likewise without 
action. On the 3d of March, 1879, however, the desired appropriation 
was made through a provision in the sundry civil bill, as follows : 

" For a fire-proof building for the use of the National Museum, 300 
feet square, to be erected under the direction of the Regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, in accordance with the plans now on file with the 
Joint Committee of Public Buildings and (hounds, on the southeastern 
portion of the grounds of the Smithsonian Institution, two hundred and 
fitty thousand dollars : Said building to be placed east of the Smithso- 
nian Institution, leaving a roadway between it and the latter of not less 
than fifty feet, with the north front on a line with the south face of the 
buildings of the Agricultural Department and of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tion ; and all expenditures for the purposes herein mentioned, not includ- 
ing anything for architectural plans, shall be audited by the proper of- 
ficers of the Treasury Department." 

Anticipating the early action of Congress in the premises, the Board of 
Regents, on the 17th of January, 1879, adopted the following resolu- 
tion : 

" Resolved, That the Executive Committee of the Board, or a majority 
thereof, and the Secretary be, and they are hereby, authorized and em- 
powered to act for and in the name of the Hoard of Regents in carrying 
into effect the provisions of any net of Congress that may be passed pro- 
Aiding for the erection of a building for the National Museum." 

Accordingly, on the 7th of March, 1879, Hon. Peter Parker and Gen- 
eral W. T. Sherman, the resident members of the executive committee, 



126 EEPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMISSION. 

with the Secretary, met in the office of the Institution, and after organiz- 
ing under the title of "National Museum Building Commission," of which 
General W. T. Sherman was chosen chairman, proceeded to adopt such 
measures as in their opinion appeared best calculated to realize, with the 
least possible delay, the intention of Congress. 

The committee at the outset invited General M; C. Meigs, Quarter- 
master-General U. S. A., to act in the capacity of consulting engi- 
neer to the commission, and also selected Messrs. Cluss and Schulze, 
whose plans for the new building- were those approved by Congress, as 
superintending architects. Mr. Daniel Leech was appointed secretary 
of the commission. 

To remove as far as possible any doubt as to the sufficiency of the ap- 
propriation for a building in accordance with the plans approved by Con- 
gress. Mr. Edward Clark, Architect of the Capitol, and General -Meigs, 
a tier carefully considering the provisional estimates of the architects, 
informed the commission that in their opinion the amount was sufficient 
for the purpose. 

To obtain a clear understanding of the intent of Congress in making the 
appropriation, as well as to ascertain how far, if desirable, the commission 
might be authorized to depart from the plans before the Committees of 
Public Buildings and Grounds when the act was passed, the chairmen 
of the respective committees (Hon. H. L. Dawes and Hon. Philip Cook) 
were consulted ; whereupon these gentlemen officially informed the com- 
mission " that, provided the general design be retained, it was not their 
intention, nor that of their committees, to confine the Board of Regents 
of the Smithsonian Institution to the minor details of the aforesaid plans, 
but to authorize any modifications thai might appear to them desirable 
in the interest of economy or for the better adaptation of the building to 
its object." 

On ascertaining that the appropriation could be made immediately 
available under the clause directing that the account should be audited 
by the proper officers of the Treasury Department, the Secretary of the 
Treasury was, on the 27th of March, requested to designate some owe of 
his force to act as disbursing officer. Accordingly Maj. T. J. Hobbs, 
disbursing clerk of the department, was selected, and payments were 
authorized to be made by him on vouchers approved by the Secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institution as provided for in the following resolution : 

"Resolved, Thai the commission appointed by the Board of Regents of 
the Smithsonian Institution to superintend the construction of a new 
fire-proof building for the National Museum hereby authorize Prof. S. 
i\ Baird, Secretary of the Institution, to act as their agent to approve 
for payment by Thomas J. Hobbs, all bills for services and supplies from 
such funds as are placed in I lie hands of the latter by said commisssion 
for such pur-poses, and the Secretary of the Treasury is hereby respect- 
fully requested to instruct Thomas J. Hobbs, disbursing agent, to pay any 
bills when thus certified and found to be otherwise technically correct." 



REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMISSION. 127 

Having tlius prepared the way to a commencement of active opera- 
tions, specifications were at once prepared and proposals invited i'or car- 
rying on the work. Ground was broken on the 17th of April, 1879. 

The concrete foundations were begun on the 29th of April, and the 
mirk-work of the walls on the 21st of May, the main walls being com- 
X>leted on the 1st day of November. 

In consequence of the low prices of the more important building 
materials, very favorable contracts were made, especially for the brick 
required and for the iron-work, since the price of iron advanced very 
materially within a few months from the date referred to. The same is 
true with regard to glass, bricks, and, in fact, almost all building mate- 
rials. 

For details of construction, as well as for a statement of expenditures 
to date, the board is referred to the appended report of the superintend- 
ing architects. 

The estimate (f $250,000 for the construction of a museum building 
did not include the heating apparatus. As the work progressed, how- 
ever, it became evident that all the underground piping for water, gas, 
and steam, at least, could be obtained from the fund. 

In anticipation of an appropriation for the purpose, it was deemed 
best to obtain provisional bids for a steam-heating apparatus. Accord- 
ingly proposals were invited: first, for the underground pipes; second, 
for the boilers; third, for the radiators. The aggregate of the estimates 
for the three items varied from $13,940 to $55,080. 

The lowest bid was rejected on account of inadequacy of the supply of 
heat. The next to the lowest was that of Messrs. Baker, Smith & Co., 
for $19,708, which was accepted, and a contract made for the under- 
ground pipes for $5,770. 

An appropriation of $30,000 has been asked of Congress for the com- 
pletion of the heating apparatus throughout, for the gas and water fix- 
tures and the electric apparatus required for clocks in the building, for 
signals, alarms, &c. 

Before the building can be occupied it must, of course, be furnished 
and lifted up with cases, of which, as might be expected, a large provis- 
ion is required. According to a calculation, the cases that will be needed, 
if placed end to end, will extend to a distance of more than 8,000 feet, 
with a total of shelving surface of about 75,000 square feet. The front- 
age of the cases will be over 14,000 feet, so that, allowing for the cross- 
ing trom one case to another a journey of at least three miles will be 
required even to take a cursory glance at all the objects in the collection. 

The question of the best material for the cases has not been definitely 
settled, the choice lying bet ween iron and hard wood. In order to assist 
in determining this question satisfactorily, arrangements have been 
made to obtain working plans of the cases used not only in a number of 
museums in the United States, especially in Cambridge, Boston, and 
New York, but also in Europe. The new building now being erected for 



128 REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMISSION. 

the collections of the British Museum is one where it is supposed the 
best experience has been made use of in the plans of the cases, and ar- 
rangements have been made to obtain copies of the same. The new iron 
cases of the National Museum at Dresden are also under investigation. 
Iron is more expensive than wood, but involves less danger of decay, and 
there is also an especial advantage in the fact that the material may be 
so much thinner as to increase the interior space, while the objects in the 
cases are less obscured. Of course, it must not be forgotten that the 
National Museum is expected to discharge its functions for an indefinite 
period of years. 

The provision of Congress directed that the new building should be 
placed to the east of the present Smithsonian edifice, at least fifty feet 
from its southeastern corner. The question was considered of having 
the interval greater than this minimum, but it was found that this would 
involve the extension of the building beyond the boundary of the Smith- 
sonian reservation and carry it to the unassigned portion of the square. 
Although there was nothing in the act to prevent this encroachment, 
yet in view of the possibility that the southeastern portion of the public 
land between Seventh and Twelfth streets would be required for some 
other purposes, perhaps for a Congressional Library, it was thought 
best to encroach upon it as little as possible. 

In addition to its answering the purpose for which it was primarily 
intended, it is confidently believed that the new National Museum build- 
ing will exercise an important function in serving as a model for similar 
establishments elsewhere. 

Of course, in a city where the cost of land is a matter of important 
consideration, the one-story plan cannot always be carried out, the usual 
position of story above story being necessary to secure the desired space. 
Most colleges and universities, however, have ample grounds belonging 
to them, the occupation of which by large buildings is allowable. Under 
such circumstances, the same amount of fire-proof space can be had for 
from two-thirds to one-half the usual cost. 

The office of member of the Building Commission has been by no means 
a sinecure, weekly meetings having been held, with scarcely an inter- 
ruption, from the first organization, as shown by the full reports kept 
of the proceedings. General Meigs, as consulting engineer, until his 
recent departure on a tour of duty, was present at every meeting and 
continually aided the Commission by his advice, rendered so valuable by 
his long familiarity with building operations on a large scale, and with 
the whole question of the proper construction of contracts, lie visited 
the grounds nearly every day and closely inspected the progress of the 
work. To him are also due valuable suggestions on the methods of cov- 
ering the roofs and on other details. 

The duties of the secretary of the commission have consisted in keep- 
ing the record of the proceedings of the meetings, in assisting in the 
preparation of contracts for execution, in engrossing the bills for settle- 



KEPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMISSION. 129 

meut, and in many other points. These services Mr. Leech has zealously 

performed, and to the entire satisfaction of the commission. 

Mr. William J. Rhees, chief clerk of the Smithsonian Institution, has 

also rendered valuable services. 

Respectfully submitted. 

W. T. SHERMAN, 

PETER PARKER, 

SPENCER E. BAIRD, 

National Museum Building Commission. 
S. Mis. 54 9 



130 REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 



Architects' Office, National Museum Building, 

Washington, D. C, January 1, 1880. 
To the Hon. National Museum Building Commission, Washington, D. C. : 

Gentlemen : We have the honor to submit the following- report of 
the work done upon the erection of the fire-proof building for the Na- 
tional Museum from March 25, the date when the work was, by you, 
placed iu our charge, to December 31, 1879. 

It is due to the importance of this national and extensive enterprise 
to preface the report by a technical and descriptive record of its plan, 
design, and construction. 

The building starts on the ground in the form of a square, with sides 
of 327 feet extreme length. This is surmounted by a cross and a dome. 
Within its facades a net area of 102,200 square feet, or 2.35 acres, is 
covered in by roofs. 

It contains under ground a coal-cellar of a storage capacity of nearly 
300 tons. Besides, there are two cellars, containing 3,200 square feet 
floor space, for storage purposes. From one of these cellars a subter- 
ranean communication with the adjacent Smithsonian building is estab- 
lished, by an arched passage, which, besides ordinary uses, will serve in 
cases of panic, fire, tumult, robbery, &c. 

A basement containing 1 ,G00 square feet of floor space is fitted up for 
the boiler-room of a steam heating apparatus. 

On the main floor there are available, in 17 halls which freely commu- 
nicate with one another by wide and lofty archways, 80,300 square feet 
of floor space and a proportionate amount of wall space for exhibition 
purposes. 

Further, there are avaiiable on the main floor and two upper stories 
-7,4oo square feet of floor space, divided off into 135 rooms for admin- 
istrative functions, offices, working-rooms, photographer, necessary ac- 
commodations, &c. 

And finally there are about 4,000 square feet of floor space on galleries, 
formed on a level with the second floor of the offices ; these are intended 
in part for special exhibits and in part to afford an unobstructed view 
of the ensemble of the exhibits. 

On the whole, the one-story plan which has prevailed among experts 
i\ er since the Paris exhibition of 18G7 has been adopted. But by the 
introduction of upper stories on those outlying sections reserved for 
offices, ample office-room lias been secured without encroaching materi- 
ally upon the floor space within the square of 300 feet, to which the 
building was primarily limited. 

The center of the building is octagonal on the ground floor, and is 
surmounted by a 10-sided polygon of 07 feet diameter, which contains a 
tier of large windows and constitutes a domical structure with a slate 



REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 131 

roof and a lantern, crowned by a decorated finial. This room is 77 feet 
high on the side walls, or 108 feet to the top of the finial. 

Four naves, of <»5 feet in width and 117 feet in length, radiate from 
the dome and extend to the outside walls of the building ; the naves 
form in this manner a Greek cross, over the center of which the dome 
rises, and part of the spaces in the exterior angles of the cross are fitted 
up with halls of 65 feet square and of same height as the naves. 

The side walls of both naves and annexes are 42 feet high, while the 
height to the ridge of the slate roofs is 56 feet. These roofs are in part 
constructed double, for the purpose of so perfecting the drainage of the 
roofs that accumulations of ice and snow can nowhere obstruct it. 

The spaces between the high walls of the Greek cross and the exte- 
rior walls of the building are allotted mainly to eight halls of reduced 
height, covered by lean-to metal roofs ; the extreme height of which is 32 
feet. 

By this treatment wall spaces are obtained for the introduction of 
clerestory windows, which light the square halls and assist in lighting 
the naves. 

The four symmetrical exterior walls of the building are broken by 
projections in the center and at the corners, and these have been amply 
utilized for miscellaneous administrative purposes as stated above. 

A modernized Romanesque style of architecture was adopted for the 
new building in order to keep up a relationship with the Smithsonian 
building, which is designed in Norman, a variety of this style. To mod- 
ernize this style was found necessary on account of the different build- 
ing material, and to do justice to the purposes of the building with its 
modern demands of perfect safety and elegance of construction, of great- 
est possible available floor space, of easy communications, efficient 
drainage, a well calculated and pleasing admission of light, free circu- 
lation of air, and all other hygienic dicta. 

The externa] architecture is based upon the general arrangement of 
the interior, and shows plainly the prominence of the four naves and 
the careful management of the light for the central portion of the build- 
ing. The main entrances are in the centers of each facade between 
two lofty towers of SG feet height, which act as buttresses for the uaves. 
Between the towers, and receding from the doorways, there are large 
arched windows set with ornamented glass, and above those the gables 
of the naves are formed ; they contain inscription-plates ami are crowned 
by allegorical groups of statuary. The group over the northern gable, 
designed by C. Buberl, of New York, already in position, introduces 
Columbia as the protectress of science and industry. 

To both sides of these prominent central features there are curtain- 
walls, 27 feet in height, which have the effect of arcades. 

Pavilions are placed at the corners; they are of less height than the 
towers, but sufficiently raised above the curtain- walls to overcome the 



132 REPORT OF TIIE ARCHITECTS. 

unfavorable effect which these comparatively low walls would otherwise 
produce. 

In the rear of the curtain- walls, the clerestory rises to the full height 
of the naves, the roofs of which terminate against the side walls of the 
dome. The dome is treated in a similar way and strictly in the same 
character as the curtain-walls above alluded to. 

In addition to the windows in the solid masonry of exterior walls, 
clerestory, and dome, lofty lanterns have been provided above the 
naves and square halls so as to afford perfect light for this enormous 
space without resorting to flat skylights, which for various reasons it 
was well to avoid. 

These lanterns, square and oblong, together with those of the kindred 
features of the pavilions, have been so arranged, in combination with 
towers, groups, clerestory, and the rising dome in the background, as to 
produce a picturesque effect iu the sky-lines of the building. 

All the masonry above ground is composed of brick-work, built with 
air spaces for outside walls, ornamented and laid in black mortar for 
the facing of exterior walls. To neutralize the monotony and common- 
place appearance which could not have been avoided with red brick 
fronts of such extent, a sufficient quantity of buff bricks, interspersed 
with a small number of blue bricks, in the cornices have, been introduced. 

A base-course of granite extends all around the building. 

The wrought work of the main entrance, window-sills, inscription- 
plates, copings, &c, are of gray Ohio freestone. Anything else in the 
line of decoration is iu strict keeping with the principal designs, and 
executed in substantial metal work. 

The floor beams, girders, and roofs consist or are constructed of rolled 
and shaped iron. The floors are fire-proofed by brick arches and con- 
crete. Of roofs there are no less than thirty seven ; many of them areof 
most complicated construction. The lanterns of the ridges of the naves 
are large enough to cover moderate-sized dwellings. 

The light but solid frame-work of all the roofs will be left in full view, 
painted in light neutral tints. 

The covering of the metal roofs is laid upon lire-proofed gratings, sug- 
gested by General M. C. Meigs. 

The slates are hung to iron purlines. 

The sashes all through the building are each glazed with two panes of 
glass, witli an intermediate air-space. This is done to facilitate the heat- 
ing of the building. 

The floors of the exhibition halls will consist of concrete, but the 
rooms and smaller halls will, for convenience sake, be floored with Florida 
pine, laid on concrete. 

The interior is to be plastered in sand finish, washed in tints. Its lofty 
proportions do not require any elaborate decoration, and will thus rather 
heighten than interfere with the objects on exhibition. 



REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 133 

The heating of the building is to be done by low-pressure steam, on 
the system of direct radiation. 

The wide main entrance doors of walnut and oak open outward on 
spacious tiled vestibules, with sides and arched ceilings of ornamental 
brick-work. These vestibules are closed at night and on Sundays by 
wide double gates, the solid frames of which consist of wrought iron, 
and the ornaments of cast iron 5 thus combining the utmost strength 
with great economy. 

The northern entrance has been selected for general use, and hence it 
was necessary and proper to give it due prominence from the others for 
the guidance of strangers. The configuration of the surrounding ground 
helped in this connection. A spacious tiled platform bounded by granite 
side blocks is constructed in front of this entrance. It is approached by 
four low and wide granite steps of 37 feet in length, which are flanked 
by molded base-blocks, carrying stately candelabras. 

It should be remembered that in all our steps we were guided by the 
absolute necessity not to overreach the appropriation at disposal ; and 
hence, to produce the best effect with utmost economy, the exterior 
decoration was confined to and concentrated on the centers of the fronts. 

The erection of this building requires about 5,250,000 bricks, 3,000 bar- 
rels cement, 5,G00 barrels lime, 4,000 cubic yards of sand, 2,000 cubic 
yards of rubble- stone, 1,230 cubic yards of concrete, 470 tons of wrought 
iron, 31,000 square feet of glass, 00,000 plates of slate, of 2 square feet 
each, 375 boxes of tin, &c. 

As soon as we received the required instructions our work was con- 
centrated on the preparation of working drawings, schedules, and speci- 
fications, so as to take best advantage of the low prices of material and 
labor then prevailing, and in this we were successful to a great extent. 

We now proceed to give a history of the progress of the work during 
the past season, operations being classed under a few general heads. 

During the whole season we were favored by the weather. From the 
1st of May to 31st of December but twelve and one-quarter working 
days were lost by inclement weather ; of these, nine and three-quarter 
days were rainy, one was stormy, one severely cold, and a half a day 
was lost on account of sleet and ice. 

1. Excavation. — The excavation for the foundations was commenced 
on the 17th of April and finished on the 28th of May. It was carried to 
solid ground, but nowhere less than 3 feet below surface, that the build- 
ing should rest on earth below the disintegrating effects of frost and 
drought. Under the topsoil a thick stratum of hard clay was met, and 
under this a bed of cleau, dry gravel, which was struck wherever cellars 
were dug ; this porous layer drained the site by absorbing the rain-water 
as fast as it fell. 

2. Foundations. — The foundations were, under date of April 29, com- 
menced with a heavy bed of hydraulic cement concrete and. were com- 
pleted on the 30th of May. Upon the concrete bed they were continued 



134 REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 

up to the surface with rubble-stone work of gneiss, laid in cemeut mortar ; 
this work was commenced on the 5th of May and was completed on June 9. 

3. IiricJc-worJc. — The brick-laying commenced on May 21, and the prin- 
cipal walls were completed on November 1, after 4,740,000 bricks had 
been laid under contract. The specifications call for a superior class of 
brick-work, laid in black mortar on the facades without resorting to the 
expensive "tucked" or "ruled" joints commonly used in first-class 
pressed brick-work, and this has been duly enforced. In this we were 
aided by the commendable ambition of the Washington Brick Machine 
Company, who have furnished a superior quality of brick for the fix- 
cades. We, on the other hand, have spent a large amount of money 
in bringing out the beauty of the material by cleaning down and oiling 
the facades. Ever since the contract for laying bricks has been declared 
as satisfactorily completed a large force of brick-layers has been kept 
at work by the day, under proper superintendence, in finishing the fa- 
cades, piecing out the walls, building the steam-chimney, walling in the 
iron-work of the roofs as they progressed, doing plumbers' jobbing, turn- 
ing and concreting floor-arches, laying foundations for platforms and 
steps, forming gutters with due grade, &c, &c. This work is all well 
advanced, but still in progress, and will be finished by the building of 
ducts for the lines of pipes which will conduct the steam and return the 
condensed water of the heating apparatus. 

4. Cut-stone worJc. — The cutting and laying of the granite base course 
was commenced on May 19. The cut-stone work has been going on dur- 
ing the whole season as the work of the other mechanics progressed and 
is now completed, with the exception of part of the outside steps. At 
intervals of about 5 feet in height, bond-stones of North River grey 
wacke-bluestone have been introduced in the high piers of the interior 
archways in order to increase their stability. 

5. Iron-worlc. — The floor-beams arrived in good time and were put in 
place by the contractors as they got ready for them. On August 22, 
the first "Warren girder" of the lean-to roofs was set in place : on Oc- 
tober 9 the roofs ot'tho naves were commenced to be put up : on Decem- 
ber 19 those of the square halls were commenced. At this writing all 
the material for the root's is on hand ; it simply remains for the contractor 
to display energy and have all the roofs ready for covering. 

0. Galvanized iron-icorJc. — This consists of a heavy amount of small 
cornice-moldings, of acroteria, chimney-heads, finials, facings and cas- 
ings. It is well advanced at the shops and being put up in due time. 

7. Slates and slating. — Under date of August 1!) last, the blue slates 
have been ordered from Ore Banks, Va.. and the red and green slates 
from the quarries in Vermont. They are virtually all on hand, and 
the slater avails himself at all times of the .first opportunity which 
offers for laying the slates. The slates are 24 inches in length and ex- 
pose 10 inches to the weather, thus giving what is termed double cover 
and 4 inches lap. 



REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. loiJ 

8. Covering of the flat roofs. — These metal roofs are supported prima- 
rily by tlie wrought-iron trusses laid 13 feet between centers ; these 
again are subdivided and cross-laid by wrought beams of lighter sec- 
tions so as to cut up the ceilings into spaces of 4 by 13 feet in size. At 
the suggestion of General Meigs these spaces were bridged by gratings 
formed in two thicknesses of light tapered wooden strips and fire-proofed 
by being filled in and inclosed with a non-conducting mixture composed 
of plaster of Paris, lime, coal-ashes, and cinders. Before actual use we 
have made ample tests in order to reduce the weight of the gratings and 
of the composition to a minimum, and on the other hand to increase its 
rion-conductibility. The greater part of this work is done and the metal 
laid upon it iu sheets of 14 by 20 inches in size, having flat joints. Each 
sheet is clamped down to the gratings by eight clamps of sheet metal, 
two on each side, in such a manner that each sheet, independent of all 
others, can expand and contract, which in such large roofs is an im- 
portant consideration. 

9. Wooden floors. — All the flooring required has been secured of 
Florida yellow pine, by contract, at very reasonable terms. 

10. Plastering. — No scaffolding material being kept on hand by the 
tradesmen for reaching high walls or ceilings of buildings like this, the 
poles and lumber of the scaffolds for the brick- work were purchased at a 
reasonable rate from the contractors for that branch and are now on hand. 

11. Glass, glazing, and painting. — With the sudden stimulus which the 
industries of this country received last fall, home-made glass came to 
be a scarce article, as the proposals received under extensively published 
advertisements show ; the lowest bids were for Belgian glass, imported 
free of duty, with the approval of the Treasury Department. This glass 
is shortly expected to arrive, after which the sash will be glazed at an 
early date. The painting has so far been mostly confined to the metal 
cornices and piping, the iron- work and window-frames having been fur- 
nished, by the respective contractors, all primed. 

12. Carpenter's icork. — This has so far been mostly directed to the 
making of roof-gratings, described under another head. But, besides, 
a large amount of centers has been made and put up for turning arches 
in the brick-work and floor-arches. In the concrete above the floor- 
arches the thin sleepers have been laid to which the flooring is to be 
nailed. The setting of door-jambs is about to be commenced and to be 
followed by all the minor details required for getting the building in 
readiness for the plasterer 

13. Sewerage, drainage, and plumbing. — In the early part of the spring 
the main sewer on B street was cut out and a 12-inch glazed terra 
cotta sewer connected with it for the drainage of the new building 
The numerous branch sewers within the building leading to some sixty 
conductors from the roofs, and to soil-pipes of closets and basins, were 
under a decision of the commission delayed until the completion of the 
Avails, but have lately been completed, as also most of the extra heavy 



136 REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 

cast-iron piping which forms the conductors of rain-water, and the ver- 
tical soil-pipes. All these heavy pipes have air and water tight joints 
formed of gasket and lead, and are firmly supported by brick piers at 
their juncture with the sewer-pipes under ground. 

During the progress of the brick-work temporary supplies have been 
taken by tapping the pipes supplying the hose-cocks in the Smithsonian 
grounds, but in the fall a 12-inch main pipe was tapped outside of the 
building and near its southeastern corner. Three parallel lines of 3-inch 
water-pipe running due north through the building were put in with 
supply for 16 fire-plugs, numerous street- washers, outlets for closets, 
basins, and bath-tubs, stop-cocks, &c. 

Simultaneously with the water supply the supply-pipes for gas were 
attended to. The gas main was tapped on B street, outside of the 
southwest corner of the building, and two 4-inch supply -pipes were put 
in, one running due north and the other due east through the building, 
at an equal distance of about 20 feet from the outside walls of the build- 
ing. Both pipes are continued, of reduced sizes, in a similar way until 
they meet at the northeast corner of the building. They have a regular 
fall back to the main, the permanence of which is secured by two sup- 
porting brick piers under each length of pipe, so that no flickering of 
gas can ever occur in consequence of the formation of traps by irregu 
lar settlements of the pipes. Outlets have been provided for lighting 
all the rooms and passages, and also for the light required to supervise 
all the parts of the building at night. Unusually large gas-pipes were 
found necessary on account of the great lengths on which they are 
run, and this feature will afford facilities hereafter, in case it should be de- 
cided to fit up any of the halls with brilliant light for public use at night. 

14. Underground piping for heating apparatus. — To avoid the unsightly 
appearance of exposed large-sized steam and water return-pipes required 
for the successful heating of the vast building, it was decided to build 
the necessary ducts and introduce the pipes under ground before the 
floors were laid, though this part of the work was not included in the 
estimates on which the appropriation for the building proper was based. 

The heating apparatus intended under the estimates, now before the 
Appropriation Committee of the House, provides for four steam-boilers 
of 256 nominal horse-power in the aggregate. The generated steam is 
to be conducted by two separate main pipes of eight inches diameter 
to about 200 steam -heaters, containing in the aggregate 13,G80 square 
feet of radiating surface. The hot water condensed in these heaters is 
to be returned and reused in the boiler. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT. 

Expenditures up to date.. 
Earth-work : 

Excavation $724 43 

Grading 129 25 

$853 68 



REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 137 

Foundations : 
A. Concrete: 

Concrete stone $2, 083 32 

Cement 1, 084 24 ■ 

Sand 300 00 

Labor 431 46 

$3, S99 02 



B. Bubble-stone work : 

Kubble-stone 3, 394 36 

Cement 1, 000 00 

Sand 295 00 

Labor 2, 32i 28 



Covering of flat roofs : 

A. Fire-proof gratings : 

Plaster of Paris 484 65 

Lime 100 00 

Strips , 3,519 65 

Ashes 110 45 

Hair 60 00 



7,010 64 



Brick-work : 

Bed bricks 31, 512 24 

Buff and blue bricks. 3, 270 73 

Blackening bricks 1, 235 05 

Lime and cement ... 2, 789 05 

Sand 2, 240 14 

Pulp-black for mortar 262 95 

Centers 866 37 

Laying under contract 16, 799 30 

Laying by day's work 3, 597 84 

Miscellaneous expenses 1, 447 11 

64, 021 38 

Cut-stone work 9, 097 60 

Wrought and cast iron work : 

Floor-beams 3, 230 52 

Hoop-iron for anchors 242 70 

Eoofs and anchors 16, 401 80 

Setting beams, &c 592 31 



20, 407 33 

Galvanized iron-work 2, 010 00 

Slating : 

Cost of slate for roof 3, 972 32 

Cost of slate for isolating course of foun- 
dation 245 80 

Cement 88 34 

Labor 123 26 



4,429 72 



138 REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 



Labor of carpenters $3, 275 11 

Labor of plasterers 819 50 



B. Eoofing: 

Manila felt 1, 145 9G 

Eedipped tin , 3, 043 59 

Labor 400 05 



I, 3G9 36 



4,589 GO 



$12,958 9G 

Plastering, poles, ropes, and lumber 591 35 

Painting : 

Material . 213 GO 

Labor 216 75 

430 35 



Plumbing, sewerage, and drainage ] . 380 96 

Carpenters' work, lumber, and hardware : 

Window-frames 1, 480 75 

Miscellaneous lumber 935 41 

Hardware 404 89 

2,821 05 



Decorations . . 2, 000 00 

Construction and superintendence 5, 000 00 

Miscellaneous expenses : 

A. — Survey and levels of ground, clearing of site, re- 
pairs to roads, &c 1, 206 ijo 

B. — Printing, advertising, and photographic copies for 

circulation among bidders 1, 377 14 

C. — Platform scales, tools, models, and sheds 1, 036 71 

D. — Clerical services and watchmen 1, 571 00 

E. — Stationery, office-furniture, telegraph attachment 
and service, traveling expenses and other inci- 
dentals 970 94 



Total expenditures to January 1, 1880 $1 13, 146 38 

Amount appropriated by Congress 250, 000 00 



Balance to credit of the building under date of January 1, 

1880 .. 106.853 62 



The materials for the completion of the building are mostly 
engaged under existing contracts, and represent a lia- 
bility of 58,853 62 



Hence, balance remaining for labor of finishing and for com- 
pleting the required material $48, 000 00 

This balance is sufficient to justify the expectation that the building 
will be completed within the appropriation, ready for receiving the heat- 
ing apparatus and glass cases. 



REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 
CONTRACTS. 



139 



The contracts entered into and their present condition are enumerated 
in the adjoining table: 

Contracts and accepted proposals entered into and in force during the progress of the work. 



Date of 
contract. 



1879. 
Apr. 14. . 

Apr. 21 . 

Apr. 23 . 
Apr. 23. 

Apr. 23 . 



Apr. 23 
Apr. 23 . 
Apr. 26 . 



Apr. 30 . 
Apr. 30 

May 10 . 

May 23. . 
June 12 . 



June 10 . 

July 7 . . 
July 12 
July 12 . 
July 22 . 



Aug. 14 
Aus- 14 
Dec.9.. 
Dec. 24. 

ie-'0. 

Jan. 10. 
Jan. 10. 



Description of work. 



Sand 

Gneiss rabble stone. 



Grading 

Excavating . 



Concrete foundations : 
Labor 



Rubble-stone masonry : 
Labor ... 



Concrete stone : 
Material 



Cut stone wort 

Material and labor: 



Lime ... 
Cement . 



Window frames and 
sash. 

Brick-work (labor) 

Bricks 



Rolled-iron beams. 



Iron roofs, stairs, rail- 
ings. 

Galvanized-iron work, 
material and labor. 

Drainage, material, la- 
bor. 

Slaters' work and fast- 
enings. 



Blue slate. 



Red slate and green 
slate. 

Interior doors and 
frames 

Main-entrance doors. .. 



Underground pipi 

for heal ing. 
Florida pine flooring 



Name of contractor. 



John Miller 

Jos. A. Blundon. 



Gleeson &, Himher. 
do 



.do 
.do. 



do 

Roth well & Lloyd. 



Carson & Son, of River- 
ton, Vt. 

Cumberland Hydraulic 
Cement Company. 

Bai ber, Henderson & 
Co. 

Gleeson & Himber 

Washington Brick Ma- 
chine Company. 

New Jersey Steel and 
Don Co., Trenton. 

C. A. Schneider & Sons 

Stockstill & Co 

Blinkhorn & Hannan . . 

Juo. O. Jones 



Ed. Roberts, of Ore 
Banks. Va. 

Story & Wilbur, of Bos- 
ton. 

Jos. Thomas & Son, 
Baltimore. 

Aug. Grass 



Baker, Smith & Co., 

New York. 
Thos. W. Smith 



Rate. 



73 cents per cubic 

yard. 
$1.00 per cubic 

yard. 



14J cents per cu- 
bic yard. 

35 cents per cu- 
bic yard. " 

$1.15 per cubic 
yard. 

$1.69 per cubic 
yard. 



75 cents per linear 
foot for addi- 
tional window- 
sills. 

•15 cents addition- 
al per square 
foot lor bond- 
stones. 

63 cents per bar- 
rel of 200 lbs. 

87 cents per 300 
pounds. 



83.37 per M 

Common, SO. 23 

per M. ; Face. 

$8 23 per M. 
Extra beams, 2.35 

cents per lb., 
delivered. 



.165 per square, 
and 75 cents ad- 
ditional for any 
double fasten- 



1 1.80 per square.. 

Green, $6.20; red, 
S'.t. io per square. 



$30.75perM.B.M 



Specified 
amount. 



7, 446 21 



4, 678 80 



2, 865 00 

36, 850 39 
4,399 89 
2, 312 26 



1,211 00 
730 00 



5, 770 00 



Present 
condition. 



In force. 
Complete 



Da 
Do. 



Do. 
Do. 
Do. 

Complete. 



In force. 

Do. 

Do. 

Complete. 
In force. 

Complete. 

In force. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 



Do. 

Complete. 
In force. 



Do. 
Do. 



In conclusion, we beg to state that in addition to our steady personal 
attendance we have kept constantly upon the ground, up to the close of 
the season, a general superintendent in the person of Mr. John H. Bird; 
and that Mr. W. W. Karr, the clerk in charge of platform scales, time 



140 REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 

books, and the miscellaneous office duties connected with the progress of 
the work, has rendered our duties easier by hearty co-operation. We are 
indebted to him for the record of many of the details contained in this 
report. 

We have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servants, 

CLUSS & SCHULZE, 

Architects. 



JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS 
OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Washington, D. C, January 17, 1S80. 

The annual meeting of the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution was held this day at 10 o'clock a. in., in the Eegents' room. 

Present, the Chancellor, Chief- Justice Waite ; Hon. Win. A. Wheeler, 
Vice-President of the United States; Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon. E. E. With- 
ers, Hon. N. Booth, Hon. J. A. Garfield, Hon. Hiester Clyiner, Hon. 
Joseph E. Johnston, Dr. John Maclean, Dr. Asa Gray, Hon. Peter Parker, 
President Noah Porter, General Wm. T. Sherman, and the Secretary, 
Professor Baird. 

(Dr. H. Copp6e, the only member of the Board absent, was accident- 
ally detained on the road, and did not reach Washington until after the 
adjournment of the Board.) 

The Secretary made the following announcements relative to the ap- 
pointment of members of the Board of Eegents. 

The vacancy in the Board occasioned by the expiration of the term of 
Hon. A. A. Sargent, of California had been filled on the 21st of March 
1879, by the appointment by the President of the Senate of Hon. Newton 
Booth, of California. 

On the 4th of April, 1879, the Speaker of the House of Eepresenta- 
tives, Hon. S. J. Eandall, had reappointed as Eegents Hon. H. Clymer 
of Pennsylvania and Hon. J. A. Garfield of Ohio, and had appointed 
Hon. Joseph E. Johnston of Virginia vice Hon. Alex. H. Stephens, who 
had declined reappointment. 

A joint resolution had passed Congress and been approved by the 
President of the United States December 19, 1879, providing that the 
"vacancies in the Board of Eegents of the class other than members of 
Congress shall be filled by the reappointment of Asa Gray of Massa- 
chusetts, Henry Coppee of Pennsylvania, John Maclean of New Jersey, 
and Peter Parker of the city of Washington, whose terms have expired." 

The minutes of the Board of January 1G, 1879, were read, and, after 
slight amendment, approved. 

The Secretary presented a statement of the financial condition of the 
Institution, and stated that in order to save time this statement and all 
the accounts of the Institution had been referred to the Executive Com- 
mittee. 

Dr. Parker, from the Executive Committee, presented and read the 
annual report of the committee relative to the receipts and expenditures 

141 



142 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 

of the Institution and the National Museum for the year 1879, the con- 
dition of the funds, estimates for the year 1880, &c. 

On motion of General Garfield, it was — 

Resolved, That the report of the Executive Committee for 1879 be ac- 
cepted. 

Resolved, That the income for the year 1880 be appropriated for the 
service of the Institution upon the basis of the above report, to be ex- 
pended by the Secretary with full discretion as to the items, subject to 
the approval of the Executive Committee. 

Dr. Gray, from the committee on the Henry memorial, reported that 
the material for the volume had been collected, and was now in the 
hands of the Public Printer. 

On motion of Dr. Withers the committee was continued, and fur- 
ther time granted. 

Dr. Parker called attention to the fact that the resolution of the 17th 
of January, 1879, limited the allowance to the Secretary for house-rent, 
&c, to the 31st of December, 1879. 

On motion of Mr. Hamlin, it was — 

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Institution be allowed the sum of 
one hundred and twenty-five dollars per month for rent, fuel, gas, &c. 

On motion of Dr. Parker, it was — 

Resolved, That an allowance of one hundred and fifty dollars be made 
to defray the funeral expenses of the late Tobias N. Woltz, who was 
superintendent of the building for twenty-two years. 

General Sherman presented and read the report of the National Mu- 
seum Building Commission appointed by resolution of the Board Jan- 
uary 17, 1879. 

He also presented the report of the architects, Messrs. Cluss & 
Schulze. 

On motion of Mr. Clymer, the reports were accepted. 

On motion of General Garfield, it was — 

Resolved, That the Board of Regents hereby express their high appre- 
ciation of the contribution made to science by the late Simeon Habel, 
and of the bequest which he made to the Smithsonian Institution. 

The Secretary presented his annual report of the operations of the 
Institution for the year 1879, which was read, and, on motion of General 
Sherman, it was — 

Resolved, That the report be accepted and transmitted to Congress. 

The Board then adjourned sine die. 



JAMES SM1THS0N AND HIS BEQUEST. 

By William J. Rhees. 



James Smithson was born in England about the year 1754, the pre- 
cise date and place of bis nativity being- unknown.* ile was a natural 
son of Hugh Smithson, first Dnke of Northumberland, bis mother being 
a Mrs. Elizabeth Macie, of an old family in Wiltshire of the name of 
Hungerford. Nothing has been learned of her history. 

Hugh Smithson, his father, was distinguished as a member of one of 
the most illustrious houses of Great Britain, and also because of his 
alliance with the renowned family of Percy. 

The Smithson baronetcy arose with an earlier nugh Smithson, the 
second son of Anthony Smithson, esq., of Newscouie or Newsham, in the 
parish of Kirby-on-the-Mount, Yorkshire, who was thus rewarded by 
Charles II in 1060, for his services in the royalist cause during the civil 
wars. His grandson, Sir Hugh Smithson, married Elizabeth, daughter 
of the second Lord Langdale, and had two sons. Hugh, the eldest, died 
unmarried, before his father; Langdale, the second son, married Miss 
Eevely, by whom he left one son, Hugh. This son succeeded his grand- 
father as Sir Hugh Smithson, of Stanwick, m 1750, and was the father 
of the subject of the present sketch. He married Lady Percy on the 16th 
July, 1710. Her father inherited the Dukedom of Somerset in 1741, 
and was created Earl of Northumberland in 1749. On his death, in 
1750, Sir Hugh Smithson succeeded to these honors and on the 22d of 
October, 1766, was created first Duke of Northumberland t and Earl 
Percy, with succession to bis heirs male ; and finally in 1784 the barony 
of Lovaine of Alnwick was added to his accumulated dignities. 

The Duchess died in 1776. The Duke survived till 1786,| and was 
succeeded by his son Hugh (half brother of James Smithson), as the 
second Duke of Northumberland^ 

Hugh Smithson, the first Duke of Northumberland, had (besides James 
Smithson) another natural son, who was known as Henry Louis Dickin- 
son. He received a good education, entered the military service, was 
commissioned lieutenant-colonel on the 1st of January, 1800, and on the 
4th of August, 1808, took command of the Eighty-fourth Regiment of 
Foot. He saw active service on the Continent and in Asia and Africa. 
His estate was left to the care of his half-brother, Mr. James Smithson, 
in trust for the benefit of his son, and this was probably the source of a 
large part of the fund which eventually came to the United States. 

*See Appendix. Note 3. 

t There was a previous Duke of Northumberland who died without issue in 171G, 
and the title became extinct. t See Appendix. Note 2. 

§ See Appendix. Note 3. 

143 



144 JAMES SMITHSON AND IIIS BEQUEST. 

The possession by the first Duke of Northumberland of titles and dig- 
nities only inferior to those of royalty was of little consequence to his 
son James Smithson. Deprived by the bar sinister on his escutcheon 
from claiming' the family name and honors, he nevertheless aspired to win 
a i'aine more universal and lasting than these could have bestowed upon 
him. He devoted himself to original research in the field of science, and 
sought to be known and honored by his fellow-men as a discoverer of 
new truths. Moreover, he resolved to attach his name to an institution 
unique in its character, noble in its object, and universal in its benefi- 
cence, of which John Quincy Adams has well said, "Of all the founda- 
tions of establishments for pious or charitable uses which ever signalized 
the spirit of the age or the comprehensive beneficence of the founder, 
none can be named more deserving of the approbation of mankind." 

Smithson's feeling in regard to posthumous fame was strikingly ex- 
pressed in the following sentence found in one of his manuscripts. 

"The best blood of England flows in my veins 5 on my father's side I 
am a Northumberland, on my mother's I am related to kings, but this 
avails me not. My name shall live in the memory of man when the titles 
of the Northurnberlands and the Percys are extinct and forgotten." 

As Prof. W. E. Johnson has well observed in speaking of Smithson : 
"The man of science is willing to rest on the basis of his own labors 
alone for his credit with mankind, and his fame with future generations. 
In the view of such a man, the accidents of birth, of fortune, of local 
habitation, and conventional rank in the artificial organization of society, 
all s^nk into insignificance by the side of a single truth of nature. If 
he have contributed his mite to the increase of knowledge ; if he have 
diffused that knowledge for the benefit of man, and above all, if he have 
applied it to the useful, or even to the ornamental purposes of life, he 
has laid not his family, not his country, but the world of mankind under 
a lasting obligation." 

The eloquent words of John Quincy Adams in reference to the fame 
to be conferred on Smithson by the successful accomplishment of the 
great design he had in view by his bequest are appropriate in this con- 
nection. 

"The father of the testator upon forming his alliance with the heiress 
oft lie family of the Percys, assumed, by an act of the British Parliament, 
that name, and, under it, became Duke of Northumberland. Put re- 
nowned as is the name of Percy in the historical annals of England; 
resounding as it does from the summit of the Cheviot Hills to the ears 
of our children in the ballad of Chevy Chace, with the classical com- 
mentary of Addison ; freshened and renovated in our memory as it has 
recently been from the purest fountain of poetical inspiration in the loft- 
ier strain of Alnwick Castle, tuned by a bard from our own native land 
(Fit/ Greene Ilalleck); doubly immortalized as it is in the deathless 
dramas of Shakspeare ; 'confident against the world in arms." as it may 
have been in ages long past and may still be in the virtues of its present 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 145 

possessors by inheritance, let the trust of James Sniithson to the United 
States of America be faithfully executed by their representatives in Con- 
gress, let the result accomplish his object, 'the increase and diffusion of 
knowledge among- men,' and a wreath of more unfading verdure shall 
entwine itself in the lapse of future ages around the name of Smithson, 
tbau the united hands of tradition, history, and poetry have braided 
around the name of Percy through the long perspective in ages past of 
a thousand years." 

The Duke of Northumberland provided a liberal education for his son 
James, who pursued his studies at Oxford University, where he became 
attached to Pembroke College, distinguished for having among its 
fellows the learned Blackstone, the eloquent Whitfield, and the cele- 
brated Dr. Samuel Johnson. Here the young student was noted for 
diligence, application, and good scholarship, and attracted marked at- 
tention by his proficiency in chemistry. His vacations were passed in 
excursions to collect minerals and ores which it was his favorite occu- 
pation to analyze. At Oxford he received the impulse for scientific 
research which characterized all his future life, and the ardent desire not 
only to advance knowledge himself but to devote in after years his whole 
fortune to provide means by which others could prosecute this high and 
noble pursuit. 

He was graduated at Pembroke College on the 2Gth of May, 178G, as 
James Lewis Macie,* by which name he seems at that time to have 
been known, and which he retained for about fourteen years, when he 
adopted that of James SMiTnsoisr.t 

Sniithson never married, and as a man of wealth had ample op- 
portunity tor leisure or the indulgence of mere personal gratification. 
Put idleness and pleasure were not compatible with the spirit and ardor 
of the young student of chemistry. He diligently pursued his investi- 
gations, and his ambition to become associated with the votaries of 
science induced him to seek membership in theEoyal Society of London. 

" The Loyal Society of London," says Arago, " enjoys throughout the 
whole kingdom a vast and deserved consideration. The philosophical 
transactions which it publishes have been for more than a century and 
a half the glorious archives in which British genius holds it an honor to 
deposit its titles to the recognition of posterity. The wish to see his 
name inscribed in the list of fellow-laborers in this truly national col- 
lection beside the names of Newton, Bradley, Priestley, and Cavendish, 
has always been among the students of the celebrated universities of 
Cambridge, Oxford, Edinburgh, and Dublin, the most anxious as well 
as legitimate object of emulation. Here is always the highest point of 
ambition of the man of science." 

*So given in the Oxford Catalogue. In the Philosophical Transactions and the 
Gentleman's Magazine the name is given as .fames Louis Macie. 

+ His second paper in the Philosophical Transactions, 1602, is by James Sniithson. 
Sir Davies Gilbert, in his eulogy of him in 1830, calls him James Lewis Smithson. 

S. Mis. 5tt 10 



146 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

The following is the official recommendation of his application to the 
society, bearing the signatures of some of its most illustrious members : 

"James Lewis Macie, Esq., M. A., late of Pembroke College, Oxford, 
and now of John Street, Golden Square — a gentleman well versed iu 
various branches of Natural Philosophy, and particularly in Chymistry 
and Mineralogy, being desirous of becoming a Fellow of the Royal So- 
ciety, we whose names are hereto subscribed do, from our personal 
knowledge of his merit, judge him highly worthy of that honour and 
likely to become a very useful and valuable Member." 

Richard KnrwAN. 

C. F. Greville. 

C. Blagden. 

H. Cavendish. 

David Pitcairn. 

He was admitted a fellow on the 26th of April, 1787, in less than one 
year after leaving the university.* 

Smithson's lodgings for some time were in Bentinck street, a locality 
famous as the place where Gibbon wrote much of his u Decline and Fall 
of the Roman Empire." Here, with authors, artists, and savans, Smith- 
son found congenial fellowship. His mind was filled with a craving for 
intellectual development, and for the advancement of human knowl- 
edge. To enlarge the domain of thought, to discover new truths, and 
To make practical application of these for the promotion of civilization, 
were the great ends he had constantly in view. 

For purposes of scientific inquiry he engaged in extensive tours in 
various parts of Europe; making minute observations wherever he went 
on the climate, the physical. features and geological structure of the 
locality visited, the characteristics of its minerals, the methods employed 
in mining or smelting ores, and in all kinds of manufactures. 

These numerous journeys and sojourns abroad gave him a cosmopoli- 
tan character, and illustrated one of his owu sayings: "the man of 
science is of no country, the world is his country, all mankind his coun- 

* Extract from Journal Boole of the Eoyal Society. 

Ordinary meeting, Jan. 18, 17^7.— Certificates were read recommending for election 
Louis Pinto de Sonsa Contioho, Knight of the Orders of Malta and Christ, and Envoy 
Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary from the Queen of Portugal to the Court 
of Great Britain. Also Sir Thomas Gery Cullum, Bart., of Bury Saint Edmunds, in 
Suffolk, and James Lewis Macie, Esq., M. A., late of Pembroke College, Oxford, and 
now of John Sheet, Golden Square. 

April 19, 1767. — Louis Pinto de Sonsa Coutinho, Portuguese Minister at the Court of 
Great Britain, SirThos. Gery Cullum. Bart., and James Lewis Macie, Esq., Certificates 
in whose favour had hung the usual time in the Meeting Room were put to the ballot 
and chosen into the Society, 

April 26, 1787.— James Lewis Macie, Esq., andSir Thos. Gery Cullum, Bart., elected 
at a former meeting attended. They paid their admission fees, compounded for An- 
nual Contributions, and having signed the obligation in the Charter book were ad- 
mitted fellows of the Society. 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 147 

trymen." This fact is exemplified by the life of Smithson — born in Eng- 
land, spending most of bis time in France and Germany, buried in Italy, 
and leaving his name and fortune to the United States of America. 

Desiring to bring to the practical test of actual experiment every 
thing that came to his notice, he fitted up and carried with him a porta- 
ble laboratory. He collected also a cabinet of minerals composed of 
thousands of minute specimens, including all the rarest gems, so that 
immediate comparison could be made of a novel or undetermined speci- 
men, with an accurately arranged and labeled collection. With minute 
balances, his weights scarcely exceeding a gram, and with articles so 
delicate as to be scarcely visible, he made the most accurate and satis- 
factory determinations. With a few pieces, not exceeding half a cubic 
inch in size, of tabasheer, a substance found in the hollow of bamboo 
canes, he made over two hundred and fifty different experiments. * 

The value which Smithson placed on such minute researches is inci- 
dentally shown by a remark in his paper on " fluorine." He says, 
u there may be persons who, measuring the importance of the subject 
by the magnitude of the object, will cast a supercilious look on this dis- 
cussion ; but the particle aud the planet are subject to the same laws, and 
what is learned of the one will be known of the other." 

Smithson's ardor for knowledge and his zeal as a collector of new and 
rare minerals exposed him sometimes to hardship and privation. An 
interesting account of one of his journeys is given in his private journal. 

In 1784, in company with Mr. Thornton, Mons. Faujas de St. Fond, 
the celebrated geologist of France, the Italian Count Andrioni, and 
others, he made a tour through New Castle, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Dum- 
barton, Tarbet, Inverary, Oban, Arran, and the island of Staffa. 

As stated in Mr. Smithson's journal, the party had arrived at a house 
on the coast of Mull, opposite the island, and the journal continues : 

" Mr. Turtusk got me a separate boat ; set off about half-past eleven 
o'clock in the morning, on Friday, the 24th of September, for Staffa. 
Some wind, the sea a little rough ; wind increased, sea ran very high ; 
rowed round some part of the island, but found it impossible to go be- 
fore Fingal's cave; was obliged to return ; landed on Staffa with diffi- 
culty; sailors press to go off again immediately; am unwilling to de- 
part without having thoroughly examined the island. Resolve to stay 
all night. Mr. Maclaire stays with me; the other party which was 
there had already come to the very same determination; all crammed 
into one bad hut, though nine of ourselves besides the family; supped 
upon eggs, potatoes, and milk; lay upon hay, in a kind of barn." (The 
party, be it remembered, embraced two English gentlemen, one French 
savant, one Italian count.) 

"25th. Got up early, sea ran very high, wind extremely strong — no 
boat could put off. Breakfasted on boiled potatoes and milk; dined 
upon the same; only got a few very had fish; supped on potatoes and 

* See Appendix. Note 4. 



148 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

milk ; lay in the barn, firmly expecting to stay there for a week, without 
even bread." 

"Sunday the 26th. — The man of the island came at five or six o'clock 
in the morning to tell us that the wind was dropped, and that it was a 
good day. Set off in the small boat, which took water so fast that my 
servant was obliged to bail constantly — the sail, an old plaid — the ropes, 
old garters." 

On the 29th, the tourists are at Oban, where a little circumstance is 
noted, which significantly marks the zeal and activity of the collector 
of minerals and fossils, and the light in which devotion to geology is 
sometimes viewed. 

"September 29.— This day packed up my fossils in a barrel, and paid 2.9. 
6d. for their going by water to Edinburgh. Mr. Stevenson charged half 
a crown a night for my rooms, because I had brought ' stones and dirtf 
as he said into it." 

A month later he visited Xorthwich. 

"October 28. — Went to visit one of the salt mines, in which they told 
me there were two kinds of salt. They let me down in a bucket, in which 
I only put one foot, and I had a miner with me. I think the first shaft 
was about thirty yards, at the bottom of which was a pool of water, but 
on one side there was a horizontal opening, from which sunk a second 
shaft, which went to the bottom of the pit, and the man let us down in 
a bucket smaller than the first."* 

These incidents indicate the character of Smithson as a scientific en- 
thusiast, not easily deterred by the fear of personal inconvenience from 
the pursuit of his favorite object. 

Much of his life was passed on the Contiuent, in Berlin, Paris, Kome, 
Florence, and Geneva, enjoying everywhere the friendship and respect 
of the leading men of science,! and always devoting himself to the study 
of physical phenomena. Distinguished authors, as Gay-Lussac, Marcet, 
Hatty, Berzelius, and Cordier, presented him with their scientific papers! 
as soon as published, and he enjoyed intimate association and corre- 
spondence with Davy, Gilbert, Arago, Biot, Klaproth, Black, and 
others. § 

As a chemist. Sir Da vies Gilbert, President of the Eoyal Society, pro- 
nounced Smithson to be the rival of Wbllaston, of whom Magendie said, 
••his hearing was so fine hemight have been thought to be blind, and his 
sight so piercing he might have been supposed to be deaf." It is related 
of liim that he made a galvanic battery in a thimble, and a platinum wire 
much finer than any hair. 

* Smithsonian Miscell. Coll., No. \\->7, p. 140. 

tGalton, in speaking of Erasmus Darwin, remarks: " He was held in very nigh 
esteem by his scientific friends, including such celebrities as Priestley and James Watt, 
and it is by a mini's position among his contemporaries and competitors that his work 
may ni< >^r justly be appraised." Francis Galtou, English Men of Science. 

tSee Appendix. — Note 5. 

$ See Appendix. — Note G. 



JAMES SMITIISON AND HIS BEQUEST. 149 

Trof. Walter E. Johnson has made the following remarks respecting 
Smithson : 

" It appears from his published works that his was not the character of 
a mere amateur of science. lie was an active and industrious laborer 
in the most interesting and important branch of research — mineral 
chemistry. A contemporary of Davy and of Wollaston, and a corre- 
spondent of Black, Banks, Thomson, and a host of other names re- 
nowned in the annals of science, it is evident that his labors had to un- 
dergo the scrutiny of those who could easily have detected errors, had 
any of a serious character been committed. His was a capacity by no 
means contemptible for the operations and expedients of the laboratory. 
He felt the importance of every help afforded by a simplification of meth- 
ods and means of research, and the use of minute quantities and accu- 
rate determinations in conducting his inquiries." 

Sniithson says in one of his papers, " chemistry is yet so new a science," 
what we know of it bears so small a proportion to what we are iguo- 
ranf of; our knowledge in every department of it is so incomplete, con- 
sisting so entirely of isolated points, thinly scattered, like lurid specks on 
a vast field of darkness, that no researches can be undertaken without 
producing some facts leading to consequences which extend beyond the 
boundaries of their immediate object."* 

Many of these "lurid specks " in the vast field of darkness of which 
Smithson spoke so feelingly, have, Prof. Johnson observes, " since his 
days of activity expanded iuto broad sheets of light. Chemistry has 
assumed its rank among the exact sciences. Methods and instruments 
of analysis unknown to the age of Smithson have come into familiar 
use among chemists. These may have rendered less available for the 
present purposes of science than they otherwise might have been, a por- 
tion of the analysis and other researches of our author. The same may, 
however, be said of nearly every other writer of his day." 

Although his principal labors were in analytical chemistry, he distin- 
guished himself by his researches in mineralogy and crystallography, in 
all his work exhibiting the most careful and minute attention to accu- 
racy.t In his second published paper, he observes : " It may be proper 
to say that the experiments have been stated precisely as they turned 
out, and have not been in the least degree bent to the system." 

That he pursued his investigations in a philosophic spirit, and witli 
proper methods, is evident from the favor with which his contributions 
to the scientific societies and transactions of the day were received by 
his contemporaries, and the fact that the results he reached are still 
accepted as scientific truths.}: 

*A chemical analysis of some calamines. Smithsonian Miscell. <'<>!!., No. 327, p. 26. 

t lie carefully noted on the margins of his hooks mistakes in grammar or orthography, 
and frequently corrected erroneous statements or improper references in the indexes. 

{ An account of some of Srnithson's experiments and copies of his notes on minerals 
and rocks are given in a paper on l lie works and character of James Smithson, by Dr. 
J. R. McD. Irhy. Smithsonian Miscell. Collections, "No. 327, 1619, p. 143. 



150 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

Tn one of his essays, lie divides the sources of knowledge into, 1st, 
observation; 2d, reasoning; 3d, information; 4th, conjecture. In all 
his researches he began the process of acquisition by observing. 

One of his sentiments has been adopted as the motto on the publica- 
tions of the Smithsonian Institution; viz: "Every man is a valuable 
member of society, who, by his observations, researches, and experiments, 
procures knowledge for men.' 1 ' 1 

In a critical notice of Davy's Elements of Chemical Philosophy in the 
Quarterly Review for 1812, the writer speaking of recent advances in 
chemistry, and especially in the establishment and extension of the law 
of definite proportions, remarks : " For these facts the science is princi- 
pally indebted, after Mr. Higgins, to Dalton, Gay-Lussac, Smithson, and 
Wollaston."* 

The mineral species u Smithsonite, v a carbonate of zinc, was discovered 
and analyzed by him, among some ores from Somersetshire and Der- 
byshire, England. The name, Smithsonite, appears to have been con- 
ferred on it by the great French mineralogist Beudant. 

It is interesting to notice the number and variety of specimens from 
the vegetable kingdom that Smithson subjected to analysis. They in- 
clude the violet, red rose, red clover, daisy, blue hyacinth, hollyhock, 
lavender, artichoke, scarlet geranium, red cabbage, radish, poppy, plum, 
pomegranate, mulberry, cherry, currant, buckthorn berries, elder and 
privet berries. He also examined the coloring matter of animal greens. 

It is perhaps worthy of note that his first paper related to an article 
of importance in the materia mciliea, and his last to a matter of prac- 
tical value to artists. He by no means confined his attention to abstract 
science, but contributed knowledge of improved methods of constructing 
lamps, and of making tea and coffee. That such practical questions 
might be considered of little importance by men of science he seems to 
acknowledge by the remarks he makes in one of his papers. 

"It is to be regretted," he observes, "that those who cultivate 
science frequently withhold improvements in their apparatus and pro- 
cesses, from which they themselves derive advantage, owing to their not 
deeming them of sufficient magnitude for publication. When the sole 
view is to further a pursuit of whose importance to mankind a convic- 
tion exists, all that can should be imparted, however small may appear 
the merit which attaches to it." t 

A secretary of the French Academy deemed it his duty to offer an 
excuse for having given a detailed account of certain researches of 
Leibnitz, which had not required great efforts of the intellect. "We 
Ought," says he, "to be very much obliged to a man such as he is, when 
he condescends, for the public good, to do something which does not 
partake of genius." Arago remarked in his eulogy on Fourier, "I can 
not conceive the ground of such scruples; in the present day the sciences 

* Quarterly Review, L812, vol. viii, p. 77. 

tSoaie improvements of lamps. Smithsonian Miscell. Coll.No. 327, p. 78. 



JAMES SM1THS0N AND HIS BEQUEST. 151 

are regarded from too high a point of view to allow us to hesitate in 
placing in the first rank of the labors with which they arc adorned 
those which diffuse comfort, health, and happiness amidst the working- 
population." 

In another of bis papers Smithson says, referring to practical inves- 
tigations : 

" In all cases means of economy tend to augment and diffuse comfort 
and happiness. They bring within the reach of the many what waste- 
ful proceeding confines to the few. By diminishing expenditure on one 
article they allow of some other enjoyment which was before unattaina- 
ble. A reduction in quantity permits an indulgence in superior quality. 
In the present instance the importance of economy is particularly great 
since it is applied to matters of high price, which constitute one of the 
daily meals of a large portion of the population of the earth." 

" That in cookery also the power of subjecting for an indefinite dura- 
tion to a boiling heat, without the slightest dependiture of volatile mat- 
ter, will admit of a beneficial application, is unquestionable."* 

In the books of his library are found numerous marginal notes, indi- 
cating his special attention to subjects relating to the health, comfort, 
resources, and happiness of the people. 

Among his effects were several hundred manuscripts and a great 
number of notes or scraps on a variety of subjects, including history, the 
arts, language, rural pursuits, &c. On the subject of "habitations 1 ' 
were articles classified under the several heads of situation, exposure, 
exterior and interior arrangements, building materials, contents and 
adornment of rooms, furniture, pictures, statuary, &c. It is not im- 
probable that he contemplated the preparation of a cyclopedia or phil- 
osophical dictionary. 

Smithson's contributions to scientific literature consist of twenty-seven 
papers, eight published in the Philosophical Transactions of the Eoyal 
Society, in the years 1791,1802,1800,1808,1811,1812, 1813, and 181 7, and 
nineteen in Thomson's Annals of Philosophy, a journal of the highest 
scientific character, in 1810, 1820, 1821, 1822, 1823, 1821, and 1825. These 
papers have recently been collected and reprinted by the Smithsonian 
Institution. t Several of them were previously republished in foreign 
scientific journals translated by himself. 

It is highly probable that Smithson contributed articles to scientific 
and literary journals other than those mentioned, but they have not 
yet been discovered. 

* An improved method of making coffee. Smithsonian Alixcell. Coll., No. 327, p. 86. 
f Smithsonian Miscdl. Coll., No. 327, IS79, 8 vo., 166 pp. 



152 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

The following is a list of his scientific writings : 

[_In the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London.] 

1791. An account of some chemical experiments on Taba sheer, vol. 

lxxxi, pt. II, p. 368. 
1802. A chemical analysis of some Calamines, vol. xciii, p. 12. 

1806. Account of a discovery of native minium, vol. xcvi, pt. I, p. 267. 

1807. On quadruple and binary compounds, particularly sulphurets, 

[Philosophical Magazine, vol. xxix, p. 275.] 

1808. On the composition of the compound sulphuret from Hue! Boys, 

and an account of its crystals, vol. xcviii, p. 55. 
1811. On the composition of zeolite, vol. ci, p. 171. 
1813. On a substance from the elm tree, called ulmin, vol. ciii, p. 61. 
1813. On a saliue substance from Mount Vesuvius, vol. ciii, p. 256. 
1817. A few facts relative to the coloring matter of some vegetables, 

vol. cviii., p. 110. 

[In Thomson's Annals of Philosophy.] 

1819. On a native compound of sulphuret of lead and arsenic, vol. xiv, 
p. 96. 

1819. On native hydrous aluminate of lead, or ploinb gomme, vol. xiv, 

p. 31. 

1820. On a fibrous metallic copper, vol. xvi, p. 46. 

1820. An account of a native combination of sulphate of barium and 

fluoride of calcium, vol. xvi, p. 48. 

1821. On some capillary metallic tin, vol. xvii. New series, vol. I, p. 271. 

1 822. On the detection of very minute quantities of arsenic and mercury, 

vol. xx. New series, vol. iv, p. 127. 

1822. Some improvements of lamps, vol. xx. New series, vol. iv, p. 363. 
L823. Oil the crystalline form of ice, vol. xxi. New series, vol. v, p. 310. 

1823. A means of discrimination between the sulphates of barium and 

strontium, vol. xxi. New series, vol. v, p. 359. 
1823. On the discovery of acids in mineral substances, vol. xxi. New 

series, vol. v, p. 384. 
1823. An improved method of making coffee, vol. xxii. New series, vol. 

vi. p. 30. 
1823. A discovery of chloride of potassium in the earth, vol. xxii. New 

series, vol. vi, p. 258. 

1823. A method of fixing particles on the sappare, vol. xxii. New se- 

ries, vol. vi, ]>. 412. 

1824. On some compounds of fluorine, vol. xxiii. New series, vol. vii, 

p. 100. 
1824. An examination of some Egyptian colors, vol. xxiii. New series, 

vol. vii, ]>. 1 1."). 
1824. Some observations on Mr. Penn's theory concerning the formation 

of the Kirkdale Cave, vol. xxiv. New series, vol. viii, p. 50. 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 153 

1825. Note to a letter from Dr. Black, describing a very sensible balance, 

vol. xxvi. New series, vol. x, p. 52. 
1825. A method of fixing crayon colors, vol. xxvi. New series, vol. x, 

p. 230. 

Smitlison's writings all exhibit clearness of perception, terseness of 
language and accuracy of expression.* 

A trait of Smitlison's character is exhibited in the allusions he makes 
in his writings to other scientific men. His expressions are always 
kind or complimentary, evidently not for the sake of flattery, but from 
a sense of justice and truthful recognition of merit. He speaks of Mr. 
Tennant as one " whose many and highly important discoveries have 
so greatly contributed to the progress of chemical science." Abbe Haiiy 
lie refers to as one "so justly celebrated for Ms great knowledge in 
crystallography, mineralogy," &c. " The analysis we possess of na- 
trolite by the illustrious chemist of Berlin," &c. 

Of Baron Cronstedt he says, " the greatest mineralogist who has yet 
appeared." 

"A query from the celebrated Mr. Vauqueliu." 

"The celebrated Mr. Klaproth, to whom nearly every department of 
chemistry is under numerous and great obligations.'' 

"M. Berzelius' elegant method of detecting phosphoric acid," &c. 

"M. Werner, its principal and most distinguished professor," &c. 

Smithson died on the 27th of June, 1829, at Genoa, Italy. Tie was 
buried in the Protestant cemetery, about a mile west of Genoa, on the 
high elevation which forms the west side of the harbor and overlooks 
the town of Sampierdarena. His grave is marked by a handsome monu- 
ment. The base is of pale gray marble, G feet and a half long, 3 feet 
wide, and 3 : | feet high. On the top of this is a white marble urn suit- 
ably proportioned to the base. The lot is inclosed by an iron fence, with 
gray marble corner posts. On one side of the monument the inscription 
is as follows : 

"Sacred to the memory of James Smithson, esq., Fellow of the Royal 
Society, London, who died at Genoa the 26th June, 1829, aged 75 years." 

On the other side is the following: 

"This monument is erected, and the ground on which it stands pur- 
chased in perpetuity, by Henry Ilungerford, esq., the deceased's nephew, 
in token of gratitude to a generous benefactor and as a tribute to de- 
parted worth." 

The announcement of his departure called forth expressions of regret 
from prominent men of science, and as he had been an honored Fellow of 
the Royal Society, its president, Sir Davies Gilbert, alluded to it on two 
occasions. At the meeting of the Royal Society November 30, 1821), he 
remarked, "In no previous interval of twelve months has the society 

# A few extracts from Iris published writings are given in the Appendix, Note 7. 



154 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

collectively, or have its individual members, experienced losses so 
severe, or so much in every respect to be deplored." Among the names 
then referred to were those of Dr. W. H. Wollaston, Dr. Thomas Young, 
and Sir Humphrey Davy. To these illustrious savaus he adds that of 
James Smifchson, who, he says, "has added eight communications to our 
Transactions. lie was distinguished by the intimate friendship of Mr. 
Cavendish, and rivalled our most expert chemists in elegant analyses."* 

At the following anniversary meeting of the Royal Society, November 
30, 1830, the president, Sir Davies Gilbert, delivered an address in 
which, after speaking of the death of Major Kennele and Mr. Chevenix, 
he says: 

# # * u The only remaining individual who has taken a direct and 
active part in our labours, by contributing to the Transactions, is Mr. 
James Lewis Smithson, and of this gentleman I must be allowed to 
speak with affection. We were at Oxford together, of the same college, 
and our acquaintance continued to the time of his decease. 

" Mr. Smithson, then called Macie, and an undergraduate, had the 
reputation of excelling all other resident members of the University in 
the knowledge of chemistry. He was early honored by an intimate 
acquaintance with Mr. Cavendish; he was admitted into the Royal 
Society, and soon after presented a paper on the very curious concretion 
frequently found in the hollow of bambu canes, named Tabasheer. This 
he found to consist almost entirely of silex, existing in a manner similar 
to what Davy long afterwards discovered in the epidermis of reeds and 
grasses. 

" Mr. Smithson enriched our Transactions with seven other communi- 
cations : A chemical analysis of some calamines. Account of a discov- 
ery of native minium. On the composition and crystallization of certain 
sulphurets from Huel Boys in Cornwall. On the composition of zeolite. 
On a substance procured from the elm tree, called rim in. On a saline 
substance from Mount Vesuvius. Facts relative to the colouring matter 
of vegetables. 

"He was the friend of Dr. Wollaston, and al the same time his rival 
in the manipulation and analysis of small quantities. Ayadt) S 1 epts 
ijos ppoTotai. Mr. Smithson frequently repeated an occurrence with 
much pleasure and exultation, as exceeding anything that could be 
brought into competition with it; and this must apologize for my in- 
troducing what might otherwise be deemed an anecdote too light and 
trifling on such an occasion as the present. 

"Mr. Smithson declared that happening to observe a tear gliding 
down a lady's cheek, he endeavored to catch it on a crystal vessel; that 
one-half of the drop escaped, but having preserved the other half he 
submitted it to reagents, and detected what was then called microcosmic 
salt, with muriate of soda, and, I think, three or four more saline sub- 
stances, held in solution. 

* Philosophical Magazine, 1630, vol. vii, p. 42. 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 155 

" For many years past Mr. Smithson lias resided abroad, principally, 
I believe, on account of his health; but he carried with him the esteem 
and regard of various private friends, and of a still larger number of 
persona who appreciated and admired his acquirements." * 

This tribute to his memory and worth shows the high standing Smith- 
son had attained in the estimation of his compeers, and that he secured 
the fidelity and affection of his dependants is evinced by the care with 
which, in his will, he provides a reward for their attachment and services. 

" It lias been the lot of the greatest part of those who have excelled in 
science." says Dr. Johnson, "to be known only by their own writings, and 
to have left behind them no remembrance of their domestic life or pri- 
vate transactions, or only such memorials of particular passages as are 
on certain occasions necessarily recorded in public registers." 

To the same effect, Wilson, in his life of Cavendish (the warm friend of 
Smithson), remarks: "So careless has his own country been of his mem- 
ory that although he was for some fifty years a well-known and very dis- 
tinguished Fellow of the Royal Society, a member for a lengthened period 
of the French Institute, and an object of European interest to men of 
science, yet scarcely anything can be learned concerning his early history. 
This, no doubt, is owing in great part to his own dislike of publicity, and 
to the reserve and love of retirement which strongly characterized him. 
Long before his death however, he was so conspicuous a person in the 
scientific circles of London that the incidents of his early life might 
readily have been ascertained. They were not, it should seem, inquired 
into by any biographer."t 

This is eminently true of Smithson. We are unfortunately debarred 
from acquiring an intimate knowledge of his personal traits and peculi- 
arities by the absence of an autobiography, or even of any sketch of his 
life by his friends. For this reason we are more ready to avail ourselves 
of every fact in regard to him that can be ascertained, however trivial or 
insignificant any one of these might otherwise be c msidered. Even an 
inventory of his wardrobe and a schedule of his personal property pos- 
sesses an interest and serves at least to gratify a natural curiosity. Such 
a list has recently been found as certified by the English consul at Genoa, 
after the death of Smithson, with a valuation of the different articles : 

Francs. 
A carriage, complete '■!, 500 00 

Twenty-six silver forks, one salad fork, eight desert spoons, 
eighteen spoons, four sauce-ladles, one soup ladle, four salt 
spoons, three sugar ladles, one tea shell, three silver-head 
corks, two silver vessels, one toasting fork, weighing in all 
193.) ; ounces of silver, valued by Mr. A. Canissa, a goldsmith 1, 050 00 

An English gold repeater 200 00 

* The Philosophical Magazine, January -June, 1831, vol. ix, p. 41. 
t George Wilson. Life of Henry Cavendish. London, 1851. 



156 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

Francs. 
A Geneva gold watch 60 00 

Two gold snuff-boxes, one toothpick case, and two shirt but- 
tons 417 00 

One pin with sixteen small diamonds 33 34 

One ring with composition set in diamonds 00 73 

One ring of agate 3 40 

One ring, cameo, head of a Moor 50 00 

Two small boxes, one of tortoise shell, the other of amber. . . G 30 

One gold ring 13 00 

One small silver pick case G 00 

A clasp of gold with hair 10 G7 

A clasp with diamonds 203 34 

A pin with hair and diamonds 45 67 

A cameo 50 00 

A ring with diamonds 91* 00 

Sixteen shirts, nineteen cravats, forty-four pocket handker- 
chiefs, thirteen pairs of stockings, three nightcaps, two 
pair of drawers, two pair of sheets, three pillow-cases, seven 
waistcoats, two flannel waistcoats, six pair pantaloons, two 
cloth pantaloons, three coats, one nightgown, one dressing 

coat, two pair braces, four pair gloves 400 00 

One telescope GO 00 

Many small articles 100 00 

Two pasteboard boxes containing medals, coins, stones, &c 

One parcel containing papers relative to the Grand Canal* 

Several parcels of papers and five books 

1 12 Napoleons in gold and 31 francs GO centimes, in the hands 

of Messrs. Gibbs & Co 2,27160 

('ash in hands of Messrs. Gibbs & Co 3, 634 74 

One parcel, thirteen certificates Spanish stock, 
Paris, 4th September, 1822, 350 piastres rente 

d'Espagne, par value, francs 24, 097 50, valued at 3, 780 00 

Promissory note for 295 francs, dated 1st June, 1824, due by 

Alexis Sileime 295 00 

Bond for 20,000 francs, dated 8th July, 1828, due by Sailly 

& Sceur, of Paris 20, 000 00 

Pill for 2,000 francs, dated 8th October, 1822, drawn by Mr. 

Sailly, accepted by Mr. Smithson 2,000 00 

Bank-note for £100, No. 14419, 19th December, 1827, in the 

hands of Messrs. Gibbs & Go 2,500 00 

Parcel containing accounts and letters from Messrs. Druni- 
iimukI & Co. 

*The Grand Canal is 90 miles in length, uniting the rivers Trent and Mersey, with 
branches to the Severn, to Oxford, &c. It was proposed by Mr. Wedgwood, and was 
the second one made ill England. 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 157 

Very few of these articles were transferred to Mr. Rush, the agent of 
the United States Government, who received the bequest. His enumer- 
ation of the personal effects of Smithson is as follows : 

" A large trunk ; a box containing sundry specimens of minerals ; a 
brass instrument ; a box of minerals; a box of chemical glasses; a packet 
of minerals; a glass vinegar-cruet; a stone mortar; a pair of silver-plated 
candlesticks and branches ; a pair of silver-plated candlesticks without 
branches; a hone, in a mahogany case ; a plated- wire flower-basket ; a 
plated coffee-pot; a small plated coffee-pot; a pair of wine-coolers; a 
pair of small candlesticks; two pair salt-cellars ; a bread-basket ; two 
pair vegetable dishes and covers; a large round waiter; a large oval 
waiter; two small oval waiters ; two plate-warmers ; a reading shade; 
a gun ; a mahogany cabinet; two portraits in oval frames; a china tea- 
service, consisting of twelve cups and saucers ; six coffee-cups ; a tea- 
pot; a slop-basin; a sugar-basin and lid; two plates; a milk-jug; a tea- 
canister; two dishes; a landscape in a gilt frame; a Derby-spar vase; 
a China tub ; a piece of fluor-spar ; a pairof glass candlesticks ; a marble 
bust ; sundry books and pamphlets ; two large boxes filled with speci- 
mens of minerals and manuscript treatises, apparently in the testator's 
handwriting, on various philosophical subjects, particularly chemistry 
and mineralogy. Eight eases and one trunk filled with the like." 

With reference to a gun, pieces of china, and articles of a miscella- 
neous nature belonging to Smithson, Mr. Rush was informed by his at- 
torneys that they were taken in possession by his nephew, Henry James 
Hungerford. 

Mr. Rush, in one of his dispatches to the State Department (July 14, 
1838). says: "The boxes and trunk are to go on shipboard to-day. Be- 
fore knowing anything of their contents, I thought proper to have them 
opened and examined in the presence of our consul and two other per- 
sons. A large portion of the contents proved to be unimportant; never- 
theless, all will be delivered over on my arrival as I received them, ex- 
cept to have them better packed for a sea voyage, and so as to prevent 
further injury to that which time and bad packing have already done to 
them." 

These articles remained in the New York custom house from the 29th 
of August, 1838, until June, 1811, when, at the earnest solicitation of 
the National Institute of Washington, they were sent to the latter city. 

The trunk contained manuscripts and clothing, the latter consisting of 
the following articles, according to a list found among the papers of the 
National Institute : " 1 net shirt, 4 sheets, 11 napkins, 5 light vests, 1 
bag, 4 roundabouts, 5 light pants and short breeches, 1 bib, 3 drawers, 
3 pair garters, 2 light coats, 1 cloth overcoat, 1 cloth military coat, 1 
cloth hunting coat, 1 cloth cloak, 1 cloth surtout, 1 cloth pair of pants, 
2 cloth vests, 4 pair stockings, 1 chapeau." 

The clothing was nearly ruined by moths, and was presented to an 



158 JAMES SMITnSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

orphan asylum. An examination of the effects was made by a committee 
of the National Institute, who made the following report as to part of 
them: "A cabinet, consisting- of a choice and beautiful collection of 
minerals, comprising probably eight or ten thousand specimens. These, 
though generally small, are exceedingly perfect, and constitute a very 
complete geological and mineralogical series, embracing the finest varie- 
ties of crystallization, rendered more valuable by accompanying figures 
and descriptions by Mr. Smithson, and in his own handwriting. The cab- 
inet also contains a valuable suite of meteoric stones, which appear to be 
specimens of most of the meteorites which had fallen in Europe during 
several centuries." 

Mr. Francis Markoe, jr., himself an expert mineralogist, in a letter to 
the American Philosophical Society, 4th August, 18-41, says "that 
among the valuable things contained in the Smithson boxes were found 
a superb collection, and very large, of precious stones and exquisite crys- 
tallized minerals, forming, as far as I can judge, decidedly the richest 
and rarest collection in this country." 

A medallion was found among his effects to which were attached the 
words "my likeness," written in Smithson's own hand. From this has 
been engraved the portrait published by the Institution, the great seat 
ordered by the first Board of Regents, and the vignette which appears 
on all the Smithsonian publications. The original steel-plate portrait, 
engraved by J. W. Paradise, of New York, in 1847, was destroyed by 
fire, but it was finely reproduced for the Institution by Charles Burt, of 
New York, in 1879. 

A full-length portrait (about one fourth size) in oil, of Smithson, rep- 
resenting him in the costume of an Oxford student, was purchased by 
the Institution in 1850, for thirty guineas, from the widow of John Fitall, 
a former servant, to whom Smithson granted an annuity in his will. 

Still later, in 1878, the institution purchased from Mr. George Henry 
De la Batut, of France, a beautiful miniature in oil, on ivory, painted by 
Johns, on the 1 1th of May, 181(3, at Aix-la-Chapelle. 

The effects of Smithson were exhibited in the Patent Office building, 
"Washington, until 1858, when they were transferred to the Smithsonian 
Institute, where they were unfortunately destroyed by fire on the 24th 
of .January, 1865, with the exception of his books, a very tew manu- 
script notes on minerals, and an oil painting of a landscape. A list of 
these books now in the Institution will be found in the appendix.* 

The following articles are enumerated as the contents of case 23 in 
Alfred Hunter's " Popular Catalogue of the Extraordinary Curiosities in 
the National Institute, arranged in the building belonging to the Patent 
Office," 1855 : 

"Silver plate with coat of arms of the Northumberland family; 
chemical apparatus, test-cups, &cj thermometer, snuff-box, portrait of 

* See Appendix — Note 8. 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 159 

Smithson's father, scales, umbrella-case, and riding-whip, sword-belt and 
plume, silver spoons and butter-knife, ornamented spools for winding 
gold wire, copper plate with his name engraved on it ; minerals of Smith- 
son, a very superb collection, though small; silver candlestick ; an ele- 
gant service of silver, containing a great many pieces. These are all 
very much discolored by sulphurous gas. A marble head of Saint Ce- 
cilia, by Thorwaldsen, presented to Mr. Smithson at Copenhagen by 
Dr. Brandis, physiciau to the King of Denmark. A fine old original 
painting by Bergham, cattle piece, peasants, &c. ; an old building in the 
distance. Its subject is rustic and familiar life. The treatment is 
chaste and mellow. The depth of the foreground is really surprising, 
and appears to be produced without an effort ,• the background is trans- 
parent and aerial ; the middle distance sober and clear; the atmosphere 
and vapors pellucid and tremulous ; the quiet and docile animals, the 
groups of peasantry, and the strongholds of power are equal to any 
other great effort of the celebrated Bergham. Many specimens of pet- 
rified wood. Notice several beautiful specimens of marble, which it 
would be difficult to distinguish from a fine landscape painting. Glass 
model of the great Russian diamond, valued at about 600,000 pounds 
sterling." 

In an "Account of the Smithsonian Institution, &c," by Wm. J. Rhees, 
published in Washington in 1859, the following statement is made: 

" In the room used by the ' Regents ' and the ' Establishment' as a 
hall for their meetings, are now deposited the personal effects of James 
Smithson. Here may be seen his. trunks, umbrella, walking-cane, sword, 
plume, riding-whip ; a set of silver-plate ; a miniature chemical laboratory, 
which he used when travelling; thermometers, snuff-box, scales, candle- 
sticks, &c. Hanging in this room is an original painting by Bergham, 
a rural scene, the property of Smithson, a marble head of St. Cecilia, by 
Thorwalsden, &c." 

The will of Smithson was prepared by him on the 23d October, 1S2G, 
while residing in Bentinck street, Cavendish Square, London, three years 
before his death, showing that it was made with deliberation and con- 
firmed by mature reflection. Its provisions are in some respects so re- 
markable that they have been attributed to a mere whim or eccentricity 
of character; but knowledge of the man as a scientific investigator, 
accustomed to the use of precise language, fond of the most minute de- 
tails, and yet of broad and comprehensive views, precludes this infer- 
ence. An interesting circumstance lias come to light from a recent care- 
ful examination of the books in Smithson's library. A volume has been 
found entitled "Plain advice to the public, to facilitate the making of 
their own wills, with forms of wills, simple and elaborate, containing 
almost every description of bequest, especially the various modes of set- 
tling property for the sole use and benefit of married women for their 
lives, with powers of appointment to them by deed or will ; tables of the 
stainp duties on probates and letters of administration ; special rules 



160 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

and tables regarding the wills and letters of administration of petty 
officers, seamen, and marines, and a chapter of useful bints to persons 
about to make their own wills; the whole illustrated with explanatory 
notes and remarks, being an intelligible and complete, though summary, 
explanation of the law of wills and testaments.' By the author of 
'Plain instructions to executors and administrators.'" London, 1S2G, 
8vo., 94 pages. 

It is noticeable that this book was published in the same year in which 
Smithson made his will, and that it was carefully studied is evident 
from his marginal notes, and the fact that he adopted its phraseology 
in providing an annuity to his faithful servant. His words were not 
only chosen to accord with the forms of law, but with strict regard to 
the meaning and scope of the language used. The will, moreover, is in 
the testator's own handwriting. 

It is an interesting subject of speculation to consider the motives 
which actuated Smithson in bequeathing his fortune to the United 
States of America to found an institution in the city of Washington. 

He is not known to have had a single correspondent in America, 
and in none of his papers is found any reference to it or to its distin- 
guished men.* It has been alleged that he was more fri( ndly to mon- 
archical than to republican institutions, but there appears to be no foun- 
dation for this opinion. It is more probable that, living at a time when 
all Europe was convulsed with war, when the energies of nations, the 
thoughts of rulers, and the lives of millions were devoted to eiforts for 
conquest or to perpetuate despotism, he turned to the free American 
Republic, where he could discern the germs of rising grandeur, the ele- 
ments of enduring prosperity, and the aspirations of coining generations. 
lie undoubtedly felt that in the United States there would be wider scope 
for the promotion of knowledge, and that in this new country there 
would always be free thought and indefinite progress. By selecting 
the nation itself as the depository of his trust he paid the highest com- 
pliment to its intelligence and integrity, and testified his confidence in 
republican institutions and his faith in their perpetuity. 

The period in which Smithson lived was not less marked by the 
gloom occasioned by long-protracted and almost universal war, and 
the extent and rapidity of its social changes, than by the luster of 
its brilliant discoveries in science and its useful inventions in the arts. 
The leaders of contending nations, who had long absorbed the atten- 
tion of Europe by their struggles for dominion, were at last forced to 
relinquish some of their honors to the great philosophers whose achieve- 
ments then illuminated the page of history, and which have not since 
been surpassed. It was pre-eminently a period of activity of thought. 

" There are only two books in Smithson's library containing references to the United 
States. Extracts from these relative to the city of Washington are given in the Ap- 
pendix, Note 9. 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 



161 



of fertility of invention and of original research. Pure abstract science 
had many illustrious votaries, and the practical application of its truths 
gave to the world many of the great inventions by means of which civiliza- 
tion has made such immense and rapid progress. 

jSTot only were individual efforts for the welfare of humanity made, 
but a spirit of association was developed and numerous organizations 
formed, having for their object the promotion of science, education, and 
philanthropy. The few existing societies also became inspired with 
new life and vigor. The "Royal Society of London" entered upon its 
most brilliant epoch and became the fountain and center of intellectual 
progress. "The Royal Institution of Great Britain," chiefly indebted 
for its origin to an American, was founded in 1800, "for diffusing the. 
knowledge and facilitating the general introduction of useful mechanical 
inventions and improvements and for teaching by courses of philosoph- 
ical lectures and experiments the application of science to the common 
purposes of life. 1 ' A glance at the names of a lew of the great organi- 
zations instituted in different parts of the world at the close of the lust 
and beginning of the present century will show the remarkable scien- 
tific activity of that period and the direction of thought towards the 
establishment of permanent institutions : 



1782. Royal Irish Academy. 
1781. Royal Asiatic Society. 
1788. Linnean Society. 
1788. Societe Philomatique. 
1705. Societe Philotechnique. 
1709. Academy of Sciences, Lisbon. 
1800. Royal Institution of Great 

Britain. 
1>>{)~). Societe Anthropologiqne, 

Paris. 

1807. Geological Society of London. 

1808. Royal Institute of the Low 

Countries. 
1812. Literary and Philosophical 



1812. Royal Academy of Sciences 
of Berlin (reorganized ). 

181G. The French Academy of Sci- 
ences (re< uganized). 

1818. Academy of Natural Sciences, 
Philadelphia. 

1810. Philosophical Society, Gam- 
bridge. 

1S20. Royal Astronomical Society. 

1821. Societe Imperiale de Geogra- 

phic, Paris. 

1822. Societe Asiatique, Paris. 
1825. Societe Royale des Antiquai- 

res dn Xord, ( )openhagen. 
182G. Zoological Society, Loudon. 



Society, Liverpool. 

The remarkable advances made in science at this epoch were thus 
alluded to by Arago in his eulogy en Thomas Young: 

" In a short space of time the Academy has lost from the list of its 
members, Hersehel, whose bold ideas on the structure of the universe 
have acquired every year more of probability; Piazzi, who, on the first 
day of the present century, presented our solar system with a new planet; 
Watt, who, if not the inventor of the steam-engine, was at least the 
creator of so many admirable contrivances by the aid of which the little 
instrument of Papin has become the most ingenious, the most useful, the 
most powerful means of applying industry ; Volta, who has been immor- 
S. Mis. 51 11 



162 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

talized by his electric pile; Davy, equally celebrated for the decomposi- 
tion of the alkalies, and for the invaluable safety -lamp of the miner; Wol- 
laston, whom the English called "the Pope," because he never proved 
fallible in any of his numerous experiments or of his subtle theoretical 
speculations ; Jenner, lastly, whose discovery I have no need to extol in 
the presence of fathers of families. 11 

Cuvier also made the following imposing retrospect of the scientific 
achievements of this era in his eulogy on Uaiiy : 

"The laws of a geometry, as concise as comprehensive, extended over 
the entire heavens; the boundaries of the universe enlarged and its 
spaces peopled with unknown stars; the courses of celestial bodies deter- 
mined more rigorously than ever, both in time and space ; the earth 
weighed as in a balance; man soaring to the clouds or traversing the 
seas without the aid of winds; the intricate mysteries of chemistry re- 
ferred to certain clear and simple facts; the list of natural existences 
increased tenfold in every species, and their relations irrevocably fixed 
by a survey as well of their internal as external structure; the history 
of the earth, even in ages the most remote, explored by means of its own 
monuments, and shown to be not less wonderful in fact than it might 
have appeared to the wildest fancy: such is the grand and unparalleled 
spectacle which it has been our privilege to contemplate." 

While scientific thought and discovery were thus being advanced, 
attention was directed to the great ignorance of the masses. The idea 
of universal diffusion of knowledge had been unknown in England, and 
many of the upper classes of society cherished and avowed a deeply 
rooted dislike to the education of the poor, as "tending to discontent 
and an overthrow of that orderly subordination without which society 
cannot exist." The principle was held by many, and considered indis- 
putable, that "the ignorance of the people was necessary to their obe- 
dience to law."* 

The period, however, was one in which revolution was commencing in 
all directions. Many of the old landmarks of thought, opinion, and fact 
were in process of removal and new ones were rapidly becoming estab- 
lished. The progress and results of mechanical invention were pro- 
ducing great social changes. Lord Brougham's " Treatise on Popular 
Education," fust published in January, L825, had reached its twentieth 
edition in the following year. TJis vigorous, eloquent, and practical 
appeals to his countrymen were exciting universal attention, and through 
his efforts the first of the useful and popular Mechanics" Institutes was 
established,the I University of London was founded, and book clubs, read- 
ing societies, and scientific lectures were organized. 

At the opening of the session of Parliament in 1828, he proclaimed 
that it was unconstitutional that almost the whole patronage of the 
State should be placed in the hands of a military premier. The eon- 
cluding passage of his speech ran through the country, and dwelt for- 

* Lord Cockburn. 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 163 

ever in men's minds in its axiomatic power. "There had been periods 
when the country heard with dismay that the soldier was abroad. That 
is not the case now. Let the soldier be ever so much abroad, in the 
present age he could do nothing. There is another person abroad — a 
less important person, in the eyes of some an insignificant person, whose 
labours have tended to produce this state of things — the schoolmaster is 
abroad.''' 1 * 

Lord Brougham had declared that "to instruct the people in the rudi- 
ments of philosophy would of itself be an object sufficiently brilliant 
to allure the noblest ambition. To promote these ends and to obtain 
for the great body of his fellow-creatures that high improvement which 
both their understanding and their morals fitted them to receive," he 
urged upon the consideration of the men of wealth of Britain. " Such 
a one, however averse by taste or habit to the turmoil of public affairs, 
or the more ordinary strifes of the world, may in all quiet and inno- 
cence enjoy the noblest gratification of which the most aspiring nature 
is susceptible ; he may influence by his single exertions the chai acter and 
the fortunes of a whole generation, and thus wield a power to be envied 
even by vulgar ambition, for the extent of its dominion ; to be cherished 
by virtue itself, for the unalloyed blessings it bestows." He pressed the 
subject on the attention "of all men of enlightened views, who value the 
real improvement of their fellow-creatures and the best interests of their 
country." He appealed to public-spirited individuals to promote the dif- 
fusion of knowledge and the cultivation of intellectual pursuits by devot- 
ing some of their means to these objects, and showed how much money 
had been misapplied by benevolent persons in sustaining certain charita- 
ble institutions which only tended to increase the number of the poor and 
dependent classes. 

The " Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge" was established 
in April, 1825, and at once entered upon a career alike brilliant and suc- 
cessful. " Its publications," says the Edinburgh Review, f " undoubtedly 
form by far the most important of the contributions from men of science 
and letters to the instruction and improvement of mankind." " Its efforts 
were to be extended until knowledge had become as plentiful and as 
universally diffused as the air we breathe." 

It cannot be doubted that Mr. Smithson became impressed with the 
prevailing and new spirit of his age, and, recognizing as a man of science 
the inestimable value of knowledge and the importance of its universal 
diffusion, wrote the words of his will bequeathing his whole fortune "for 
the increase and diffusion oflcnowledge among men? 

At one period of his life, and when an active member of the Boyal 
Society, he purposed leaving his fortune to that body for the promotion 

* Chas. Knight's Passages of a Working Life. London, Vol 2, p. 66. 
t Edinburgh Eevieio, Vol. xlvi, 1827, p. 243. 



164 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

of science,* but it is said that a disagreement with the council of the so- 
ciety on account of the non-acceptance of one of his papers probably led 
him to abandon the idea. This circumstance is of importance as indicat- 
ing the bent of his mind and the mode in which he proposed to benefit 
mankind. The difficulty referred to, however, undoubtedly led him to 
give broader scope to his plan, and to choose a trustee for his endow- 
ment who would be hampered by no conventional or traditional restric- 
tions, and who would understand and carry out his purposes in the most 
liberal ami practical manner.t 

It is peculiarly gratifying to Americans to remember that the first 
award made by the Council of the Eoyal Society of the Copley medal, the 
most honorable within its gift, was to our own countryman, Benjamin 
Franklin, who was adjudged to be tin 1 author of the most important 
scientific discovery. On this occasion the president of the society stated 
that the council, "keeping steadily in view the advancement of science 
and useful knowledge, and the honor of the society, had never thought 
of confining the benefaction within the narrow limits of any particular 
country, much less of the society itself." 

As tli is was the spirit of the leading scientific organization in existence, 
of which Smithson himself was an active and honored member, he well 
exemplified its liberal principles by transferring his foundation of a great 
establishment for the "increase and diffusion of knowledge among men" 
from London to the city of "Washington. 

Smithson received a large estate from his half brother, Colonel LTenry 
Louis Dickinson, in trust for the benefit of the son of this brother as 
well as of his mother. To this nephew, to whom he was probably 
attached, or because he had derived a large part of his fortune from his 
father, he left his whole fortune. Contingent on the death of this young 
man, he made the remarkable provision of an establishment in the United 
States which has secured for him the distinction of being a benefactor of 
mankind. 

"The charter stales that the Royal Society was founded for the improvement of 
natural knowledge. This epithet natural, Dr. Paris remark*, "was intended to imply 
a meaning of which very few persons are aware. At the period of the establishment 
of the society the arts of witchcraft and divinations were very extensively encouraged, 
and the word natural was therefore introduced in contradistinction to supernatural." 
Hooke, the president, declared, in 1663, that "the business and design of the Royal 
Society was to improve the knowledge of natural things, and all useful arts, manufac- 
tures, ineehanick practises, engynes and inventions by experiments — (not meddling 
with divinity, metaphysics, moralls, politicks, grammar, rhetorick, or logick.)" 

Dr. Wollaston had made a gift of £1,000 to the Royal Society, the interest of which 
was to be annually applied towards the encouragement of experiments. 

t " Our countrymen do not believe that America is more advanced in knowledge and 
refinement than Europe; but they know that, with slight divergencies, both hemi- 
spheres are in this respect nearly abreast of each other. And they know that, both 
being yet far from the goal, their generous transatlantic rivals start unencumbered by 
many old prejudices and social trammels which we cauuot here escape from." — (Tait's 
Edinburgh Magazine, 1832, p. ~'34.) 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 165 

It has been shown with what zeal and pleasure Smithson himself en. 
gaged in the advancement of knowledge, and what general interest had 
been awakened in England in the cause of scientific organization and 
popular education at the very time he wrote his will, audit is not unrea- 
sonable, therefore, to believe that he contemplated this contingency as 
a very probable event. 

The will of Smithson, dated October 23, 1S2C, was proved in the Pre- 
rogative Court Of Canterbury by his executor, Mr. Charles Drummond, 
a London banker, on the 4th of November, 1829. The value of the effects 
was sworn to be under £120,000.* 

In 1878, a copy of a will also in Smithson's handwriting was procured 
by the Institution from Mr. de la Batut, almost identical with the one 
recorded in the courts of London. 

It appears from this that the word heretofore printed Audley in copies 
of the will should be "Stndley," and that the name of the former servant 
who kept the Hungerford Hotel at Paris should be Sadly, and not Jailly. 
In the record of the will at London, the word Smithsonian as the name 
of the Institution to be established is " Smithsonean," but as it is very 
plainly written "ian" in what we must consider his original draft, the 
misspelling referred to is undoubtedly due to an error of the transcriber. 
In all the proceedings in the court of chancery, and all the negotiations 
of Mr. Rush, the name " Smithsonian " has uniformly been used. 

The first article of the will refers to an old and trusted servant, John 
Fitall, to whom, in consideration of his attachment and fidelity, Smith- 
son bequeaths an annuity of a hundred pounds sterling. This Fitall 
died in June, 1834, having enjoyed the benefit of his legacy for five 
years. 

Mr. Smithson next directs that various sums of money he had lent to 
another of his servants, Henri Honori Sailly, should be allowed to re- 
main uncalled for at five per cent, interest for five years. 

He then mentions the fact that all the money in the French five per 
cents, (livres de rentes) then standing in his own name and in that of 
Colonel Dickinson was the property of his nephew, being what he in- 
herited from the colonel, who died on the 22d May, 1820, with what he 
had added himself to it from savings made out of the income. To this 
nephew, Henry James Ilungerford, who was also known as I lenry James 
Dickinson, and still later as Baron Eunice de la Batut, he leaves the 
rest of the income arising from his property during his life. The whole 
of his fortune is by the next clause of the will left absolutely and for- 
ever to any child or children, legitimate or illegitimate, of the said 
nephew Hungerford. But in case of the death of his nephew without 
leaving a child or children, or of the death of the child or children he 
may have had under the age of twenty-one years or intestate, he then 
says : 

* Gentleman's Magazine, 1830, vol. c, p. 275. 



166 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

li I bequeath the ivhole of my property to the United States of America, 
to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an 
establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men? 

The nephew, Mr. Hungerford (alias H. J. Dickinson), to whom was 
bequeathed a life interest in Smithson's estate, brought an amicable suit 
in chancery against the executors for the purpose of having the assets 
administered under the direction of the lord chancellor, and these were 
ascertained to be about £100,000 sterling. The income from this prop- 
erly, which consisted mainly of stock in the public funds of England, 
was promptly paid to young Hungerford, who led a roving life in Europe, 
without settled habits or occupation, and died under the name of Baron 
Eunice de la Batut, at the Royal Hotel in Pisa, Italy, on the 5th of June, 
1835, under thirty years of age, never having married, and leaving no 
heirs who could, even under the broad provisions of his uncle's will, make 
a claim to his bounty. 

The mother of Hungerford, a Mrs. Mary Ann Coates, had married a 
Frenchman named Theodore de la Batut, and was still living at Port 
Louis in France. She now made a claim for part of the estate, on the 
ground that her son had given her an ample allowance while he lived, and 
that under the will of his father, Col. Henry Louis Dickinson, made in 
Paris in July 1S19, by which he left all his property to jis brother, James 
Smithson, half the income was to be for her benefit during her life. It 
was shown that young Hungerford lived up to his income, and had left 
nothing even to pay debts or funeral expenses. It was also urged 
that if Smithson's will had come into operation then, instead of seven 
years before, Hungerford would, in consequence of an alteration of the 
jaw, have been entitled to a portion of the accruing half-year's income 
up to his death; and that, in consequence of the change in the law, he 
could not be said to have enjoyed the income of the property during his 
whole life. It was also urged as a "moral claim," that as the Smith- 
son bequest was to be applied " to increase and diffuse knowledge 
among men,"' the children of Mrs. de la Batut were entitled to an 
allowance from it until the age of twenty-two for their education. 

The claim made was for an annuity of £210; but after long nego- 
tiation the decree was made by the court of chancery to allow Mrs. de 
la Batut £150 On. during her life, with a payment of £526 11*. (id. for 
arrears from the 22d September, 1834, to the 22d March, 1838. To se- 
cure this annuity, the sum of £5,015 in three per cent, consols was re- 
tained in trust by the court, the interest to be paid on the22d September 
and -I'd March annually. By the law of France, the life income is ap- 
portionahle and payable up to the time of death ; and Colonel Dickin- 
son having been domiciled in France, this rule applied in his case. 

Mis. de la Batut lived to the year 1801, and the amount retained in 
England as the principal of the annuity was paid over to the Institu- 
tion on the 11th June, 1864. This is known as the " residuary legacy" 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 167 

of Sniithson, and the snin realized from it by the Institution, by the 
premium on gold, &c, was $54,105.38. 

The first announcement made to the American Government of the 
fact that the United States had become entitled to the bequest of Smithson 
was a dispatch, dated -8th July, 1835, from lion. Aaron Vail, charge 
d'affaires of the United States at London, to Don John Forsyth, Secre- 
tary of State, transmitting a letter from Messrs. Clarke, Fynmore and 
Fladgate, attorneys in that city. This communicated the intelligence 
that the nephew of Smithson had died, and that the United States was 
entitled to the estate, valued at £100,000. 

These facts were laid before Cougress by President Jackson on the 
17th December, 1835, who stated in his message that he had no author- 
ity to take any steps toward accepting the trust. 

In the Senate of the United States the message of the President was 
referred to the Committee on the Judiciary, winch, by its chairman, Mr. 
Benj. Watkins Leigh, of Virginia, reported, on the 5th of January, 1830, 
that they considered the bequest of Mr. Smithson a valid one, and they 
believed "that the United States would be entertained in the court of 
chancery of England to assert their claim to the fund as trustees for 
the purpose of founding the charitable institution at Washington to 
which it is destined by the donor." The question whether it was within 
the competency of the Government to appropriate any part of the gen- 
eral revenue from the nation at large to the foundation of a literary or 
any other institution in the District of Columbia was answered by Mr. 
Leigh by stating that — 

"The fund given by Mr. Smithson's will is nowise, and never can be- 
come, part of the revenue of the United States; they cannot claim or 
take it for their own benefit; they can only take it as trustee." 

"The United States were to be regarded as the parens patriae of the 
District of Columbia, and in that character they had a right and were 
in duty bound to assert a claim to any property given to them for the 
purpose of founding an institution within the District, and to provide 
for the due application and administration of such a fund when they 
obtained possession of it." 

Resolutions were reported by the committee providing for the prose- 
cution of the claim. The report was considered in the Senate on the 
30th April, 1830, and it was urged by Mr. W". O. Preston, of South Car- 
olina, that the Government of the United States had no power to receive 
the money, lie thought the donation had been made partly with a view 
to immortalize the donor, and it was "too cheap a way of conferring im- 
mortality." lie had no idea of the District of Columbia being used as 
a fulcrum to raise foreigners to immortality by getting Qpngress as the 
'parens patriae to accept donations from them, lie expressed the opinion 
that Smithson's intention was to found a university. 

Mr. Leigh, in reply, maintained that the legacy was not for the benefit 



168 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

of the United States, but only for one of the eities of the District of 
Columbia, and with this belief he had no difficulty in voting for the bill. 

Mr. John M. Clayton, of Delaware, also thought a university was in- 
tended by Smithson. 

Mr. John C. Calhoun, of South Carolina, was of opinion that the dona- 
tion was made expressly to the United States, and that "it was beneath 
their dignity to receive presents of this kind from any one." 

Mi'. Samuel L. Southard, of New Jersey, advocated the measure, as 
he thought Congress had the unquestionable right to establish a national 
university. 

Mr. James Buchanan, of Pennsylvania, believed that Congress had 
the power to receive and apply this money to the purposes intended by 
the testator, without involving the question whether it was for a univer- 
sity or not. 

Mr. Robert J. Walker, of Mississippi, advocated the bill as a measure 
of justice to the city of Washington. 

Mr. John Davis, of Massachusetts, argued that the Senators were mis- 
taken who assumed that Smithson intended his bequest to establish a 
university. This word was not to be found in the will, and there were 
other means for diffusing knowledge besides the one referred to. lie 
deemed the establishment of institutions for the promotion of knowl- 
edge a vital principle of republican government. 

After a somewhat protracted debate the resolutions were finally passed 
on the 2d of May, 183G, by a vote of 31 to 7, and on. the 25th of June 
they were again passed in the shape of a bill as it had come from the 
House of Representatives. 

The message of the President was referred in the House, on the 21st of 
December, 1835, to a special committee, consisting of Mr. John Quincy 
Adams, of Massachusetts, Mr. Francis Thomas, of Maryland, Mr. dames 
Garland, of Virginia, Mr. D. J. Pearce, of Rhode Island, Mr. Jesse 
Speight, of North Carolina, Mr. Thomas M. T. MeKennan, of Pennsyl- 
vania, Mr. E. A. Ilannegan, of Indiana, Mr. Rice Garland, of Louisiana, 
and Mr. G. II. Chapin, of New York. In this committee great opposi- 
tion was manifested at first to the acceptance of the bequest, hut this 
yielded to the arguments and persuasion of the distinguished chairman, 
Mr. John C>. Adams. A bill was accordingly reported, directing the Pres- 
ident to appoint an agent to assert and prosecute for and in behalf of 
the United Slates in the court of chancery, England, the legacy be- 
queathed by James Smithson. The agent was to give bonds in $500,000 
for the faithful performance of the duties imposed upon him. The Treas- 
urer of the United States was to take charge of and keep safely all the 
money received on account of the bequest, and "the faith of the United 
States was solemnly pledged thai the fund should be applied for the 
purpose of founding and endowing at Washington, under the name of 
the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and dififii- 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 169 

sion of knowledge among men." For the cost of prosecuting the claim 
an appropriation of $10,000 was made 

On the 19th of January, 1836, Mr. Adams made an elaborate report, 
containing all the facts lie had been able to collect relative To Smithson, 
and expressing in the most glowing and refined language his apprecia- 
tion of the value of the gilt to America and its importance to mankind. 
Mr. Leigh had convinced the Senate that it was the duty of Congress 
to accept the bequest, and Mr. Adams brought before the House an ac- 
count of the life of the testator, the nature of the trust, the character of 
the trustees, the practical influence of our political institutions upon 
Europe, and the vast benefits to the world which might grow out of the 
legacy. The report was unanimously agreed to in the committee, but 
Mr. Adams had great misgivings whether anything would ever be real- 
ized from the bequest. The delays of the English court of chancery 
were well known, and the opinion had even been expressed that the 
whole affair was an imposture. Mr. Adams never wavered, however, 
in his faith in the power of the government to procure the money and 
its ability to administer it properly. He refers in his diary to it as the 
favorite and almost absorbing subject of his thoughts, and for many 
years he devoted untiling activity and personal efforts to its successful 
accomplishment. 

No action was taken by the House on Mr. Adams's report until the 
Senate had passed Mr. Leigh's resolution; wnen that was taken up, 
changed in form to that of a bill, passed on the 25th of June, 183G, and 
was approved by the President on the 1st of July, 1830. 

In accordance with this act the President appointed, on the 11th of 
July, Hon. Richard Push, of Pennsylvania, as the agent to assert and 
prosecute the claim of the United States to the legacy. His salary was 
fixed at 63,000 per annum, and $2,000 were allowed for contingencies, 
not including legal expenses. Mr. Push gave the necessary bond for 
$500,000, Messrs. J. Mason, jr., and Benjamin C. Howard being his sure- 
ties, who were accepted by Mr. Woodbury, Secretary of the 1 Treasury. 
This appointment was one eminently tit to be made, and its wisdom was 
proved by the successful accomplishment of the mission. Mr. Rush had 
been Comptroller of the United States Treasury at a time when the fiscal 
affairs of the government were in disorder ; he was next Attorney-Gen- 
eral ; then minister to England for a period of eight years; Secretary 
of the Treasury; and minister to France. " To these great and varied 
employments,' 1 Hon. J. A. Pearce has remarked, "he brought integrity, 
ability, intelligence, firmness, courtesy, and a directness of purpose 
which scorned all Jiucsxc and which served his country to the full extent 
of all that could have been demanded or hoped." 

Mr. Push immediately proceeded to London, placed himself in com- 
munication with the attorneys of the executor of Smithson, and entered 
with vigor into the measures necessary to assert the claim of the United 



170 JAMES SM1THSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

States. It was soon ascertained, on consultation with eminent counsel, 
Messrs. Thomas IVmberton and Edward Jacob, then at the head of tho 
chancery bar, that it was necessary that a suit should be brought in 
the name of the President of the United States against the testator's 
executors, and that the Attorney-General must be made a party to the 
proceedings in order that he might represent before the court any claim 
which the Crown might have to the bequest on account of its extension 
to illegitimate children, or by reason of any part of the property con- 
sisting of interests in land. Mr. Rush, in addition to Messrs. Pember- 
ton and Jacob, employed Messrs. Clarke, Fynmore, and Pladgate as his 
legal advisers, and a suit was commenced in the court of chancery in 
November, L836. The first hearing, however, did not take place until the 
1st of February, 1837, before Lord Langdale, master of the rolls, this 
court and that of the vice-chancellor being the two branches of the 
English chancery system before which suits are brought in the first 
instance. 

The case was fully opened on behalf of the United States by Mr. Peni- 
berton. The King's counsel abandoned at once ail opposition on the 
part of the Crown, and no question was raised under the doctrine of es- 
cheats or any other by the representatives of the British Government. 
The court then decreed that the case be referred to one of the masters 
in chancery, Mr. Nassau William, Sen., to make the requisite inquiries as 
to the facts on the happening of which the United States became enti- 
tled to the fund left by Mr. Sinithson, and also as to the claim of Madame 
De la Batut. 

The United States had never before sued in an English court, but 
there were precedents of other nations having done so by their execu- 
tive heads, as. for example, the King of France and the King of Den- 
mark. The United States were therefore allowed to enter the courts in 
the name of the President. 

Advertisements were immediately inserted in the London Times, Her- 
ald, and Standard, and in French and Italian newspapers in Paris and 
Port Louis, in France, and Leghorn, in Italy, asking for information re- 
specting Henry dames llnngei lord ; whether he married, whether he 
left any child, &c. 

Mr. Push, in August. L837, wrote to the Secretary of State that there 
were more than eight hundred cases in arrears in the court of chancery, 
and he felt much discouraged as to a speedy termination of the suit. 
While the population of England had increased in a definite period six- 
fold and her wealth twentyfold, the judicial establishment had remained 
nearly the same. There were only eleven masters in chancery, while 
double the number would not be sufficient. The subject of a reform in 
this court, Mr. Push slated, had been specially recommended by the 
Throne to Parliament. It had been said, with bruin, that "a chancery 
suit was a thing that might begin with a man's life and its termination 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 171 

be bis epitapb." Still later it will be remembered tbat Mr. Dickens 
stated in 1853 tbat there was then "a suit before tbe court of chancery 
which bad been commenced twenty years before in which from thirty to 
forty counsel had been known to appear at one time, in which costs had 
been incurred to the amount of £70,000, which was a, friendly suit, and 
which was no nearer its termination than when it was begun." 

Mr. Rush refers in terms of high compliment to the solicitors he had 
employed on behalf of the United States. He says: 

"That more attention, diligence, discretion, and integrity could not 
have been exerted by any persons than they have shown throughout tbe 
whole suit from first to last. Could they ever have forgotten what was 
due to the United States and to themselves, in the desire to eke out a 
job, nothing is plainer to me, from what has been passing under my 
observation of the entanglements and delays natural to a heavy suit in 
the English court of chancery, than that they might have found oppor- 
tunities in abundance of making the suit last for years yet to come." 

It is therefor*', to be regarded as one of the most remarkable events 
in the history of the bequest that the suit of tbe United States, com- 
menced in ^November, 1836, should have been brought to a successful 
issue, in less than two years, on the 12th of May, 1838, which, it may be 
interesting to note, was the hist year of the reign of Her Majesty Queen 
Victoria. 

Mr. Rush was therefore placed in possession of the legacy with the 
exception of the part reserved as the principal of an annuity to Madame 
De la Batut. Mr. Rush thus expresses his satisfaction at the result: 

"A suit of higher interest and dignity has rarely perhaps been before 
the tribunals of a nation. If the trust created by the testator's will be 
successfully carried into effect by the enlightened legislation of Con- 
gress benefits may flow to tbe United States and to tbe human family 
not easy to be estimated, because operating silently and radually 
throughout time, yet operating not the less effectually." 

Scarcely had the decision of the court been made and the amount of 
the award published in the newspapers, when two claimants for the 
estate of Siiiithson appeared, neither having any connection with the 
other; and they desired, rather importunately, to know if the case could 
not be reopened. They were much chagrined to find that they were a 
little too late in their application, and nothing more was heard of them. 

Tbe American minister to England, Mr. Stevenson, and our consul at 
London, Mr. Aspinwall, united in testifying to the great tact and abil- 
ity of Mr. Rush, and in affirming — 

"That no litigant ever displayed a more ardent zeal or a more saga- 
cious, devoted, and unremitting diligence in the prosecution of his pri-' 
vate suit than lie did in urging on this public one to a prompt and suc- 
cessful conclusion. The dispatch with which in consequence this purpose 
was finally accomplished is almost without example in the annals of 
chancery. His solicitors will long remember bis adroit and unsparing 



172 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

application of the spur. Had he not urged them to the top of their 
speed, he would have had a lighter weight of gold to carry home with 
him." 

The estate of Smithson which was transferred to Mr. Eichard Bush 
consist t'd of the following securities: 

£04,585 18s. 9r7. in consolidated three per cent, annuities, called con- 
sols, sold ;it an average of 95g per cent., yielded £56,175. 

£12,000 in reduced three per cent, annuities, sold at 94 per cent., 
yielded £11,1280. 

£10,100 in Bank of England stock, sold at about 205 per cent., yield- 
ing £32,996 10s. 

Good-fortune again attended Mr. Bush, for the day when he sold the 
consols their value was higher than at any previous time for many years 
or than at any later period. The bank stock also commanded the 
remarkably high premium of about 205 per cent. 

The estate, therefore, independent of the accumulations of interest and 
notwithstanding the delays in the court of chancery, was worth more 
than in the summer of 1835, when the right of the United States first 
attached to it by the death of Henry James Huugerford, and the entire 
amount of sales yielded an aggregate of more than one hundred and six 
thousand pounds sterling. 

Mr. Rush's next concern was how to transfer these funds to the United 
States, and he decided to convert the whole into gold coin and send it 
in this form. This was not only the most judicious course, but it secured 
an increase of the fund to upwards of a thousand pounds sterling on 
account of saving the cost of exchange. This sum was enough to cover 
commissions, insurance, freight, and other charges on the transfer of the 
gold. 

The costs of the suit and expenses connected with the shipment of 
the proceeds of the bequest were as follows: 

Costs of the chancery suit, £4904$. 10c/.: selling the stock, commission 
to Thomas Aspinwall, £707 15s. 6d.; charges for shipping, £0 10/;. -1.-/.; 
premium of insurance, £605 3s. 10.7.; brokerage, stamps, &c, £120 4s. Gd. ; 
freight from London to New York, £393 12s.; primage, £10 fix. 8d. 

The proceeds of the sales of the stocks, &C, were converted into gold 
sovereigns, and these wore packed at the Bank of England in bags con- 
taining £1.000 each and shipped in eleven boxes by the packet Mediator, 
of New York, on the 17th July, 1838. Three other boxes sent at the 
same time contained the persona] effects of Smithson. 

The ship Mediator arrived in New York on the 29th of August, 1838, 
and the gold, amounting to £101,000 8s. 0<7., was deposited in the Bank 
Of America until the 1st of September, when it was delivered to the 
Treasurer of the United States Mint in Philadelphia, and immediately 
recoined into American money, producing $508,318.46 as the bequest of 
Smithson. 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 173 

LEGISLATION OF CONGRESS 

IX RELATION TO 

THE DISPOSITION OF THE BEQUEST. 

On the Gtk of December, 1838, President Van Bnren had the satis- 
faction of announcing to Congress that the claim of the United States 
to the legacy bequeathed to them by James Smithson had been fully 
established, and that the fund had been received by the government. 
He now urged the prompt adoption of a plan by which the intentions 
of the testator might be full}" realized. For the purpose of obtaining 
information which might facilitate the attainment of this object, he 
applied, through the Secretary of State, to a number of persons " versed 
in science and familiar with the subject of public education, for their 
views as to the mode of disposing of the fund best calculated to meet 
the intentions of Smithson, and be most beneficial to mankind." 

He communicated to Congress the replies received, of which th.Q fol- 
lowing is a brief abstract. 

President Francis Wayland, of Brown University, proposed a univer- 
sity of high grade to teach Latin, Greek, Hebrew, Oriental languages, 
and a long list of other branches, including rhetoric, poetry, intellect- 
ual philosophy, the law of nations, &c. 

Dr. Thomas Cooper, of South Carolina, also proposed a university, to 
be opened only to graduates of other colleges, where the higher branches 
of mathematics, astronomy, chemistry, &c, should be taught, but Latin 
and Greek, literature, medicine, and law excluded. 

Mr. Richard Rush proposed a, building, with grounds attached, suffi- 
cient to reproduce seeds and plants for distribution; a press to print 
lectures, &c. ; courses of lectures on the leading branches of physical 
and moral science, and on government and public law; the salaries to be 
ample enough to command the best men, and admit of the exclusive 
devotion of their time to the studies and investigations of their posts; 
the lectures, when delivered, to be the property of the institution for 
publication. Mr. Rush also made the excellent suggestion that consuls 
and other United States officers might greatly aid the institution by col- 
lecting and .sending home useful information and valuable specimens 
from abroad. 

Hon. John Quincy Adams expressed, in his reply, the opinion that no 
part of the fund should be devoted "to the endowment of any school, 
college, university, or ecclesiastical establishment"; and he proposed 
to employ seven years' income of the fund in the establishment of an 
astronomical observatory, with instruments and a small library. 

The subject of the Smithson bequest was referred in the House of 
Representatives on the 10th December, 1838, to a special committee of 



174 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

nine members, of which Hon. John Quincy Adams was chairman. Be- 
sides the letters transmitted to Congress by President Van Buren, other 
plans were brought before the committee. 

A memorial from Prof. Walter E. Johnson suggested the establish- 
ment of an institution for experiment and research in physical science 
especially pertaining to the useful arts, and the discovery, description, 
application, and improvement of the natural resources of our countrv. 
Another scheme was presented by Mr. Charles L. Fleischnwn for the 
establishment of an agricultural school and farm, and he entered into 
the most minute detail as to the buildings and estimates for all the parts 
of the plan. There were also propositions to use the fund " for the in- 
struction of females," for the establishment of "professorships," for 
" courses of lectures," for " improved methods of rearing sheep, horses, 
and silkworms," for founding a great library, &c. 

Mr. Adams very earnestly opposed the appropriation of any part of 
the fund to educational purposes, believing that it was the duty of the 
country itself to provide the means for this important object. His own 
favorite scheme was the establishment of an astronomical observatory, 
and this he advocated in the most ardent, able, and persistent manner. 

The chairman of the Senate committee, Hon. Asher Bobbins, of Rhode 
Island, proposed the creation of "an institution of which there is no 
model either in this country or in Europe, to provide such a course of 
education and discipline as would give to the faculties of the human 
mind an improvement far beyond what they obtain by the ordinary 
systems of education and far beyond what they afterwards attain in any 
of the professional pursuits." His speech in the Senate on the 10th of 
January, 1839, in presenting his views on this subject is remarkable for 
its beauty of diet ion, elevation of sentiment, and classical erudition. 

Mr. Robbins's resolutions provided for a scientific and literary in- 
stitution, and stated that to apply the fund to the erection and support 
of an observatory "would not be to fulfil bona fide the intention of the 
testator, nor would ii comport with the dignity of the United States to 
owe such an establishment to foreign eleemosynary means." 

The plan of Mr. Bobbins was not received with sufficient favor in the 
Senate to secure its passage, and it was laid on the table by a vote of 
20 to L5, <>ii the 25th of February, 1839. Among those who favored the 
bill were Senators Clay, Davis, Prentiss, Preston, Rives, and Walker, 
and among those opposed to it were Senators Allen, Bayard, Benton, and 
Calhoun. 

Mr. Adams remarks in his diary, October 26, L839, that his mind was 
"filled with anxiety and apprehension lest the fund should be squan- 
dered upon cormorants or wasted in electioneering bribery." Il>' adds: 

"It is hard to toil through life for a great purpose with a conviction 
that it will Weill vain, but possiblj seed now sown may bring forth some 
good fruit hereafter. It 1 cannot prevent the disgrace of the country by 
the failure of the testator's intention, 1 can Leave a record of what I 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 175 

have clone and what I would have done to accomplish the great design 
if executed well." 

At the beginning of the Twenty-sixth Congress, December, 1839, Mr. 
Adams again brought up the subject of the Smithson bequest and had 
it referred to a committee of nine, consisting of Messrs. Adams, Ogle, 
Shepard, Garland of Virginia, Lewis, Albert Smith, Barnard, Corwiu, 
and Campbell of South Carolina. 

A memorial was presented to Congress from the Corporation of the 
city of Washington, expressing great anxiety " to see the instructions of 
Smithson carried into effect, believing it impossible to calculate the 
good which an institution properly founded is susceptible of promoting 
in the improvement of the intellect, taste, and morals of the country." 
It was deemed presumptuous, however, to express an opinion as to what 
should be the character of the institution. 

Mr. Hassler, then in charge of the Coast Survey, urged on Mr. Adams 
the establishment of an astronomical school. 

On the 5th of March, 1840, Mr. Adams presented an elaborate and 
extended report to the House of Representatives, reviewing all that had 
been done relative to the bequest, and presenting the establishment of 
an astronomical observatory as the best means of carrying out the pur- 
poses of Smithson. He gave in detail the arguments in favor of this 
plan, with estimates for carrying it into effect, and an interesting letter 
from Mr. Airy, the Astronomer Royal of England, relative to the origin, 
history, uses, and expenses of the famous Greenwich Observatory. Mr. 
Adams also gave a masterly summary of the progress of astronomical 
discovery, painted in the most brilliant colors the achievements of men 
of science, and portrayed in glowing language the future glory and 
renown of our country to be derived from the application of the Smith- 
son fund in the manner he proposed. 

The impropriety of devoting any portion of the fund to establish a 
school or college was strongly urged, and he said, "We should in no 
case avail ourselves of a stranger's munificence to rear our children." 
It is not clear how the learned and distinguished gentleman reconciled 
his apparent inconsistency in advocating the use of the fund for the 
establishment of "a national observatory to be superior to any other 
devoted to the same science in any part of the world," and which would 
'• in, ike an impression upon the reputation of the United States through- 
out the leaned and scientific world." The desire of increasing the 
brightness of our name in the eves of other nations, and of effacing a 
stain lie detected upon the national escutcheon on account of our lack 
of an observatory, rendered him insensible or indifferent to the merits 
of any other plan for the increase and diffusion of knowledge. He 
seems to have been wedded to his favorite scheme, and his whole course 
in Congress in relation to the bequest was governed by it. After 
provision had been made for astronomical observations by the general 
government he still advocated no other plan, and even went so far as to 



176 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

declare that lie would rather see the money of Smithson thrown into the 
Potomac than to have it devoted to the advance of education. 

It appears that, without debate or explanation, a section was added 
to the regular appropriation bill, passed 7th July, 1838, for the support 
of the United States Military Academy at West Point, by which it was 
enacted that all the money arising from the bequest of Smithson should 
be invested, when received, by the Secretary of the Treasury, with the 
approbation ot the President of the United States, in stocks of States 
bearing not less than five per cent, interest, and that the annual income 
accruing on the stock should also be reinvested in the same way for the 
increase of the fund. 

In accordance with this law, Mr. Levi Woodbury, Secretary of the 
Treasury, inserted an advertisement in the Washington Globe of August 
(j, 1838, asking for proposals from those having State stocks to dispose 
of. A large number of offers were received. Five per cents, of Indiana 
were offered at par, 98, and 90; of Louisiana, at 98; New York, 10U ; 
Maine, 98£ and par; Massachusetts, 10-1; Kentucky, par; of five and a 
quarter per cents., Tennessee, at 99£; of five and a half per cents., Mis- 
souri, at 102 and par; and of six per cents., Michigan, at par; Virginia, 
par; Illinois, 104, and Arkansas, 99^. Mr. Woodbury accepted the 
offer of Mr. W. W. Corcoran, of the Arkansas bonds, and purchased 
$500,000 of them for the sum of $199,500. Subsequently he procured 
$38,000 more bonds of Arkansas, $8,000 Michigan, $50,000 Illinois, and 
$18,000 Ohio bonds. 

The two bills of Mr. Bobbins and Mr. Adams, representing the univer- 
sity and the observatory plans, were reported together to Congress. The 
former was laid on the table, but the latter not acted on, on account of 
the pressure of other business at the close of the session. 

In 1811, Mr. Lewis F. Linn, of Missouri, introduced a bill in the Senate 
to appoint trustees for the investment of the Smithson fund, and for the 
organization of an institution with a superintendent and six professors, 
to be nominated by the "National Institute," a society which had been 
formed in Washington for the promotion of science, and many of whose 
members were anxious to obtain control of the bequest. Mr. Linn pro- 
posed that all the collections of art and of natural history owned by the 
United States should be given to the Smithsonian Institution, but all 
the buildings, collections, &C, should be under the supervision of the 
National Institute. This bill was referred to the Library Committee, 
and a substitute was reported by Mr. Preston on the 17th February, IS 11 . 
providing for the incorporation of the National Institute, and the estab- 
lishment of a Smithsonian Institution, with a superintendent and six pro- 
fessors, to be elected by the board of managers of the former, the offi- 
cers of the institute and the superintendent of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion to constitute a board of management of the Smithson fund, to plan 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 177 

and erect buildings, procure books, apparatus, collectious, &c. It was 
provided that all works of art, and all books relating thereto, and all col- 
lections and curiosities belonging to the United States were to be trans- 
ferred to the Smithsonian Institution. The ground known as the Mall 
was appropriated for the buildings and use of the establishment. Noth- 
ing resulted however from this proposition. 

Through the efforts of Mr. Adams, the act of 7th July, 18,38, requir- 
ing the investment of the Smitbson fund in State stocks, was repealed, 
and by an act of September 11, 1841, the Secretary of the Treasury was 
directed to invest the accruing interest thereafter only in United States 
stock. 

President Tyler, in his message at the opening of the Twenty-seventh 
Congress, urged the propriety of making a specific application of the 
funds derived from the will of Smithson, and said he felt confident that 
'•no abatement of the principal would be made should it turn out that 
the stocks in which the fund bad been invested had undergone depre- 
ciation." 

The Senate referred the message to the Library Committee, Mr. Pres- 
ton, chairman, and the House to a select committee of nine, of which 
Mr. Adams was again chairman. Mr. Preston soon after reported the 
bill he had offered at the previous session for combining the National 
Institute and the Smithsonian Institution, but this was laid upon the table 
on the 18th July, 1812. Mr. Adams presented a report and bill in the 
House on the 12th April, 1842, providing for the incorporation of the 
Smithsonian Institution; that all the money received from the bequest 
•should be placed to the credit of a fund to be denominated the Smith- 
sonian fund, to be preserved undiminished and unimpaired, and to bear 
interest at G per cent, per annum. The interest of this fund was to be 
appropriated for the erection and establishment of an astronomical ob- 
servatory, the publication of the observations, and of a nautical almanac. 

About this period memorials were presented to Congress in favor of 
appropriating the fund for the purpose of awarding annual prizes for 
the best original essays on the various subjects of the physical sciences, 
for the establishment of an agricultural school and farm, for organizing 
a system of simultaneous meteorological observations throughout the 
Union under the direction of Professor Espy, &c. 

No definite action was had on any of these propositions, and President 
Tyler again called the attention of Congress in his message of December 5, 
1843, to their neglect of an important duty. The subject was referred to 
the Joint Library Committee, of which Hon. Eufus Choate was chairman. 

Mr. Tappan, from this committee, reported a bill on the 6th June, 1844, 
providing that the original amount received as the bequest of Smithson, 
$508,318.40, be considered as a permanent loan to the United States, at 
per cent, interest, from the 3d December, 1838, when the same was 
received into the Treasury; that the interest which accrued to the 1st 
S. Mis. 54 12 



178 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

July, 1844, viz, $178,004, be appropriated to the erection of buildings and 
inclosureof grounds for the Smithsonian Institution ; that the business 
of the institution should be conducted by a board of twelve managers from 
different States or Territories ; that a plain and substantial building be 
erected, with rooms for a museum, library, chemical laboratory, lectures, 
arboretum; all the objects of natural history belonging to the United 
States to be transferred to said institution, exchanges of duplicate speci- 
mens to be made, a superintendent to be appointed to be professor also 
of agriculture and horticulture, additional professors of natural history, 
chemistry, astronomy, and such other branches as the wants of science 
may require, "excluding law, physic, or divinity.'' experiments to be 
made to determine the utility of new fruits, plants, and vegetables, and 
finally students to be admitted to the institution gratuitously. 

Mr. Adams in February, 1814, succeeded in having a select committee 
of nine appointed to consider the proper disposition of the fund, and in 
behalf of this committee made a third elaborate and comprehensive re- 
port, together with a bill providing for the appropriation of $800,000 as 
the Smithson fund, to be permanently invested in stock of the United 
States at 6 per cent, interest, and the income to be devoted, as he had 
before recommended, for an observatory and nautical almanac. 

On the 12th December, 1844, Mr. Tappan introduced a bill in the Sen- 
ate of a similar character to the one he had offered before, but in addi- 
tion specified that the books to be purchased for a library should con- 
sist of works on science and the arts, especially such as relate to the 
ordinary business of life and to various mechanical and other improve- 
ments and discoveries. In prescribing the duties of professors and lec- 
turers, special reference was to be had to the productive and liberal arts, 
improvements in agriculture, horticulture, and rural economy. Seeds 
and plants were to be distributed throughout the country, soils were to be 
analyzed ; the professor of natural history was to refer in hislectures to the 
history and habits of useful and injurious animals; the professor of geol- 
ogy was to give practical instruction in tin 1 exploration and working of 
mines; the professor of architecture was to give instruction as to the 
best materials and plans for building; the professor of astronomy was 
to give a course of lectures on navigation and the use of nautical in- 
struments. It was also provided that works in popular form on the 
sciences and the aid they bring to labor should be published and dis- 
tributed. 

In the discussion to which this bill gave rise in the Senate on the 8th 
of January, 1845, Mr.Choate made the brilliant speech which is referred 
to in the North American Review as "a splendid offering on the shrine 
of literature by one of her most gifted votaries, and one which, in fu- 
ture times, will render more memorable the day on which it was deliv- 
ered than that gallant military achievement of which it is the anniver- 
sary. No prouder monument than this would he needed for his fame."* 

*Xorllt American Review, vol. 79, p. 459. 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 179 

In this famous speech, Mr. Choate remarked that " our sense of duty 
to the dead, the living, and the unborn who shall live; our justice, our 
patriotism, our policy, common honesty, common decorum, urge us, are 
enough to urge us, to go on without the delay of an hour, to appropri- 
ate the bounty according to the form of the gift." He opposed any- 
thing like the school or college proposed by Mr. Tappan on the ground 
of its narrow utilitarianism, as being wholly unnecessary and in a great 
degree useless. It would injure the universities already in existence; 
it would be exceedingly difficult to secure students; the expense of pro- 
fessors, books, apparatus, and buildings would secure a pretty energetic 
diffusing of the fund but not much diffusion of knowledge. He ap- 
proved of the suggestion that lectures should be delivered, especially 
during the sessions of Congress, not by professors permanently tixed on 
annual salaries, but by gentlemen eminent in science and literature, to 
be invited to Washington under the stimulus and with the ambition of 
a special and conspicuous retainer. He preferred however that the one 
simple object of the Institution should be to accumulate a grand and 
noble public library, one which for variety, extent, and wealth should 
be equal to any in the world. He claimed that this scheme was the 
only one that "would prevent the waste of money in jobs, salaries, sine- 
cures and quackeries, and would embody Smithson's idea in some tangi- 
ble form, some exponent of civilization, permanent, palpable, conspicu- 
ous, useful, and than which nothing was safer, surer, or more unexcep- 
tionable." 

Mr. Choate presented many interesting facts in regard to the public 
libraries of the world, and argued in his peculiarly forcible and eloquent 
manner that such a plan as he proposed was within the terms and spirit 
of the trust. 

"That directs us to 'increase and diffuse knowledge among men. 
And do not the judgments of all the wise; does not the experience of 
all enlightened states ; does not the whole history of civilization concur 
to declare that a various and ample library is one of the surest, most 
constant, most permanent and most economical instrumentalities to in- 
crease and diffuse knowledge? There it would be, durable as liberty, 
durable as the Union ; a vast storehouse, a, vast treasury of all the facts 
which make up the history of man and of nature, so far as that history 
has been written; of all the truths which the inquiries and experiences 
of all the races and ages have found out; of all the opinions that have 
been promulgated; of all the emotions, images, sentiments, examples, 
of all the richest audmosi instructive literatures; the whole past speak- 
ing to the present and the future — a silent, yet wise and eloquent 
teacher. * * * 

"If the terms of the trust then authorize this expenditure, why not 
make it .' Not among the principal, nor yet the least of reasons for 
doing so, is, that all the while that you are laying out your money, and 
when you have laid it out, you have the money's worth, the value re- 



180 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

eeived, the property purchased on hand to show for itself and to speak 
for itself. Suppose the professors provided for in the bill should gather 
a little circle of pupils, each of whom should carry off with him some 
small quotient of navigation, or horticulture, or rural economy, and the 
fund should thus glide away and evaporate in such insensible, inappre- 
ciable appropriations, how little there would be to testify of it ! . Whereas 
here all the while are the books ; here is the value; here is the visible- 
property ; here is the oil and here is the light. There is something to 
point to, if you should be asked to account for it unexpectedly, and 
something to point to if a traveler should taunt you with the collections 
which he has seen abroad, and which gild and recommend the absolut- 
isms of Vienna or St. Petersburgh. * * * 

" But the decisive argument is, after all, that it is an application the 
most exactly adapted to the actual literary and scientific wants of the 
States and the country. I have said that another college is not needed 
here because there are enough now, and another might do harm as much 
as good. But that which is wanted for every college, for the whole 
country, for every studious person, is a well-chosen library, somewhere 
among us, of three or four hundred thousand books." 

Mr. Tappan, in reply, urged that Smithson's own habits and pursuits 
should be considered ; that it must be remembered that he was an emi- 
nently practical philosopher, intimately acquainted with chemistry, min- 
eralogy, geology, and natural history, to the minute study of which he 
devoted his life. His favorable resort had been the Jardin des Plantes, 
at Paris, and there could be but little doubt that in making his bequest 
he had in view the establishment of a similar institution. He depre- 
cated the outlay of a large amount in the purchase of books, and as- 
serted that they not only did not promote knowledge, but that one-half 
of those then in the Library of Congress were to be considered as trash. 

Mr. Levi Woodbury, of New Hampshire, favored the employment of 
lecturers, and the purchase of a moderate-sized library, but preferred 
that the management of the bequest should be intrusted to the National 
Institute, a society already in active operation, created by Congress, and 
the objects of which were appropriate to the trust. 

Mr. John J. Crittenden, of Kentucky, thought the purchase of books 
should be confined to works on science and the arts. Mr. James A. 
Pearce, of Maryland, concurred in the views of Mr. Choate. Mr. Wm. 
C. Hives, of Virginia, believed that by knowledge was not merely meant 
the natural sciences, astronomy, mathematics, &c. ; he considered the 
most important of all the branches of human knowledge that which re- 
lated to the moral and political relations of man. The field of moral 
science also embraced a much larger portion of knowledge than the 
physical sciences, ne suggested the "Faculty of letters and sciences" 
under the auspices of the University of France, as a much better model 
lor the Smithsonian than the Jardin des Plantes. He remarked that it 
was his "firm and solemn conviction that we now have it in our power 



JAMES SMITHSON AND UIS BEQUEST. 181 

to do more good to this nation in our day and generation, by a judicious 
and wise application of this $500,000 which has been put into our hands, 
than by the application of the twenty-five or thirty millions we are in the 
habit of annually appropriating." 

Mr. Choate's amendments were adopted by the Senate and the bill 
recommitted to be more fully matured. It was again reported to the 
Senate on the 2d of January, including Mr. Choate's plan of a great 
library. Mr. Woodbury endeavored again to place the Institution under 
the management of the National Institute, but was opposed by Senators 
Buchanan, Choate, and Tappan, on the ground that it was anti-republi- 
can and anti-democratic to surrender all control by the people's repre- 
sentatives in respect to a trust committed to their custody for the people's 
benefit, and to place it in the hands of a close body wholly irresponsible 
to either Congress or the people. 

Mr. Woodbury replied with warmth that his plan, instead of being 
antagonistic to Congress, made it more in subordination to it, and placed 
stronger safeguards against auy possible departure from its commands 
or wishes. He also believed that it would be placing a burden on the 
Institute rather than conferring a favor upon it. 

Mr. Buchanan "could imagine no other mode of using the fund" to 
advantage, than "the purchase of a great library," and strongly op- 
posed any connection with the National Institute. 

Mr. William Allen, of Ohio, expressed his opposition to "any plan 
whatever for connecting anything called an institution with the public 
treasury." He had never known a single instance of a fund of money, 
charitable or otherwise, being intrusted to the care of an incorporated 
body of men "that was not squandered and made to fall short of the 
object of the donor." He wished to see no institution established in the 
capital of the United States to teach the American people how to think, 
and read, and speak, and he therefore opposed the whole project, 

Mr. Robert J. Walker, of Mississippi, defended the National Institute 
against the attacks made upon it; showed that it was worthy of and 
had received the greatest encouragement and most general favor, and 
claimed that an institution bearing the name of a foreigner never could 
concentrate in the same degree the affections and confidence of the 
American people. 

After some further debate the bill was laid over for several days, but 
was taken up and passed on the 23d of January, 1815. When it reached 
the House, a substitute was offered for it by Mr. Robert Dale Owen, of 
Indiana; but in the hurry of a short session of Congress the whole 
matter was left undisposed of. 

On the opening of the r Twenty-ninth Congress, Mr. Owen again 
offered his bill to establish the Smithsonian Institution, and it was 
referred to a select committee of seven members, viz, Messrs. Owen, of 
Indiana, John Q. Adams, of Massachusetts, Timothy Jenkins, of New 



182 JAMES SMITIISON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

York, George P. Marsh, of Vermont, Alexander D. Sims, of South Car- 
olina, Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi, and David Wilmot, of Pennsyl- 
vania. 

On the 28th of February, 184C, Mr. Owen, from this select committee, 
reported an elaborate bill embracing the principal features of Mr. Tap- 
pan's bill of the last session, but adding a section providing for a normal 
branch to give such a thorough scientific and liberal course of instruc- 
tion as may be adapted to qualify young persons as teachers of our 
common schools and to qualify students as teachers or professors of the 
more important branches of natural science. A library was to be pro- 
cured composed of valuable works pertaining to all departments of 
human knowledge. Special reference was to be made by the professors 
to the increase and extension of scientific knowledge generally, by ex- 
periment and research. Essays, pamphlets, magazines, manuals, tracts 
on science, history, chemistry, school-books, apparatus, &c, were au- 
thorized. 

In advocating this bill Mr. Owen made a very able and impressive 
speech, and one of the most memorable occurring in the discussion of 
the subject of the disposition of the bequest. He condemned the dila- 
toriness of Congress in waiting for ten years, after solemnly accepting 
the trust, without doing anything whatever to carry out the intention 
of the donor. 

"Small encouragement," he remarked, "is there, in such tardiness as 
this, to others, as wealthy and as liberal as Smithson and Girard, to follow 
their noble example! Small encouragement to such men to entrust to 
our care bequests for human improvement! Due diligence is one of the 
duties of a faithful trustee. Has Congress, in its conduct of this sacred 
trusteeship, used due diligence? Have its members realized, in the 
depths of their hearts, its duties and their urgent importance? Or has 
not the language of our legislative action rather been but this: 'The 
Smithsonian fund! Ah, true! That 'swell thought of. One forgets 
these small matters. "' 

Mr. Owen reviewed all the legislative proceedings in relation to the 
subject, the various plans brought forward from time to time for adop- 
tion by Congress, and called attention to tin 1 fact that the object forwhieh 
Mr. Adams had labored with so much zeal and perseverance — an astro 
nomical observatory — had already been established in Washington. lie 
then made an elaborate reply to Mr. Choate's arguments in favor of a 
great library . He admitted that "in books exists the bygone world. By 
books we come in contact with the mankind of former ages. By books 
we travel among ancient nations, visit tribes long since extinct, and are 
made familiar with manners that have yielded, centuries ago, to the 
innovating influences of time." He would go as far as the farthest in 
his estimate of the blessings which the art of printing had conferred 
upon man; but such reasoning had no relation to the proposal em- 
braced in Mr. Choate's scheme. 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 183 

"It substantiates not at all the propriety ofspending half a million, or 
two or three half millions of dollars to rival the bibliomaniacs of Paris 
and of Munich. 

'•Books are like wealth. An income we must have to live; a certain 
amount of income to live in comfort. Beyond a certain income the 
power of wealth to purchase comfort, or even wholesome luxury, ceases 
altogether. How much more of true comfort is there in a fortune of a 
million of dollars than in one of fifty, or say a hundred thousand ? If 
more there be, the excess is hardly appreciable; the burden and cares 
of a millionaire outweigh it tenfold. And so, also, of these vast and 
bloated book-gatherings that sleep in dust and cobwebs on the library 
shelves of European monarchies. Up to a judicious selection of thirty, 
fifty, a hundred thousand volumes, if you wdl, how vast, yea, how 
priceless, is the intellectual wealth! From one to five hundred thou- 
sand, what do we gain? ^Nothing? That would not be true. A goblet 
emptied into the Pacific adds to the mass of its waters. But if, within 
these limits, we set down one book out of a hundred as worth the money 
it costs, we are assuredly making too liberal an estimate. 

"•Our librarian informs me that the present Congressional library 
(certainly not one of the most expensive,) has cost upwards of three dol 
lars a volume; its binding alone has averaged over a dollar a volume. 
The same works could be purchased now, it is true, much more cheaply; 
but, on the other hand, the rare old books and curious manuscripts 
necessary to complete a library of the largest class would raise the 
average. Assuming, then, the above rate, a rival of the Munich library 
would cost us a million and a half of dollars; Us binding alone would 
amount to a sum equal to the entire Smithsonian fund as originally 
remitted to us from England. 

"And thus not only the entire legacy, which we have promised to ex- 
pend so that it shall increase and diffuse knowledge among men, is to 
be squandered in this idle and bootless rivalry, but thousands on thou- 
sands must be added to finish the work ; from what source to be derived, 
let its advocates inform us. And when we have spent thrice the amount 
of Smithson's original bequest on the project, we shall have the satisfac- 
tion of believing that we may possibly have saved to some worthy 
scholar a hundred, or perchance a few hundred, dollars, which otherwise 
he must have spent to obtain from Europe half a dozen valuable works 
of reference ! " 

The most important feature of Mr. Owen's bill was however con- 
sidered by him to be the provision for normal- school instruction. He 
maintained it to be the duty of Congress to elevate to the utmost the 
character of our common schools. The normal branch was not intended 
by him to take the place of similar institutions in the States; it would 
be supplemental to these, but of a higher grade, and would enable young 
persons who had passed through the former to perfect themselves in 
"the most useful of all modern sciences — the humble yet world-subduing 



184 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

science of primary education." It would also be the place where we 
might hope to find trained, competent, and enlightened teachers for the 
State normal schools. 

He also specially urged the importance of scientific researches. 

"In these," he said, " Smithson spent the greater part of his life. 
And it cannot be doubted that were he yet alive and here to-day to ex- 
plain his wishes, original researches in the exact .sciences would be de- 
clared by him a part of his plan. With the knowledge of his life and 
favorite pursuits before us, and the words of bis will specifying the*m- 
crease as well as the diffusion of knowledge for our guide, it seems 
nothing less than an imperative duty to include scientific research 
among the objects of a Smithsonian Institution." 

Mr. George W. Jones, of Tennessee, made himself conspicuous on 
this, as on many other occasions, by bitter opposition to the adoption of 
any plan for the organization of the Institution. He believed that the 
whole matter was wrong; that the government had no right to accept of 
the trust, and he proposed that the whole fund, in whatever form it 
might be, whether money or State bonds, should be returned to any of 
the heirs-at-law or next of kin of Mr. Smithson. He maintained that — 

" It was neither the right, the power, or the true policy of the gov- 
ernment to attempt to rear upon the city of Washington an institution 
for the education of school teachers, agricultural professors, &c., to 
send out into the country. . . . Every measure of this kind had 
the tendency to make the people throughout the country look more to 
this great central power than to the State governments." 

Mr. Joseph R. Ingersoll, of Pennsylvania, favored the lull of Mr. Owen, 
and ridiculed the idea of Mr. Jones of returning the money to England. 
He thought that a great library was not desirable, and said that the 
necessary building to contain the greatest library in the world would in 
its own erection exhaust the entire bequest. The Capitol itself would 
not contain eight hundred thousand volumes so properly arranged as to 
be accessible. A library was not the object of Smithson. A plan should 
be adopted to cover general ground, in which all objects of science 
should be included. He favored that part of the bill providing for nor- 
mal instruction, and would add an appropriation for defraying the ex- 
pense of the delivery of lectures by our most distinguished men at dif- 
ferent points throughout the country for scientific instruction. 

Mr. Frederick P. Stanton, of Tennessee, in a brilliant and eloquent ad- 
dress to the Bouse, supported the bill inits present form. He maintained 
that it was the result of the conflicting opinions of wise and experi- 
enced men, harmonized by comparison, discussion, and mutual conces- 
sion. He dwelt at length on the importance of advancing science, the 
value of experimental research and observation; explained and advo- 
cated every section of tin 1 bill, and concluded by saying: "By proper 
management this institution may doubtless be made the instrument of 
immense good to the whole country. To the government it will be of no 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 185 

slight advantage. It will be a great institution. It may attain a char- 
acter as high as that of the French Academy, and its authority will then 
be decisive in reference to numerous questions of a scientific nature con- 
tinually presented to the committees of Congress and the departments 
of government for determination and consequent action. Such an insti- 
tution is greatly needed in the federal city." 

Mr. William Sawyer, of Ohio, wanted students to be sent to the Institu- 
tion selected from the various States and Territories according to the 
ratib of representation in Congress. He also thought the rate of inter- 
est on the fund should be five instead of six per cent. 

Mr. D. P. King, of Massachusetts, favored a provision by which stu- 
dents could be educated free of expense, and pay their board by labor on 
a farm connected with the establishment. 

Mr. Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi, advocated the bill as providing for 
the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men. It was too late to 
make the objection that the trust ought not to have been accepted. It 
was our duty to carry it into execution ; and as to the fund, it ought to 
be considered as money still in the Treasury, unconnected with any in- 
vestment the officers of the government may have made, lie regarded 
lectures as the greatest means of extending knowledge which had been 
adopted in modern times. It was second only to the invention of the 
art of printing. He would admit that the government had no authority 
to take charge of the subject of education, but he did not consider this 
bill as liable to that objection. The normal school system he considered 
as highly beneficial, serving to produce uniformity in the language, and 
to lay the foundation of all sciences. The spelling-book of Noah Web- 
ster, which had been used extensively in our primary schools, had done 
more to produce uniformity in our language in this country than anything 
else. If we sent out good school-books from this institution, it would be 
of vast service to the country. He enlarged upon the benefits which 
would result to science and the diffusion of every kind of useful knowl- 
edge from an institution which would gather young men from the remotest 
partsof the country at the common point where every facility for practical 
instruction would be afforded. The taste of the country would be re- 
fined, and he did not consider this as anti-democratic. Knowledge was 
the common cement that was to unite all the heterogeneous materials of 
this Union into one mass, like the very pillars in the hall of the House 
before them. 

Mr. Geo. 1*. Marsh, of Vermont, said that whatever plan was adopted 
must of necessity be one of compromise, and that though he would have 
preferred the Senate bill for a library, yet he would cheerfully accede to 
the present one as proposed to be modified. He regarded it as an ex- 
periment which admitted, and which he trusted would hereafter receive, 
great changes in its conditions rather than as a. complete working model. 
Two objects were aimed at bySmithson: first, t lie increase of knowl- 
edge — its enlargement, extension, progress 5 second, the diffusion of 



18G JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

knowledge — its spread, communication, dissemination. Of the various 
instrumentalities for carrying out this noble and imposing scheme, he 
considered as the simplest and most efficient the collection for public 
use of a library, a museum, and a gallery of art, and he preferred that 
for a reasonable period the entire income of the fund should be expended 
in this way. While appreciating the value of research and experiment 
in natural knowledge and the economic arts, and including them in the 
plan of a great national institution for the promotion of all good learn- 
ing, he dissented from the doctrine implied by the bill, which coiraned 
all knowledge, all science, to the numerical and quantitative values of 
material things. 

" Geology, mineralogy, even chemistry, are but assemblages of appar- 
ent facts, empirically established, and this would always be true of every 
study which rests upon observation and experiment alone. True science 
is the classification and arrangement of necessary primary truths accord- 
ing to their relations with each other and in reference to the logical de- 
ductions which may be made from them. Such science, the only abso- 
lute knowledge, is the highest and worthiest object of human inquiry, 
and must be drawn from deeper sources than the crucible and the re- 
tort. A laboratory is a charnel-house ; chemical decomposition begins 
with death, and experiments are but the dry bones of science. It is the 
thoughtful meditation alone of minds trained and disciplined in far other 
halls that can clothe these with flesh and blood and sinews, and breathe 
into them the breath of life." 

Mr. Marsh then showed the importance and value of a great library, 
and gave illustrations from his extensive knowledge of the libraries in 
Europe. 

Mr. Isaac E. Morse, of Louisiana, was of the opinion that Smithson 
Mas a practical man, and that, although possessed of the highest learn- 
ing, he condescended to devote his time to subjects of the most domes- 
tic and homely character. If his intention had been to establish a .uni- 
versity or a magnificent library, and thus to have his name transmitted 
to posterity, it would have been easy for him to have said so, and noth- 
ing would have been left to this country but to carry out his enlightened 
and liberal intentions. But he had no doubt studied the peculiar char- 
acter of the American people, and discovered that while they enter- 
tained a proper respect for the learning and genius of the German uni- 
versities and of the sciences taught in the schools of Europe, still there 
was something in the common sense and practical knowledge of our 
people which comported with his own notions; and he desired that his 
money should be devoted to diffusing practical and useful knowledge 
among them. Mr. Morse then introduced a new bill as a substitute 
for thai under discussion, providing mainly that "an offer be made 
through the newspapers of the United States and Europe of suitable 
rewards or prizes for the best written essay on ten subjects, the most 
practical and useful of which should be priuted and widely distributed/' 



JAMES SMITIISON AND HIS BEQUEST. 187 

thus fulfilling, in the letter and spirit, the wise and comprehensive in- 
tentions of the donor for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among 
men. 

Mr. John S. Chipman, of Michigan, spoke earnestly in opposition to 
the bill. He thought that our great and powerful government, prosper- 
ing and progressing as it was in original native intellect, fostered by 
institutions known to no other country and no other people, should not 
have consented to be the recipient of what was called a munificent do- 
nation of half a million from an Englishman to enlightened American 
republicans in this country. " How did it happen," he exclaimed, " that 
this government accepted such a boon from a foreigner — an Englishman 
too!" 

After further debate, Mr. Adams moved that until the arrears of inter- 
est due from the States in which the money of Smithsou had been in- 
vested were paid, no appropriation should be made by Congress for the 
fulfillment of the purposes prescribed by the testator. 

Mr. A. D. Sims, of South Carolina, thought that he saw in the will of 
Smithson only what he had observed in other instances. "After having 
griped through their lives every shilling that came into their hands, 
animated at last by some posthumous vanity, they sought to build up a 
name which should live after them ; and such, rather than any feeling for 
humanity, was the motive that guided them." He then proceeded to 
contend that the Government of the United States was not instituted 
for any such purpose as the administration of charities. He would in- 
troduce a bill repealing all laws heretofore enacted on this subject and 
giving authority and direction for the restoration of the money to the 
British chancery, where it could be devoted to purposes in England sim- 
ilar to those which had been contemplated in the city of Washington. 
The only difference would be in the location of the institution. 

Mr. Adams proceeded to explain and advocate his substitute, and main- 
tained that in the administration of this fund there were two or three 
principles that should be observed. One was, that it should never cost 
the people of the United States a dollar — that it should support itself; 
another, that no part should ever be applied to the ordinary purposes 
of education. It was unworthy the people of the United States to re- 
ceive foreign aid for this purpose. There was no way in which the States 
could more degrade themselves than by relying on foreign aid or on the 
General Government for the education of their children. 

" Eat an experience of eight or ten years, since we received this 
money, had shown him that whenever distinguished scientific men were 
called ui)on for their opinions, scarcely two agreed. 

u In addition to the application of a certain part of this fund to the sci- 
ence of astronomy, there was another provision which he found, and 
which he was happy to see this bill made, viz, that no portion of the 
fund should be appropriated — that it should be a perpetual fund. It 
was the interest which was to be applied. 



188 JAMES SMTTHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

"But in the mean time, while this delay had taken place, he was de- 
lighted that an astronomical observatory — not perhaps so great as it 
should have been — had been smuggled into the number of the institu- 
tions of the country under the mask of a small depot for charts, &c. 

" He claimed no merit for the erection of the astronomical observa- 
tory ; but in the course of his whole life no conferring of honor, of in- 
terest, of office, had given him more delight than the belief that he had 
contributed, in some small degree, to produce these astronomical observ- 
atories, both here and elsewhere. He no longer wished any portion of 
Smithson's fund applied to an astronomical observatory. 

" Nor did he think it important to the people that any provision of this 
bill should be carried into effect immediately, but rather that measures 
should be taken to induce the States to pay the interest on their bonds, 
and then let the money be appropriated to any purpose on which Congress 
could agree more unanimously than on this bill." 

Mr. Andrew Johnson, of Tennessee, was opposed to taking any 
money out of the Treasury of the United States to establish such an 
institution. 

Mr. George Kathbun, of jSTew York, did not feel disposed to object to 
any plan with seeming plausibility. He was in favor of expending the 
money in some way and upon some scheme, faithfully and honestly, but, 
above all, he was in favor of appropriating the money whether the final 
result should be good or not. He wished to wipe out the stain which 
rested on the character of this Government of withholding the money 
because we were not able to discover the best mode of expending it. 
In his judgment, a library was the least plausible of any of the schemes 
proposed. 

Mr. Orlando B. Ficklin, of Illinois, opposed the bill. He thought 
however that the good faith of the Government required that this 
money should be considered as being in the Treasury, and that we could 
not excuse ourselves by saying that the fund had been loaned out to 
the States and could not now be realized. He objected, however, to the 
connection proposed to be established between this institution and the 
United States Treasury. A million of dollars would be required to meet 
the deficiency in this Smithsonian bequest, lie was willing to expend 
the money for a library, and for scientific apparatus, or for any plan by 
which the fund could be disconnected from the Government, lie regarded 
Mr. Owen's bill as one of the most odious and abominable ever pre- 
sented, and he would rather see this half million returned to the British 
court of chancery, or ten millions sunk to the bottom of the Potomac, 
than to have this bill pass. 

Mr. Allen G. Thunnan, of Ohio, made inquiries respecting the orig- 
inal investment of the fund, ami then discussed the duties of a trustee. 
He could not vote for the bill unless it were most materially changed. 
He was opposed to the erection of an immense institution at the city of 
Washington, that would ultimately become a charge upon the Treasury 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 189 

and would necessarily be partial in its operations and benefits. He was 
inclined to favor tlie library plan, although there were great objections 
to it. But "there was one recommendation it possessed that strongly 
influenced him. That was, that though it might not effect the greatest 
amount of benefit that could be produced by the fund, it was not liable 
to the abuses to which all the other plans would probably give rise. It 
would create no large body of office-holders, no patronage, no favorit- 
ism, no partially sectional advantages." 

Mr. Owen replied to Mr. Adams, and showed that the position of the 
latter as to the condition of the fund was entirely inconsistent with the 
reports and bills he had so often presented. He was not specially wed- 
ded to the feature of normal schools, although he believed it was the 
most important one in the bill. As to the disgrace of educating our 
children with foreign aid, there was no proposition in this bill to educate 
children, but the teachers of children. And as to disgrace, it might be 
said with equal propriety that it was disgraceful to receive foreign aid 
for founding a library. 

Mr. Andrew Johnson renewed his attack on the bill : 

" There was something a little farcical and amusing [to him] in this 
system of normal instruction, which was to provide the" country with 
school teachers. He would like to see a young man, educated at the 
[Smithsonian Institution and brought up in all the extravagance, folly, 
aristocracy, and corruption of Washington, go out into the country to 
leach the little boys and girls to read and write! Those young men, so 
educated, would steal, or play the little pettifogger, sooner than become 
teachers. Ninety-nine out of a hundred of those who received the ben- 
eiit of this institution would hang about a law-office, get a license, become 
a pack of drones instead of schoolmasters. Washington City was not 
a place for such an institution. He believed that it would result in an 
injury to the country instead of a benefit." 

Mr. John Bell, of Tennessee, held that the United States was respon- 
sible for the fund and ought to appropriate it for its object. He hoped 
that Arkansas would one day pay the money, but he feared it would be 
a distant day. It was necessary to act now. He did not wholly approve 
of the bill reported, but ho would take it rather than do nothing. 

Mr. Hannibal Hamlin, of Maine, regarded this fund as one which had 
been received by the Government to carry out the intentions of Mr. 
Smithson, and to which, by their acceptance, they had solemnly bound 
themselves. He alluded to the difficulty — nay, the impossibility — of any 
select committee agreeing upon a plan whioh, in all its details, should 
be in accordance with the views of all. Notwithstanding this, he trusted 
we should not let this opportunity go by to make a commencement in 
this matter. He had not the slightest doubt of the full and unqualified 
power of this Government to take charge of this money and give it the 
direction required by the will of Mr. Smithson. 

While there were features in the bill with which he was not entirely 



190 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

pleased, lie should vote for the hill in case it was not amended. But 
there were some amendments to the bill of the gentleman from Indiana 
[Mr. Owen] to which he would fain hope that gentleman himself would 
lend a favorable ear. One related to the appropriation of a part of it 
to the science of agriculture. He referred to the general and deplorable 
want of information of the components of the soil, the proper mode of 
treating it, the proper adaptation of crops to different soils, &c, and said 
he wished to see connected with this institution a department of agri- 
cultural chemistry and a professor of agriculture proper. 

Mr. Bradford R. Wood, of Xew York, said that if ever there was a 
point in which the national honor was concerned, it was in carrying out 
the intentions of the testator in his bequest. He considered it an honor 
to the country that the subject of a monarchical government should 
have selected this as the instrument of his expansive benevolence. He 
thought normal instruction should be left to the States, but responded 
heartily to Mr. Hamlin's suggestion in relation to agricultural instruc- 
tion. He would do all he could to increase and diffuse useful knowledge 
among the masses, but this could not and would not be attained by such 
education as would be obtained here, or by collecting at this point a 
splendid library. The latter might, and unquestionably would, benefit 
those already learned, but not the people. 

Mr. William F. Giles, of Maryland, proposed an amendment, provid- 
ing for the publication and distribution of books for the instruction of 
the blind. 

Mr. W. W. Wick, of Indiana, discussed the duties of a trustee, and 
took the ground that the Government of the United States had no dis- 
cretion in this case as to the mode of investment of the funds. There 
was no power given by the will of Smithson to invest the money in any 
special manner, and the Government invested it at its own hazard. If, 
of his own accord and without authority, a trustee made an investment, 
he was responsible for it. Thus the United States stood in relation to 
this matter, and to this extent they were responsible, if at all. The 
honor of the country should be sustained by the faithful execution of 
the trust. 

Mr. Washington Hunt, of Kew York, entirely concurred with Mr. 
Wick's view of the subject. It was a reproach to the government to 
delay carrying out the purposes of this trust. 

At length, after a full and exhaustive debate for two days, the House 
proceeded to vote on the bill and amendments. The normal school sec- 
tion was stricken out, on motion of Mr. Adams, by a vote of 72 to 42; 
the provision for professors and lecturers by 77 to 42, as also that for 
students. Mr. Jones's amendment, to return the money to England, 
received 8 votes in the affirmative to 115 in the negative. Mr. Adams's 
proposition, to defer the organization of the institution until the State 
of Arkansas could be induced by "moral suasion to pay up its Lndebf 
edness for interest," was voted down by 74 to 57. The provision for lee- 



JAMES SMITIiSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 191 

tares was negatived by 72 to 30, while the annual appropriation for a 
library was increased, on motion of Mr. Marsh, from $20,000 to $25,000. 
The sections requiring experiment and research in agriculture, manufac- 
tures, &c, the publication of books, pamphlets, tracts, &c, and the offer- 
ing of prizes for essays, were stricken out. An amendment that all copy- 
right books, maps, charts, prints, &c, should be delivered to the insti- 
tution was adopted, and also one that the Government collections depos- 
ited in it should be known as the National Museum. 

Before a vote was taken on the bill as amended, a substitute for it 
was introduced by Mr. William J. Hough, of New York, retaining most 
of the features already agreed upon, and this was passed in the Com- 
mittee of the Whole by a vote of S3 to 40. It was then reported to the 
Ilouse, and passed by a vote of 85 to 70. * 

Among the prominent men in the affirmative were John Q. Adams, 
John Bell, Garret Davis, Jefferson Davis, Columbus Delano, Stephen 
A. Douglas, Solomon Foot, Joshua R.Giddings, Hannibal Hamlin, II. W. 
Hilliard, George P. Marsh, R. D. Owen, F. P. Stanton, A. G. Thurman, 
Samuel F. Vinton, David Wilmot. 

Among the nays were Howell Cobb, R. M. T. Hunter, J. R. Ingersoll, 
Andrew Johnson, George W. Jones, Preston King, Alexander H. Ste- 
phens, and Jacob Thompson. 

On the 10th of August, 184G, the Senate proceeded to consider this 
bill; amendments proposed were disagreed to, and it passed without de- 
bate by 2G to 13. The yeas were, Messrs. Archer, Atchison, Barrow, 
Berrien, Cameron, Cilley, Thomas Clayton, John M. Clayton, Corwin, 
Davis, Evans, Greene, Houston, Huntington, Jarnagin, Johnson of Ma- 
rx land, Johnson of Louisiana, Lewis, Mangum, Miller, Morehead, Phelps, 
Speight, Spurgeon, Upham, Webster. 

Those who voted in the negative were, Messrs. Allen, Ashley, Ather- 
ton, Bagby, Benton, Calhoun, Dickinson, Fairfield, McDuffie, Semple- 
Turney, Westcott, Yulee. 

The bill was signed by President James K. Polk on the 10th of Au- 
gust. 18 P», and became a law, and the Smithsonian Institution was or- 
ganize;! under it with the following Board of Regents: 

Hon. Geo. M. Dallas, of Pennsylvania, Vice-President of the United 
States, ex officio. 

Hon. Roger B. Taney, of Maryland, Chief Justice of the United 
States, ex officio. 

Hon. William W. Seaton, Mayor of the city of Washington, e.r officio. 

Hon. George Evans, o! Maine; Bon. Isaac S. Pennybacker, of 
Virginia; Hon. Sidney Breese, of Illinois, of the United States Senate, 
appointed by President of the Senate. 



* The Congressional proceedings and debates in relation to the Smil hson bequest are 
reprinted in lull in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, No. 328, 1879. '"The 
Smithsonian Institution: Document* relative toits origin and history.'' Edited l>y Will- 
iam J. Rhc'os. 10-J7 pp., 8 D . 1879. 



192 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

lion. William J. Hough, of New York ; Hon. Robert Dale Owen, 
of Indiana; Hon. Henry W. Hilliard, of Alabama, of House of Rep- 
resentatives, appointed by the Speaker. 

Hon. Rufus Choate, of Massachusetts ; Hon. Gideon Hawley, 
of Xew York; Hon. Richard Rush, of Pennsylvania; Hon. William 
C. Preston, of South Carolina, citizens of States, elected by Congress. 

Alexander Dallas Bache, Member of the National Institute; Jo- 
seph G. Totten, Member of the National Institute, citizens of Washing- 
ton, elected by Congress. 



APPENDIX. 



NOTE 1. 

OBITUARY NOTICE OF JAMES SMITHSON. 

(From the Gentleman's Magazine.) 

" Oct. 1829. — Died : In the south of France, James Smithson, esq., M. 
A., F. R. S. 

"The birth of this gentleman is thus described by himself at the com- 
mencement of his will : ' I, James Smithson, son of Hush, first Duke of 
Northumberland, aud Elizabeth, heiress of the Hungerfords of Studley, 
and niece to Charles, the proud Duke of Somerset.' 

"It is well known that the wife of Hugh, first Duke of Northumber- 
land, was Lady Elizabeth Seymour, grand-daughter of the same 'proud 
Duke of Somerset.' It was the Hon. Frances Seymour, daughter of 
Charles, Lord Seymour, of Troubridge, by his first marriage with Mary, 
daughter and heiress of Thomas Smith, esq.— and thus half sister to the 
fifth and sixth Dukes of Somerset, the latter of whom was ' the proud 
duke' — that was married to Sir George Hungerford; but in the ac- 
count of the family in Sir It. C. Hoare's Huugerfordiana we find no 
Elizabeth, nor the name of Macie, which was that which Mr. Smithson 
originally bore. The family of Macie resided at Weston, near Bath. 

" James Louis Macie, esq. [the subject of the present notice], was a 
member of Pembroke College, Oxford, where he was created M. A. 
May 20, 178G. He was elected Fellow of the Royal Society in 1787, 
and appears under the same name in the Philosophical Transactions for 
1791 ; but between that date and 1803 he chose to change his name to 
Smithson, although he continued to enjoy the property of the Macies. 
He was, we believe, at one time a vice-president of the Royal Society."* 



NOTE 2. 

ACCOUNT OF THE FIRST DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND. 

(Father of James Smithson.) 

"Sir Hugh Smithson was one of the handsomest men in England. 
He possessed much talent, a highly-cultured intellect, and more learn- 
ing than is generally found among the nobility. His parents, though 
of gentle blood, did not belong to the nobility. He had raised himself 
by his marriage with the heiress to the name and fortune of the house 
of Percy, and he showed that he was worthy of both." 

[His matrimonial alliance had somewhat of a romantic origin. Sir 

* Gentleman's Magazine, March, 1830, vol. c, p. 275. 

193 

S. Mis. 54 13 



104 JAMES SMITHSON AND JUS BEQUEST. 

Hugh had been unsuccessful in a first courtship, and the story of his 
disappointment reached the ears of Lady Elizabeth Seymour, only 
daughter of Algernon Seymour, Baron Percy, who was at that time con- 
sidered, on acclunt of her birth, wealth, and beauty, the greatest prize 
in the kingdom. Lady Percy expressed to some of her friends 'surprise 
that any woman should have refused the hand of such a man as Hugh 
Smithson.' These words soon became known to the rejected baronet, 
and wrought a change in his feelings and aspirations. He became the 
suitor of the fair and noble heiress, and married her on the 10th of July, 
1740.] 

" By his wise economv he improved the immense estates of this family, 
and increased their value to such an extent that the revenues from them 
amounted to over forty thousand pounds. He re-established the old 
grandeur of the Percys by his taste and splendor. The castle of 
Alnwick, the former residence of the Earls of Northumberland, was en- 
tirely ruined. He rebuilt it, and to please the duchess, his wife, he orna- 
mented it in the Gothic style, which he himself did not admire ; but he 
exercised so much taste that he made the castle one of the most mag- 
nificent buildings of this kind to be found anywhere in Europe. He 
improved Sion, a country-house in the environs of Loudon; and he ex- 
hausted tho resources of all the arts, and of unusual wealth, to fill these 
two mansions with master-pieces of good taste, and to render them 
worthy of their possessors. He was created an earl, had the order of the 
Garter conferred on him, and was afterwards appointed viceroy of Ire- 
land ; finally, he was raised to the rank of a duke, and upheld these high 
positions by an expenditure unequaled at that time. 

"The Duchess of Northumberland was of the very highest birth, de- 
scending from Charlemagne through Joscelin de Louvain, who had mar- 
ried Agnes de Percy in the year 11GS. She brought to her husband, as 
her marriage portion, several peerages, the name and coat-of-arms of the 
Percys, ami an immense income. She was very high-minded, and of a 
natural and easy disposition; she was very good-hearted and charitable; 
above all, she was truly attached to her friends, whom she distinguished 
and served whenever an opportunity offered. 

"The duke was fond of arts and sciences, so I. entered into his tastes, 
discussing all these subjects with him, in which he found that 1 was 
well versed, and that he could converse with me on more topics than 
with any one else. The duchess, on the contrary, had a predilection for 
little 'jeux d'esprit' in the company of friends, and she found amusement 
in gathering together engravings, medals, and in collecting a variety of 
other things. I joined in these pursuits as if 1 had made them the busi- 
ness of my previous life. In the evening I took part in her social games, 
and made myself useful to her in her amusements, the only interruption 
to my attentions being a short trip to Paris."* 

From the Gentleman's Magazine for July, 1780, we also learn that 
"The establishment of his Grace was as magnificent as it was possible 
for any English nobleman's to be. lie had at all times three mansion- 
houses — and of late four — in occasional use. He spent Immense sums 
in different sorts of very costly decorations; pictures by every master; 
gardening by Browne; buildings by Adams. . . . More than fifteen 

*[L. Dutens.] "Me'tnoiret <Vun voyageur qui se repose; contenant des anecdotes his- 
toriquoa, politiquea et litteraires relatives a pluaieurs ties principalis personnages du 
siecle. Par M. L. D. Troisieme edition. 3 vols. 8°. Loudies, 1807." Vol. i, pp. 
326-228. (This book is iu Sinithsoii's library.) 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 195 

years ago he was able to purchase the property on which Lord Percy 
had his seat, in Yorkshire; and a few years ago, the mansion, manors, 
and boroughs of Humphrey Morice, in the West, all were sold to the 
Duke. In short, the rental, with the dukedom, he left at about 50,000 
pounds, and to his second son 10,000 pounds per annum. The duke had 
negotiated a further improvement of the Northumberland estate, but 
did not live to see it completed."* 

On the death of the Duke of Northumberland, the following obituary 
notice was given in the same magazine: 

" June 0, 1780. At eight o'clock this morning, died at Sion House, 
in his 74th year, the Most Noble Hugh, Duke and Earl of Northumber- 
land, Earl Percy, Baron Warkworth and Louvaiue, Lord Lieutenant 
and Gustos Eotulorum of the counties of Middlesex and Northumber- 
land, and of the town and county of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Knight of 
the Most Noble Order of the Garter, and Baronet ; who with a princely 
fortune, sustained his exalted rank through life with the greatest dig- 
nity, generosity, and splendor, and will ever be considered as one of the 
first characters of that age of which he constituted so distinguished an 
ornament. We are well informed that his annual income was not less 
than 45,000 1. per annum. His Grace's extensive charities to the poor, 
his constant encouragement of literature and the polite arts, and his 
generous patronage of every kind of merit, make his death truly a 
public loss, and will cause it to be long and sincerely lamented. His 
Grace was the son of Langdale Smithson, esq., and Philadelphia, 
daughter of W. Eeveley, esq., of Newby, co. York. Upon the death of 
his grandfather (Sir Hugh Smithson, of Stanwick, Bart.), which hap- 
pened in 1729, he succeeded to the title of baronet, and to his grand- 
father's estate; and upon the death of his relation Hugh Smithson, esq., 
of Tottenham, he came into the possession of other estates in Yorkshire 
and Middlesex ; and also succeeded his relation as knight of the shire 
for the county of Middlesex, which he represented iu three parliaments. 
Upon the death of his father-in law, Algernon, Duke of Somerset, whose 
daughter he had married, he succeeded to the title of Earl of Northum- 
berland, the Duke having been created Earl of Northumberland upon 
his daughter's marriage, with remainder to her husband, and their issue, 
after the Duke's death. The reason of this creation was as follows: 
The Duke's mother (whose third husband was the Duke's father) was 
daughter and sole heiress of Joscelin, the last Earl of Northumberland, 
which title was become extinct. Being so great an heiress she was 
married three times while a minor. First, to the Earl of Ogle, who 
died in a short time after, leaving no issue. She was next married to 
Thomas Thynne, esq., of Longleate, co. Wilts, but he was assassinated 
in Pall Mall by some ruffians hired by Count Coningsmarck, whose 
object was to many the widow. Her third husband was the Duke of 
Somerset, and she was still a minor, as was also the Duke, b\ v horn she 
had the above Algernon, who succeeded his father as Duke of Somerset, 
and possessed all the Percy estates. He married Miss Thymic, grand- 
daughter of the first Lord Weymouth, and by her had one son and one 
daughter. The son died unmarried, and the daughter married in 1740 
the subject of this article, then Sir Hugh Smithson. The title of Som- 
erset going to another branch of the Seymour family, the title of North- 
umberland was revived to the Duke's daughter in consideration of her 

* Gentleman's Mayazine, 178G, vol. lvi, p. 017. 



196 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

descent from the daughter of Joscelin the last Earl of Northumberland. 
The Percy estate also settled in her, together with several baronies, 
such as Percy, Lucy, Poynings, Fitz-Payne, Bryan, &c. The Duke of 
Somerset dying in 1750 Sir Hugh Smithson immediately took his seat 
in the House of Lords as Earl of Northumberland. In 1752 he was 
appointed one of the Lords of the Bed chamber to the late King. In 
1757 he was installed Knight ot the Garter at Windsor. In 1702 he 
was appointed Lord Chamberlain to the Queen, and a Privy Counsellor; 
also Lord Lieutenant of the couuties of Middlesex and Northumberland. 
In 1703 he was appointed Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. In 1700 he was 
created Duke of Northumberland. In 1778 his Grace was appointed 
Master of the Horse, which he resigned in 1781. On Dec. 5th, 177(!, 
which was her birthday, his Duchess died, when she had completed her 
sixtieth year. She was interred in her family vault in St. Nicholas 
chapel, Westminster Abbey. They had two sons and one daughter."* 
The funeral of the Duke of Northumberland, whose death occurred ten 
years later, was celebrated with great pomp on the 21st of June, 178(5, 
and his remains were also interred in Westminster Abbey with the fol- 
lowing imposing list of titles and dignities inscribed on his coffin. 

COFFIN-PLATE INSCRIPTION OF HUGH SMITHSON. 
I (Father of James Smithson.) 

"The most high puissant & most noble Prince 

Hugh Percy, Duke & Earle of Northumberland 

Earl Percy Baron Warkworth & Lovaine & Bar* 

Lord Lieutenant & Custos Rotulorum of the 

Counties of Middlesex & Northumberland, of 

the City & Liberty of Westminster & of the 

Town & County of the Town of Newcastle 

upon Tyne, Vice Admiral of the County of 

Northumberland & of all America, one of 

the Lords of his Majesty's most Hon bU " 

Privy Council, & Knight of the most noble 

Order of the Garter. 

Died on the th Day of June 1780, 

In the 74 tb Year of his Age." t 



NOTE 3, 



ACCOUNT OF EARL PERCY, SECOND DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, 

(Half brothel- of James Smithsou.) 

The first Duke of Northumberland had one daughter, who died un- 
married, and two sons — Hugh and Algernon (half brothers of James 
Smithson) — of whom the elder succeeded his lather as the second Duke 

* Uaitlrmanx Ma<ju:ine, l?Sfi, vol. lvi, pp. 529, 530. 

t Miscellanea Genealogica et Heraldica, Londou, ltilid, p. 271. 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 197 

of Northumberland. This son was born August 25, 1742, and married, 
in 1704, Anne, daughter of John, Earl of Bute, but had no issue. The 
marriage was dissolved, by act of Parliament, in 1779, and in the same 
year the duke married Miss Frances Julia- Burrell, of Beckenham, Kent, 
by whom he had live daughters and two sons. 

Earl Percy, the second Duke of Northumberland, served in the Conti- 
nental wars under Prince Ferdinand of Brunswick ; came to Boston, 1774, 
iu charge of a brigade; commanded the re-enforcements at the battle of 
Lexington, April 19, 1775; and led the column that reduced Fort Wash- 
ington, at King's Bridge, near New York, November 10, 1770. He re- 
turned to England in May, 1777, devoted himself to improving his estates, 
died July 10, 1817, and was buried with great poinp in Westminster 
Abbey. 

Of this Earl Percy an oil portrait has recently been presented to the 
town of Lexington, Massachusetts, by his grandfiephew, Algernon 
George, the sixth and present Duke of Northumberland. The presenta- 
tion was made through the Rev. Edward G. Porter, of Lexington, who 
was a guest at the duke's castle in 1S79, and was permitted, during his 
visit, to make extracts from the Percy family papers, especially from the 
letters written home by Earl Percy during his American experiences. 
In one of these letters, dated Boston, July 5, 1774, Percy told his parents 
that the people were very hot-headed and that he feared trouble. On 
the 27th of the same month he wrote that, owing to the absence of Gen- 
eral Gage at Salem, he had been commander-in-chief of the camp at 
Boston. He also inclosed a view of the town of Boston and the camp, 
and conveyed the information that the people say much and do nothing, 
lie advised a steadfast government, as the people are worthy subjects, 
who talk as though they would wipe out the troops every night, but are 
frightened to death when they see them. The clergy were spoken of as 
teachers of sedition of the most virulent type. Another letter to his 
father was dated August 15, 1774, and in this Percy described the scen- 
ery around Boston as having the appearance of a park finely laid out. 
This beauty he considered to be offset by the poverty of the soil, which, 
in his opinion, was overt illed and scantily fertilized. In this letter symp- 
toms of trouble in the country were noted, and the writer professed his 
determination to do his whole duty wherever he might be called upon to 
serve rather than seek preferment where it might most easily be ob- 
tained — at the Court of St. James. In a subsequent letter to General 
Howe, at London, he wrote his serious apprehension of bloodshed and 
his belief in the necessity of strong government. From the Congress at 
Philadelphia he said he looked for either a wrangle among its members 
or for the origin of serious business for the home government. To his 
father, also, he wrote in the same strain. On the 20th April, 1775, Percy 
reported to General Gage about the march to Lexington. There, Percy 
says, he met the troops retreating from Concord, and he ordered two 
field-pieces to be trained upon the rebels from the heights. The shot from 
the cannon dispersed them. As the British had but little ammunition, 
and were fifteen miles from Boston, they were ordered by him to return. 
They were pressed severely by the rebels until they reached Charles- 
town, many men being killed. Percy attributed to the rebels cruelty 
and barbarity, writing that they scalped and cut off the ears of the 
wounded troops, showing that the British, too, believed that their oppo- 
nents wen; cruel and barbarous. Percy, after this disastrous retreat, 
was of the opinion that the colonists were not an irregular mob, but de- 
termined men, accustomed to fight the French and the Indians. The 
road to Charlestown, Earl Percy said, was taken for the retreat, as it 



198 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

was feared that the rebels, as they actually did, would have destroyed 
the bridge over the Charles River. Iu a letter referring to Buuker Hill, 
Percy incut ions the death of Dr. Warren and that of Major Pitcairn. 
While Percy was in America he was advanced in rank to be a lieutenant- 
general, yet he was anxious to return home, and he was allowed to do so 
near the close of the war. He was the first to suggest making peace 
with the colonists, and he was selected as minister plenipotentiary 
to secure such an end. Owing to dissensions in the British cabinet, he 
delined that honor and retired to private life. 



NOTE 4. 
NOTICES OF SMITHSON'S PAPERS, 

On Tabasheer and Calamine. 
(I. From the London Monthly Eeview. ) 

" The first paper is an account of tabasheer, an article of importance 
in the materia medico, of the ancient Arabians, and still a medicine of 
great note in many parts of the East, though neither the substance itself 
nor its origin were known in the Western World. Dr. Russell ascer- 
tained it to be a natural concretion from the juice of the bamboo cane, 
and accordingly it is distinguished in different oriental languages by 
names signifying bamboo milk, bamboo camphor, and salt of bamboo. 
Dr. Russell had many green canes brought to him at Madras, and on 
splitting them, found some joints full of a watery liquid, some with the 
fluid much diminished and in different states of consistence, and others 
with some grains or particles of tabasher, either loose, in which case 
the reeds containing it are known by a rattling sound on shaking them, 
or adhering to the extremities or sides of the cavity. The quantity of 
the tabasheer appears to be very inconsiderable, the whole produce of 
twenty eight reeds from five to seven'feet long, not much exceeding two 
drachms."* 

The following account of his paper in the Philosophical Transactions 
is given in the Monthly Review for January, 1792, vol. vii, pp. 75, 70. 

" We have seen in a former paper that tabasheer is a vegetable pro- 
duction, formed by spontaneous concretion from a fluid in the cavities 
of the bamboo cane. Its chemical constitution, however, is very differ- 
ent from what might be expected in a body of such an origin. The ex- 
periments of Mr. Macie, very judiciously executed, and here stated in 
detail, show it to be a siliceous earth, nearly the same thing with com- 
mon flint that has been attenuated by artificial solution. 

••Neither water, alcohol, nor acids will act on it, but by imbibing 
water it becomes transparent ; the white bits in a low degree, the bluish 
nearly as much so as glass. It dissolves (as the precipitate from liquor 
silicum does) in caustic alcaline lixivium; and the solution (like the 
liquor silicum itself, or the precipitate redissolved) becomes gelatinous 
on exposure to the atmosphere, in the lire it becomes harder, more 
compact, and diminished in volume, without any loss of weight, except 
of a little moisture, which it soon recovers from the air. With two- 
thirds of its weight of fixed alkali, ina platina crucible, it ran into a trans- 
parent glass; phosphorated ammoniac and litharge readily acted on 

* Monthly Review for September, 1791, vol. vi, p. 16. 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 199 

it; borax more difficultly. It melted, also, at the blow-pipe, where the 
ashes of the coal happened to touch it, or when rubbed over with calca- 
reous earth; and this appears to be the only property in which it differs 
materially from flint. This fusibility with calcareous earth, and its con- 
tracting and hardening in the tire, might lead us to suspect an admixture 
of argillaceous earth ; but no traces of that earth were discovered by the 
usual process with vitriolic acid. 

"The experiments from which these general results are extracted 
were made on the finest tabasheer that could be purchased at Hydrabad. 
Several other specimens were examined, and all the genuine sorts were 
found to consist of the same earth. That which was taken immediately 
from the caue became black in the fire from some admixture of vegeta- 
ble matter, but as soon as the blackness disappeared it was in all re- 
spects similar to the foregoing, so that the tabasheer of Hydrabad may 
be presumed to have suffered a degree of calcination before its exposure 
to sale. 

"That a siliceous earth exists in vegetables is evident from their 
ashes. Mr. Macie obtained a small portion of this earth from the ashes 
of charcoal, but found it far more abundant in those of the bamboo 
cane. He mentions a singular circumstance respecting this vegetable 
which occurred after his experiments were finished: 

"A green bamboo cut in the hot-house of Dr. Pitcairn, at Islington, 
was judged to contain tabasheer in one of its joints from a rattling 
noise discoverable on shaking it, but being split by Sir Joseph Banks, 
it was found to contain not ordinary tabasheer, but a solid pebble about 
the size of half a pea, so hard as to cut glass." 

(II. By Sir Humphrey Davy. From the Journal of the Royal Institution.) 

On the 18th of November, a paper, by James Smithson, esq., F. B. S., 
on the chemical analysis of some calamines, was read. 

Much uncertainty has hitherto prevailed on the subject of the compo- 
sition of calamines. The author was induced to carry on his researches 
by the hopes of obtaining a more certain knowledge of these ores, and 
he considers his results as fully proving the necessity for new investi- 
gations, and that the opinions which had been adopted concerning them 
were far removed from the truth. Mr. Smithson's experiments were 
made upon four different kinds of calamine : the calamine of Bleyberg, 
that of Somersetshire, that of Derbyshire, and the electrical calamine. 

The calamine from Bleyberg was white, and had a stalactitical form ; 
its specific gravity was 3.584. It became yellow under the blowpipe ; 
and when exposed to the heat of the interior blue flame was gradually 
dissipated. It dissolved with effervescence in sulphuric acid, muriatic 
acid, and acetous acid. It lost by heat rather more than one-fourth of 
its weight. It afforded oxide of zinc, carbonic acid, and water, in the 
proportion of 714, 135, and 151; there was besides found in it a minute 
portion of the carbonates of lead and lime; but these the author con- 
siders as accidentally mixed with the ore, and not in combination with 
the other ingredients. 

The calamine from Somersetshire was of a mammillated form. Its color 
was brown externally and greenish yellow internally ; its specific gravity 
was 4.336. it dissolved in sulphuric acid, with effervescence : and when 
analyzed by means of reagents, afforded in 1,000 parts, 352 of carbonic 
acid, and 648 of oxide of zinc. 

The Derbyshire calamine was in small crystals, of a pale yellow color; 
their specific gravity was 4.333. When analyzed, by solution in sul- 



200 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

phuric acid, and the action of heat, 1,000 parts of them were found to 
contain, of carbonic acid 348, of oxide of zmc G52. 

The electrical calamine, which Mr. Sinithson examined, was from Keg- 
bania, in Hungary. It was in the form of regular crystals; the specific 
gravity of which was 3.434. 

They became electrical by heat, and when exposed to the flame of the 
blowpipe decrepitated and shone with a green light. The electrical cala- 
mine differs materially in composition from the other specimens, in being 
formed chiefly of quartz and oxide of zinc, which, according to the author, 
are in chemical union. One thousand parts of it gave 250 parts of quartz, 
083 of oxide of ziuc, and 44 of water; the loss being 23 parts. 

From his series of experiments on the calamines, Mr. Sinithson has 
been able to deduce, with a considerable degree of accuracy, the compo- 
sition of sulphate of ziuc, which, when free from combined water, he 
considers as composed of equal parts of sulphuric acid and oxide of zinc. 

In reasoning generally upon the constitution of salts of zinc, Mr. Smith- 
son offers some new observations in relation to affinity ; and he thinks 
that the proximate constituent parts of bodies are not absolutely united 
in the remote relations to each other, usually indicated by analyses, but 
that they are universally very considerable parts of the compound, prob- 
ably seldom less than 2. lie applies this theory in accounting for the 
presence of water in the calamine of Bleyberg, iu which there is not suf- 
ficient carbonic acid to saturate the oxide of zinc ; and he considers this 
ore as probably composed of a peculiar combination of water with the 
oxide of zinc, which he names hydrate of zinc, and of carbonate of zinc 
to each other in the proportions of 3 to 2. 

All the calamines, when long exposed to the heat of the blowpipe, are 
dissipated, with the production of white flowers. This circumstance, 
the author thinks, ought not to be attributed to an immediate volatiliza- 
tion of the oxide of zinc, but rather to the deoxidation of this substance 
by the charcoal and combustible matter of the flame, and the consequent 
immediate sublimation and combustion of the metallic zinc, to which 
combustion the phosphorescence of calamines under the blowpipe may 
be owing. 

The fibrous form of the flowers of zinc, produced during the action of 
the blowpipe upon calamine, Mr. Sinithson attributes to the crystalliza- 
tion taking place during their mechanical suspension in the air; and he 
thinks that the fluid state is not at all necessary to the production of 
crystals, and that the only requisite for this operation is a freedom of 
motion in the masses which tend to unite, allowing them to obey that 
sort of polarity which occasions them to present to each other the parts 
adapted to mutual union.* 



NOTE 5 



ILLUSTRATIONS OF PRESENTATION OF BOOKS BY SCIENTIFIC AUTHOKS 

TO SMITIISON. 

"Mr. Smithson. Hommage respectucux de l'auteur." 

Nouveau systeme de mineralogie. Par J. J. Berzelius. Paris, 1819. 

"Mr. Smithson. Hommage de l'auteur, Gay-Lussac." 
Mcnioire sur l'iode. 1814. 

* Journal of the lioi/al Institution of Great Britain, 180;i, Vol. 1, p. 299. 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 201 

"M. Smithson. From the translator." 
Observations on the mineralogical and chemical history of the fossils 
of Cornwall. By M. H. Klaproth. Translated by Dr. John Gott- 
lieb Groschke. Loudon, 1787. 
" M. Smithson. From the author." 
Chemical account of various dropsical fluids. By Alex. Marcet. 1811. 

"M. Smithson. From the author." 
Letters to Sir Joseph Banks, president of the Boyal Society, on the 
subject of cochineal insects discovered at Madras. By James An- 
derson, M. D. 1788. 
"Mons. de Smithson. Hommage de l'auteur." 

Memoire sur la inontagne de sel gemme de Cardonne en Espague. 
Par P. Louis Cordier. 
"A Mons. Smithson, de la Soci6te royale de Londres. Hommage de 
l'auteur." 
Observations sur la simplicity des lois auxquellesestsouinise la struc- 
ture des cristaux. Par M. Haiiy. 
"A Mons. de Smithson. Hommage de l'auteur." 
Memoire sur les substances minerales dites en masse qui entrentdans 
la composition des roches volcaniques. Par P. Louis Cordier. 
"Mons. Smithson. De la part de l'auteur." 
Memoire sur les pierres meteoriques. Par M. Fleurian de Bellevue. 
1820. 
"A Monsieur Smithson, amateur eclaire de la chimie et de la mineralogie. 
Hommage respectueux de l'auteur de cet opuscule, J. A. H. Lucas, 
membre des societes geologique de Londres et Wernerienne d'Ediin- 
bourg." 
De la mineralogie. 1818. 
"Mr. Smithson. From the author." 
On some of the combinations of oxymuriatic gas and oxygene, and on 
the chemical relations of these principles to inflammable bodies. By 
Humphrey Davy, esq., LL. D. London, 1811. 



NOTE 6. 
APPEECIATION OF SMITHSON BY BERZELIUS. 

Berzelius makes the following honorable mention of Smithson : 
"Dans mon Esaai pour etablir un systcme clectro-chimique, avec une 
nomenclature appropriee (Journal de Physique, Ann. 1811), j'ai fait men- 
tion des combinaisons de silice avec les autres oxides, comme de sels que 
j'ai nomnies silicates. II cut sans doute ete premature alors d'essayer 
de diriger davantage l'attention vers les silicates inineralogiques, parce 
cpie le calms on se trouvaient ces derniers eut servi plutot a prevenir 
contre de pareilles idees, surtout com me la nature de ce traite ne com- 
portait pas une exposition plus etendue du sujet. J'ai appris depuis, 
avec une vraie satisfaction, (pie M. Smithson, Fun des miiieralogistes les 
plus experimented de l'Europe, sans avoir eu connaissance demouEssai, 
a public une idee semblable dans un Memoire [Feb. 9, 1811] sur la nature 
de la natrolite et de la mesotype. On ne pourra disconvenir qu'uno 
pareille coincidence d^rivee d'une part de la chimie seule, et de l'autre 
d'uu point de vue d'aualyse miueralogique, ne fournisse une preuve ties- 



202 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

forte de la justesse de l'idee, ce qui me fait esperer qu'aucun mineralo- 
giste, au courant de l'etat actuel de la chiuiie, ne conservera des doutes."* 

Berzelius gives in his "Systematic enumeration of minerals": u Zi>w 
carbonate. ZnO^. Smithson, Phil. Trans., 1803, 17-"+ 

Under Zinc calamine, lie says : 

" Nous devorts la connaissance de la composition, taut des carbonates 
que du silicate del'oxidede zinc, a un excellent travail de M. Smithson, 
iusere dans les Transact, pb.il., 1803."$ 



NOTE 7. 

EXTRACTS FROM SMITHSON'S WRITINGS. 

Tbe following extracts from Smitbson's papers illustrate bis breadth 
of view and style of composition : 

"A knowledge of tbe productions of art, and of its operations, is in- 
dispensable to the geologist. Bold is tbe man who undertakes to assign 
effects to agents with which he has no acquaintance, which he never has 
beheld in action, to whose indisputable results he is an utter stranger, 
who engages in the fabrication of a world, alike unskilled in the forces 
and the materials which he employs." § 

" More than commonly incurious must he be who would not find delight 
in stemming the stream of ages, returning to times long past, and behold- 
ing the then existing state of things and of men. In the arts of an an- 
cient people much may be seen concerning them, the progress they had 
made in knowledge of various kinds, their habits, and their ideas on 
many subjects. And products of skill may likewise occur, either wholly 
unknown to us, or superior to those which now supply them.jl 

"A want of due conviction that the materials of the globe and the prod- 
ucts of the laboratory are the same, that what nature affords spontane- 
ously to men, and what the art of the chemist prepares, differ no ways 
but in the sources from whence they are derived, has given to the in- 
dustry of the collector of mineral bodies an erroneous direction. 3 fl 

" No observer of tbe earth can doubt that it has undergone very con- 
siderable changes. Its strata are every where broken and disordered, and 
in many of them are inclosed the remains of innumerable beings which 
once had life, and these beings appear to have been strangers to the 
climates in which their remains now exist. In a book held by a large 
portion of mankind to have been written from divine inspiration, an uni- 
versal deluge is recorded. It was natural for the believers in this del- 
uge to refer to its action all or many of the phenomena in question, 
and the more so as they seemed to find in them a corroboration of the 
event. Accordingly, this is what was done as soon as any desire to ac- 
count for these appearances on the earth became felt. The success, 
however, was not such as to obtain the general assent of the learned; 
and the attempt fell into neglect and oblivion. . . . 

* Nouveau systhme <l< min6ralogie, pai J. .J. Berzelius, I'ari.s, L819, p. 23. 

t Same work ; p. 205. 

X Same work ; p. 255. 

$ On a lilimus metallic copper. Smithsonian Miscell. Coll.. No. :!"-27, p. TO. 

|| An examination of some Egyptian colors. Smithsonian Miscell. Coll.,Ho. 327, p. 101. 

II On some compounds of Fluorine. Smithsonian Miscell. Coll., No. 327, p. 94. 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 203 

" I Lave yielded to a sense of the importance of the subject in more 
tlniu one respect, and of the uncertainty when I shall acquire ampler 
iinformatiou at more voluminous sou ices — to a conviction that it is in 
his knowledge that man has found his greatness and his happiness, the 
high superiority which he holds over the other animals which iuhabit 
the earth with him, and consequently that no ignorance is probably 
without loss to him, no error without evil, and that it is therefore pref- 
erable to urge unwarranted doubts, which can only occasion additional 
light to become elicited, than to risk by silence letting a question settle 
to rest, while any unsupported assumptions are involved in it." * 

"We have no real knowledge of the nature of a compound substance 
until we are acquainted with its proximate elements, or those matters 
by whose direct or immediate union it is produced; for these only are 
its true elements. Thus, though we know that vegetable acids consist 
of oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon, we are not really acquainted with their 
composition, because these are not their proximate, that is, their true, ele- 
ments, but are elements of their elements, or elements of these. It is evi- 
dent what would be our acquaintance with sulphate of iron, for example, 
did we only know that a crystal of it consisted of iron, sulphur, oxygen, 
ami hydrogen, or of carbonate of lime, if only that it was a compound of 
lime, carbon or diamond, and oxygen. In fact totally dissimilar sub- 
stances may have the same ultimate elements, and even probably in pre- 
cisely the same proportions; nitrate of ammonia and hydrate of ammo- 
nia or crystals of caustic volatile alkali, both ultimately consist of oxy- 
gen, hydrogen, and azote 

" It is evident that there must be a precise quantity in which the ele- 
ments of compounds are united together in them ; otherwise, a matter 
which was not a simple one would be liable, in its several masses, to vary 
from itself, according as one or other of its ingredients chanced to pre- 
dominate. But chemical experiments are unavoidably attended with 
too many sources of fallacy for this precise quantity to be discovered by 
them; it is therefore to theory that we must owe the knowledge of it. 
For this purpose an hypothesis must be made and its justness tried by a 
strict comparison with facts. If they are found at variance, the assumed 
hypothesis must be relinquished with candor as erroneous; but should 
it, on the contrary, prove, on a multitude of trials, invariably to accord 
with the results of observation, as nearly as our means of determination 
authorize us to expect, we are warranted in believing that the principle 
of nature is obtained, as we then have all the proofs of its being so which 
men can have of the justness of their theories: a constant and perfect 
agreement with the phenomena, as far as can be discovered." t 

" If the theory here advanced has any foundation in truth, the dis- 
covery will introduce a degree of rigorous accuracy and certainty into 
chemistry of which this science was thought to be ever incapable, by 
enabling the chemist, like the geometrician, to rectify by calculation the 
unavoidable errors of his manual operations, and by authorizing him to 
eliminate from the essential elements of a compound those products of its 
analysis whose quantity cannot be reduced to any admissible propor- 
tion. A certain knowledge of the exact proportions of the constituent 
principles of bodies may likewise open to our view harmonious analo- 
gies between the constitutions of related objects, general laws, &c, 

* Observations on Perm's theory of the formation of the Kirkdale Cave. Smith- 
sonian Mi8cell. Coll., No. 327 , pp. 103, 104. 

t On the composition of the compound sulphuret from Huel Boys. Smithsonian Mis- 
cell. Coll., No. 327, pp. 35, 37. 



204 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

which at present totally escape us. In short, if it is founded in truth, 
its enabling the application of mathematics to chemistry cannot but be 
productive of material results."* 

" The name imposed on a substance by the discoverer of it ought to be 
held in some degree sacred, and not altered without the most urgent 
necessity for doing it. It is but a feeble and just tribute of respect for 
the service which he has rendered to science." t 



NOTE 8. 

CATALOGUE OF THE LIBRARY OF JAMES SMITHSON. 

Deposited in the Smithsonian Institution. 

Anderson, Dr. James. Letters to Sir Joseph Banks, baronet, president 

of the Royal Society, on the subject of cochineal insects discovered 

at Madras. 26 pp. 8°. Madras, 17SS. 
Anderson, Dr. James. Letters on cochineal continued. 3G pp. 8°. 

Madras, 1789. 
Anfrye et d'Arcet. Description d'un petit fourneau a coupelle. 48 pp. 

8°. Paris, 1813. 
Antilogies ft I'ragmens philosophiques, etc. Tomes i-iv. 604,592,600, 

600 pp. 12°. Amsterdam, 1774. 
Baker, Henry. The microscope made easy. 340 pp. 8°. London, 1743. 
Becquerel, A. C. Experiences sur le developpeinent de l'electricite par 

la pression ; lois de ce developperaent. 32 pp. 8°. Paris. 
Becquerel, A. C. Sur lesfils ties-tins de plat ineet d'aeier; et sur la distri- 
bution du magnetisme libre dans ces derniers. pp. 33-52. 8°. Paris. 
Bellevue, Fleurian de. Memoire sur Faction du feu dans les volcans, ou 

sur divers rapports entre leurs produits, ceux <le nos fourneaux, les 

meteorites et les roches primitives. 02 pp. 4°. 1805. 
Bellevue, Fleurian de. Memoire sur les cristaux microscopiques, et en 

particulier sur la semeline, la melite, la pseudo-soininite et le selce- 

Romano. 24 pp. 4°. Paris, 1708. 
Bellevue, Fleurian de. Memoire sur les pierres mcteoriques, et notam- 

ment sur cedes tombees pres de Jauzac, au mois de juin 1810. 24 

pp. 4°. Paris, 1821. 
Bergman, M. T. Opuscules chvmiques et physiques. Tomes i, ii. 470, 

543 pp. 8°. Dijon, 1780, 1785. 
Berthoud, F. L' Art de regier les pendules et les montres. Quatrieme 

edition. L26 pp. 12°.' Paris, 1811. 
Berzelius, J. .1. De Femploi du chalumeau dans les analyses chimiques 

el les determinations mineralogiqnes. Traduit du Suedois, par F. 

Fresnel. 406 pp. 8°. Paris, 1821. 
Berzelius, J. J. Nouveau systeme de min^ralogie. Traduit du Suedois. 

321 pp. 8°. Paris, L819. 
Bibliotheca Parisiana. A catalogue of a collection of boohs formed by 

a gentleman in France. 17- pp. S 3 . London, 1701. 
Bray. Win. Sketch of a tour into Derbyshire and Yorkshire. Second 

'edition. 408 pp. 8°. London, 1783. 
Breve aotiza di un viaggiatore sulle Lncrostazioni silicee termali d'lta- 

lia, e specialmente di quelle dei Gampi Flegrei nel Regno di ]S T apoli. 

35 pp. 8°. 

* A chemical analysis of some Calamines. /Smithsonian Miscell. Coll., No. 327, p 29. 
tUn the composition oi Zeolite. Smitnsonian Miscell. Coll., No. .327, p. 45. 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 205 

Bruxelles, Description de la ville de ; enrichi du plan de la ville et do 
perspectives. 192 pp. 8°. Bruxclles, 171*4. 

Bullock, Win. A descriptive catalogue of the exhibition entitled An- 
cient and Modern Mexico. 32 pp. 8°. London. 

Camus, A. G. Voyage fait dans les departements nouvellement reunis. 
Tomes i, ii. 198, 229 pp. 24°. Paris, 1803. 

Catalogue of gems iu the collection of Mr. Findlay, Oriental Museum. 
43 pp. 12°. London, 1802. 

Catalogue des livres manuscrits et irnprimes de la bibliotheqne du feu 
M. F. A. Quetant. 11 pp. 8°. (Imperfect.) Paris, 1823. 

Catalogue (A) of a splendid and most select collection of foreign minerals, 
whieh will be sold by auction by Mr. Thomas. 59 pp. 8°. London, 
1820. 

Catalogue of a valuable collection of minerals, the property of Mr. Heu- 
land; to be sold at auction by Mr. Thomas. 27 pp. 8°. 1820. 

Chambers, E. Cyclopaedia, or an universal dictionary of arts and sci- 
ences, containing an explanation of the terms and an account of the 
several subjects in the liberal and mechanic arts, and the sciences, 
human and divine; with a supplement and modern improvements 
incorporated in one alphabet by A. Bees. Yols.i-v. Folio. London, 
1795-1797. 

Claubry, Henri Francois Gaultier. Becherches sur l'existence de l'iode 
dans Peau de la rner et dans les plantes qui produisent la soude de 
varecs. 40 pp. 4°. Paris, 1815. 

Conformite des coutumes des Indieus orientaux, par M. de la C. 2G8 pp. 
12°. Bruxelles, 1704. 

Constant, Benjamin de. De la doctrine politique qui pent reunir les 
partis en France. 43 pp. 8°. Paris, 1816. 

Cookery, A new system of domestic, formed upon principles of economy 
and adapted to the use of private families. By a Lady. 375 pp. 
8°. London, 1810. 

Cordier, Louis. Memoire sur la montagne de sel gemme de Cardonne 
en Espagne. 15 pp. 4°. Paris, 1810. 

Cordier, Louis. Memoire sur les substances minerales dites en masse 
qui entrent dans la composition des roches volcaniques de tons les 
ages. 87 pp. 4°. 

Cronstedt, Axel F. An essay towards a system of mineralogy. Trans- 
lated from the original Swedish, with notes by G. von Engestrom ; to 
which is added a treatise on the pocket laboratory, containing an 
easy method, used by the author, for trying mineral bodies, written 
by the translator. The whole revised and corrected, with some addi- 
tional notes, by E. M. Da Costa. 365 pp. 8°. Ljondon, 1770. 

Cronstedt, Axel F. An essay towards a system of mineralogy. Trans- 
lated from the Swedish, with annotations and an additional treatise 
on the blow-pipe, by Gustav Engestrom. Enlarged and improved 
by John Hyacinth de Magellan. Vols, i, ii. 1095 pp. 8°. Lon- 
don, 1788. 

Davy, Humphrey. On some of the combinations of oxyinuriatic gas 
and oxygene, and on the chemical relations of those principles to 
inflammable bodies. 35 pp. 4°. London, 1811. 

Delametherie, J. C. Lecons de mineralogie. Tomes i, ii. 572, 030 
pp. 8°. Paris, 1812. 

De l'lsle, Bome\ Cristallographie, on description des formes propres a 
tous les corps du regne mineral, dans Petal de combination saline, 
pierreuse ou metallique. Tome iv. 96 pp. 8°. Paris, 1783. 



206 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

De l'Isle, Rome. Description melhodique d'une collection de min6raux 

(lu cabinet M. D. R. D. L. 336 pp. 8°. Paris, 1773. 
Dhombres-Firmas, L. A. Mvellement barometrique du departement do 

(laid. 33 pp. 8°. Nismes, 1811. 
Dubois, C. M. Nouveau voyage de France, avec 24 itin&raires pour les 

dim-rentes parties de l'empire. Tomes i, ii. 430,501 pp. 12°. 

Paris, 1800. 
[Dutens, L.] M<Smoires d'un voyageur qui se repose, par M. L. D. 

Troisiemo edition. Tomes i-iii. 301), 329, 354 pp. 8°. Londres, 1807. 
ficole d'enseignement mutuel de l'Eglise reformee de Paris. Rapport sur 

lYtat de l'ecole au 31 decern bre 1818. 25 pp. 12°. Paris, 1810. 
Galignani's traveller's guide through Holland and Belgium. 410 pp. 

32°. Paris, 1822. 
Garnerin, Madame. A circumstantial account of the three last aerial 

voyages made by M. Garnerin. 30 pp. 12°. London. 
Gaultier, L. Exercises sur la construction logique des phrases et des 

periodes contenues dans le texte des six premieres epoques de 

l'histoire universelle de Button. 60 pp. 24°. Paris, 1800. 
Gay-Lussac. Memoire sur l'iode. 160 pp. 8°. 1814. 
[Glass, Mrs.] The art of cooking made plain and easy. By a Lady. 

New edition. 438 pp. 8°. London, 1770. 
Gmelin, L. Indagationem chemicam pigment! nigri oculorum taurinorum 

et vitulinorum adnoxis quibusdam in id animadversionibus i>hvsiol- 

ogicis. 72 pp. 12°. Gcettingce, 1812. . 
Gmelin, L. Observationes oryctognosticae et chemicae de Hauyna, etc. 

58 pp. 8°. Heidelbergce, 1814. 
Harriott, Lieut. J. Struggles through life, exemplified in the various 

travels and adventures in Europe, Asia, Africa, and America. 

Second edition. Vols, i, ii. 309, 366 pp. 8°. London, 1808. 
1 laity, L'Abbe. Addition au memoire sur l'Aragonite. 13 pp. 4°. 
Ilaiiy, L'Abbe. Observations sur la simplicity des lois auxquelles est 

souinise la structure des cristaux. 37 pp. 4°. 
Haiiy, 1/ Alibi-. Tableau comparatif des resultats de la cristallographie 

et de Tanalyse chimique, relativement a la classification des mine- 

raux. ,">07 pp. 8°. Paris, 1800. 
Histoire de .Madame la Comtesse des Barres, a Madame la Marquise de 

Lambert. 140 pp. 32°. Anvers, 1735. 
I ust i uctioD pour les voyageurs qui vont voir les glaciers et les Alpes 

dn canton de Berne. 40 pp. 12°. Berne, 1787. 
Johnson, Dr. Samuel. Works of, A new edition in twelve volumes, to 

which is prefixed an essay on his life and genius, by Arthur Murphy. 

Vols, i-xii. 8°. London, 1820. 
Joseph, Don John, and Don Fausto de Luyart. A chemical analysis of 

wolfram, and examination of a new metal which enters into its 

composition. Translated from the Spanish by Charles Cullen. 

07 pp. 8°. London, 1785. 
Journal de physique, de chimie, d'histoire naturelle et des arts. Tomes 

Ixxvi, lxxvii, lxxviii, Janvier, Kvrier, mars, juin; lxxix, juillet, sep- 

tcmbre, decembre. 4°. Paris, 1813, 1814. 
Journal d*un voyageur anglais, on memoire et anecdotes sur son altesse 

royale Caroline de Brunswick, Princesse de GaUes de 1814 a 1816. 

46 pp. 8°. Bruxelks, 1S17. 
Journal d'un voyage fait aux hides Orientales, par une escadre de six 

yaisseaux commandes par M. Du Quesne, depuis le 24 levrier 1690 

jusqu'au 20 aout L691, par ordre de la Compagnie des Indes Orien- 
tales. Tomes i-iii. 410, 388, 410 pp. 12°. Rouen, 1721. 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 207 

Klaprotli, Martin Henry. Analytical essays towards promoting the 

chemical knowledge of mineral substances. Vols, i, ii. GOT, 272 

pp, 8°. London, 1801, 1801. 
Klaproth, Martin Henry. Observations relative to the mineralogical and 

chemical history of the fossils of Cornwall. Translated from the 

German by John Gottlieb Groschke, M. D. 92 pp. 8°. London, 

1787. 
La Harpe peint par lui-meme. 222 pp. 21°. Paris, 1817. 
Lassaigne, J. L. M6moire sur la possibilite de reconnaitre, par les 

moyens chimiques, la presence de l'acetate de morphine ckez les 

animaux empoison nes par cette substance veneneuse. 12 pp. 8°. 

1824. 
Lauzim, M6moires de M. le Due de. Deuxieme edition. Tomes i, ii. 

223, 200 pp. 32°. Paris, 1822. 
Le Baillif. Memoire sur l'emploi de petites conpelles an chalumeau on 

nouveaux moyens d'essais mineralogiques. 21 pp. 8°. Paris, 1823. 
Lettre a Madame la Comtesse F de B ; contenant un recit 

des evenemens qui se sont passes ii Lubeck dans la journee de 

jeudi G novembre 180G, et les suivantes. 78 pp. 8°. Amsterdam, 

1807. 
Logique, la, on l'art de penser, contenant, outre les regies communes, 

plusieurs observations nouvelles propres a former le jugement. 

Nouvelle edition. 151 pp. 12°. Paris, 1816. 
Londres (Ue) et ses environs. 127 pp. 8°. Amsterdam, 1789. 
Lucas, J. A. H. De la mineralogie. 86 pp. 8°. Paris, 1818. 
M , Mens. de. Du developpement a douner a quelques parties 

principales et essentielles de notre industrie interieure et de l'affer- 

missement de nos rapports commerciaux avec les pays changers. 

59 pp. 8°. Paris, 1819. 
Marcet, Dr. Alexander. A chemical account of various dropsical fluids. 

42 pp. 8°. London, 1811. 
Marchant, F. M. Le nouveau conducteur de l'etranger a Paris. 372 pp. 

24°. Paris, 1816. 
Margraf. Opusculus chymique. Tomes i, ii. 423, 459 pp. 12°. 

Paris, 17G2. 
Mercier. Mon bonnet de nuit. Tomes i, ii. 303, 307 pp. 12°. 

Londres, 1798. 
Mexico. Description of a view of the City of Mexico and surrounding 

country, now exhibiting in the panorama, Leicester Square. 12 pp. 

8°. London, 1826. 
Meyer, D. L. A method of making useful mineral collections ; to which 

are added some experiments on a deliquescent calcareous earth, or 

native fixed sal ammoniac. 31 pp. 8°. London, 1775. 
Montague, Basil. Hanging not punishment enough. Printed in 1701; 

reprinted in 1812. S3 pp. 8°. London, 1812. 
Monthly Review (The), or Literary Journal. Vols, i, iv, vi, vii, viii, xxii, 

xxiii, xxv, xxvii, xxxi, xxxv, xxxix, xlii, xliv, xlvii, 1, lvii, lviii, lix, lx, 

lxiii, lxxi, lxxvi, lxxviii, lxxix, lxxxi, and index. 8°. London, 

1790-1S1O. (Imperfect.) 
Moiin, A. Relation des dernicrsevenemenx de la captivite de Monsieur 

frere du roi Louis XVI, et de sa delivrance par M. le Conite 

dAvaray, le 21 juin 1791. 114 pp. 8°. Paris', 1823. 
Moyen facile et sur de payer les 700 millions en numeraire, sans alterer 

ni diminuer d'un seul ecu le num6raire actuel de la France. Par 

un Franyais. 16 pp. 8°. Paris, 1816. 



208 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

"Murder most foul." Trial of Charles Squire and Hannah, his wife, at 

Stafford Lent assizes, 1709, before Sir Soulden Lawrence, for the 

wilful murder of Joseph Green, their apprentice, by a series of the 

most shocking and unparalleled cruelties. 10 pp. 8°. 
Nicholson, Wm. Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and the 

Arts. December, 1810. No. 124. 82 pp. 8°. London, 1810, 
Nicholson, Wm. The first principles of chemistry. 561pp. 8°. London, 

1790. 
Notice des tableaux exposes dans la Galerie du Musee royal. 2 copies. 

244 pp. 12°. Paris, 1826. 
Paris, Dr. John Avrton. Memoir of the life and scientific labours of 

Rev. Wm. Gr, gor, A. M. 37 pp. 8°. London, 1818. 
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London. 1811, part 

i; 1814, part ii; 1826, part i ; 1827, parts i, ii. 4°. London. 
Plain advice to the public to facilitate the making of their own wills; 

with forms of wills, simple and elaborate. 94 pp. 12°. London, 

1826. 
Platine (La), l'or blanc, on le huitieme mental. 215 pp. 1 2°. Paris, 1758. 
Pinkney, Lieut. Col. Travels through the south of France, and in the 

interior of the provinces of Provence and Languedoc, in the years 

1807 and 1808. 481 pp. 8°. London, 1814. 
Pollnitz, Baron de. Lettres et memoires. Troisieme edition. Tomes i, 

ii, iv, v. 420, 418, 488, 476 pp. 12°. Amsterdam, 1737. 
Raab, Eleonore de. Catalogue methodique et raisonne de la collection 

des fossiles, par M. de Born. Tomes i, ii. 546, 603 pp. 8°. 

Vienne, 1790. 
Recherches sur la mythologie et la litterature du nord. 70 pp. 8°. 

Paris, 1820. 
Recueil des memoires les plus interessants de chymie et d'histoire nat- 

urelle contenus dans les Actes de l'Academie d'Upsal et dans les 

Memoires de l'Academie royale des sciences de Stockholm publics 

depuis 1720 jusqu'en 1760. Traduits du Latin et de l'Allemand. 

Tomes i, ii. 699 pp. 12°. Paris, 1764. 
Relation d'un voyage a Bruxelles et a Coblentz (1791). 124 pp. 8°. 

Paris, 1823. 
Rey, Jean. Dr. en medecine. Sur la recherche de la cause pour la- 

quelle I'estain et le plomb augmentent de poids qnand on les calcine. 

144 pp. 12°. 1630. 
Rostopchine, Comte. La verite sur l'incendie de Moscou. 47 pp. 8°. 

Paris, 1823. 
Rovigo, Due de. Extrait des memoires de M. le Due de Rovigo con- 

cernant la catastrophe de 31. le Due d'Enghien. 68 pp. 8°. Parte, 

182:5. 
Royal Armoury (Hay Market) Descriptive Catalogue. 16 pp. 8°. 

Ljondon. 
Sage, B. G. Experiences qui font connaitre que, suivant la maniere 

aont la nicme chaux vive a ete eteinte, elle est plus ou moins propre 

a former des batons ou mortiers solides. 29 pp. 8°. Paris, 1809. 
Sage, B. G. Experience qui fait connaitre (pie la cliaux eteinte par im- 
mersion pent etre regeneree en pierre calcaire par le scul concours 

del'eau. 8 pp. 8°. Paris, 1810. 
Sage, B. G-. Precis des memoires de Paris. 20 pp. 8°. 1809. 
Saint-Real. Conjurations des Espagnols contre la republique de Venice 

et des Crannies. 244 pp. 24°. Pam, 1803. 
Saulnier, fils. Notice sur le voyage de M. Lelorrain, en Egypte, et ob- 
servations sur le zodiaque circulaire de Denderah. 97 pp. 8°. 

Paris, 1822. 



JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 209 

Smith son, James. On the composition of zeolite. From the Philosoph- 
ical Transactions. 7 pp. 4°. London, 1811. 

Steno, Nicolaus. The prodromus to a dissertation concerning solids 
naturally contained within solids. 128 pp. 12°. London, 1671. 

Stephens, Rev. Walker. Notes on the mineralogy of part of the vicinity 
of Dublin. 59 pp. 8°. Loudon, 1812. 

Tennant, Smithson. Xotice respecting native boracic acid. 2 pp. 4°. 
London, 1<S11. 

Toazetti Torgioni, Dr. Antonio. Snlle cicerehie memoria letta nell'ad- 
unanza delia R. Accademia dei georgofili di Firenze il di 3. Agosto 
178o. 72 pp. 8°. Firenze, 1793. 

Voyage descriptive et philosophique de l'ancien et dn nouveau Paris. 
' Par L. P. Tome i. 314 pp. 24°. Paris, 1814. 

Weeks' Museum, Tichborne street, London. 11 pp. 32°. 

Weld, Isaac, jr. Travels through the States of North America and 
the Provinces of Upper and Lower Canada, during the years 1795, 
1790. and 1797. Fourth edition. Vols, i, ii. 447, 384 pp. 8°. 
London, 1807. 

Werner, A. G. Traite des caracteres exterieurs <k'S fossiles. 310 pp. 
12° Dresde, 1795. 

Winsor, F. A. Notice historique sur l'utilization dn gaz hydrogene 
pour Peclairage. 64 pp. 8°. Pan's, 1816. 

Wollaston, Wm. Hyde. A synoptic scale of chemical equivalents. 22 
pp. 4°. London, 1814. 

Wollaston, W. II. On the non-existence of sugar in the blood of per- 
sons laboring under diabetes mellitus. 10 pp. 4°. London, 1811. 

Wolff, Jens. Runakefli le Runic Rim-stok, on calendrier runique. 70 
pp. 8°. Paris, 1820. 



NOTE 9 , 



NOTICES OF THE CITY OF WASHINGTON, FOUND IN BOOKS IN SMITH- 

SON'S LIBUAliY. 

One of the books in Siuithson's library is "Struggles through life. 
exemplified in the various travels and adventures in Europe, Asia, 
Africa, and America. By Lieut. John Harriott." 8°. 2 vols. London, 
1808. 

]\lr. Harriott (vol. ii, pp. 259-200) says: 

"Respecting this intended city [Washington], I question much 
whether there ever will be a sufficient number of houses built to entitle 
it to the name of a great city. Reckoning up all the houses I could 
see or hear of as belonging to the new city of Washington, they did 
not amount to eighty. Having seen and examined everything, and 
gained all the information 1 could concerning this so much talked -of 
city, I sat down between the President's house and the Capitol, and en- 
tered the following in my minute-hook, as my opinion, viz: 

"Should the public buildings he completed, and enterprising individ- 
uals rislc considerably in building houses; should the Union of the 
States continue undisturbed ; should Congress assemble for a number of 
years, until the national bank and other public offices necessarily draw 
the moneyed interests to it, the city of Washington, in the course of a. 
century, may form a focus of attraction to mercantile and trading people 
sufficient to make a beautiful commercial city deserving the name of its 
founder; but 1 apprehend so many hazards as to he most unwilling to 
venture any part of my property in the undertaking." 
S. Mis. 54 14 



210 JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 

The other work in Smithson's library en America was by Isaac Weld, 
the Secretary of the Royal Society. 

"Mr. Weld," says the London Monthly Review,* " feelingin common 
with the inhabitants of Europe the desolations of war, and trembling 
at the frightful progress of anarchy and confusion, was induced to cross 
the Atlantic for the purpose of examining into the truth of the various 
accounts which have been given of the flourishing condition of the 
United States." 

Of Washington Mr. Weld remarks: "Were the houses that have 
been built situated in one place, all together, they would make a very 
respectable appearance, but scattered about as they are, a spectator 
can scarcely perceive anything like a town. Excepting the streets and 
avenues and a small part of the ground adjoining the public buildings, 
the whole place is covered with trees. To be under the necessity of 
going through a deep wood for one or two miles, perhaps, in order to 
see a next-door neighbor, and in the same city, is a curious and, I be- 
lieve, a novel circumstance. . . . The number of inhabitants is 
5,000. . . . The people who are opposed to the building of the city ef 
Washington maintain that it can never become a town of any impor- 
tance, and that all such as think to the contrary have been led astray by 
the representations of a few enthusiastic persons. . . . They in- 
sist that if the removal of the seat of government from Philadelphia 
should take place, a separation of the States will inevitably follow."' 

Notwithstanding the condition of the city of Washington at the begin- 
ning of the present century, Mr. Weld indulged hopes of its future 
greatness. He remarks : 

"Considering the vastness of the territory which is opened to the 
Federal city by means of water communication, considering that it is 
capable from the fertility of its soil of maintaining three times the num- 
ber of inhabitants that are to be found at present in all the United 
States, and that it is advancing at the present time more rapidly in 
population than any other part of the whole continent, there is good 
foundation for thinking that the Federal city, as soon as navigation is 
perfected, will increase most rapidly, and that at a future day, if the 
affairs of the United States go on as prosperously as they have done, it 
will become the grand emporium of the West, and rival in magnitude 
and splendor the cities of the whole-world." t 

This view was undoubtedly entertained by Smithson, and experience 
lias shown how well-founded were his anticipations. The wisdom of his 
selection has been fully justified. 

Monthly Revieio lor September, 1799. Loudon, 
t Isaac Weld. Trawls through North America. 1807. Vol. i, p. 80. 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1879. 



The object of this appendix is to illustrate the operations of the Institution, as well 
as to furnish information of a character suited especially to its correspondents and 
collaborators. 

211 



A STUDY OF THE SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL 
EXHIBITION, PHILADELPHIA, 1870 



By Edward H. Knight, A. M., LL. D. 



INTRODUCTION. 

The objects illustrated in the following paper are merely those of* one 
class, shown at the Centennial Exhibition, in Philadelphia, 1S7C. 

The paper, therefore, makes no pretense to completeness, as the weap- 
ons shown in the various national sections were in most cases treated 
as mere casual objects thrown in as curiosities, and in many cases so 
little esteemed by the parties in charge that they were huddled away 
under tables 5 surprise was sometimes expressed that any one should 
pore over the coarse and clumsy when the best talent of the country 
had exerted itself on the objects prominently displayed as worthy of 
notice. 

More than 700 sketches of the crude and curious implements shown 
at the exhibition were made by the author; the following were a por- 
tion, including weapons only, while a much larger, embracing tools of 
industry, were the subject of a series of papers in the Atlantic Monthly, 
May, 1877, to April, 1878, inclusive. 

There was no concurrence of design in the exhibition, so far as con- 
cerns our present subject. In almost all cases the objects were mere 
casual additions; in a few the scientific spirit was evident, and some 
care had been taken to illustrate this side of ethnology. 

To illustrate : The curious collection of musical instruments and weap- 
ons brought by Oapt. Long (Bey) from Central Africa was almost hidden 
in a (;oiner, while the tufted carpets, embroidered robes, and horse-trap- 
pings were prominently shown. In the collection from Java and the 
other Dutch Colonies in the Malay seas, much more was shown of the 
appliances of the semi-savage races of the region. Brazil, which had so 
admirable a collection of its agricultural and forest products, had scarcely 
anything which touches our subject, and Japan had a great deal, though 
much less in the way of its weapons than in its industries and domestic 
implements. 

The Centennial Exhibition was mainly of the means and results of 
modern industry and art, and the primitive objects were comparatively 
but strays and occasional^. It is, therefore, not the author's fault that 
the exhibit of the relatively rude is so incomplete, as he has rigidly con- 

213 



214 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 

fined his illustrations to objects actually exhibited there ; and he is not 
responsible for the circumstance that the comparatively unknown and 
little thought of Portuguese colony of Angola had more in his line of 
search than the whole continent of South America. 

It may be mentioned, however, that the Dutch and Portuguese colo- 
nies had a manifold better exhibit in Paris in 1878, and that the former 
had the finest ethnological display of the mechanical ingenuity of an 
unlettered people w r hich it has ever been the good fortune of the author 
to see. 

Types of Savage Weapons. — The simplest form of a weapon is a stick ; 
a heavy stick is a club. The club with a knob becomes a mace ; the swell- 
ing end sharpened on one edge is an axe. Point the stick and it is a 
spear; if light, it is a javelin; shorter still, it is a dagger for close quar- 
ters. Flatten the stick and give it an edge, it becomes a sword ; or, if 
short, it is a knife. 

So far the weapon is a single piece of wood ; but some ingenious man 
contrives to mount a stone in a withe, or sling it with a thong or in the 
skin of an animal's leg, or lash it to a stick ; or he learns how to project 
a light spear from a bow, or a heavier one by means of a stick or a thong. 
We find all these modifications in the collections from various countries 
at the Centennial. 

Another type of weapon is the stone or club which is thrown; the 
simplest method is, of course, the mere hurling of stones by the hand. 
Then there are several forms of slings; the one having two thongs and 
a pocket, and the other a stick for hurling a perforated stone. The stone- 
on the end of a string may be considered a third kind, and out of this 
grows the bola* — several associated balls on as many strings — which has 
a whirling motion when thrown. All of these also were exhibited. The 
lasso of South America naturally occurs to one in speaking of the bolas, 
though the noosed lasso belongs to another class of devices, not exactly 
a weapon but a snare. 

Materials employed. — The statement of Lucretius {Be reruvn naturae) in 
regard to the discovery of weapons relates rather to the material than the 
form. "The first weapons of mankind were the hands, nails, and teeth ; 
also stones and branches of trees, the fragments of the woods ; then 
flame and tire were used, as soon as they were known; and lastly was 
discovered the strength of iron and bronze. But the use of bronze was 
known earlier than that of iron, inasmuch as it is more easy to work and 
its abundance is greater." Bronze has greatly the antecedence of brass, 
the former being not less than a score of centuries the more ancient. 

Brass is an accidental alloy, formed originally by melting copper in 
contact with calamine stone (silicate of zinc), the practice, purely empi- 
ric, producing what was not known as an alloy, but as a bright copper, 
valued for its color and other qualities. Certain copper mines were 
valued as producing this gold-colored copper, but it was found out sub- 
sequently that by melting copper with a certain mineral (calamine) the 
same effect was produced. Aristotle, Strabo, and Albertus Magnus re- 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 215 

fer to an earth which conferred a yellow color on copper. Sulphate of 
zinc had a place in the pharmacopoeia before its metallic base was known. 
The metal was discovered by that brilliant absurdity, Paracelsus, in the 
sixteenth century. 

Bronze, on the contrary, has always been recognized as an alloy, being 
made by the fusing together of copper and tin in suitable proportions. 
It is found in those countries which possess both of these metals, and 
also in those ancient lands to which the Phoenicians penetrated. The 
Malay Islands and Cornwall furnished the tin of antiquity and that of 
to-day. Australia has also supplied it largely of late. The Icassiteros 
(tin) of the Greeks gave its name to Cornwall and Scilly, thekassiterides 
of Herodotus. 1 It was the Jcastera of the Sanscrit, kasdir of the Arabs. 
The Javanese tinah, England tin, Swedish tenn, and Icelandic den mark 
the limits in either direction of the great traders of the earliest period 
of history. A bar of tin has been recovered from the Swiss lacustrine 
piles of Estavayer, molds for hatchets have been found at Morges, and 
remains of bronze foundries have been uncovered in the Canton of 
Vaud. 2 

Some of the ancient bronzes of England, Ireland, Scotland, and South 
America have notable proportions or traces of iron and of lead, and some 
of them have both of these metals in their composition. In the Ro- 
man bronze coins of Pompey, Hadrian, and Probus, zinc, iron, lead, and 
silver are found. One coin of Tacitus is of copper and iron. These are 
probably accidental impurities rather than intentional. 

The lacustrine researches in the Swiss lakes have given rise to the 
classification of copper, tin, lead, and zinc as the principal ingredients 
of bronze, and silver, iron, antimony, nickel, and cobalt as accidental, 
and, it may almost be said, unsuspected. The Helvetian bronzes were 
destitute of lead, and the presence of zinc appears accidental. The use 
of calamine was common in the Levant, and lead was added to the bronze 
in notable quantities. In the bronze of the Swiss lakes the copper va- 
ried from G7 to 95 per cent., and the tin from 3 to 20 per cent (Desor). 
Sir John Lubbock remarks that lead and zinc are not found in the 
bronzes of the true bronze age. 3 

The iron of early ages, as well as that made by the native workmen 
of Asia and Africa at the presold time, was obtained by a means analo- 
gous to that of the Catalan process. The fragments of rich iron ore are 
distributed through the mass of charcoal in the furnace, and by means 
of the bellows the fire is urged until the metal runs into a viscid ball, 
which is hammered to expel the dross, and the steel obtained by the 
single operation is purified and shaped by successive heatings and ham- 
merings. An excellent quality is obtained, and native weapons were 
shown at the Centennial from India, Soudan, Angola, Mozambique, 

■Herodotus, iii, 115. 

2 Elis6eEedus, Smithsonian Report, 1801, p. :r>7. 

3 Sir John Lubbock's Introduction to SvenNilson's "Stone Age," page xli. 



216 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 

Zululand, the Gold ("oast, Borneo, and the Philippines; also, ancient 
bronzes from Egypt. 

Copper, which may beheld to have preceded bronze, was shown in the 
Indian relics from Wisconsin, and a modern fish-spear of an Alaskan 
tribe. Copper implements have been found in the lacustrine deposits 
al Peschiera on Lake Garda. 1 



TYPES OF WEAPONS DESCRIBED. 



1. Clubs and throwing weapons. 

l'. Axes. 

3. Knives and swords. 



4. Spears. 

5. Shields. 

6. Bows and arrows. 




1. — Clubs, and Throwing Weapons. 
Leaving- preambulation, let us begin at the Cape of Good Hope. The 
Keerie of the Kafir is his next best weapon after his favor- 
ite assegai, the native javelin ; he does not use the bow and 
arrow. The keerie, called a lenob Jceerie by the colonists at 
the Gape, is a hurling club, or is used in hand to hand en- 
counters, but principally the former. It varies in length 
from 14 inches to ."> feet, but has been seen as much as six 
feet long. 5 It is straight and lias a knob at the end. It is 
usually of acacia, (Acacia capensis), but sometimes of strick 
wood (Laurus bullata): A more costly and highly prized 
material is rhinoceros horn, of which the Tceerie in the Cape 
of Good Hope exhibit (shown in the illustration) was made. 
The Tceerie is habitually carried, and is presented to a friend 
on meeting him; he touches it, and this is the etiquette oi 
salutation. By a modification of the weapon, giving it a 
slight bend, it is used in ricochet, rebounding from the 
ground and striking upward. 

The knob Jceerie of hard black wood is carried by the 
Bushman also. 6 The pen bas of the Bretons has been com- 
pared to it. 7 

( Joining northward from Zululand we reach the Portuguese Possessions 
on the east coast of Africa, and find Mozambique weapons ; these were 
shown, together with those from Angola, in the Agricultural Build- 
ing at the Centennial. Fig. 2 represents two of them; one has a 
spear-shaped bead, and the knob of tin 1 other resembles an ear of corn, 
or the raceme of a native plant common in the country. It suggests the 
idea of maize, but is made by longitudinally grooving, and then notch- 
ing the protuberant ridges; a not unlikely style of ornamentation for a 
man to hit upon when amusing himself by carving his weapon. The 

4 Morlot, transl. in Smithsonian Report, 1863, p. :>T3. 

5 Wood's "Natural Historj of Man," vol. L, p. 108. 

"Baine's "South Africa," i». 363. 

"s, .,. frontispiece to Trollope'a " Walks in Brittany," 2 vols., Loudon, 1340. 



Fig. L. — Kafir 
Keerie. Cape 

0/ '.mi,/ llrjh\ 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 217 





clubs of the Dinkas of the Upper Nile 8 are also of hard wood made by 
ridging and notching so as to leave rows of knobs, like many of the 
Polynesian weapons. The form resembles the chocolate mailers we used 
to see, and also suggests the Roman mace clausula. 

The club of the Dors of the Upper Nile 9 has been comparedin shape 
to the mushroom, having - a round disk-shaped head 
with a sharpened periphery. It is 30 inches in length 
aud made of hard wood. The Djibba club has also 
a flattened head with a sharp edge, which is guarded 
by a sheath of hide when not in use. Another club 
iu use in the last-mentioned tribe is champignon-shape, 
like an uuexpanded mushroom. The King of Da- 
homey 10 is versatile in clubs; one favorite form lias a 
knobbed end and four square knobs at the side; another 

has along sharp spike at 
the end projecting at rigid- 
angles from the handle." 
A variety of sticks and 
clubs Mere brought from 
the different Australian 
provinces. The peculiar 
hurling weapons, the boom- 
erang and kangaroo rat, 
will be considered pres- 
ently. Fig. 3 is a Queens- 
land native, armed with 
his waddy and shield. 
Waddy is a native name 
for a simple club, as shown 
in Fig. .">, and h and .'/, Fig. 4. The knobbed 
club is known as the nulla-nidla, and is shown 
in Fig. 5, and at c, Fig. 4. When the head 
is flat and sharpened to an edge, the colo- 
nists term them tomaliawTcs, from their resem- 
blance to the North American Indian wea- 
pon. Fig. 4 shows two wooden tomahawk's 
(ae) of New South Wales, 12 a nulla-nulla (c), 
and two waddies (b d). The typical Aus- 
tralian waddy is 2 feet 8 inches long, weighs 
L' pounds, and is made of the heavy and tough mountain tea-tree, 
box,orred gum wood. It has a pointed end so that its thrust is dangerous. 13 

8 Wood's "Natural History of Man," vol. i. p. 524. 

9 Wood's "Natural History of Man," i. p. 494. 

10 Duncan's "Western Africa," p. 226. 

"The knob sticks of the Wanyamuezi arc shown in Stanley's "Livingstone," plate 
opposite page r>44. 

'-' See the li-bil, R. Brough Smith's "Aborigines of Victoria," Fig. 97. 
13 Wood's ••Natural History of Man," vol. ii, p. 2i). 



I': . " — .If oza in b iq a e 
Clubs. Portug 

Col,,, U.S. 



¥^h^ 



rii 



:;. — Native Australian with club 
and •■! land. 



218 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



Some of tliem have four grooves extending' from the point to the hand 
grasp, so that the wound is something; like that made by a bayonet. 
Fig. 5 shows two nulla-nullas or hunting clubs from the southern part 
of the island, the colony of Victoria. They are two feet long." 

The nuUu-nulla of the Lower Murray River is the warra-warra of the 
Yarra, and is made of a sapling of the mountain tea-tree, the enlarge- 
ment at the root forming the knob. A pointed milla is made by fashion- 
ing one of the projecting roots into a pointed spike, and is called langeeV 5 
Sharp-edged wooden maces, which maybe termed 
wooden swords, are also made by the Australian 
natives, some weighing as high as 4L ounces. 16 





Fig. 4. — Australia apons, 

Sfew & 



Fig. 5. — Australian nulla- 
ntdlas, Victoria. 



Crossing to New Zealand, we find the Maories to have a much greater 
variety of material and of shape. The most prized material is the green 
jade, and it is also wrought with the greatest difficulty. The bone ol 
whale bears a medium character in both respects. Fig. G shows two 

14 M. B. Smith's "Aborigines of Victoria," vol. i, 299-300, Figs. 56-59. 

>-• I hi, l.. Fig. 62. 

'• Ibid., Figs. 60, 66, C,7 : sec also Figs. 61, 65. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 219 



forms of Maori wooden clubs, known as pdtu; one has a sharp edge to 
the axe-like head, and a bunch of feathers intended to shake in the face 
of an enemy and disturb his aim. The weapon to the right is paddle- 
shaped, and has two edges ; a not 
uncommon form in Polynesia. 

The merai or pdtu-pdtu of New 
Zealand is a two edged club of a 
prolonged ovoidal shape. It usu- 
ally has a hole in the neck for a 
wrist-cord. Fig. 7 is of green 
jade, very symmetrical, and beau- 





Fig. C. — Wooden elul>s. New Zealand. 



Pig. 7.— Stone merai, 
New Zealand. 



Fig. 8. — Green-stone 
merai, New Zealand. 



tifully polished with a species of corundum found in the island. Fig. 8 
is of stone, and is also carefully made and polished. Such weapons be- 
come heir-looms in families, and possess names, much as in former times 
titles were given to swords, as, for instance, Samsamah, the cinieter of 
Haroun al Raschid, and Excalibur, the sword of King Arthur. The stone 
merai, Fig. 8, was called Kororaki. Fig. 9 is a stone weapon called Pdtu 
Kohatu ; its wrist-thong occupies a circular depression. Fig. 10 is a 
carved weapon, the name of which was KaikanoM, or " face-eater." It 
is made from a bone of a spermaceti whale, and has the reputation of 
having been handed down in the family for twelve generations. Merais 
of this shape are also made of wood, but are not as much valued as 
those of harder and more enduring materials. 

It had been supposed that the " flattened soda-water-bottle shape," 



220 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



Fig. 9.-; 



as Tylor has called it, was peculiar to this ingenious cannibal race, the 
antipodes of the British, but it appears that the Peruvians make a 
weapon of exactly similar shape; one has been found of dark brown 
jasper, ir and another of a greenish amphibolic stone. 18 
Another of native copper has been found in Michigan, and 
was shown at the Centennial. It is 16^ inches long, 2| inches 
wide for 11 inches of its length, contracts 
to l.J, inch, and then enlarges to 2 inches, 
to assist the hand -grasp. No deduction 
of importance is to be made from this ; the 
blade is bat 1J inch wider than the han- 
dle, and the probability is that the piece 
of native copper approximated that shape, 
the work of the owner consisting in flat- 
tening, sharpening, and shaping it sym- 
metrically. 

Crossing the Southern Ocean we reach 
the Fiji islands, lately come into the pos- 
session of Great Britain. The Fijian is a 
Papuan -race, and remarkable for con- 
Pdtu bmmu structive ability. The club is his great 
yew Zealand, weapon, and upon it heexpends his lavish 
carving, the implements being of various sizes and 
patterns, the handiwork being all guided by individ- 
ual taste." The display at the Centennial was not 
large, the islands not being specially represented. {Uneofwhai 
The classification of their clubs into large, small, 
knobbed, hladcd. axe-shaped, straight, or curved gives but a faint idea 
of* the variety. The dromo is a spiked mace, and resembles some of the 
North American Indian clubs. The diii is like the doable Phrygian 
axe. The totokea is a spiked hammer. 1 ' The stem of a small tree, with 
a swelling bole, and the radiating roots trimmed as projecting knobs, is 
a common style. Another form is made by bending over a young sap- 
ling nearly to the ground, so as to bring the tap-root at right angles to 
the stem. When the tree has sufficiently grown, it is cat and shaped, 
and the tap-root forms a laterally-projecting knob with a circle of spikes 
formed of the other roots, shortened and sharpened. Other clubs are 
like maces; squared and notched; with pyramidal or mushroom tops; 
ornamented with braided coir, with wicker-work, with feathers worked 
in witli sinnet, inlaid with shell, hone, hog's tasks, human or whale's 

teeth. 21 

We miss clubs when we come to lands where the more deadly metal is 




17 Klemm, C. N.. part ii, page 26. 
[8 Kivero«X Tschudi.1 Plates, pi. xxxiii. 
"Smythe's "Ten Months in Fiji," p. 120. 



- Williams. "Fiji," pp. 43-4; 589. 
21 Wood, vol. ii, p. 275. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



221 



abundant. 




Java has, however, two clubs deemed worthy of special 
names, Indan and GadaP The 
"war-fan" of the Japanese is 
perhaps unique, being - of large 
size and having a sheath of iron 
so that it may do duty as a club 
on emergency. 

Coming to America we find 
a greater variety, if possible, 
than Fiji furnishes, for those 
astute islanders have but a 
meager choice of materials — 
wood and shell. Fig. 11 is an 
Ojibeway war-club from Saga- 
mook, on the north shore of 
Lake Huron. Fig. 12 shows 
two wooden clubs, one armed 
fig. ii.— Ojibeway with an iron spike : they are 

wooden club, Can- . l 

ada. irom the Missouri \ alley In- 

dians. Spiked weapons have always been 
in vogue, and a curious example of one is a 
stag's-horn club with the brow 
antler left as a spike, found in 

one of the Swiss Lakes. See memoir by M. E. Desor. 23 
Stag's-horn hammers are also very numerous in the debris 
of the lake dwellings. A hammer of serpentine with in- 
serted helve and with a hammering face and pointed 
peen is mentioned by Nilson. 24 Many other forms are 
found among the Indian tribes, but the aim has been to 
place together the wooden clubs made in a single piece. 
Those in Avhich stones or metal are mounted will be shown 
presently. Fig. 1 .5 is a pestle shaped war- 
el nb of the Pai-Utes and Mohaves. They 
are termed "face mashers," since they are 
carried concealed about the person and 
used tor striking an enemy in the face. 

Figs. 11 andl5are from the Pacific < 'oast. 
They are elaborately carved war-clubs of 
hard wood from the Ilaidah Indians of 
Bella-bella, British Columbia. They are 
what we should call " grotesquely carved," 
but the emblems on them are mythological, 




Fig. 12. — Wooden clubs of Dakotah. — 
National Museum. 



Fig. 14.— 
w a r-cl 
Honal Museum. 




Kaidah ;III( i \\ H , [flea of pleasantry does not, we are 

ub.—Na- ** p ]( , 

dub. — National Mu- 
seum. 



in formed, enter into the work. Theeanoes, 
totem-posts, paddles, bowls, and other ob- 



13.— Pai- ZTte 



--Sir Stamford Raffles' "Java," 4to ed., i, 296 (Figs. 8, 9). 
23 Translation in Smithsonian Report, L865, page ::.j7. 



24 Ibid., page 359. 



222 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



It is 



jects fashioned in wood, exhibit the same style of ornamentation, as 
it must be called. 

The Argentine Bepublic sent a mace, which is shown at Fig 
of hard wood resembling - lignum vita', and is 
48 inches long. It belonged to an Indian of 
the pampas. A spear eight feet long, of the 
same kind of wood and tapering to a point, 
Mas exhibited with it. The club of the Gran 
Chaco Indians 26 of the La Plata region is 
square in section, larger towards each end, 
and is grasped in the middle. It is called a 
macana, and is used either as a hurling 
weapon or as a club at close quarters. The 
clubs of the Guiana Indians are maces of 
square section, or paddle-shaped with some- 
what sharp edges. The handles are em- 
broidered with cotton string, some in a very 
ornamental manner. The Uaupe Indians of 
the Amazon 26 also use carved wooden clubs. 
We come now to a class of clubs in which 
a stone is mounted upon a withe or other 
kind of handle to form a maul or hammer. 
We do not in the present article consider 
those which have sharp edges, and are de- 
signed to form axes and adzes. They will Fl( 
be grouped separately. Fig. 17 is about as 
primitive an affair as can well be devised. 
It isa shell-headed club from a shell-heap on Saint John's River, Florida. 

The head is a Pyrula, 
and the specimen is 
peculiar in this, that 
though ancient it still 
has the remains of the 
original handle. 

In connection with 
this method of mount- 
ing, by a perforated 
head through which 
the helve is thrust, 
mention may be made 
of hammer stones, 
sometimes known as 
helved wedges, simi- 
larly handled, and 
SheU I adt delubJromaFloridaeheU-heap. — National Museum. \\],\i.] t have been hurl- 
ing axes. They are more frequent in Europe than in America. Some 



Fig. is. — Maidah 
earvi d war-club. — 

Nat in » a I M a - 

HI II III. 



16. — Mace 
from Paraguay, 
Argentine Con- 
federation. 




Pig. 17. 



"Wood, vol. ii, pp. 569, .".7". 



-'" Wallace's ''Amazon," 504. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 22, 




Fig. 18. 



of these have their edges in line with the handle and some across it, 
as axes and adzes respectively. See Sveu Nilson's " Stone Age," 27 edited 
by Sir John Lubbock. A re- 
markable four-pronged stone 
battle-axe is shown in the mu- 
seum of Lund, Sweden, hav- 
ing a diameter of 8 inches, 
and perforated for a handle. 28 
Fig. 18 is a stone maul 
lashed with raw-hide thongs 
to a T-shaped handle which 
has been formed from a forked 
branch. It isfrom the llaidah Indians, Bella- 
bella, British Columbia. Fig. 19 is a large 
stone maul lashed to a short handle formed 
of a forked limb. It is from Sitka, Alaska. 
Fig. 20 is from New Zealand, it shows that 
a similar mode of mounting is practiced by 
the Maories, the bowlder being seemed in 
the crotch by means of thongs. The pursuit FlG . ig ._st„ ne maul, of Aiasha-Na. 
of similar examples leads us a devious dance. '"'""' Museum - 

We And that the Gran Chaco Indians, of South America, have a peculiar 
method of embedding a cylindrical stone in a club so that it may project 



-Stone maul, from British Columbia. — National Mu- 
seum. 





Fir;. 20. — Maori ttone club, New Zealand. 

like an axe blade. A hole is bored into a sapling of suitable size and the 
stone driven in. As the tree grows, the wood advances upon the stone 
and grips it firmly. The sapling is then cut and shaped. 




Fig. 21. — Stuiie maulof Arickareeg. 

Fig. 21 is a stone maul of the Arickaree Indians of the Upper Missouri 
River. 29 It is a reddish, granite pebble of three and a hall' pounds 

27 Page 72, and plate ix, Fi<;'s. 183, 1-1; pp. 73,74; and plate viii. Figs. L80, 181. 

88 Ibid., page 75, and pi. ix, Fig. 159. 

:i s.c ■• Twenty-first Report of N. Y. State Cabinet," pp. 31-36, pis. i, ii, iii. 



224 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



weight. The withe is bent around it, occupying a circumferential de- 
pression, which is interrupted opposite the handle. The same kind of 
hammer was used by the native workmen formerly in the Lake Supe- 




Fig. 22. — Stone mauls of Missouri Valley Indians. — National Museum. 

rior copper mines. It is used by the Missouri Indians in driving stakes 

and tent-pegs. 

Fig. 22 shows two stone implements of the Sioux, the hereditary 
enemies of the tribe last mentioned. The 
upper one is a rude grooved axe mounted 
in a hickory sapling, the two ends of which 
are brought together with raw-hide thongs 
to form the handle. The lower figure is 
a war-club with an egg-shaped limestone 
head and a handle of ash ; the end of the 
latter is ornamented with the tuft from 
the tail of a buffalo. Between the two 
figures- is a representation of the Roman 
sacrificial mttllaa-;, which, even in the time 
ofthe emperors, was employed in slaugh- 
tering the victims. It seems tohave come 
down from times then ancient, the order 
of procedure admitting of no innovation, 
just as the knives of Hint were used in 
ancient Egypt and among the Hebrews 
in performing ceremonial observances and 
sacrifices. Dr. Schliemann found hun- 
dreds of rude stone hammers in the hill 
of Bissarlik. 

Another mode of moulding a large peb- 
ble or wedge-shaped stone is by means 

of ;i raw-hide covering to the -tune and withe. 

Fig. 23 shows an Arckaree weapon made in this manner : The granite 

pebble weighing 22 ounces is grooved circumferentially and a withe 




in. 



.':: —.1 rickaree 



\.— VTar-chtb 
of . I pacht •••'. Art- 
: <> a a.— National 

Musi "in. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 225 

bent around it and secured by raw hide thongs next to the stone. Over 
the whole of the stone and handle, except the hammer face, a single 
piece of wet buffalo hide is stretched and sewed with sinew. When the 
hide shrinks in drying the whole forms a very firm job. The use of a 
similar tool in driving stakes and tent-pins has been mentioned, but 
there are many other purposes about an Indian camp, such as breaking 
bones and pounding penimican, for which it is well adapted, not to 
mention the warlike uses. 

The poggamoggon of the Shoshones is a slungshot. 

Fig. 24 shows yet another mode of mounting the stone. The pebble 
and the withe are covered with the tail skin of a buffalo, the tuft of hair 
remaining. It resembles the slungshot used nearer home, or the stone in 
a stocking foot, said to be a favorite with the gentler sex in some places. 

Hammer-axes of stone and horn, bored for the helve, are to be found 
in many museums. See Nilsou. 30 

We will now examine the throwing weapons ; premising that neither 
law nor custom prevents the hurling of some already described. The 
Fijian among the abundance of his clubs has one specially for throwing; 
it is knobbed at the end like the Kafir ~keerie and is worn in the girdle, 
sometimes in pairs like pistols. Fig. 25 is the thro wing-stick of Uganda 




Fig. 25. — Throwing-stick of Uganda, Africa. — Egyptian Exhibit. 

brought by Capt. Long (Bey) from his expedition south of Khartoom. 
It is three feet long, has a spear-shaped head, and is hurled with a 
whirling motion somewhat in the manner of the Australian boomerang, 
but without the peculiar erratic flight of the latter. 

The curved throwing-stick was also noticed by Sir Samuel Baker in 
Abyssinia, and is common among the negroes as far west as Lake Tsad. 
The Us-sellem of the desert 31 is like the curved sticks of the ancient 
Egyptians 32 and closely resembles the middle stick in Fig. 28. 

The trunibash or throwing-stick of the Niam-niams of the Upper Nile :::; 
is a flat projectile used for killing birds or hares, and is carried inside 
the shield. The war weapon when made of iron is called kulbeda, and 
has three projecting limbs with pointed prongs and sharp edges, the 
longer blade at right angles to the grip, which is guarded by the short- 
est prong of the three. This wicked weapon is spun about its axis and 

30 " Stone Age " PI. viii, Figs. 108-179. 

31 Smith's "Aborigines of Victoria," Discussion on, pp. 321 ct seq., vol. i. 

32 Ibid (note 2>a8sim), i, 2'J'.K 

33 Schweiniurth. 

S. Mis. 54 15 



226 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 

has a movement of translation in a horizontal plane. It is also a hack- 
ing hand-to-hand weapon. Somewhat similar weapons with two blades 
arc found in upper Sennaar and Central Soudan, and are used by the 
Fans. The keerie or knobbed throwing-stick of the Kafirs has been 
already described. The Ms&m is the curved throwing-stick of another 




Fig. 26. — Niam-niam hurlinq-weapons (t^umbash). 

African tribe : the iron hungamunga 3 * of the Tibbus and of Darfur is also 
a hurling weapon. 35 

It would be singular, indeed, if a cudgel for throwing at game were 
found in but one part of the world, and at but one period ; but the dis- 
covery of the Australian boomerang, the most curious of its class, has 
directed attention to what might otherwise have been passed over as 
unimportant. The Egyptian and Assyrian monuments have been con- 
sulted, and in each ease the carved stick has been noticed in the hands 
of bird-catchers or hunters. An ancient throwing-stick about eighteen 
inches long is in the Abbott Egyptian collection of the New York His- 
torical Society. A short, crooked stick [pedum) was used by the Romans 
to throw at hares, and centaurs are represented with a short pedum 
(Xfytopokov) in the other. 

In coming to Australia we reach a people living in an almost primi- 
tive condition, so low, ill formed, and ignorant that their name has be- 
come a synonym for imbecility. Here, however, the throwing-stick has 
attained its highest development. The maximum of improvement has 

M Illustrated in the discussion on the boomerang. Smith. "Aber. Victoria,'' 321 et 
seq. 

K TyliT's " Early History of Mankind," 175-6. Bee also paper by Ferguson in Trans. 
E. I. A. Dublin, 1843, vol. xix. Paper byW. Cooke Taylor. Tbe Nat. Hist. Soc. 
London, 1840, vol. i. page 205; Eyre, vol. ii,p.303j Klemm, C. G. vol. i, p. 316, plate vii. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 227 

not, however, been reached by the natives of all parts of this island, 
which is almost as large as the United States and Territories. The 
boomerang (Fig. 27), used with such singular dexterity by the "black 




Fig. 27.— Boomerangs of New South Wales. 

fellows" of New South Wales, is almost unknown to those of the colony 
of South Australia, which, by the bye, is not the most southerly portion 
of the island, that position being occupied by the thriving colony of 
Victoria. The boomerang is, however, used in Western Australia, where 
it is called a kg-lie. This is a true return-boomerang. 36 Even in the 
districts where the boomerang is used there are all grades of throwing - 
sticks, three of which of different forms were in the New South Wales 
exhibit, and are shown in Fig. 28. The upper one is carved with raised 
serpentine figures, the stick being painted red in the intervals. With 
these weapons the natives give a direct blow, a whirling blow, or a 
ricochet upward rebounding blow. 

The boomerang is made of the wood of the blue gum (Eucalyptus glob- 




Fio. 28.— Australian throwingsticks, Victoria. 

vim), or sometimes from the iron-bark of the she-oak, and is of flatted 
curved shape, convex on the upper surface and flat below, always 
thickest in the middle, from which it is scraped away towards both 
edges, which are tolerably sharp, especially the outer one. Boomerangs 
vary much in shape, but do not depart from the characteristics men- 
tioned. They differ in their curves, lengths, widths, taper, and weight. 
3 " Aborigines of Victoria, vol. i, 33G, Fiy. 140. 



2*28 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 

A good specimen may be 33 inches from tip to tip measured along the 
curve, 2 inches wide, and weigh 12 ounces. There are several ways of 
throwing 1 lie boomerang so as to make it execute its peculiar evolutions. 
In throwing it, the native grasps it by the handle end, which has some 
notches upon it, and holds the flat side downward; then balancing it a 
moment in his hand, and making a few quick steps forward, he launches 
it with a sharp fling, bringing his hand back so as to make it revolve in 
the plane of its curve with groat rapidity. The peculiarity of the boom- 
erang is in what may be considered its erratic flight. Thrown so as to 
strike the ground 40 yards in advance of the thrower, it rebounds, de- 
scribes a high circular backward course, and falls behind the thrower. 
Thrown high in the air it mounts to a great height, circles backward 
until its force is expended, and then drops dead at a point behind the 
thrower. It is also thrown, so as at a given distance to make its rebound 
in other than an upward circular direction, and curve its flight around 
an object so as to strike something behind the latter. This is merely 
an effort of skill. The boomerang is thrown against the wind; and, 
though it is easy enough to hurl it, it is very difficult to make it per- 
form at command all the peculiar evolutions which distinguish it. It 
is roughly made, so far as mere finish is concerned ; but the work upon 
it in adjusting the curves is most scrupulously and patiently performed 
by the natives, some of whom never acquire proficiency, while others 
become celebrated for their skill in the manufacture of the weapon. 
Like all instruments which have attained something like perfection, the 
difference between the best and poorest is greater than in the case of 
some other tools where a more general level of excellence is preserved. 

The subject of the boomerang has been learnedly and carefully consid- 
ered in R. Brough Smith's "Aborigines of Victoria." 37 The discussion 
has elicited the fact that some throwing-sticks move with a spinning or 
whirling motion, and even pursue a curved path, as a billiard or base- 
ball player can curve the trajectory by imparting rotation to the ball. 
None of the implements, however, described by Col. Lane Fox (British 
Association, 1*72), or referred to in Mr. Ferguson's learned paper before 
the Royal Irish Academy in 1838, are fairly comparable to the Austra- 
lian weapon. It must also be remarked that the distinction between 
the play weapon and the war weapon is clearly drawn in the mind of 
the native, though the back-return boomerang cannot always be distin- 
guished from the war boomerang by a novice. The barnyeet of the 
Yarra, 33 lor instance, is a war weapon, and not a come-back; nor is it so 
much curved as the regular boomerang, wonguim.™ A group of the vari- 
ous kinds is shown in Mr. Smith's work', previously referred to. 40 

From the straight round stick, knobbed stick, flat stick, curved stick, 
edged curved stick (a wooden sword), through every degree of curva- 
ture up to the perfect boomerang, the series of Australian hurling 
weapons occupies the whole ground. The most curiously-curved weapon, 

37 Vol. i, p. 321, et seq. ™Ibid., Fig. 96. 39 Ibid., Fig. 95. *°Ibid., i, 315, Fig. 99. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 229 

which should not be omitted, is the quirriang-an-icun, impossible to 
explain without an illustration, and not shown in Philadelphia. It is a 
thin flake of wood, curiously twisted and curved. 41 

Fig. 20 shows, for purposes of comparison, an Australian boomerang (a) 
from Murray River, and a curved throwing-stick (/>) used by the Moqui 
and Shimnio Indians in killing rabbits. These throwing-sticks, though 




Fin. 29. — Boomerang and Moqui thr owing-stick. 

curved so as to resemble in one important respect the Australian weapon, 
cannot, like it.be made to describe the peculiar divergent curved course 
through the air. These sticks were formerly used by many of the 
Southern California, tribes. 
The kangaroo rat (tceet-iceet)" Fig. 30, of the Australians has been 



Fig. 30. — Kangaroo rat. Smith Australia. 

sometimes spoken of as rather a toy than a weapon, but it is a danger- 
ous missile. Its head is usually a piece of hard wood, of a conoidal or 
double conical shape, and its tail is a flexible handle a yard long. By 
this handle it is thrown ; the native takes the rat by the tail and swings 
it back and forth several times, bending it almost double. Suddenly 
letting it fly by an underhand jerk, it glides hissing through the air, 
striking and rebounding like a flat stone skimming the surface of the 
water — the familiar "ducks and drakes" of our childhood. It does not 
rise more than nine feet above the surface of the ground, and the dis- 
tance it readies depends upon the force of the projection and also upon 
the angleatwhich it first strikes the surface of the earth. If the trajectory 
be too high, it makes a number of high leaps and soon tires ; if too low, 
the force is soon expended in friction on the ground. The body with a 
trailing tail making flying leaps has much the appearance of a small 



* l Ibid.,\, 315, Fi< 
«Wood, ii, p. 41. 



315. 



230 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 

kangaroo, and is well named the kangaroo rat. The example illustrated 
is of wild buffalo horn, heated and pressed to shape. 

The kangaroo rat described by K. Brougli Smith is about 26 inches 
long, the tail being 21 inches and the head 4.5 inches. 43 

Something like the kangaroo rat of the Australians is a missile 
employed in a game of the Fijians. 44 A reed four feet in length termi- 
nates in an ovoid piece of hard and heavy wood six inches long. It 
is held between the thumb and finger and thrown by an underhand 
jerk, so as to skim horizontally over the ground. A long smooth stretch 
of turf is kept in good order in the villages for this purpose. This 
suggests the pitching of quoits and horseshoes, curling stones, hockey, 
polo, and other ball games, which we merely suggest as we pass, sup- 
posing them not to be distinctly savage, though some of them are ath- 
letic survivals of ancient barbaric exercises. 

The cholera 45 or " quoit weapon" of the Sikhs is savage enough to be 
worth a mention. It is an annular disk of thin steel with a sharp edge 
all round. It is whirled upon the fore-finger and then thrown, spinuing 
as it flies, and is a formidable weapon when aimed at the face of an 
enemy, several being hurled in rapid succession and with great force. 
They can also give it a ricochet flight. 

A similar weapon has been brought from Guatemala by M. Boursier, 
the French Consul. It is disk-shaped, very sharp on the edges, and 
about 6 inches in diameter. Hurling-disks have been found also in 
Brittany and Central France. 

The Peruvian hurling-disk is of diorite with a central opening 1 inch in 
^diameter and 10 circumferential teeth 2 inches long. It is thrown by 
.aid of a thong like the bolus. The Mexicans have a similar weapon 46 
and the Australians a crude affair of the same general idea. 

From this cutting disk whirled by the finger we reach by a single 
step the simple pebble which is hurled by hand. We began with a stick, 
and after considering the club simple and compound, and the various 
forms of throwing clubs, have come to simple missiles — the pebble or 
small bowlder. Some tribes, however, are not content with the stones 
of the brook, but shape the projectile ; the Tahitians, 47 for instance, 
make oval halls of stalagmite, which they hurl by hand with force and 
accuracy, not using a sling. The Faegians, although very skillful with 
the sling, are adepts at hurling stones by hand. 

Incendiary balls were used by the ISTervii, who fired the camp of Caesar, 
and the halls of charcoal kneaded with clay, and found in the lacustrine 
village remains in Switzerland, are believed to have been for the same 
purpose. The arrow with a lighted tow torch is commonly noticed 
among the ancients, and is found in all parts of the world where the bow 
and arrow survive. 

« Aborigines of Australia, i, Fig. 170, p. 352. "Wood, ii, p. 283. 

46 Wood, i. « Louvre collection. * 7 Wood, ii. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 231 




The subject here naturally diverges and takes two separate paths. 
The projectile is loose aud is hurled by a stick or a sling ; or it is at- 
tached to a string which flies with it. We shall consider these sepa- 
rately and in the order stated. 

The sling is an unimpressive object when hung up among a thousand 
other tilings in a collection, aud how many were overlooked by the 
writer at the Centennial it is not possible to say. The example, Fig. 31, 
was in the National Museum exhibit in the Government 
Building, having been obtained from the Navajoes of New 
Mexico. Slings are rarely used among this people at pres- 
ent, except by boys. They are, however, mentioned in the 
old account of the "Journey to the Seven Cities of Cibola." 
There is no doubt about the antiquity of the device. It 
is mentioned frequently in the Hebrew writings, and is 
shown on the Egyptian 4 ' 1 and Assyrian monuments. 49 The 
Roman sling was named from its funda or purse which con- 
tained the projectile. Besides its ordinary use for hurling 
stones, leaden balls (gla ndes) were used ; these were ellipsoid- 
al plummets, often with inscriptions upon them, as "fir," 
for Jinn iter, " throw steadily "; Grecian bullets also, marked 
with the figure of a thunderbolt, or the inscription <5e£aj, 
"take this," have been found. Schliemanir recovered 
from the excavations at Ilissarlik sling-bullets of loadstone, copper, 
alabaster, and diorite. The fustibolus was a four-foot pole, which had a 
sling attached in the center, enabling both hands to be used in throwing. 

The sling is not so universal a weapon that a statement of the coun- 
tries where it is used becomes a mere geographical recitation. The 
Javan sling 51 (bandring) is noticed by Sir Stamford Baffles. The. Fijians, 
as already stated, excel in its use. The sling of the Sandwich Islanders 52 
is a double thong with a stone receptacle of plaited sinnet. The stones 
are egg-shaped and ground for the purpose. Another form of Hawaiian 
sling lias an oval stone with a circumferential groove, and is hurled by 
a cord passed around it and secured by a sailor's half-hitch so as to be 
released when the thong is jerked back to discharge the stone. A simi- 
lar mode of burling the spear is found in South America. The Marque- 
sas [slanders 53 use slings of plaited grass, as much as five feet in length, 
and hurl stones of considerable size. The natives of New Caledonia 54 
have a sling (wendat) which is a double thong with a purse in the middle 
made of two parallel cords. The stones are a hard kind of steatite 
ground to an oval shape and polished. They are carried in a net at the 
right side and are discharged after a half whirl of the sling. Some of 



Fig. 31. — Navajo 
sling. — National 
Museum. 



« Kitto, i, 370. 

" Layard's Nineveh, Pis. vi, vii, ii, 263. Xenophon's Anabasis, lib. iii, c. 3. 

60 Schliemann's " Troy and its Remains," 101. Nos. 66-7-8. 

fil "Java," 4to, PI. iv, opp. p. 290, vol. i ; Fig. 22. 

62 Wood, ii, p. 434. ™Ibi(L, ii, p. 390. M Ibid., ii, p. 205. 



232 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 

the New Caledonian sling-stones are shaped like two spherical segments, 
joined at their bases, giving a sharp circumferential ridge. The same 
form is found in New Zealand and in the stone age missiles of Sweden. 
Wooden slings and ribbon slings were used by the ancient inhabitants 
of Sweden, and slings of bast are in the museums of Lund and Stock- 
holm. 55 Slings of plaited flax are among the lacustrine remains of Keuf- 
chatel. 56 

The Solomon Islanders also use slings. The Fuegians 57 excel in the . 
use of the sling, as well as of the bow and arrow and spear. The sling 
has a pocket of seal or guanaco skin and two thongs three feet in length 
of twisted sinews. The natives throw with great force and accuracy. 

Pliny ascribes the invention of the sling to the Phoenicians. He 
always had a guess to make; sometimes a very wild one. The Balearic 
Islanders 57 * were celebrated for their expertness in its use. The slingers 
of the Greek and Roman armies were considered an inferior class of war- 
riors, the sling being but an auxiliary weapon. 

Another mode of slinging is by means of a stick thrust through a per- 
forated stone and whirled so as to discharge the missile when it has 
attained a maximum centrifugal motion. 

Fig. 32 shows two throwing-stones from Peru, adapted to be slung 

by a stick which is thrust into 
the hole. The Peruvians were 
very expert in the use of the 
sling. 58 Whorls of star shape 
were found in great quantities 
by Schliemann in the excava- 
tions at Hissarlik. 59 Although 
'"• :! -'- r/ "" they may be considered spindle 

whorls, it is altogether probable, so great was their number, that they 
were ammunition. Disk-shaped and cylindrical throwing-stoilcs per- 
forated Cor the stick are found among the remains of the Lake Dwellers. 60 
The Fijians have a rough game of jerking stones at each other with 
elastic bamboo. 61 

Numerous stones fashioned into shapes, and many of them with circum- 
ferential grooves, arc to be found in European and American collections, 
labelled plummets (net-sinkers), sling-stones, &c, according to the fancy 
or opinion of the discoverer or owner. The same may be said of Ameri- 
can perforated stones which may be plummets or gorgets. There is a 
tendency to give a warlike signification to such finds recovered in the 
soil, in mounds or in graves. The civil uses of these objects were prob- 
ably much more frequent than the warlike ; as the search for food is a 




Sven Nilson "<)n the Stone Age." Ed. by Sir John Lubbock, pi. v, pp. 49, 53. 
1 Morlol in Smithsonian Report, 1863, p. 377. "Wood, ii, p. .">17. 

""Caesar's Comm., ii, 1. 6S Prescott's "Conquest of Peru," i, 72. 

W'Troy and its Remains," No. 444, PI. xl. 
« " Culturgeschichte," Tat'. •■>, Figs. 60-63. «i Wood, ii. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 233 



more constant occupation than war. 
John Lubbock, Loudon, 18G8.) C2 



(Cf. Sven Mlson, edited by Sir 



We now pursue tbe other branch of the section, in which the ball re- 
mains attached to the cord by means of which it is projected. The sim- 
plest form of this is the single stone or metallic ball sewed up iu raw- 
hide and attached to the end of a thong a yard long. This, the bolas 
perdida of the Spaniards, is whirled rapidly around the head and then 
launched at the enemy or the game. A similar ball at the end of a 
shorter thong is used as a slung-shot. 
The bolas G3 of South America consists of two or three balls at the ends 

of as many raw-hide thongs, about nine feet 
long, which are tied together. The bolas is 
swung around the head of the rider, the 
junction of the thongs being in his hand 
and the balls Hying in a cluster. As soon 
as they are launched at the game, the balls 
fly apart by their centrifugal force, and, 
still flying round, have a movement of trans- 
lation in the direction of their projection. 
As soon as a thong strikes the object, the 
balls coil around it in contrary directions, 
binding and entang- 
ling it according to 
the intention of the 
thrower. This is not 
too much to say, for 
the Patagoniau will 
bind the rider to the 
horse, or tie the legs 
of an animal together 
or to the body at will. 
Stones of ovoid 
form made of tra- 
chytic tufa and perforated for raw-hide straps are 
used by t lie California India! is. 

Tigs. 33 and 34 show the bolas exhibited at the 
Centennial by the Argentine Republic. They con- 
sist of stones or balls of clay iu raw-hide pockets 
at the ends of twisted thongs of raw-hide. The 
specimens differ much in weight, from one-quar- 
ter of a pound to one and a half pounds, and in 
size from one and a quarter inches to three inches in diameter. They are 
sewed up in their envelopes, and in one ease openings are made to expose 
the bright red color of a peculiar stone of the country. It is the duty of 




Fig. 33. — Bolas of Paraguay, Argentine 
Confi deration. 




Fig. 34.— 



of Argentine 
Republic. 



62 Sven Nilson, PI. ix, Fig. 216; PI. ii, Fig. 31-35. 



6» Page's "La Plata/' 112. 



234 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 

the women to cut and grind these stones, but in some cases iron or even 
copper balls are used, the metal being preferred when attainable on ac- 
count of its being smaller for a given weight. There is some variation 
in the arrangement also : (somai) two bolas at the end of 9-feet thongs; 
(achico) three bolas, one on a rather longer thong; or one of the thongs 
has attached to its mid-length a pair of balls on the end of three-foot 
thongs. The range of the bolas is from 30 to 40 yards. The natives, 
when in danger, wear several cuirasses of stiff raw-hide as a guard against 
them, the armor being put on like a poncho — over the head, which is 
thrust through a slit in the hide. The helmet is of double bull-hide. 
The bolas is used throughout the Argentine Eepublic, by the Gran 
Chaco Indians of La Plata, the Araucaniaus (called by them laqui), ami 
the Patagonians; being, in a large portion of the territory mentioned, the 
principal means of capturing wild animals. The guauaco, a species of 
llama about the size of a deer, is the main dependence for food and 
clothing of the Patagonians. 64 See Muster's account of the Tehuelche 
Indians. 65 

Passing at one bound to the other extremity of the American Conti- 
nent, we find the Eskimo 66 in possession of the same weapon, but on a 
smaller scale, as befits the game it is intended to capture. It consists 
of eight or nine strings, about thirty inches long, and fastened together, 
their free ends being attached to little weights like plumb-bobs, made 
of bone, walrus-tooth, or stone. The cords are of twisted sinews or 
intestines. The balls are whirled around the head two or three times 
and then sent flying through the air like a large cobweb, lappiug with 
surprising quickness around any object which may be struck by the 
cords. It is used principally in catching birds. 

The lasso was shown in the exhibit of the Argentine Confederation, in 
the main building. It is a rope 40 feet long, made of raw-hide strips 
plaited into a round rope, excepting a few feet at the noose end, which 
is plaited square and is fastened around an iron ring, through which the 
lasso passes to form the noose. The Araucaniaus use a lasso of silk- 
grass fiber from the leaves of an agave. It has no ring for the noose, 
but a loop of the agave fiber covered with leather. In using the lasso, 
the ring is taken in the left hand and a noose six feet in length is made; 
the right hand then grasping the cord and the ring, the rider takes 
another six feet in his hand and whirls the noose around his head 
until it becomes circular, when he hurls it at the object, throwing after 
it the remainder of the rope, which hangs in coils on his left arm. As 
it pusses through the air the noose becomes smaller, so that the diameter 
of the noose is graduated to the size of the object it is intended to cap- 
ture. It is not a little singular that this form of lasso, a noose running 
in a metallic ring, was a weapon in the armies of the former Singhalese 
monarch. 67 



64 Wood, ii., p. 532. « "At Homewith the Patagonians," p. 166. 

« Wood, ii., p. 711. 67 Tennent's " Ceylon," i, 499. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 235 



A strangling noose, a few feet long, with a bone or wooden pointed 
stick at one end and a worked eye at the other, is used by the Australian 
to garrote a sleeping enemy. Passing the noose over the head and 
thrusting the skewer through the loop, he throttles his victim, who is 
powerless to make a noise, and, throwing him over his shoulder, carries 
him from the camp. 08 

II. — Axes. 

If the name of a tool is to be determined by its shape and mode of 
usage, the first axe was of wood. The Australian department showed 
several bludgeons, the enlarged flattened ends of which had sharp edges. 
Being of blue gum (Eucalyptus globulus), a hard heavy wood, they are 
efficient weapons in war 
or in hunting, though not 
suitable for felling tim- 
ber. They are shown at 
a b, in Fig. 35; c d are 
from New Zealand, and 
e is from the Ilaidah In- 
dians of Bella-Bella, Brit- 
ish Columbia. 

The transition from one 
material to another may 
be traced in many coun- 
tries in yet-existing tools ; 
the change is one of the 
most interesting prob- 
lems of the archaist and 
ethnologist, and it is rec- 
ognized in a Chinese 
tradition : " Fuhi made 
weapons; these were of 
wood; those of Shin- 
nung were of stone; then 
Chi-yu made metallic 
ones."' 

After the club or shin g- 
stone,in which a bowlder 
is mounted on a withe, 
or bound to a stick, or 

Shing at the end of araw- Fig. 35.— Wooden axes, from 

hide thong, comes an at- 
tempt to give a cutting edge to the tool. It need not be merely as- 
sumed, as it is capable of demonstration, that the mounting of un- 
wrought spalls of stone preceded the fashioning of stone axes. The 




68 Smith's " Aborigines of Victoria," i, 351, Fig. 1GD. 



236 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 

New South Wales exhibit showed a collection of spalls of greenstone 
and sandstone obtained by the natives by merely dashing bowlders 
together and picking up the pieces which most nearly approximated the 
desired form. Those shown in the collection were of sandstone, con- 






Fig. 3C. — Stone spalls for axes, Clarence River, New South Wales. 

glomerate, slate, basalt, and trachyte. Such axes, when helved, are used 
by the natives in ascending and for felling trees, cutting firewood, in 
war and the chase, and for cutting themselves to embellish their bodies 
with cicatrized wounds. 

In many countries are to be found famous localities yielding stones 
for axes. In Nan-hin-fu, in the province of Kwantong, in Southern 
China, 09 they find in the mountains a heavy stone, which furnishes 
materials for cutting-tools for the region around. Obsidian is used in 
Mexico, Khainschatka, 70 and elsewhere. 

The stone axes and adzes of the Philadelphia Exhibition may be con- 
sidered together. The difference in the tools is in the relation of the 
cutting edge to the handle. In the axe the line of the edge is in the 
plane of the handle. In the adze the edge is across the plane of its 
sweep. The examples afforded us may bo classed in two divisions: first, 
stone and shell ; second, metal. The subdivision which will be most 
useful will be as to the four methods of mounting the axe-head in or on 
Hie handle: and we have instances of each in the stone axes, and of 
three out of the four in the metallic axes, and this without going outside 
of the crude implements shown in Philadelphia. 

The four modes of mounting or helving an axe are: 

1. By winding a withe around it. 

2. By lashing it to a seat on the handle. 

3. By passing the tang through a hole in the handle. 

4. By passing the helve through a hole in the head. 

«Grosier, u De la Chine," Paris, 1818, i, 191. 
7n Eriuan, "Iieise," iii, 453. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 237 




Fig. 37.— l[a<, 



hatchet. New Zealand. 

a tribe and nowhere 



Before adducing examples of each of these methods, we may simply 
notice the stone hatchet from New Zealand, which is used independently 
of a handle, and is a hand-to-hand weapon, like some of the meraisor pdtu- 
pdtus, shown in a previous ar- 
ticle, and considered character- 
istic of the Maori race. 

While some of the methods 
of securing the axe head to the 
helve are considered indicative 
of certain tribes and peoples, 
it cannot be said that any pe- 
culiar mode is found at a certain place or in such 
else. In fact, it may be stated that among the various tribes of North 
American Indians all the modes cited may be found, and specimens from 
the lacustrine dwellings, to be seen in the museums of Europe and Amer- 
ica, show that all the modes stated were in use among the early inhab- 
itants of Europe. 

Fig. 38 shows three native stone axes : a from Victoria, b from South 
Australia, and c from the 
Sioux country of the Mis- 
souri Valley. They agree 
in the mode of fastening 
the head to the handle, 
a withe being bent around 
a depression in the stone 
and secured by lashings ; 
these will depend upon 
the material at hand. In 
the case of the stone axe 
(mogo) a, from Victoria, 
the head is a chipped 
greenstone 2 by I inches, 
and is mounted in a withe 
with moss and "black- 
boy gum." The weapon 
(a) is far in advance of 
the art of the present na- 
tives, who use the rudest 
stone axes, mere spalls, 
as just described, and 
shown in Fig. 30. The natives say that (his mogo was made by a people 
who preceded them and of whom they have no knowledge, It need not 
on that account be necessarily very old, but it seems that it was some- 
what of a local curiosity to the particular tribe in which it was found. 

The lead jo, mo-go, and other stone tomahawks of Australia are well 
delineated and described in a careful treatise just published by E. 




I 



Fio. 38.— Stone axes of Australia and A> 



238 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 

Brough Smith. 71 They are of granite, quartz, &c, one edge chipped 
sharp, a poll Left relatively Hat; all adapted to be handled with withes, 
unground, and secured by gum. 

In New South Wales the natives take for the handle the flowering 
stem of the icaratah or native tulip, or the vine of pepperoma, or they 
carefully split the small water gum of the streams, and, by the action 
of fire, make the piece pliant and wrap it like a withe around the stone 
axe-head. They next take the resinous and brittle gum of the grass- 
tree (Xanthorhcea), which they knead and toughen by the fire process. 
With the heated gum they cover the equator of the stone and take 
around it one or two turns of the pliant withe, securing its junction 
with a thong of the bark of the coorajong tree; they then fill that part 
of the handle secured around the stone with the melted gum, and the 
weapon is ready for duty in a few hours. By the aid of this instrument 
the natives el iop notches for the toes in ascending high trees, cut out 
the opossum, or tap the trees for honey ; with it they also fashion wad. 
dies, boomerangs, and other wooden implements, and crack the bones of 
animals for the marrow. In some portions of the island, sinews from 
the tail of the kangaroo do duty as lashings. The sinews are steeped 
in hot water, pounded between stones to separate them into filaments, 
and, while yet pliable, they are wrapped around the stone and the 
handle ; in drying they shrink and hold the objects together with great 
firmness. The lashing is then covered with the " black-boy gum " of 
the grass-tree. 

The celt or stone axe is one of the most common objects in museums, 
and generally shows its adaptation to a withe handle. 72 In the excava- 
tions at Hissarlik, at a depth of from 23 to 33 feet below the present sur- 
face, Dr. Sckliemann recovered well-made axes of diorite and of hard and 
semi-transparent greenstone. 73 One of these was fractured at the eye, 
but they were generally adapted for withe handles. So common is the 
celt that it has entered into the superstitious of various nations, and is 
supposed to be a "thunder stone" 74 and to have fallen from the sky. 
This idea is prevalent in China, England, India, Brittany, Finland, 
Japan, Brazil, Madagascar, and elsewhere. 

Axes of the second class, lashed to a seat on the handle, had numer- 
ous representations at the Exhibition. Fig.39 is a stone designed to be 
mounted as an adze, and Fig. 40 shows a greenstone blade lashed to a 
handle formed of a limb with a portion of the adjacent trunk. The 
fastening is evidently but a substitute for the original elaborate lashing, 
which had fallen off. Some of the Maori adzes are of green jade. 
Ajaother stone, locally known as toTce, is also used, butismuch inferior to 
the former in quality and appearance. Cf. black basalt adzes found in 

71 "Aborigines of Victoria," Melbourne, 1878, i, pp. 359-380. Figs. 175-198. 

Mr. Abbott, in (Smithsonian Report, 1875. Figs. 11, 19. 

-• Iili. tiKinn's "Troy and its Remains," p. 21, No. 2; p. 94, No. 5G. 
74 Tyk>r\s " Earlj History of -Mankind," pp. 208, 210-211, 222-227. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



239 



Scania, Sweden, 75 and at Nbotka Sound; also, the flint axes of Scandi- 
navia, which are never bored, but are rough chipped and unground. 76 
Axes of diorite, green- 
stone, and basalt have 
sometimes holes bored 
through, by which to 
suspend them. 
Fig. 41 is a stone adze 

(J'oilX It' JcttinOCL) frOffl ^" IG- ' f! '' — Stone adze {unmounted), New Zealand. 

the Sandwich Islands; it is nine inches long. Fig. 42 is a shell adze 
from a shell heap on Saint John's River, Florida. The adze of the Pelew 
Islanders 77 is made of the shell of the giant clam. Shell is used as a 





Fig. 40.— Maori adze, New Zealand. 



material for cutting instruments in many places where stone and metal 
are rare : such as were formerly some of the West Indies and some islands 
of Polynesia and Oceanica. The Pelew Island implement may be turned 





Fig. 41. — Stone adze, Sandwich Inlands. 



Fig. 42.— Shell adze, Saint John's 

Hirer, Florida. 



in the head so as to be used as an axe or an adze. The same adaptability 
may be found in an iron axe-adze of the Dyak of Borneo. The war axe 



75 Nikon's " Stone Age," PI. vii, Figs. 147, 150, and page G2. 

71 Ibid., }>. 64, and PI. vii, Fig. 153. 

"Wood's "Natural History of Mail," ii, p. 450. 



240 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



of the Fijiana is shown in Fig. 43. It was exhibited in the Main Build- 
ing. It ■ stone head is carefully lashed with braided sinnet to an elabo- 
rately carved wooden handle. 
The stone adzes of the Marquesas are most accurately shaped and 

finished,especially 
those of a ceremo- 
nial character. 
The handles of 
such are fairly hon- 
eycombed with 
carvings, in such 
a manner that a 
central handle ap- 
pears to be sur- 
fig. 43.-, Fiji war axe. rounded by a sort 

of filigree or incrustation of geometrical work. The lashings of plaited 
coir (sinnet) are very elaborate and carefully laid. Specimens obtained 
by the Wilkes Expedition are in the National Museum of Washington, 
D.C. 

The stone adze (Fig. 44) of the Makah Indians of Puget's Sound, 
California, shows an observation of the 
tools of the white man. The handle is 
evidently copied from that of a hand- 






l I-, i [.—Stone uilze, I'uget's Sound. 



Fir,. 45. — Eskimo ice-pick, tfunivak Island 



saw which the native mechanic had seen and admired. The use of the 

stone and the method of lashing are, however, quite characteristic. Fig. 

15 is an Lee pick of walrus ivory, lashed to a handle of pine. It is from 

the Magemut Eskimo of Nunivak 
Island. Fig. 46 is an Eskimo ice- 
pick made from a whale's rib, 
lashed with raw-hide thongs to a 
massive yew-wood handle. These 
picks are used for breaking the 
crust of snow and in keeping the 
seal-holes open. The specimen 
is from Anderson River, British 
America. The example (Fig. 47) 
shows another variation in the 
Fig. 46.— Eskimo icepick. British Columbia. mode of fastening. Like the 

former, it is made from a whale's rib, and is lashed with raw-hide thongs 




SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 241 



to a pine handle. It is from the chook chees ( Tschuck-t&ehis) of Northeast 
(Siberia. The mode of fastening is much like that of the old Egyptian 
hoes, as shown in Wilkinson's works. 





Fig. 47. — Ice-pick and skin-dresscr, Siberia. 



Fig. 48.— Stone adze, British Columbia. 



Fig. 48 is the last illustration we shall offer of this mode of attaching 
the bit or blade to the handle of wood. It is a small adze of argillite 
lashed with twisted sinews to a handle formed of a forked branch. Such 
implements were used in smoothing the insides of canoes. The main 
stem was grasped by the left hand, and the smaller one by the right. 
It is from the Haidah Indians of Bella-Bella, British Columbia. 

We reach the third class of our first division and notice the single 
instance in the Philadelphia Exhibition in which a modern stone axe 
was inserted through a hole in the handle. This has been deemed 
the characteristic African method, and with much reason, though 
instances of its adoption are found elsewhere ; the New Caledonians, 
for instance, mount their axes like the Africans, putting the tang of the 
bit through a perforated knob on the end of the handle. As almost all 
the African tribes use iron, smelted and worked by native smiths, the 

instances of the African 
method will occur more 
frequently in the second 
division of the subject, 
which treats of metal. 
The modern axe of 
greenstone (Fig. 49) is 
used in Mozambique, a 

Fig. 40.— Stone axe of Mozambique. Portuguese COloilV ill 

Eastern Africa. The bit is 8 inches long, and is lashed with strips of 
raw-hide to a wooden handle, which is carved at the hand-hold. The 
lashing is covered with cowrie-shells, which form in part the currency 
of the natives ; they answer, we may suppose, the same purpose as the 
gold mounting of a dress-sword. The inhabitants, though well ac- 
S. Mis. 54 1G 




242 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 




quainted with metal, retain old habits, and among them the use of stone 
implements, in ceremonial uses perhaps, rather than 
in the business of life. That stone should linger after 
the advent of metal is not surprising when we reflect 
that the stone battle-axe- was used by many of the 
.Anglo-Saxons at Hastings, and some of the Germans 
were armed with it at so late a period as the "Thirty 
Years* War." 

Fig. 50 shows oneof the articles generally catalogued 
as a "spade-like implement." It was possibly an axe 
adapted to pass through the handle and be secured by 
a Lashing of sinew or raw-hide. 

Fig. 51 shows five ancient implements obtained in 
Fig.50.— /S various parts of the United States, from mounds and 

eisew here ; a, b, and d are from Louisiana ; e is from Iowa ; c not noted. 

The three last examples are double- 
headed ceremonial axes, and do not 
materially differ from examples in 
the figure following, excepting in 
not being perforated for the handle. 
The frequency of the omission in- 
dicates that the two methods of 
mounting were simultaneously em- 
ployed. 

This brings us to the fourth class- 
perforated axes, which arc consid- 
ered by Sir John Lubbock as prob- 
ably characteristic of the early me- 
tallic period in Europe. 78 

It was long thought that the per- 
foration of the axe-head did uot 
occur until the implement came to 
bemadeof metal. It is true that the 
labor of boring in stone without the 
aid of metal and the weakening of 
so frangible a material might ex- 
clude that mode of mounting; but 
it must be recollected that time is of 
no moment to a savage, never hav- 
ing read Solomon or Dr. Watts, and 
mindianmou n, d-c. not taking lessons from insects— 
which are simply a nuisance and point no moral in Africa. 

The examples pf perforated stone axes at Philadelphia (Fig. 52) were 
from various parts of the United States, and were shown in the Xa- 
78 Lubbock's Introduction to Nilson's "Stone Ago," xxix. 




SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 243 



tional Museum in the Government Building. They are ancient and are 
generally supposed to be of a ceremonial character. It was either not 
noted or was not observed where a was from ; b, d, and g were from Wis- 
consin; c from New Jersey ; e from Connecticut; h from Pennsylvania. 
So the practice of making the perforated bipennis in stone was widely 
spread. It may be mentioned that the hole in h, Fig. 52, is only rudi- 
mentary. A fine selection of per- 
forated axe-heads from Denmark 
is in the Peabody Museum, Cam- 





Fig. 52. — Double-bitted perforated axes. 

bridge, and a great many more at St. Germain, France, and inthemu- 
seumof Geneva, Switzerland. This object is called a "banner stone " in 
Abbott's article on the Stone Age in New Jersey 73 ; compare also Wil- 
son's " Stone Age." 80 

The bipennis, or double-bitted axe, was the weapon of the female war 
riors of Scythian race known as Amazons. It was also known in As- 
syria. Its antiquity may also be assumed from its being the sacrificial 
axe of the Eoman priesthood: Dolabra pontificalis. The old scena or 
sacena of the Latins had two cutting edges, large and small, the former 
St curis ; the latter dolabra. It may have been copied from the agri< ! 
tural axe dolabra, which was something like our mattock, with an axe 
edge and a pick on the respective ends of the head, and was used in 
cutting wood and cleaving land of bushes and grubs. The flolabclla was 
the small axe or billhook. The sacrificial malleus was a round ball per- 
forated for a handle, and it also seems to indicate the long-sustained 
use of very primitive forms of weapons and implements for ceremonial 
purposes. 

Many copper battle-axes were recovered by Schliemann from a depth 
of 28 feet in the rains of LTissarlik. 81 

79 Smithsonian Report, 1875, p. 332. 
^Nilson, PI. viii, Fig. 173 and p. 71. 

si "Troy and its Remains." 



244 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



We have now reached the second division of axes, those of metal. In 
this section we can scarcely preserve the quadripartite subdivisions of 
the stone group. The collection, however, furnished good specimens of 

crude workmanship in 
two classes of axes — 
those which are lashed 
to a seat on a handle 
and those which per- 
forate the handle. 

The examples of those 
which are lashed to a 
seat on the handle are, 
singularly enough, 
tools in which iron 
blades obtained from 
attached to handles in the manner previously 
Fig. 53 shows two adzes of the Anderson 





Fig. 53. — Eskimo adzes. 



the whites have been 
adopted with stone tools 
River Eskimo, the handles of which have been ingeniously fashioned 
to fit the hand. The blades are both made of hatchet heads, in one 

case (a) the eye is made use 
of in lashing the handle to 
the iron ; iu the other case 
(b) the eye has been ground 
away, and it is secured to 
the handle by thongs in the 
manner of a stone celt. The 
tools indicate both the in- 
veterate habit of mounting 
and also the preference for 
the adze method of using. 

The Greenlander's adze 
(Fig. 54), shown in the Dan- 
ish department of the Main Building, is made of a common 2£-inch 
chisel strapped by a seal-skin thong to a beech wood handle about a 

foot long. Fig. 55 is a small hand 
adze or chisel with a bone handle. 
The blade was originally a hatchet 
of which the eye has been split and 
a piece removed. The handle 
shows an imitation of a saw-han- 
dle. It is from the Haidah In- 




54. — Grcenlanders' adze. 




Fig 55.— Indian adze. Haidahs, British Columbia. 



dians of Bella-Bella, British Columbia. 

The Ja van axes 88 are mounted in different ways; two hinds, known 
respectively a&pttel and wadwig, are chisel-shaped tools lashed to stocks 
whose natural growth as a fork facilitates that method; another, called 



"Baffles "Java," 4to, i, 174, Figa. 1, 2, 4. 






SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 245 



sangUuk, has an eye for the helve in the manner next in order to be con- 
sidered. 

The Javan battle-axe (kudi tranchang), formerly a principal weapon of 
Java, 83 is not now much used, and is suprisingly like a freakish weapon 
used by the natives of Central Africa. 

The Japanese axe is a compromise, its bent tang being held by a ring 
which slips on the handle. 84 
Africa furnishes us with the greatest variety of the axes which per- 
forate the han- 
dle. Begin- 
ning at the 
south, we find 





Fig. 56. — Japanese 
axe. 



the Kafirs 85 in 
possession of 
an axe, but 
their principal 

wpinnn is the Fig. 57. — Bechuana axes, South Africa. 

assegai, a javelin made by their native blacksmiths. With the Jceerie or 
short club, shield, and assegais, a Zulu considers himself well furnished. 

The Bechuana axe, Fig. 57, is a steel bit simply fastened by a tang in 
the enlarged wooden head. The term Bechuana may be used generally 
to include a number of tribes, embracing the Makololo, 86 who are among 
the most accomplished workers in metal on the continent. 

The smaller axes in Fig. 57 are other patterns, made by the Bechuanas; 
and Fig. 58 is 

SIS 



a still more 
fanciful one, 
shown in the 
Portuguese 
Colonies De- 

, j. Fig. 58. — Battle-axe, Angola, Africa. 

partment of y 

the Agricultural Building. The head is of steel and the handle is in part 
wrapped with fine wire. The blade is peculiar in form and ornamenta- 
tion, and has what we 



should consider a rather 
insecure attachment to 
the helve. Fig. 59 is 
another axe of Angola, 
shown in the same col- 
lection ; it has a curious 
curved blade and a long 
fig. so.— Axe of Angola. tang inserted in the 

usual African method into the wooden handle. 

The elephant axe of the Banyai, 87 of the Zambesi, was also snown in 





88 Raffles "Java," 4to, i, PI. opp. p. 290, Fig. 7. 

w Siebold's "Nippon," vi, PI. G; also ii, PI. 5 Ms., Figs. 14, 9, 15, 16, 13; also ii, PI. 11, 13. 

85 Casalis' " Basutos," 132. «« Baines' " South Africa, - ' 467. 87 Wood i, p. 404. 



246 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 




the group of Angola and Mozambique weapons, Fig. GO. It has a very 
long tang projecting entirely through the handle, and secured thereto 

by raw-hide lashing. One end 
has an axe-blade and the other 
a spear point. The handle is 
made by cutting off a limb of a 
convenient length, and also a 
small piece of the trunk at the 
insertion of the branch. A 
hole for the tang is then bored 
through the knotty wood, where 
the limb is as it were rooted into 
the body of the tree. The han- 
dle is then dressed to shape. 

Fio. eo.-mphantateofiheBmyai, Zambesi, Africa. ThQ Wade ^ sometimes three 

feet in length, and is carried over the shoulder. Itis used in ham-string- 
ing the elephant. The hunters go in pairs, one carrying the axe while 
the other goes before the animal to distract his attention. The axeman 
comes up behind stealthily and severs one ham-string of the animal at 
a single blow. One form of the elephant axe was noticed to have a 
curved handle and a stay-lashing at a point six inches distant from the 
socket. 

The Banyai of the Zambesi have also a convertible axe and adze. The 
knob of the handle has two slits at right angles, so that the tang of the 
blade may be optionally inserted either to bring the edge in line with 
the sweep of the tool, as with the axe, or transversely, as with the adze. 
Curiously enough the Water Dyaks, of Borneo, have a chipping tool of 
the same kind used in boat-building. 88 It has an iron blade, wooden 
head, and ratan (Malay rotari) lashing. The blade has a square tang, 
and by taking it out of the socket, turning it one-quarter round, and in- 
serting it again the blade is changed, in reference to the handle, from an 
axe to an adze, or vice versa. 





Ii ... 6L — Axes of Egypt, India, Mexico, and Yucatan. 

The Djibba axe has two pointed prongs projecting lengthwise from 
the head to make it efficient in thrusting. The Monbuttoo axe, 89 follow- 
in- the universal African type, has its tang inserted through the thick 
end of a knobbed club. 



Wood, vol. ii, p. 453. 



a ' Schweinfurtli's "Africa," vol. ii, p. 112. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 247 



Fig. 61 shows that this system of inserting the blade in the handle has 
been practiced in far distant times and places, a b are ancient forms of 
Egyptian bronze axes. 90 c d are ancient axes from the Sachi tope 91 at 
Bhilsa, in Central India, c is an axe shown on a Mexican monnment. 
The obsidian or copper blade is inserted in the handle. / and g show 
the instrument known as mahquahuitl, a double-headed axe with obsidian 





Fig. 62. — Axe of the Philippines. 

flakes inserted in wooden handles, h shows a copper axe of Yucatan, 
the plate being inserted in a slitted handle. The battle-axe was the 
weapon of the Peru- 
vian soldiery." 2 Nu- 
merous Trojan battle- 
axes of copper were 
found by Dr. Schlie- 
mann at Hissarlik.'' 3 

The axe of the Phil- 
ippines was shown in 
the Spanish Building. 
It has a peculiarly 
shaped head and along Via - w—Casse-tfu, Dakotah. 

ferrule. The hand-stop on the helve was the only instance of the kind 
in the exhibition. It is a sort of rudimentary guard, like a partial hilt 
on the two-handed helve. (Fig. 02.) 

The jungle hook of the Singhalese (wal-dakat) and a chopping axe 
(proa) 9 * are used for clearing brush and cutting trees. Even the poor 
Veddahs of the interior forests "have a little ax, which they stick in 
by their sides, to cut honey out of hollow trees." 95 

Fig. (!.'> is a Dakotah Indian war-club (casse-tete) ornamented with 
carving and armed with a leaf-shaped steel point. The peasant of Brit- 
tany carries a knobbed stick resembling the Kafir Icnob-keerie. (Fig. 1.) 

^Kitto, vol. i, p. 507; "Duleth," p. 7. 

'■" Cminingliam's "Bhilsa Tope," pi. xv, Figs. 8, 9. 

92 Prescott's "Conquest of Peru," vol. i, p. 72. 

93 Schliemann's "Troy and its Remains," pp. 330, 331. 

»« Knox's "Ceylou," pp. 273-4. 

*>lMd., p. 61. 



248 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 





^^^m^^^/t/^ 





Fig. 65.— Norwegian 



It is called a cmse-tete by the French of the neighboring departments, 
but pen-has by the Bretons. 96 See also the marble knob for a stick, found 
by Dr. Schliemann at Ilium. 97 

The same form is shown by Catliu to have been very common among 

the Blackfeet and 
other Indian tribes 
on the headwaters 
of the Missouri. 
An axe of Terra del 
Fuego, shown by 
Mlson, has a blade 
of iron inserted in 
the African man- 
ner in a wooden 

Fig. 64.— Halberds, India and Norwc-y. stock which has 

been dressed by flint tools. 98 Desor also shows hatchets 
of diorite, serpentine, and quartzite in sockets of buck- 
horn, wmieh were mounted in a wooden handle by a 

lateral hole 
in the side 
of the club. 
In another 

case the stone was inserted 
endwise in a horn socket 
which was pierced for the 
handle." In another case 
the stone in a horn handle 
had the position formerly 
occupied by the brow antler. 
Fig. 64 shows three forms of halberds, light axes on long handles: 
c is from Norway and belongs to the class with a tang driven into the 
handle; a b are Sowrah battle-axes from India, and belong t<> the last 
class of our list — the handle inserted through an eye in the head. To 
this also belong the Norwegian axes (Fig. 65) and the Arickaree iron 
tomahawk (Fig. 00). 

III. — Knives and Swords. 

The knife in its primitive form is a sharp flake of stone or obsidian, 
a sliver of bamboo or wood, or a shell with a sharpened edge. When the 
point is the specially engaged portion the weapon is a dagger. Many 
other crude materials furnish the hand-to-hand cutting or piercing 
weapons, such as the pointed horns of animals, the tail of the sting-ray, 

soTrollope's " Summer Tour in Brittany," London, 1840, Pis. opp. pp. 125, '220, 296. 
w Schliemannta " Troy and its Remains," ]>. 265. 
w "Stone Age," PI. vii. Fig. 155. 

"Dcsor. transl. in Smithsonian Report, 1865, pp. 360, 361, Figs. 17, 18, 19. 



Fig. 66. — Iron tomahawk, Dakotah. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 249 



shark's teeth tied upon a staff, and sharpened bones. When the dispo- 
sition exists a weapon will be found somewhere, and the most curious 
are those where the choice of material is but small and metal is inacces- 
sible. Metal once obtained, the variety of weapons decreases, and 
knives, daggers, and swords assume a somewhat uniform character. 

The persistent ceremonial use of stones for knives, after the use of 
metal bad been fully established for the ordinary affairs of life, is notice- 
able in many old records and in the observation of late travelers. We 
may mention the stone knives used by the Egyptians, Ethiopians, and 
Hebrews in circumcision, 1 ™ by the Egyptians in embalming, 1 ' 11 in obtaining 
the balm of Gilead, 102 in the human sacrifices of Mexico, in the gashing 
of the flesh of fanatics, 103 and in inducing the cicatrized wounds which 
form the ornaments or tribal marks of some savages. To these may be 
added the gashing of the flesh 
by the New Zealanders in their 
mourning, and the stone fleams 
used by the North American In- 
dians for bleeding. 

Museums have crude stone 
spalls and well-fashioned knives 
of stone in variety, but we can 
only appeal for illustrations to 
the collection in Philadelphia. 
In the upper and stone periods 

of tliP bill of TTissarlik in Asia Fig. 67. — Obsidian nucleus and flakes, Mexico. 

Minor, Schliemann .found numerous flint knives. 104 Some have edges 
like ordinary knives ; others are serrated. At a depth of L'3 feet he 
found double-edged knives of obsidian, sharp as razors. 

Flint flakes and nuclei from the stone age 
of Scandinavia, and flint knives from Green- 
land and New Zealand made of spalls, and 
others of chipped flint, are shown by Nil- 
fig. es-obsidian knife, Can/anna. son ins an j Dy j3r. Abbott, of New Jersey. 106 
Obsidian was a favorite material where obtainable. It was used in 
Mexico in the manufacture of sacrificial flake-knives, arrow-points, &c. 107 
The flakes were split off by the skillfully applied pressure of a T-shaped 
wooden implement. The nucleus and flakes (Fig. G7) were shown in the 
National Museum and are from Mexico. The same collection in the 
Government Building had the obsidian knife (Fig. 08). This has a 

l00 Exodus, iv, S>; Joshua, v, 2. 

101 Herodotus, ii, 86; Diodorus Siculus, i, 91; Kitto, i, 81. 

'o- Pliny, xii, 54. 

m Ibid., xxxv, 46; xi, 109. Compare also Pliny, xix, 57; xxiii, 81; xxiv, (5, 62. 

io( u Troy and. its Remains," p. 7'.t. 

im " Stono Age," p. 7fi and PI. ii ; Figs. 24, 23, and PI. iii, v. 

106 Smithsonian Report, 1875, p. 300. 

107 Torquemada. 




250 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 

wooden .handle which shows the marks of a similar cutting instrument, 
and is therefore a veritable specimen of the stone age. 

The Yellowstone Park has lately been stated to possess hills of obsid- 
ian of different colors, which have afforded for ages the material for the 
arrow-heads of the Indian tribes in the vicinity. 

The Hint knives of the Indians of the California peninsula are men- 
tioned by Pacgert. 103 

As far away as the Admiralty Islands of the Papuan group we find ob- 
sidian used for knives, razors, and spear-points. 109 The natives tie the 
spear-heads to the shaft with plaited string coated with gum. The knife 
used by the New Caledonians for carving the human body is called 
nbouet, and is a flat serpentine stone oval in form and seven inches 
in length. Iloles are bored in it, by which it is fastened to a wooden 
handle. The New Caledonians eat their slain enemies, the women, who 
are the cooks, following the army and dragging the bodies off the field 
to prepare them for the supper of their returning husbands and broth- 
ers. The palms being considered as tid-bits, are the perquisites of the 
priests. Each part belongs to certain persons, and the carving is regu- 
lated by rules. The body is opened by the nbouet and the intestines re- 
moved with a fork made of two human arm bones sharply pointed and 
lashed together. The women cooks prefer to truss the bodies in sitting 
posture, bake them whole, and serve them in war costume. 

Many collections show knives of flakes of silex mounted in wooden and 
horn backs, 110 and serrated knives or saws made by the insertion of flakes 
of obsidian, flint, or shark's teeth in a grooved wooden back. Some 
are mentioned later when referring to spears. Such are found in Cali- 
fornia, Sweden, the Philippines, Australia, and elsewhere. The knife 111 
dabba of I he Victorian blacks consists of quartz fragments attached to a 
wooden handle with gum. 

Passing to knives of wood, we find none which would make impres- 
sive illustrations; in the South Sea islands wood has been the prin- 
cipal material; until lately stone was unknown in some islands, and 
metal in almost all. The Fijian knife for cutting up baJcolo (long pig), as 
the edible human body is called, was a sharp sliver of bamboo." 2 The 
Ajitas of the Philippines and New Guineans also use the bamboo sliver. 113 
The Sandwich Islanders have a battledore-shaped piece of wood" 4 bke 
the meraiof the Maories, but armed on the edge with shark's teeth. It 
was formerly employed in cutting up the bodies of warriors who fell in 
battle, or of persons sacrificed. The Muudurucus of the Amazon use a 

108 Translation in Smithsonian Report, 16G3, p. 303. 
IM Wood, vol. ii, p. 302. 

uojDesor. trans!, in Smithsonian Report, 1865, p. 360. 
111 Smith's "Aborigines <>t Victoria." 

"- Sniyilu's " Ten Months in Fiji," p. 85. 
111 Wood, vol. ii. ]>. 242. 
l " Ibid., vol. ii, p. 435. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



251 



bamboo knife in decapitating their enemies to prepare the heads as tro- 
phies. The gentle savages are, however, not oblivions of the value of 
metal when they have an opportunity to see it. Francis Sparrow, whom 
Raleigh left to explore the country of the Orinoco, received eight beau- 
tiful young women for a red-handled knife — value in England at that 
time equal to one cent. 

The Australian dagger is a stick pointed at both ends, grasped by the 
midlength, and struck right and left. 115 





Fig. ffl.—Greenlandem' bone knives. 

In the extreme northern countries no material is so ready to hand as 
bone. The harpoons, knives, and many other domestic implements of the 
Eskimo are of bone. Fig. G9 shows the fish and blubber knives of the 
Kajak natives of Greenland. They were shown in the Danish collection 
in the Main Building, a is made of the bone of a whale, and is 18 inches 
long; b is of wood, and is 10 inches long. Fig. 70 shows two other bone 
implements of the Kajaks, a bone knife used in skinning the seal, and 
a fish scoop. The knife is 14 inches long and two and a half inches wide; 
the bone spoon is four inches long and two wide. 




Fig. To. — Bone implements of Greenland. 



Some of the bone knives of the Laplanders are very elaborate, espe- 
cially those used in preparing skins. 

116 Smith's "Aborigines of Victoria," vol. i, p. 302. 




252 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.' 

The Eskimo in winter live in dome-shaped houses, called igloos, built 
of blocks of ice or snow. These blocks are voussoir shaped, so that 
they make a safe and symmetrical vaulted structure. They are hewn 
from the bank or field of solidified snow with large knives like Fig. 71, 

made of the bones of whales. Several of 
these knives were shown in the National 
Museum and in the Greenland department 

fig. 71.—! Eskimo bone snow-knife. f the Danish collection. Two men, one 
to cut blocks and one to lay them, will erect a house in two hours. Just 
above the door a large plate of fresh-water ice is built in so as to illu- 
minate the interior. Inside is a raised bench of snow, on which are laid 
sprigs and such scanty vegetation as the summer affords, to support the 
sealskins which form the bed and bench. The dwellings are sometimes 
as much as 16 feet in diameter and 8 feet in height. The inevitable 
lamp is a stone dish with a wick of moss supported in it, and a quan- 
tity of oil fed from blubber piled upon it. This lamp is at once the 
warming and cooking stove, the light, the means of drying the clothes 
and melting the snow for drink, for the whole family occupying the 
igloo. Above the lamp is the cooking-pot, which also does duty in con- 
taining snow to be melted for drinking water. Above the ccoking-pot 
(and by this time we are pretty near the roof) is a net spread to hold 
wet fur clothes, in order that they may be dried ; after which they are 
chewed to make them supple. 

Poniards and pike-heads of bones of deer and urus are described by 
Desor. 116 

One or two other instances of animal material used in knives and 
daggers may be mentioned before we reach the metallic. The double 
dagger of the East Indies has two sharpened antelope horns joined at 
their bases ; or it is a single straight two-ended blade of steel, a circular 
guard protecting the handle of the weapon, which is intended to strike 
righl and hit in a crowd. The Sandwich Islanders use daggers (piihita) 
of wood, held in the middle and having a point at each end. The large 
mussel shell is the knife of the Fuegian ; the original edge is knocked 
off* and the solid portion made sharp by grinding upon a stone. The 
dagger of the IVlew Islanders is the tail bone of the sting-ray, and it 
is carried in a sheath formed of a joint of bamboo. The Tahitian dag- 
ger has the tail of the sting-ray as a point ; it comes off in the wound 
and works deeper and deeper. 

— '~~~'".-M$££& 

Pig. 72.— Indian knife of native copper. 

This brings as to metal, of which we first consider copper. 

The copper knife, Fig. TH, was taken from an Indian mound. It does 




'"' Desor. Translation in Smithsonian Ecport, 1865, p. 358. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 253 

not appear that any of the North American Indians who had access to 
copper worked it by smelting ; but they treated it as malleable stone 
and shaped it by hammering. The Greenland Eskimo make knives from 
the copper obtained from Coppermine Eiver ? from flint, from walrus 
ivory, or from such pieces of iron as they may obtain by barter or may 
pick up from whalers or explorers. 
Fig. 73 shows a number of copper implements — knives, a spear, and 




Fig. 73. — Native copper implements, Wisconsin. 

a hook ; these are Indian remains from Wisconsin, the metal having 
doubtless been obtained from the Lake Superior copper district in 
earlier times. They, together with many other copper tools, were exhib- 
ited by the Wisconsin Historical Society in the Mineral Annex of the 
Main Building. We cannot pretend to distinguish carefully between 
the weapon and the domestic implement. A knife is a knife whether 
for the throat of an enemy or of a deer. 




Fig. 74. — Copper weapon and steel dagger, British Columbia. 

Fig. 71 shows a knife-like club a of native copper, a hereditary posses- 
sion in the family of a llaidah chief in British Columbia. Beneath it 



254 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



is shown a double-ended dagger (b), bound with copper, and obtained 
from the Kutchin Indians of Northwest British America. Such daggers 
are forged by the Indians from old files obtained from sawmills near the 
settlements. They are in general use among the northern and north- 
western tribes. 

Copper seems to have been the earliest metal to be fashioned into 
tools, and its alloy, bronze, the first efficient tool material. Molds of 
mica schist for easting copper weapons and ornaments were found by 
Dr. Schliemann iii the hill of HissaiTik. 117 There are also many such 
specimens in museums. The modern supposition that the ancients had 
a method of tempering copper as we do steel — or with analogous 
effects at least — is a myth. The metal acted upon was the alloy, 
bronze, and the range of effects is far inferior to the capacity of steel. 
The Assyrians wore a profusion of daggers, two or more in the same 
sheath. 118 The handles were elaborate, made of ivory, inlaid, set with 
precious stones, carved the shape of heads of animals, etc. One of 
copper was found by Layard at Nimroud. The Assyrians, like the 
Persians, probably used them as knives. 

Copper knives were found by Schliemann 119 in the lowest stratum of 
the excavations at Hissarlik ; one of them was gilt. Also a number of 
copper (luggers at a depth of 28 feet. 
Egyptian knives were of bronze and of copper. 120 
A comparison of the forms of knives of the ancients and moderns 

shows that what may be termed 
the "leaf-shape" has been very 
general. 1 1 is true that the variety 
of shapes of leaves is so great that 
the term may be held indescript- 
ive ; it suits the case, however. 

Fig. 7.") shows, in the upper row, 

a number of Roman knives of the 

classical period, and in the lower 

row a number of African knives of 

the present day. a is the secespita, 

a sacrificial knife with an iron blade 

and an ivory handle ornamented 

with gold and silver ; b is the ptigio 

or two-edged dagger worn by the 

officers of the army and by persons 

of rank ; c is the culter apquinarius, 

or cook's knife; d, the cultraritts, 

for cutting the throat of the sacrificial victim; e, the c. venatorius, or 

huntsman's knife; /, the falx mniioria^ or vinedresser's knife; g,th.efalx 

arboraria, for pruning and hedge-trimming. 

The swords of the bronze age, dug up from the lacustrine village 




FlG. 75. — Ancient Hainan and modern African knives. 



» 7 Schliemann'a "Troy and its Remains," p. l'.3 ( J. 
'"•Troy and its Remains," 150; pp. 332,333. 



" •• Nineveh," vol. ii, p. 264. 

- Wilkinson. Kitto, vol. i, p. 372. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



255 



sites, are many of them like some of the figures, in the upper especially. 
See Desor, 121 where they are shown, some with grooved blades and as 
much as 59 centimeters in length; also bronze poniards and knives with 
tongs and sockets. 122 

The lower row shows h i j />•, knives of the Fans of Western Africa. 
These are sometimes as much as three feet in length and seven inches 
in width; they are kept very sharp in a sheath of wood, which is in two 
halves, and is bound together with strips of raw-hide covered with snake 
or human skin. I is an Unyoro knife of iron, the handle bound with 
copper wire. 1 - 3 m n are two two-edged daggers of the Mam-niams. 12 * 
The dagger is worn in a sheath of skin attached to the girdle. The lances 
knives, and daggers have blood-grooves, differing in this respect from 
the Bonjo or Dyoor weapons. Both of the last-mentioned tribes have 
two-handled knives. The Bonjo knife 12 '' is used by the women in peeling 
tubers and slicing gourds and cucumbers ; it has an oval shape, and is 
sharp on both sides, like the Unyoro knife I, Fig. 75. The Dyoor 
knife 1 -''' is spindle-shaped, and is used for similar purposes. 

Dr. Schlieinann found, in his excavations at Troy, a dagger of steel 
four inches long. The blade, which is double-edged and in 
the form of an arrow, is 1.6 inches long, and in a perfect 
state of preservation, which Dr. Schlieinann attributes to 
the antiseptic power of the red wood ashes, 
mixed with charcoal, in which he found it em- 
bedded, in the large mansion close to the gate, 
28 feet below the surface. 

The Balonda dagger from the Zambesi is 
shown in Fig. 7(3, and has a remarkable resem- 
blance to a and i, Fig. 75, which are respectively 
Roman and Gaboon. This dagger is 21 inches 
long, and the handle is partly wrapped with 
raw-hide. The handle is by no means a con- 
venient one, but no doubt the owner felt well 
satisfied with its ornamental appearance as it 
protruded from tin; scabbard. 

Fig. 77 is an Angola dagger, with an iron 
blade and wooden handle. It looks much more 
like business than its fellow. 

Fig. 78 shows an Angola dagger, Avith a 
o/ '' BaUmda^Af- strangely-shaped scabbard of sheet copper. 
It has a copper-covered wooden handle and a 
steel blade. The broad base of the sheath is probably indicative of its 

131 Translation in Smithsonian Keport, 1865, p. 374. 

"- Ibid., pp. 374,371-72. 

1 -"■ Baker's " Ismailia," plate opposite p. 135. 

'-'Sehwciiifiirth's "Africa," vol. ii, pp. 10, 27. 

™Tbid ,xo].\, p. 281. 

126 Wood, vol. i, p. 503. 



Fig. 77. — Angola 
Dagger. 



256 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 




nationality, the same feature not having been noticed elsewhere. Its 
purpose is not apparent. The sheath of the kris has a considerable lateral 
enlargement at the upper end, but that weapon has a corresponding 
guard. It will be referred to presently, among swords. 

The collection of savage arms from the 
Portuguese colonies of Angola and Mozam- 
bique, exhibited in the Agricultural Build- 
ing, was not excelled in its kind in the whole 
Exhibition. With many additions, it was 
again exhibited in Paris in 1878. 

Some of the articles therein shown were 
from the Banyai of the Zambesi, the Be- 
en uanas, and tribes with which the parties 
crossing between the western and eastern 
coasts of the continent come in contact. 
Passing south and west to Natal, a very 
warlike people, the Zulus and Basuto Ka- 
firs, are encountered. The articles from 
this people were shown in the Cape of Good 
Hope collection, and are noticed among 

Fig. 78,-Angola dagger. ^^ ^ gpearg . they dQ nQt uge thfi bow 

and arrow. The assegai is the principal knife of the Kafir. 127 It is of 
semi-steel of soft temper, and will bend and keep its shape, which is 
taken advantage of by the natives in making bowls, spoons, and pipes. 
He prefers it to the steel of the white man, which breaks. The Bechu- 
anas make the best knives in that region, and barter them to other tribes. 
The blade has a long lanceolate shape, with two edges, aud 
the weapon is worn suspended from the neck. 128 The handle, 
of ivory or wood, is carefully carved, frequently represent- 
ing an animal, a hyena or giraffe, for instance. The wooden 
sheath is made of two pieces of wood, hollowed out and 
bound together with sinews. The same is used among some 
tribes of Kafirs. The carving tool of the Bechuanas is 
more like a chisel ; a blade like a thumb-nail in the end of a 
handle. The Japanese knives are numerous and peculiar.'-'' 

Fig. 79 is a leaf-shaped dagger or seal ping-knife, of iron, 
with a bone handle, such as is used by the Blackfeet and F| ,';;J !, ;~™^*; 
Sioux. C. Carver, in his "Travels," says that theleaf-shaped kni f c - 
dagger, made in his time of bone, was peculiar to the Nadowessioux, 
or i hat family later known as the Da-ko-tahs or Sioux. 

There is one class of weapons for grappling at close quarters, which 
may be mentioned here, as it was shown in the exhibit from British 
India. The baymdk is a five-clawed weapon hidden in the hand, having 
loops through which the first and fourth fingers are passed. When the 

liT Wood, vol. i, p. 103. ""Casalis' "Basutos," p. 136. 

1S9 SLebold's "Nippon," vii, plate 19, Figs. 3, 4, 5, 6. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 257 

hand is opened, the steel claws, like those of a lion, are exposed, and 
are intended to rip the naked belly of the adversary. The term baymak 
is understood to include several forms of weapons, such as brass knuckles 
and spikes which are carried in the hand. 

The Samoans have a somewhat similar weapon — a glove made of coir, 
and having on the inside several rows of shark's teeth, set hooking- so 
that they retain anything - which is grasped. Like the baymalc, it is 
intended to rip the abdomen of an enemy. To guard themselves against 
this weapon the Samoans use a, heavy and wide belt of coir, reaching 
from the arm-pits to the hips. This belt was the nearest to the nature 
of clothing of anything in the islands; a number of cords of sinnet are 
strained on two parallel sticks .about 30 inches apart; the sinnet weft is 
then worked in over and under alternate threads. 130 

The bague de mort, seen by Stendhal in Rome, ]30a is like the East 
Indian baymalc in the mode of hiding it in the hand, but it has only two 
claws, which are of steel, very sharp and like those of lions. The piece 
to which the claws are rooted is held in the haud by rings, through 
which pass the second and third lingers, beneath which the claws are 
hidden, nothing appearing but the rings. Poison is placed in grooves 
channeled in the claws, like the poison groove in the fang of a rattle- 
snake. 

Stendhal says: "Dans une foule, au bal par example, on saississait 
avec une apparence de galanterie la main nue de la femine dont on voulait 
se vengcr; en la serrant et retirant le bras, on la dechirait profondement, 
et, en meine temps, on lassait tomber la bague de mort. Comment, dans 
une foule, tron ver le coupable % " 

The Djibba tribe of the Upper Nile wear bracelets for cutting and 
tearing, the edge being protected by leathern sheaths when the weapon 
is not required for duty. Some of them have double jagged edges and 
others a single sharp edge. 

The ISTuebr carry on the wrist an iron ring with projecting blades. 

The Roman boxing gauntlet, cestus, was a much less sanguinary affair, 
being merely armed with lead or with bosses. 

We pass from knives to swords ; which is but to an implement of a 
larger kind. The sword proper is a weapon, but the machete of the 
Spaniard, the corn ami cane, knives of the plantation and farm, are 
domestic implements of similar character, but with less ornamental fur- 
nishing. Where vegetation is as large as that of the corn or sugar-cane, 
a sword like implement is necessary in gathering it, and the same large 
knife is used in tropical countries in cutting away the vines and creepers 
which obstruct the narrow passes through the woods. 131 

Of the cruder materials, stone and wood, used in swords, the Exhibi- 
tion furnished but few examples. Some of the clubs already considered 



Iffl \Vood, vol. ii, p. 354. 
1300 " Promenades dans Rome," vol. i, p. 2G7. 
131 Raffle's "Java," 4to, p. 113. 
S. Mis. 54 17 



258 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



had sharpened edges and approximated the sword character. The New 
Zealand stone sword, Fig. 80, can hardly be classed under any other 
head, 'as it has a handle, a back, and an edge, and is ad- 
apted to deliver a cutting blow. The swords of the 
1 'clew Islanders are of wood inlaid with pieces of shell. 132 
The Kingsinill Islanders have wooden swords, armed on 
their edges with sharks' teeth lashed with sinnet braided 
from the fiber of the cocoa-nut. The wooden blade has 
grooved ridges to receive the teeth, cor- 
responding holes being made in the 
ridges and teeth through which the 
braided cord is repeatedly passed to 
fasten the teeth in this artificial alve- 
olar ridge. The swords arc single or 
double edged, and have guards similarly 
armed with teeth, so that no part of the 
weapon except the handle can be touched 
with impunity. The spears are similarly 
armed, like some which were shown from 
the Philippine Islands. A fine assort- 
ment of those weapons, obtained by the 
Wilkes Expedition, is in the National 
Museum at Washington. 

The gold-coast section of the English 
colonies presented two curious swords 
with broad, thin blades, especially wide 
near the point. The perforations make 
the blade still lighter. The tang is set 
in a wooden handle with two knobs, be- 
tween which is the hand-hold. Fig. 82 
has a double blade, and is referred to as 
an "executioner's sword": a weapon in 
much demand all around that part of 
no - 8*<m< the world, especially Dahom6. The two fig. si.— sword of the 

noord. ill » -p. 0(1 •. t . Oold coast, Africa. 

blades ot Fig. 82 are muted at a point 
where the Battening of the bLides commences. The blades are 21 inches 
long; the carved handles are 8 inches long, and one of them is gilded. 
The swords of Pahome 133 have knobs on the ends of the blades, so 
that they may be used as clubs. One noticed had a knob carved like a 
human head. The bad; of another had a series of backwardly-curved 
prongs, intended as hooks to catch a pursued enemy. The classic liarpe, 
the sword of Mercury and I Vrsous. had a similar prong, hamus. Another 
sword of bloody renown is the weapon of the "Razor Women," who form 






Wood, vol. i, p. 449. 
' ■ lhincaii's "Western Africa," p. 226. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



259 



Fir.. 82.— Two bladed 
sword of the ijuld 
coast. Africa. 




one battalion of the Dahome" Amazons. The weapon is copied from the 
white man's razor, bnt has a blade 2 feet long, and a handle of propor- 
tionate size. A spring" holds the blade open. It is as if, in a jocular 
spirit, some trader had foisted an absurdity upon them; 
but the natives claim it as an invention of the late King 
Gezo. The real razor el' the A shantee is of a nearly trape- 
zoidal form; this latter is for legitimate shaving. 

Coming southwardly along the coast of Africa we arrive 
^tx at Angola, which, 

as we have already 
had occasion to re- 
mark, was well rep- 
resented in the Ag- 
ricultural Building. 
Fig. 83 is a sword 
made by a native 
armorer of Angola ; 
it has a curiously- 
shaped hilt, and 
tufts of horse-hair 
stained red. The 
hilt is in part cov- 
ered with sheet-lead. 
The gay appear- 
ance of the hilt, 
as it showed when 
sheathed and worn 
at the side, was prob- 
ably its principal 
recommendation. 
The general shape 
of the African sword is curved, although of the examples from the Portu- 
guese colonies two are straight and but one bent. The specimens illus- 
trated from other sections of the continent will amply compensate for the 
present larger majority of straight-bladed weapons. Fig. 84 shows a na- 
tive sword of Mozambique. It has a short wooden handle, from which the 
usual button on the end of the tang has dropped off. The guard of the 
hilt has a peculiar scroll shape, and one branch has been broken. The 
sword of the Hamram Arabs, of Central Africa, 134 is also straight, double 
edged, and has a cross-guard. The blade is 3G inches long, and each 
edge is as sharp as a razor. It is carried in a wooden scabbard made 
of two pieces, hollowed to receive the blade, and covered with leather. 
With this weapon the Arab will cut a man in two, or will hamstring an 
elephant. 



m 



Fig. 8X — Sun,-,! 
Angola, Africa. 



Fig. 84. — Swordof Mo- 
zambique, Africa. 



1J1 Wood, vol. i, p. 753. 



2G0 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



Fig. 85 is a steel cimeter of Mozambique, with a broad and very tliin 
blade. I. has a wooden handle ornamented with sheet brass enchased 
and jeweled. It is 40 inches long, and has a groove near the back of 
the blade. 

Fig. SC is a sickle-shape cimeter, brought by Col. Long (Bey) on his re- 
turn from his expedition into Central Africa in the service of the Khedive. 
It was shown in the Egyptian Department in the Main Building, and is 
like the weapon represented by Schweinfurth as held by the Moubuttoo 
King Munza daring the audience which he held with that potentate. 135 





Fig. (K.-Cimrtcr of Mo- 
zambique, Africa. 



Fig. 86. — Monbitttoo cimeter, ('< nlral Africa. 



It is usually of steel, but on that occasion was a weapon of ceremony, 
and made of pure copper. The adjacent tribe, the Niam-niams, use im- 
plements of somewhat similar shape, curved broad-ended blades, some- 
what after the bill hook order, reminding one of the corresponding 
Roman implement, the falx vinitoria. 

The Tcookery of the Ghoorkas, a tiger-fighting hill tribe of India, 136 is 
another example of a boldly curved chopping-sword, broad near the 
end, and sharpened on the concave edge, which is, however, of an ogee 
shape. It is about fifteen inches long, is used either to cut or thrust, 
and is made of the famous " Wootz" steel. Two little knives are carried 
in side pockets of the scabbard. 



i« "Africa." vol. ii. pp. 9, 10, 107. 



136 Wood, vol. ii, p. 7(30. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 2G1 




Fig - . 87 is a saber brought by Capt. Long (Bey) from the Soudan Expedi- 
tion. It has a boldly curved steel blade and a wooden handle. The 
sheath and belt are 
of leather. The Nu- 
bian cimeter is, per- 
haps, even a little 
more curved than 
that shown from 
Soudan; but doubt- 
less the weapons of 
a district vary, and 
are not con lined rig- 
idly to a certain 
curve, as in some 
countries where 
such things are de- 
fined in the "Regu- 
lations." The curve 
in each case is much 
greater than that of 

,, , ,, , Fig. 87.— Saber of Soudan, Africa. 

the y.o-L-, the east- 
ern cimeter of classic times. The Apongos use a cimeter of similar shape, 
and with a handle shaped like a dice-box. The blade is 4 feet long. No 
other cimeter of Africa has so peculiar a bend as the shotel of the Abys- 
sinians. 137 The blade is nearly straight for two feet, and then suddenly 
makes a turn of about sixty degrees. The edge is on the concave side, 
and it is intended that the poiut shall reach over the top of an enemy's 
shield. The blade is wider and heavier toward the point. It is of soft 
iron, has a rhinoceros-horn handle, and is swung on the right side. 

Among the most curious weapons of the savage world are the hurling 
cimeters — if they may be so called — the trumbashes of the Niam-niams. 138 
The term is from Sennaar, and refers generally to the missile weapons of 
the negroes. The trumbash of the Mam-mams (Jculbeda) Fig. 26, con- 
sists ordinarily of several limbs of iron with pointed prongs and sharp 
edges. Somewhat similar implements are used by the tribes of the Tsad 
basin, and a weapon on the same principle is used by the Marghy and 
Musgoo. The Niam-niams carry them attached to the insides of their 
shields ready for duty, and hurl them with great rapidity, force, and 
accuracy. They are made by the skillful smiths of the Monbnttoo tribe 
of the Welle River. A hurling axe shaped like a sickle is also used by 
the troops of the scheik of Borneo. It is known as a hunga-munga and 
somewhat resembles the trumbash of the Niam-niams. The Tibboos, 
west < >f X nl >ia, use a missile sword, as do also the Fans of Western Africa. 
The Fan weapon is flat and pointed, and near the handle is a sharp pro- 
jection. 



137 Wood, vol. i, p. 718. 



13H Schwemfurth's "Africa," vol. ii, p. 10. 



2G2 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 

The Malays and Dyaks have several swords, as they may be called, 
of peculiar character. Three of them are cutting weapons ; the other is 
a thrust. The three former are parangs ; the latter is the fern. 




Fig. 88. — The parang of the Malays. 

The pardng 139 (T?ig. 88 ) has a two-edged blade which is small but thick 
at the handle, and runs broader and thinner to near the point. It is 
elaborately ornamented with tufts of human hair and charms. The 
haudle is frequently of deer bone neatly carved, but in the present 
instance is of wood bound with red leather and has a tuft -of human 
hair at the hilt. The scabbard is of red wood, carved. A ratan-split- 
tiug knife 140 occupies a pocket in a small sheath attached to the scab- 
bard of the parang. This attaching of a knife to the scabbard is also 
found in Scotland and Central Africa. The parang-latoJc is made of a 
square bar of £-inch steel, which is gradually thinned and widened until 
it reaches a width of two inches near the point. It has a peculiar bend 
of 30° near the hilt. It is sword, machete, axe, all in one, being the 
ordinary weapon of the men and many of the women. It is kept in a 
wooden sheath made of two pieces of wood hollowed out and bound 
together with ratan. It is the executioner's weapon. The parang-ihlang 
is straight. Its blade has a curious shape, being ogee in cross-section. 
This shape seems to give it wonderful execution in cutting, but at the 
same time makes it dangerous to an inexpert swordsman, as the blade 
glances in a remarkable manner. The beheading sword of the piratical 
Illanos '" has a somewhat similar curve. The holes in the Illahoon sword 
indicate the number of victims. 

The most characteristic, however, of the Malay weapons is the kris m 
(Fig. 89), which is used in thrusting, as a Spaniard uses his knife. The 
armorers take as much pride in the making of the weapon as of old 
did the Toledo or Ferrara workmen. The blade is generally waving, 
and its grain is more marked than in any other weapon, as much so in 
fact as the Damascus gun-barrel, and for the same reason, as it is made 
of steel and iron strips laid together, twisted, doubled, and variously con- 
voluted to give the kind of marking required. These are rendered more 
plain by etching the blade with lime juice, the acid corroding one metal 



'"■• Boyle's "Dyaksof Borneo," 114,115; 
Belcher's " Eastern Archipelago," ii. 133 and plate. 
u° Belcher's " Eastern Archipelago," vol. i, ]>i>. 230,231. '" Tbid, vol. i, p. 2G6. 

u* Raffles' " Java," 4to,*i, p. 296 and plates ; Wallaces' "Malay." 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 




Fig. 89.— Malay kris. 



more than the other, and hence leaving the surface grooved. The exe- 
cution kris is also used 

as a thrust weapon, the 

parang-latolc being used 

for beheading. The cul- 

prit or victim, as the case 

may be, sits in a chair, 

and his extended arms 

are held by two persons. 

The executioner stands 

behind and places the 

point of the kris just by 

the left collar bone, and 

strikes it downward, 

piercing the heart. If he be fastidious he places a pledget of cotton 

wool around the point of the kris before thrusting it into the thorax, 

holds it there tightly, so as to wipe the 
weapon on its recovery, thrusts the wool 
into the gap, and thus avoids shedding a 
drop of blood. 

"A most delicate monster." 

It may be added that the kris is the 
most cherished possession of its owner, 
and may be worth $20, when his cloth- 
ing would not command 2o cents. Some 
krisesare heavily inlaid with gold. The 
sheath is of wood and comparatively 
plain. The size of the weapon is usually 
from 12 to 15 inches long, but larger 
ones are to be seen. Some authorities 
have told us that the handle is always 
bent at right angles to the blade. In the 
Javan collection of the Dutch colonies in 
the Main Building the handles were as 
represented in the figure. 

Five swords of the Philippine Islands 
are represented in Fig. 00. They were 
in the Spanish Government Building. 
The resemblance to the Malaysian im- 
plements is very marked; a is evidently 
a Jcris ; l> is a parang; c is a parang- 
ihlang. 

The Siamese sword 143 used from ele- 
phant back has a handle four feet long 
of heavy wood and a screw-joint in the 

Fig. 90 Swords of the Philippines. middle to make it more portable. The 

l « Ruscb.enberger's "Voyage Round the World," p. 295. 




264 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



blade is one-edged, two feet long, and gently curved. The guard is 

a disk set with gems and the scabbard is enameled. 
The Chinese use single swords, sometimes one in each hand ; they 
also have two-handed swords. 144 The warrior armed 
with two makes them fly like the sails of a windmill, 
he leaping and dodging the while. The two-banded 
sword is of the same length and weight as the one 
exhibited from Norway. The Chinese also use a sword 
blade on the end of a pole. The practice of the 
Japanese of rank in carrying two swords is familiar 
from the many illustrations on the fans, which are 
so good and cheap. The swords are known as ~ken 
and latten. Some of the old Japanese swords have 
blood lines. 145 

The Norwegian two-handed sword of some centu- 
ries since was shown in the collection from that 
country in the Main Building. It has a whole length 
of 5i feet and a hilt 15 inches in length. It has two 
hand-holds on the hilt and one above the hilt, proba- 
bly to hold it when used as a pike. 
IV. — Spears. 

The spear is found among most savage nations and 
was the knightly weapon in Europe until the intro- 
duction of fire-arms. It, however, continued in use 
among the Poles, Russians, Turks, and Tartars, and 
was introduced into the armies of Prussia by Fred- 
erick the Great; the Austriaus followed, calling the 
troops Uhlans, and lances are now found in most of 
the European cavalry forces. A number of lances 
were made for a cavalry regiment in the army of the 
Potomac, but the project was abandoned and the 
lances laid away in the arsenal in Washington. 

Perhaps we may assume that the first spear was a 
sharpened stick or pole: such a one was shown in 
the collection from the Argentine Republic, a round 
pole a little larger than a hayfork handle, of dark wood 
The point was a simple taper without any attempt at 




Fig. 



91. — Norwegian two- 
handed sword. 



and 10 feet long 
hastate form. 

A common spear of Borneo and the Philippines is a sharpened bam- 
boo, such as shown at a 1>, Fig. 02. In one case the shaft is of bamboo, 
and in the other a bamboo head is slipped upon a cocoa-wood shaft. 
The end is so sharpened thai the hard silicious skin of the bamboo forms 
the edge and makes a very efficient cutting and piercing weapon. The 
spears c '/ are of cocoa wood. The.head of c has an ornament resembling 

1,1 Wood, vol. ii, ]>. -1 1. 

>ifbold'3 "Nippon," ii, plates 3, 5 bia, 12. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 265 



If 



six diminishing ears of corn with a round finial point. Similarly orna- 
mented spear heads are made in Fiji. The other (d) has six gradually 
decreasing sets of barbs 
crowned by a finial. Other 
spears from the Philippines 
had shark's teeth tacked to 
ridges on the head, and some 
had metallic heads. They will 
be shown presently. 

Jagor mentions that the 
spear (pica) of the Philippines 
is of caryota wood 2.27 m long ; 
the head of bamboo, carved 
wood, or iron (purchased). 146 

The large spear of the Sand- 
wich Islands 147 is 12 or 15 feet 
long and is not barbed, but 
the hurling spear is G or 8 feet 
long, of hard wood, and tapers 
toward the butt, to throw the 
center of gravity forward of 
the mid-length and enable it 
to fly straight. 

The Fijians, 148 who excel in 
ingenuity, have several kinds 
of spears. The fishing spear 
has three or four points set 
iu separately. Each point has 
a round, square, or semicircu- 
lar section, is dovetailed into 
the shaft and lashed thereto 
with sinnet. The war spear 

has a carved head, and barbs, |^ Mrffl 

either cut in the wood, or 
made of the tail of the sting- 
ray and set in separately ; 
these brittle barbs come off 
in the wound and insure cruel 
suffering and generally death. 
One Fijian spear is made of 
a wood which bursts when 
moist, so that it is with diffi- 
culty extracted. The differ- 
ent islands, SUCh as the Tonga, FlG - ^-—Spears of the Philippines. 

Herveys, Fiji, and the New Hebrides have distinguishable varieties of 
spears. 



"" "Philippines," p. 210. "' Wood, vol. ii, p. 4I54. "« Williams " Fiji," pp. 44-5. 



266 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



5. 



The Australian spears are of various qualities and shapes : a sharp- 
ened stick (nandum) with notches for barbs; u9 a spear with a separate 
head of hard miall wood deeply cut with barbs, and fastened to a reed 
(phragmetes communis) shaft; 150 one with a basalt or quartzite head 
lashed to the shaft with sinews from the tail of the kangaroo, 1 ' 1 with 
long projecting barbs on each side, curiously formed from hard wood, 1 ' 2 
a single bone lashed to the head and projecting laterally and back- 
wardly from the point so as to form a barb ; the mongile, a head armed 
with sharp basalt or quartzite flakes set with pid-jer-ong gum ; 153 one with 
a head piece of bone which is lashed to the shaft so that its respective 
ends form point and barb ; 1M lastly, leisters with from two to four barbed 
points, 155 and from G to 15 feet long. 

The flower stalk of the grass-tree furnishes the spear-shaft, which is 
9 or 10 feet long. Fig. 93 shows two South Australian spears, one 
with a double set of inserted barbs made of obsidian or 
quartz, and a kangaroo spear with a wooden head 30 
inches long, and a single row of barbs; 
the shaft is 8 feet long. Fig. 94 
shows two fish-spears, one with two 
prongs and the other with three. 
The prongs of hard and tough gum- 
tree wood are tapered towards each 
end, pointed, and barbed ; their butt- 
ends are then inserted in notches on 
the end of the shaft and held in po- 
sition by black-boy gum, while the 
prongs are spread apart by wedges 
driven between them. The prongs 
are then lashed with sinews. The 
Australian has a blade on the end 
of his spear to act as a paddle as he 
stands in his dug-out canoe and 
watches the water or quietly moves 
from place to place. The night is 

the favorite time for fish.- Spearing, a Fig. 94 — Australian wooden 

jishingsjjears (leisters.) 

fire being made on a bed of wot sand 
and stones in the bottom of the canoe. The natives also carry torches 
of inflammable bark; this mode of fishing is common in North America 
and in Scotland, called "burning the water" in the former, and "leis- 
tering" in the latter. 

149 R. Brough Smith, "Aborigines 1 of Victoria," vol. i, p. 304, Fig. 71-74. 

™Ibid., vol. i,p. :ii)r). Figs. 75,76. 

[ ■•' Ibid . vol. i,i». 308, Fig. 85. 

'« Ibid., vol. i. Pigs. pp. 69, 70, and i, 308, Fig. 84. 

I "*'< Ibid., vol. i, p. 3iU. Fig. 68, andi, 336, Fig. 141. 

'■' I hid., vol. i, p. 306, Fig. 77, 78. 

Ibid., vol. i, p. 306, Figs. 7 ( J, 80, p. 337, Fig. Ml et al. See also PI. iv, ami pp. 33-5 
Nilson'.s '• Stone Age." 



I, 
I 



Fig. 93. — .1 ustralian 
wood< a spears. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



267 



The large spear of the Australian, not to be thrown but used as a 
pike, is as much as 13 feet in length, the head of hard wood, the shaft 
of lighter wood, and as large as the wrist. The Australians also use a 
forked spear, hobo, to secure eels and snakes alive. 156 The turtle har- 
poon, like the hippopotamus harpoon of Africa, has a head detachable 
from the shaft. To the head is attached a rope, on the other end of which 
is a buoy. The harpoon for the dugong has a bone head 4 inches long 
and covered with barbs. It becomes detached from the shaft after strik- 
ing ; the cord attached to the spear-head has no float, but is secured on 
board the canoe. The simplest form of fish-spear is a long sharp stick 
used in gigging fish in water-holes. ir ' 7 

The spears in the JTew Zealand department were all of wood. Some 
were simply pointed poles of hard wood ; others had carved heads with 
pyramidal points. The spear is not a favorite weapon 
of the Maoris ; in fact is said to have been laid aside. 
The heads of the spears are understood to be a conven- 
tional representation of the human tongue thrust out. 
That shown in Fig. 95 is destitute of ornament ; Fig. 
9C, called by the natives taidha Tcwra, has 
suspended tufts of dyed hair. 

The styles of ornamentation peculiar to 
New Zealand, New Guinea, and Fiji are re- 
ferred to by E. Brough Smith. 158 

The harpoon of the Andaman Islander 159 
is shot from a bow, and has a detachable 
head with a connected cord, which is held 
by the archer. 

The spears already considered are made 
of wood, although the use of the tail of the 
sting-ray by the Fijians and of bone and ob- 
sidian by the Australians have been incident- 
ally mentioned. Materials in great variety 
have been used for the heads or barbs of 
spears. 

Stone spear-heads were shown in the South 
Australian department. They were obtained 
from the northern part of the island near 
Melville's Island. They are genuine speci- 
mens of the stone age, which does not represent a specific time but a 
grade of civilization. Consideration must also be had to the absence of 
metals in some localities. The stone spear-heads are chipped to shape 
and lashed to reed shafts with sinews, or with fiber obtained from 
roots. The reeds are <i feet long and the heads from 4 to G inches. 

The spears of the Solomon Islanders are tipped with sharp Hints; those 
of the Admiralty Islanders are of obsidian lashed to the shaft and coated 

166 Aborigines of Victoria, vol. i, p. 3U7, Fig. 82. l57 Ibid., vol. i, p. 307, Fig. 81. 
158 Ibid, vol. i, pp. 296, 297. 1 "' 1 Mount "Andaman," p. 326. 




Fig. 95. — Maori 

wooden spear. 



Fig. 90 



Maorispear 
taiaha lewra. 



268 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



Fig. 97.— Ston. 



spear-heads, South Aus- 
tralia. 



with gum. The Mexican spears were pointed with obsidian. The ob- 
sidian spear-heads of the Papuans excited the surprise of Sckouten, an 

early navigator in those seas; he remarks 
that they had "long staves with very long, 
sharp things at the ends thereof, which, as 
we thought, were flnnes of black fishes." 160 
The aborigines of the Canaries, a race of Af- 
rican origiu, when first discovered, used 
hatchets, knives, lancets, and spearheads 
of obsidian, and axes of green jasper. 

The lances found in the upper strata dur- 
ing the excavations at Ilissarlik 161 were of a 
very hard black or green stone. The spear 
of the Northern American Indian was for- 
merly of stone or flint, but is now of steel. 162 
We may refer in a single group to 
those spears which are tipped with animal 
material, bone, horn, shell, shark's teeth, 
claws of beasts and birds (such as of the kangaroo, cassowary, or 
emu), and the tail of the sting-ray. In the times of Her- 
odotus and Strabo, African spears were headed with the 
sharpened horns of antelopes, 1C;i and the practice still ob- 
tains. 16 * The 
Canary Isl- 
anders, when 
discovered, in 
the fourteen tli 
century, had 
spears and 
digging-sticks 
tipped with 
horns. 165 

PIG. w.— Wooden 
Fig. 98 Shows fi*h-*pear. ^ Ma - 

Fig. 98.— Bone spear-heads and hook, Greenland. two Iv a i i\ k Columbia. 

spear-heads and a hook of bone, exhibited in the Greenland section of 
the Danish department. The upper one is cut down so as to leave barbs. 
The next beneath it has an iron tip riveted to the bone. The lower ex- 
ample is a bone hook about L> inches across. Barbed harpoons of bone, 
from a Scanian bog, Sweden, from a cave in Perigord, and from Terra 
del Fuego, are shown in Xilson's "Stone Age." 166 

Purchas, vol.i, p. 95. 
'" " ScMiemann's Troy, &c," p. 79. 
• Dr. Abbott in Smithsonian Report, l w 7.">, pp. 269, 274. 
i«Herod., vii, 69-71. Strain), xvi, 4, 9, 11. 
'' ' Andersson, p. 15. 
l66 Tylor, ]). 222, and note passim. 
166 Plat.' iv, Figs. 69, 70, 7xi. 



«a^^8SSSSSS2§iS iiiS;iiiaa$ B5 





SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



269 



Fig. 99 is a fish-spear head of wood with incurved points or barbs of 
bone ; the binding is of cherry bark. These hooks are 
used by the Makaks and other Northwestern Indians. >&— 

Fig. 100 is afisk-spearof the Chookchees (TschucTclochies) 
of Northeast Siberia. It has a long stout shaft of pine 
wood, only one-half the length of which is shown. The 
head consists of two baleen prongs, on the ends of which 
are lashed two incurved points of ivory, forming barbs. 
The same style of fish-spear is used by the Youcon In- 
dians of the Mackenzie River country. 167 The Fuegan 
fishing-spear is 10 feet long and has an octagonal shaft 
with a bone head 7 inches in length, with a single barb. 

The National Museum in the Government Building 
had specimens of whale and seal lances from Siberia, 
Alaska, and Greenland. 

Fig. 101 is a seal-spear from the Chookchees of North- 
east Siberia. It has a long spliced pine-wood handle 
and movable point of bone with a metallic tip. 

Harpoons with movable 168 and immovable points 169 are 
shown in Sven Nilson's " Stone Age," edited by Sir John 
Lubbock. 

Fig. 102 is a whaling-lance from the Fonook Eskimo of 
Alaska. It is pointed with a portion of a marrow-bone 
cut off obliquely so as to afford a long cutting-edge. The 
butt-end has a flattened piece to fit the throwing-board, 
which will be shown presently. The piece on the side is a Fir - ioo— Chookchee 

fish-spear, .Siberia. 

spur or button to prevent the spear penetrating the whale 

too far. The Ostiaks, Chookchees, and Keriaks secure the same end 




Fig. 101. — Seal-spear < f the Chookchees, Northeast Siberia. 

by binding the shaft with raw sea-lion hide, which, drying, forms an ini- 



;'. v \,.rm:'.: —:-mhl-^...".jiii ^j^..z 



---:.: ::-.M^-:m. ..::.-.. r— ss 



FlG. 102. — Whaling-lance of Alaska Eskimo. 

movable ridge. Fig. 103 is a whaling-lance of the Greenland Eskimo. 

167 Smithsonian Report for 1866, p. :W4. 

168 " Stone Age," Plate iii, Figs. 52, 53 (for bladder spears). 

l6 *Ibid. Plate iii, 41, 50, 51 ; Plate iv, 09, 72 (bone tips and bone tipped with stone). 



270 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 




It has an iron snow-rest at the end of the wooden stock; the shaft is of 
iron and has a walrus-ivory point, which conies free of 
the shaft when the whale is struck. The shaft is 
dragged by the whale, and a float may be secured to 
the end of the thong. The thongs for the Eskimo har- 
poons are made from the skins of a 

large species of seal. Incisions six 

inches apart are made completely 

around the body and the rings of hide 

removed like so many hoops. These 

are then cut spirally into thongs of 

a length equal to the circumference 

of the body at the part multiplied by 

the number of times the width of the 

thongs goes into 6 inches. Fig. 101 

is another whaling-lance of the Green- 
land Eskimo. It has a long bone rod 

for the attachment of the mova- 
ble head which comes entirely free 

of the shaft, but is held by the thong. 

The shaft has a snow-rest at the 

butt. 

The Makah Indians of the North- 
west Coast use a lance and seal-skin 

buoy in capturing the great bow-head 

whales of the Pacific. Fig. 105 shows 

the buoy, rope, and lance-head. The 

head is placed on the end of a long 

forked pole and comes oil the shaft 

after the whale is struck. The buoy 

is made of a seal-skin stripped off en- 
tire, sown up at the ends, 
and inflated. The lance- 
head is of shell with wal- 
rus-ivory barbs and point 
secured with sinews and 
pitch. The rope is of 
spruce root roasted in the. 
ashes, pounded, frayed, 
and twisted. Fig. 106 
shows the seal and fish- 
spear of the Eskimo of Ko- 
diak, Alaska. It has a 
long slender ornamented 
shaft and movable barbed p IG . i 4 
point. The shaft has a 
bladder float and an ivory knob to limit the penetration of the spear 



Fir,. 103.— Wlialing-lance, Greenland. 



WJinling-lance 
of Greenland Eskimo. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



271 




The bird spear of the Greenland Eskimo has, besides its main point, 
several supplementary points at some distance from the end of the spear. 
It has an inflated bladder to prevent its sinking in the water. 

A number of dif- 
ferent Polynesian 
weapons are made 
with shark's teeth 
lashed to wooden 
clubs or lances. 

Fiff. 107 is a Spear- Fig. 105. — Lance-head and sealbuoy, British Columbia. 

head exhibited in the Philippine Islands section of the Spanish department. 
The Kingsmilland Marquesas Islanders also arm theedges of their spears 
with sharks' teeth, binding them to the shaft with sinnet, the plaited fiber 
(coir) of the cocoa-nut. One from the Kingsmill Islands has over 200 
teeth in a row, the shaft being of light wood and 15 feet long. A spear 
from the Philippines had 12 teeth in a row. A saw is made on the same 
principle by the Australians ; flakes of obsidian or quartz, about the 
size of a quarter-dollar, are inserted in a grooved stick of gum-tree wood 
and fastened by gum from the grass-tree, commonly known as "black- 




Fig. 10G. — Seal and fish spear, Eodiak Eskimo, Alaska. 

boy" gum. 170 Javelins of bone or wood with longitudinal grooves, in 
which are inserted flint Hakes, are shown by Nilson. in 

The spear of the Tonga Islands is barbed with the tail bone of the 
sting-ray ; the same bone is used on the prongs of the Tahitian trident. 
The barbs are not fastened, but are slipped into sockets just tight enough 
to hold them until they are thrust into the body, when they become de- 
tached and, from their barbed character, work deeper and deeper into 
the wound. 

We have considered wooden spears, and those with stone and bone 
beads, and incidentally some other materials. We now come to metal, 
the material of all the best, and which, once adopted, is not again laid 
aside. 

Spear-heads of copper were shown among the Indian implements 
from Wisconsin. Copper preceded iron, being found native and mal- 
leable. Copper and bronze implements are among the articles recov- 
ered from the Egyptian tombs, the tumuli of Assyria, and the excava- 



170 Wood, vol. ii, p. 35. 



i" " Stone Age," pi. vi, Figs. 124, 5, G. 



272 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



i 



tions of Hissarlik. 172 The spears of the Peruvians 173 were tipped with 
copper or bone, and those of the Inca lords mounted 
with gold and silver. 

The Philippine Islands were represented in the Spanish 
Government building, and had a sheaf of spears, among 
which were the iron weapons, Fig. 108. One of these has 
■a sword-blade, and a number of ferrules to prevent the 
tang from splitting the shaft. Another spear has two 
barbs, and a third one has a lanceolate head. The trident, 
Fig. 110, was also shown in the same collection. The 
mora, or crossbar, to limit the penetration of the spears, 
shown in the Eoman venabulum or hog spear, does not 
seem to be in common 
use in the Orient. The 
Japanese have as many 
as 14 kinds of spears, 174 
perhaps more. 

Fig. 109 is a three- 
pointed spear from Timor, 
shown in the collection 
from the Portuguese col- 
onies. It has three sim- 
ple points, the outer ones 
being on the ends of a 
cross-bar slipped over the 
middle prong and bent 
forward. The Philip- 
pine trident, Fig. 110, is 
used for fishing, but thell- 
lanoon pirates 175 use a 
bifurcated spear with re- 
treating barbs to catch 
men by the neck. The 
tli roe -pointed spear is 
found in many widely sep- 
arated parts of the world, 
and is mentioned in the 
history of the Saracen 
conquests, particularly in 
one of the feats of Ali. 
Fig. Ill shows three 

Fir;. 107. — Shark's- j. ,, T , , ,. 

tooth spear of the spears of the Island of _ 

Philippines. m- mi ^ xt Tig. 10S.— Iron spear-heads of the Philippines. 

* Timor. They show the 

same tendency as to shape as the halberds and lances of the middle 



1 



"■ " Troy and its Remains," p. 330. 173 "Conquest of Peru," vol. i, p. 73. 

174 Siebold's " Nippon," vol. ii, pi. 6. 175 Belcher's " Eastern Archipelago," vol. i, p. 252. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 273 





ages. The -weapons of Timor and of the Philippines are very similar, as 

might have been anticipated. 

The African spears show a great variety. Over the large portion of 

the continent iron is either 

plentiful or readily accessi- 
ble by means of the native 

traders. The metallurgic 

process is a direct one from 

the ore and the product is 

a steel. Weights, shapes, 

and sizes of the weapons dif- 
fer greatly. The Bongos of 

the Upper Nile ir6 are skillful FlG - n».-2v*fon« of Timor. 

blacksmiths and make excellent lances, especially considering the crude 

character of their tools. 
The spears of the Niani- 
niams and Monbuttoos 177 
are of a hastate shape, and 
their weapons all have 
nn. no.-Trident 0/ the rMiippines. blood-grooves, which dis- 

tinguishes them from the weapons of the Bongo and Mittoo. The Man- 

ganji spear 174 is sometimes made with 

a paddle or dibble at the end of the 

handle, and is weighted with iron rings. 
The spear of the Kanemboo infantry 

soldier of Borneo is 7 feet in length, 

and armed below the head with a num- 
ber of hook-shaped barbs. The Abys- 
sinian spear is seven feet long and has 

four grooved sides. It is used either 

as a pike or a javelin. The natives 

have also a way of throwing it at close 

quarters by letting the shaft pass 

through the hand and catching the 

butt-end. The bark of a young tree 

being removed, the wood is seasoned 

by fire, greased, then hung in the sun 

to obtain the desired color. 

The hippopotamus spear of the Zam- 

besi 17 '-' is a beam four or five feet long 

armed with a spear-head or hard-wood 

spike covered with poison. The spear 

is suspended from a forked polo by a cord, which, comin 

280. 




Fig 111. — Spears of Timor. 

down close 



1TO Schweinfurth's "Africa," vol. 
«" IUd., vol. ii, p. 27. 
I7K Livingstone's " Zambesi," p'. 532. 

l7 » Livingstone's Zambesi, p. 1<>7; Baker's Ismailia, PI. opp., p. 135. 
S. Mis. 54 18 



274 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 

to the path frequented by the animals, is held by a catch and is set 
free when the animal treads upon it. The Banyai of the Zambesi have 
a hippopotamus spear with a wooden shaft, iron head, and weighted with 
stones ; like the former, it is suspended over the track of the animals. 
The Fans of the Gaboon have a similar contrivance. The Dor tribe pre- 
pares a similar spear, but the hunterclimbs a tree and drops it upon an 
elephanl passing beneath. The elephant spear of Uuyoro is similar. 

The hippopotamus harpoon of the Zambesi 1 " has an iron head inserted 
in the end of a long pole of light wood. The head has a stout barb and 
becomes detached from the shaft ; the rope attached to the head unreels 
from the shaft, and when it has all run out the shaft acts as a float to 
indicate the locality of the animal. An inflated bladder is sometimes 
used as a float. The rope is made from the bark of the milola, an umbra- 
geous hibiscus. The Hamram Arabs use a float of ambatrlu an extremely 
light wood. The Makobahs of Lake Ngami 181 attach the rope to the 
head by a large bunch of loose strands, which cannot be cut clean off 
by the teeth of the animal. A rope of palm leaf is attached to the shaft, 
and is coiled up in the boat. 

The turtle-spear of the Central American Indians is a heavy palm- wood 
staff with a notched iron peg at the end, and twenty fathoms of silk- 
grass line attached. 

The assegai, the hurling spear or javelin of the Kafirs, was shown in 
the Cape of Good Hope collection. It is a very formidable weapon in 

^^ ^7^4^'^^V/<W^''' lVss i s >^ s '^- V; -^ 'iili r il l ll i Miii rr 



s W/A s/,;s; ;/;;;.> »>>■" •■>■>' m wwi.aA' ■■■'i'WWAW 
Fig. 112. — Kafir assegais. 

the hands of this athletic and untamed people. The people of "the 
Cape" say that the Kafirs are the remains of the lost "ten tribes of 
Israel," and have foughl their way all down through Africa. Their asse- 
gais are made from native iron, have wooden shafts, and are decorated 
with tufts of cow hair. The blade has various symmetrical lanceolate 
shapes. A ridge passes along the center of the blade, which is concave on 
one Side, convex on the Other. This shape is intended to give rotation to 
the weapon. The head of the assegai is about the size of the blade of 
a table knife, and has a tang which is inserted by burning it while red- 
hot into a shaft of assegai wood {Curtisia jaginea), which resembles 
mahogany. The two parts are secured by lashings of raw hide, which 
contracts in drying and holds all firmly. The assegaiis the main weapon 
of the Kafir, and with it he kills his cattle, skins them, and cuts them 
up; with it he also carves his clubs, spoons, dishes, pillows, and milk- 

""Liviii-r.stoue'a Zambesi, p. 44. m Wood, vol. i, i>. 379. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



275 



pots, and shaves his head — or rather that of his friend. 
His other weapon is a club ; he does not use the bow and 
arrow. 

The Bechuana assegais 182 have cruel barbs on their shafts, 
being originally forged square and the barbs made by cut- 
ting and raising the corners. The assegai of the Damaras has 

a broad, leaf-shaped, soft-iron blade 
a foot in length j it has a strong han- 



FlG. 



113. — Copper harpoon point, 
Alaska. 



die, on which is a flowing ox-tail. 



The spear of the Gran Chaco In- 
dian of La Plata is 15 feet long ; it is his principal war weapon, 
and is also used as a vaulting-pole in mounting his horse. The 
Fuegain thro wing-spear is shorter and has a row of barbs down 
one sides 
The harpoon -point of native copper, with unilateral barbs, is 
shown in Fig. 113. It is from the Atnacs of Cop- 
per River, Alaska. The harpoon used by the Ahts 
of Vancouver's Island in whale-fishing has a yew 
handle ten feet long, on the end of which is a de- 
tachable iron barbed blade ; it has a line of deer 
sinews counectiug with the main cord of cedar- 
bark twine laid up into a rope and having a num- 
ber of inflated seal skins attached. 

The fish-spear of the Frobisher Bay Eskimo, 
Fig. 114, has a point of iron, and incurved barbs 
made from sharpened nails set in flexible bone 
prongs, which are lashed to the short pine- wood 

handle. Fig. 115 is the 
salmon spear of the Pas- 
samaquoddy Indians. It 
has a long stout shaft, 
wooden prongs, and iron 
point. 

Norway sent some rel- 
ics of the past, the hal- 
berds and lances, Fig. 
L16. 

Throwing - sticks are 
used in many parts of 
the world to increase the 
power of flight of the 
spear by extending the 
radius of the arm in 

iu.~Fish- H| throwing. The thrOW- 

spear, Frobisher ■ 

Bay Eskimo. FiG.llG— Norwegian halberds, stick of the Alist I aliailS, 




182 Wood, vol. i, p. 314. 



276 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



called by them Wumm&rah m midlah, meera, Icur-wuJc, is a stick'* 4 about 
three feet long. The spear Lies along the arm and the stick, its rear 
end being against the prong on the outer end of the 
Latter. The butt of the spear has a socket for the 
tooth on the end of the stick. This is sometimes a 
tooth of a kangaroo; in other cases of bone or of 
wood. The form of the wummerah varies in differ- 
ent parts of the island, being sometimes a mere stick 
with a swelled hand-hold at one end 
and the prong at theother. Other spec- 
imens show flat boards, leaf-shaped or 
tapering. Itisof hard and elasticwood, 
and heavy enough to be used as a club 
at close quarters. The spear is quiv- 
ered like the Kafir assegai in throwing, 
and undulates like a thin black snake 
in its passage through the air. It is 
also thrown underhand, skimming and 
ricocheting on the ground. Figs. 117 
and 118 are throwing-sticks of South 
Australia and Victoria, shown in the 
Main Building. 

Fig. 119 shows the way of using it. 
The plan reminds one of the Span- 
ish method of knife-throwing, in which 
the fore-arm and hand are used as the 
projector, the knife lying in the hand, 
which is extended palm upward. 

Although the plau of bending the 
spears in throwing does not appear to 
be universal in Australia, it is some- 
times adopted to increase the force of 
the projection. The Pelew Islanders 
use a throwing-stick about two feet 
long to hold thebuttof the spear, which, 
in throwing, is bent by the left hand 
until it is nearly double. The spear is 
released Ivy the left hand simultaneously f £^2StJ 
with the Sweeping motion of the right toria, Australia, 
hand and arm. The Puiupurus of the Amazon, 185 unlike all the other 
tribes of the region, have neither blow-gun nor bow, but project their 
arrows by means of a throwing-stick (palheta). Take the Australian 
and American implements it has a projection at the end to hold the 

Backhousi s's " Wstralia," p. 133. 
184 R. Brough Smith, "Aborigines of Victoria," vol. i, pp. 308, 309, Figs. 88-93, aud 
p 3 18, Figs, llii, 147. 
1 Wallace's "Amazon," p. 514. 



Fig. 1 17. — Spear-throwing 
sticks, South .1 tutralia. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 277 




butt of the arrow. The middle of the arrow and the handle of the pal- 
lida are held in the right hand, and the arrow is projected as from a 
sling. The natives are very skillful with it. 

The throwing-boardx used by the Northwestern Eskimo and Indians 
are shown in Fig. 120. 
They resemble the 
spear-casters (xu iatla- 
tli) used by the Aztecs 
at the time of the Span- 
ish COntlUeSt. On the Fig. 11 ^- — Australian throwing-stick. 

mural monuments of Mexico the gods are generally represented as using 
the stick to throw the javelin. The Mexican stick most resembles the 
upper one in Fig. 118. Some other Eskimo throwing-sticks have pro- 
jections against which the butt of the spear is placed; and others (see 
the lower in the figure) have holes for the tail end of the spear. 

The Romans used the amentum (<;/'. habena), a thong fastened at the 
center of gravity of the javelin to hurl the weapon. It is mentioned by 
Livy and Ovid. By giving the thong a few turns around the shaft a ro- 
tary motion could 
be imparted to 
the javelin in 
throwing. The 
ansa of the ansa- 
tahasta was a sem- 
icircular strap- 
handle to a spear, 
like the bow on a 
sword-hilt. The 

Fig. 120. -Throwing-boards of Northwestern Eskimo. aclisof theancient 

Osci was a massive spear like a harpoon, with an attached line for recov- 
ering it. 

The natives of New Caledonia have a javelin 15 feet long, which is 
discharged by a plaited cord (ounep) attached a little behind the middle 
of the spear. This ounep (otherwise called sipp), answering to the ami ..• 
turn of the ancients, but superior thereto, is a plaited cord made of com- 
bined coir liber and fish-skin; it has a knot at one end and is worked 
into a loop at the other. It is wound around the spear-shaft so as to give 
it a rotary motion in flying. 186 When a spear is to be thrown the forefinger 
of the right hand is put into the loop, and the man balancing the weapon 
to find the middle takes a sailor's half hitch at a point behind the center 
of gravity. Throwing the spear he looses his grasp at once, projecting 
the weapon by the cord, which becomes detached as soon as the back- 
ward pull on it occurs, leaving the cord in the hand of the thrower. 
The ancient amentum was attached to the spear. 




I8 «Nilson, "Stoue Age," p. 174. 



278 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



V. — SniELDS. 



Shields were in force, in Philadelphia, from Africa, Asia, Malaysia, 
and Australia. They were of grass, ratan, hide, wood, and other mate- 
rials. Some \\»ie so large as to cover the person; others were smaller 
and intended to be moved to intercept a weapon; others still were long 
and narrow, used in parrying spear- thrusts. 
Beginning with the South of Africa, the first we find is the Zulu shield 

in the department of the Cape of Good 
Hope. It is of ox-hide and of a long ellip- 
tical shape. The color denotes service. 
Black shields are for boys; white, with 
mottlings, for warriors. The prevalence 
of color or peculiar markings denotes the 
regiment to which the warrior belongs. 
The shield is strengthened by a vertical 
stake at the rear, which forms a handle, 
and projects below and above, where it 
forms a rest and an ornament, respect- 
ively. A strip of black hide is passed in 
and out of a double row of slits, one row 
on each side of the stick, showing on the 
front of the shield like oblong markings 
on a white ground. Standing on its end 
the shield comes up to the warrior's eyes, 
the stick to the crown of his head. The 
shields are the property of the chief, and 
are apportioned to the deserving. The 
shapes of the shields vary among the dif- 
ferent tribes of what may be called the 
121 - Kafir race. Some of the shields have de- 

pressions in the sides as if a piece had been cut out, resembling the 
emeile or sacred shield of Numa, which was supposed to have fallen 
from Heaven. In some instances the depressions in the sides are so 
greal as to make them hour-glass shaped. The Basuto Kafirs 187 have a 
curious shield, resembling a body with two wings. The Bechuana have 
a shield smaller than the Zulus and cut from the thickest part of an ox- 
hide. The Barolongs and Batlapis have a rectangular shield, edged at 
top and bottom with two rounded wings. 

Passing northward and reaching the latitude of Portuguese occupa- 
tion, we find the mat shield of Angola, Pig 122, made of a species of 
grass -rowing commonly in many parts of Africa. The same style of 
manufacture is shown almost all along the Western Coast— the baskets 
and mats of the Gold Coast, for instance. The grass is made into long 




lw Casalis' "Basutos," pp. <;3, 135, 130; Livingstone's "Zambesi," PI. ppp. p. 40. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 279 




rolls, which are laid spirally, being interlaced by ratan strips which 
proceed from the center radially. The view shows the back of the shield 
with the two sticks which form the 
handle. The shields of Londa-land, 
in Equatorial Africa, on the West 
Coast, are made of reeds plaited to- 
gether. The shape is oblong-square, 
5 feet by 2. The Apono shields are 
circular and of basket-work. The 
shield of the Fans of the Gaboon 1S8 
is a piece of hide 3 feet long and 2.] 
feet wide from the skin of the ele- 
phant's shoulder. This resists all 
the native weapons: axes, spears, 
arrows, or even bullets in a glancing 
direction. 

ml „ j. ,, ,. , -, Fig. 122.— Matshield of Angola. 

The Egyptian collection showed 
a number of shields from Central Africa, trophies brought north by 
Long Bey from his expedition beyond Khartoom. Fig. 123 is a leathern 
conical shield with a handle of the same. It is 2 feet in diameter ; alti- 
tude of cone, (> inches. It is made of ox hide and has a strong leathern 
binding. It is ornamented to represent basket-work. Another shield 
exhibited was of giraffe hide and 1 foot in diameter. The Roman clipeus 
was a round buckler of several folds of ox hide covered with plates of 

metal and sometimes on a 
wicker-work foundation. Fig. 
123 shows the strap, answering 
to the Roman balteus, by which 
the shield was suspended from 
the shoulder. 

The Dinkas of the Upper 
Xile 1 * 9 use an ox-hide shield like 
the Kafirs. It is cut in oval 
form and crossed by a stick se- 
cured by being passed through 
holes cut in the thick leather. 

Allied to the shield is an in- 
strument used among the 
Dinkas and Niam-niains forpar- 
rying clubs and lances, rather 
than actually covering the body. 
One Dinka instrument looks 




Fig. 123. — Leathern shield of Uganda, Africa. 



so much like a, bow that it lias been mistaken for one; this is called dang. 
The other is a neatly carved piece of wood about a yard long and with 
ahollowat the mid-length for the hand-grasp. A similar parrying shield 



1K »Wood, vol. i, p. 5%. 



1811 Sch weinfurth's "Africa," vol. i, p. 155. 



280 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



is found in Australia (sec infra, Fig. 134). The Niam-niams use a spin- 
dle-shaped wooden implement 4 inches broad in the middle and tapering 
to a point at each end. It is carried in the left hand, a handle being 
scooped out of the center, and is used in parrying lances and spears by 
means of a dexterous twist. 

The wooden shield of Uganda is shown in Fig. 124. The wood is 
soft, ornamented with ratan and bound with leather. It is 2 feet 10 
inches long, 2 feet wide, and half an inch thick. The wood projects in 
the center to form a boss; the handle is of ratan. A basket-work shield 
from Uganda, also from the Long Bey collection, is shown in Fig. 125. 
It is made of cane strips sewed together 
with ratan over ribs of split wood. It is 3 
feet 8 inches long by L5 inches wide. The 
edge is bound with raw-hide, and in the cen- 
ter is a block 18 by Cinches with a handle 
cut in it. It is tied to the shield with ratan, 





Fig. 125. — Basket-work shield, Uganda, 
Vu:. 124.— Wooden shield, Central Africa. J - fl " 

and serves to st ren- then the shield as well as afford a hold for the hand. 

The shield of the Xiant-niauis '"' is plaited from the Spanish reed, and 
is of a Ion-' oval form covering two-thirds of the body. It is plaited in 
prettj patterns of black and white in crosses and is lined with leopard 
skin, [nside of the shield the native carries the trumbash, a peculiar 
missile weapon with blades and three projecting points. See supra. 

The Monbuttoos who inhabit the territory south of the Niam-niams 
of the extreme Upper Nile waters have a wooden shield of rectangular 
Si Ii\n< -iufiii-ili'-, "Africa," vol. i. p. 441; vol. ii, pp. 9-11. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 281 




shape, somewhat like, but flatter than, the Roman scutum. m The shield 
is 4 feet by 2i feet, half an inch thick, and is hewn out of the solid block. 
It has a ridge-like protuberance across the middle and is stiffened and 
ornamented with transverse plates of cop- 
per and rotang twist. The shields are usu- 
ally decorated with tails of the guinea-hog 
(Potamachcerus), and are invariably stained 
black. 

The shield of the Kanemboo negroes in 
the army of the Sultan of Borneo is about 
4 by 2 feet and of an oval shape. It is of an 
extremely light wood, which grows in the 
shallow waters of Lake Tchad. The pieces 
of which it is made are bound together witli 
strips of raw-hide with the hair on. These 
straps make a vandyked pattern across the 
shield and around its edge. The Arab shield 
of Zanzibar 192 is round, 18 inches in diame- 
ter, made of rhinoceros hide, and worn at 
the back from the left shoulder. The Abys- 
sinian shield is made of buffalo hide, and 
its convex outer surface has a boss in the fig. 126. — Monbuttoo wooden shield, 

. T , . , , .", ,, Ventral Africa. 

center. It is ornamented with the mane, 

tail, and paw of a lion, if the owner has been so fortunate as to kill one j 
others have silver or brass plates. Around the shield are holes, through 
which passes the thong by which it is suspended. It is changed so as 
to hang by a different hole each day, in order that it may not become 
warped. The Nubian shield is made of hippopotamus or crocodile skin, 
and has a central projecting boss formed of a separate piece of skin. It 
is stretched on a wooden frame-work. The notches in its perimeter are 
a fashion, probably the remaining impression of some ancient shape. 

The shields of ancient Asia Minor and Assyria and the modern shields 
of India show the various shapes and materials which we have cited. 
The large shield of the Assyrians, used at sieges, was of wicker-work or 
hide; it had a curved point or a projection like a roof. It was held by 
a shield 1 >earer. I9,i The oblong standing shield was referred to by Herodo- 
tus, who said 194 "the Persians made a fence of their osier shields." 
The Assyrians had also circular bucklers of hide or metal. The oval copper 
shield found by Dr. Schliemann in the excavations at Hissarlik, 195 28 feet 
below the surface, is 20 inches in length, quite flat, except a raised rim and 
boss. Herodotus says 1 "" that the Carians invented the handle of the 
shield, previous to which time it had been strung by a strap from the 

"' Smith's Diet., Gr. & Rom. Antiq., London, 1875, p. 1013. 

192 Ruschenberger's "Voyage Round the World." p. 31. 

'-"Iliad, h. viii, /. 319, 327; 1 Samuel, xvii, 7; Layard's Nineveh, Pis. vii, viii. 

1,1 Herodotus, /. 9, c. 61. 

195 Schliemann's "Troy and its Remains," PI. xiv, opp. p. 324. 

''"'/. i, c. 171. 



282 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



neck. 



The bucklers used during the Trojan war had wooden handles. 197 
One circular shield shown from India was of rhi- 
noceros hide, L8 inches in diameter, and orna- 
mented willi circular plates of 
iron. The round buckler of 
the Kurds 1 "" and Arabs are 
made of the hide of the hippo- 
potamus. The Lepcha 199 (Sik- 
kim) shield is of cane with a 
tuft of yak hair in the mid- 
dle. The ancient Singhalese "" 
shit Ids were sometimes cov- 
ered with plates of the chank 
shell (Turbinella rapa). This 
is yet used as an ornament in 
some parts of Malaysia. It is 
a spiral shell, 20 ' the fishing for 
which is a monopoly on the 
Chinese coast, and is rented 
like the pearl fishery. The 
great market for the shells is in 
India, where they are sawed 
into rings, and worn by the In- 
Fig. 127.— Wooden shield of iliaii women on theirarms, legs, F[( , 12i _ y ^ oden , hield 

theMa toes, and fingers. In Beugal **«*» °f Borneo - 

the shell has a ceremonial use, and is buried with opulent and distin- 
guished persons. 

The Malaysian shields 202 are 
usually of wood. Two were 
shown in the Netherlands col- 
onies collection. Fig. 127 is 
strengthened against splitting 
by transverse strips of bamboo 
sewed on with ratan. The wood 
is half an inch thick, the shield 
4 feet long and IS inches wide. 
The other shield, Fig. 128, is also 
of wood, and belongs to the 
Dyaks of Borneo. 203 The shape 
is somewhat peculiar,, being nar- 
rowed in the middle and pointed 
Fig. 129.— Leathern shield, Philippine Islands. ubove and below. Ill the exam- 

ple, the wood has bindings of ratan and tufts of human hair set in the 






"Mliit.l. viii. L93. 

Nineveh," vol. ii, ],. 266. 
! Booker's •• Bimalaya," vol. i. p. 304. 
""Tennent'a "Ceylon," vol i, p. 500. 



Bertolacci's "Ceylon," 261. 

Raffle's "Java,"4to, i, PL opp. p.276. 

Wood, vol. ii, pp. lTo-76. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 283 



edges. It is 4 feet long, 10 inches at the widest and inches at the 
midlength. Other shields have beads and feathers, either separately or 
with the tufts of hair. The plain 
wooden surfaces are sometimes 
painted with geometric figures. 

The Philippine Islands collection 
had a number of shields — one of 
hide and a number of wood. Fig. 
129 is a buckler of hide painted 
with geometric figures. Figs. 130 
and 131 are four wooden shields 
of the Philippines. They are from 
3 to 5 feet long and from 10 to 12 
inches broad. They may also be 
classed among the parrying wea- 
pons, being evidently intended to 
glance off arrows or spear thrusts. 
The shield (kalasag) of the Ygor- 
rotes of the Philippines is of wood 
covered on the edge with ratan, 
and is 19 inches in circumference. 204 
The shield of the Malakus 205 of the 
Eastern Archipelago is narrow, of 
hard wood, bent to an arc shape, 
inlaid with bits of shell, and pro- 
vided with a single handle placed 
in the center. The warriors of the 
Solomon Islands use clubs, spears, 

boWS 'Hid arrOWS Their OVal T " IG ' 130 - — Wooden shields, Philippines. 

shields are of rushes so thickly plaited as to resist arrows. 

The Siamese shield, Fig. 132, is indebted for its lightness, stiffness, 
and strength to the bamboo. It is 5 feet in height, 20 inches in width, 
and has two thicknesses of plaited bamboo splits, inclosing a layer of 
plantain or bamboo leaves. 

The Chinese shield (Fig. 133) is made of ratan cane, coiled from the 
center outward, and interlaced with ratan splits proceeding in a general 
radial direction. The diameter is 32 inches, the height of the cone <S 
inches. It has a cross-bar lashed by ratan splits and an arm-loop and 
hand-grasp similarly attached. 

The Australian shields are of three general descriptions : The towerang, 
Ormulga (Fig. 131), which is light, long, and narrow, used for warding 
Off the blows of spears and boomerangs by a circular twist which de- 
flects them from their course; the heilamon {gee-am) or oval shield, which 
covers the person more or less perfectly and receives the impact of the 




2M Ja<rar, " Philippines," p. 210. 

^Belcher's "Eusteru Archipelago," vol. ii, p. 376. 



284 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



weapon ; and a smaller shield held like a cricket-bat in the hand by a 
handle at the end. On this island continent are various tribes, with 

varying dialects, and the 
names of the shields are not 
the same in all districts. The 
names mulga and gee-am are 
those given by R. Brough 
Smith. 20(i 

The toicerang (mulga) or par- 
rying shield was shown in the 
Victoria section of the Aus- 
tralian department. It is 2£ 
or 3 feet long and used for 
fencing off the blows of mis- 
siles by striking them in flight. 





Fig. 



132. — Basket-work shield of 
Siam. 



Fig. 131. — Wood( n /</. Ids of the Philippines. 
It is made from the bine-gum tree, which is relatively hard and heavy, 
enabling it when it strikes a Hying weapon to swerve it from its flight 
without too greal a strain on the wrist. The hand-hold is cut out of the 
solid back ..f {he shield, or, when the material is thin, the ends of the 
handle piece are driven through the front of the shield and secured. 

The size giveo by R. Brough Smith is 35 by 5 inches, and he states 
that they are usually made of iron-wood or the box-wood of the colony. 
Aborigines of Victoria, Melbourne, ld/8, pp. 330-334. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 285 




133.— Chinese shield of basket-work. (Inside.) 



y< 



All have hand-holds, made out of the solid, and the weight is from 2^ to 
3i pounds. A variety of sizes and some variation of patterns are shown 

in Figs. 113-120 

of his work. 207 
The heUamon 

(gee-am), or war 

shield, used by the 

aborigines of New 

South Wales, is 

2 feet long, 10 

inches broad, and 

usually made from 

a solid block of 

wood, though 

sometimes from 

bark. The de- 
pression and 

hand - grasp are 

carved out of the 

wood. That shown in Fig. 135 is made from the wood of 

the gigantic nettle-tree. In other parts of Australia the 

bark of some one of the numerous 

species of gum is bent to form by 

the application of heat, and a han- 
dle or arm-bow is lashed on. The 

shape is usually a long oval, but 

some are of a diamond shape. The 

bark shield is called muldbdkka. 

The Murray River blacks make 

canoes, by means of this bending 

process, from the bark of the tea- 
tree (melaleuca, i. e., black and 

white), and from various species 

of eucalypti . 

In the work just referred to, 208 the 

larger shield, for general protec- 
tion, isspoken of as generally made 

of green bark, which is curved by 

Tic. 134.— Tower- , . ,, , 

anp or parrying laying it upon an earthen mound 

siiirbl of Autitra- e j.i • i 1 i 

?,„. of the required shape, covered 

with hot embers ; the bark is laid thereon and 
weighted with stones, it lias a hand grasp of 
the original wood, or one is inserted. The size 
is 38 by 10 indies. 

The Victoria section of the Australian department showed shields of 




Fig. 135. — HeUamon or war- 
shield of New South Wales. 



207 Aborigines of Victoria, Melbourne, I878j p. 300 et seq. 
208 Ibid., p. 382, Figs. 131-139. 



286 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



the third kind (Fig. 136), each having a handle, so that it looked like 
a bat. Such a shield is 24 by 10 inches, and is made by shrinking bark 
into a curved shape by water and heat and stiffening it with a cross 

stick. 
The wooden shield of Western Australia is shown in Smith's work. 209 

The shield of the North American In- 
dian is made of buffalo hide. In making 
it, a piece of bull-buffalo skin is selected, 
twice as large as the shield required. A 
hole is dug in the ground, as large as the 
future shield, and a smudge of smoke of 
rotten wood is made under the skin, which 
is pegged above. As the skin is heated, a 
glue made of the horns and hoofs is rubbed 
in hot, which causes the skin to contract, 
and the pegs are regularly loosened to al- 
lowit to shrink, at the same time keeping- 
it stretched. When it has imbibed the 
necessary quantity of glue, and has 
reached the dimensions of the hole, being 
twice as thick as in its natural condition, 
it is ready for the trimming and dressing 
which complete it as a shield 

The Uaupe Indians of the Amazon 210 
use shields of wicker-work, sometimes 
g covered with tapir skin. Sometimes the 
hide of the vaca marina or sea cow is used 
by the Amazon Indians for making shields; it is the largest animal ac- 
cessible, and its skin fills the place occupied by the rhinoceros, hippo- 
potamus, and elephant hide in the torrid regions of Africa. 

VI. — BOWS AND ARROWS. 

The use of poison upon arrows by savages is very ancient, and is yet 
found in many distant parts of the world. The very name tor "poison" 
in Greek (toacicon) — and tin' Latin is similar — is derived from the word 
equivalent to "arrow." Commencing our notice of bows and arrows with 
South Africa, the first example we find is the poisoned arrow of the 
bosjesman, or bushman. 211 

•■ I'.ut Mack as death, the thin-forged bitter point, 
That with the worm's blood late did erst anoint." 

Death of Paris. (Earthly Paradise.) 
This arrow is in several pieces; the head is a triangular iron plat.i 
inserted into the end of a short section of reed, which slips over a piece 

Aborigines of Victoria, Melbourne, 1878, p. :::'. ( .t, Fig. 148. 
'-"'Wallare's "Amazon," \>. 504. 

alis' Basutos, siv; Livingstone's Travels, p. 189; Baiue's South Africa, pp. 
144, i:>", 164. 




Fig. 136. — Woodt n %hv his of Victoria, Aus- 
Iralia. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 287 



i=±- 







Fig. 137.— Iron arrow-heads of Angola, Africa. 



of ostrich-bone socket in the reed-shaft of the arrow. In some cases the 
weapon consists of as many as five parts; a piece of ivory on the end of 
the section of reed and holding the iron point, which is daubed with 
poison. In each case the glutinous poison holds the iron tip, and the 
latter conies off in the wound. The poison is either from the putrified 
cocoons of an insect, the 'Jcaa or ngwa, of Livingstone, from the poison 
gland of the puff-adder, or from the Euphorbia arbor escens. The arrows 
are carried in a neat quiver of bark sewed with sinew. The bow and 
quiver are slipped 
into a small buck- 
skin, the neck of 
which is tightly 
bound round the 
bottom of the 
quiver, while the 
legs serve as belts 
to swing it over 
the shoulders. The 
quiver also contains 
the fire-stick and 
sucking-tube of the 
bushman. 

The Kafir does not use the bow and arrow, although he suffers from 
the poisoned arrows of the bosjesman and fears their effects. The Kafir 
weapons are the assegai and kerrie; that is, javelin and club. 

The Angola arrows, Fig. 137, have heads of steel on reed-shafts. The 
metal is obtained of very good quality by native methods. Their spear 
and javelin heads for thrusting and throwing are likewise tipped with 
steel. The arrow-heads shown in Fig. 137 are bound to the shafts with 
raw hide, grass, or ratan. The arrow-head (a) is like one form of the 
bosjesman arrow, in which the base of the triangular steel piece is in ad- 
vance. 

The poisoned arrows of the Zambesi 212 and Mozambique countries are 
made in two pieces, after the same general plan of those of the bushman 
of the south. The iron barb is fastened to a wand of wood 10 inches 
long, which slips into a reed shaft. The wood below the arrow-head is 
smeared with the poison, and both the barb and the stick remain in the 
wound while the reed drops off. The poison is obtained from a species 
of stroplianthus. The bow of the Zambesi Maravi 213 is intended toactas a- 
shield as well, being from 6 to 8 inches broad, and used in parrying thrusts. 

A Central African quiver brought by Long Ley i« shown in Fig. 138. 
Like that of the Gold Coast it is of wood bound witli leather, and lias 
tassels of the same. A sheathed knife is attached to the quiver. The 
Niam-niams, 214 on the extreme upper waters of the Nile, do not use the 
bow and arrow. The Monbuttoo, 21 '' immediately south of them, on the 



212 Livingstone's "Zambesi," pp. 109, 491. 
213 Ibid., p. 583. 



'-"Scliweinfurth's "Africa," vol. ii, p. 9. 
^■Ibid., vol. ii, pp. 103, 111. 



288 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 

Welle Kiver, have both. The shafts of the Monbuttoo arrows are of 
reeds, and differ from all others of that vicinity in being winged with 
pieces of genet's skin or plantain leaves. The bows are over 3 feet 
long, and the strings made of a strip of the split Spanish reed, which 
possesses more elasticity than any cord. A hollow piece of wood on the 
bow protects the thumb from the blow of the string. The arrow is dis- 
charged from between the middle fingers. The Dinkas 216 of the Upper 
Nile have no bow and arrow; their weapons are lances and clubs. The 
Bongos 2 " use the lance, bow, and arrow. Their bows are 4 feet long, 
the arrows ;5 feet, made of solid wood, and anointed with the milky juice 
of euphorbia. The Madi and Bari 218 tribes of Central Africa also use 




FlG. 13S. — Quiver of Uganda, Africa. 

poisoned arrows; so do the Ashantees, Fans, and Aponos of the "West. 

The modes of handling the bow in Africa are various, and have always 
been so. In ancient Egypt" 9 several modes were adopted even by the 
trained troops. The mural monuments show a bowman with three sup- 
plementary arrows held by the thumb, the string being pulled to the 
shoulder by the lingers. An arrow being discharged another one is 
jerked up, and three are kept in the air at a time. Another figure shows 
a soldier drawing a longer bow, having a larger arrow, and palling with 
the thumb and linger. 

The Assyrians drew the bow to tin' cheek or to the ear, as did the 
Saxons — not to the breast like the (J reeks. The larger Assyrian bow 
was carried over the shoulder, the man first putting his head through 



liwrintui'tli's "Africa," m>1. i p. 154. 
'"Ibid., vol. ii, p. 300. 



- ls liaktr's •• Isinailia," pi. opp. p. 135. 
219 Wilkinson; Kitto, vol. i, p. 452. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



289 



it. The smaller bow was carried in a quiver by the 
aide of the chariot along with the arrows, which were 
reeds with heads of iron or copper. A linen guard 
was strapped to the inside of the left arm to protect 
the arm against the blows of the string. 

The bow and arrow of Queensland, Australia, are 
shown in Fig. 139. The bow is G feet long and made 
of the male bamboo, which is solid. The string is a 
strip of ratan, which is beaten to remove the flinty coat- 
ing and reduce it to a bunch of fibers, which is slightly 
twisted. The arrow is of reed, from 3 to 5 feet long, 
has no nick for the string, nor feathers for the butt. 
The arrow-head is of hard wood, smooth, knobbed, or 
barbed. As the bow and arrow are used only in the 
northerly part of Australia, 220 around the Gulf of Car- 
pentaria and in Queensland, it may reasonably be as- 
sumed that they are of foreign origin, and the knowl- 
edge of them imported from Papua. 

The New Guinean 221 arrow is a reed tipped with 
hard, heavy wood, grooved to receive a tapered slice 
of bamboo with a point made by an oblique cut. The 
arrow is poisoned. The bow is feet in length, made 
from the cocoa-nut tree, and has a string of ratan. 
The arrows of the Solomon Islanders are tipped with 
fish-bones; those of the Admiralty Islands are of reed 
with hard-wood heads secured by ligatures of bark. 
The Tonga Island arrows are of reed and hard wood? 
the junction of the two being covered with plaited 
sinnet and varnished. The Andaman Islanders 222 use 
a bow of tough, strong wood 5 or G feet in length, and 
having two flat bulges, one on each side of the central 
hand-hold. The arrows are of ratan with a hard-wood 
head and a barb made of a fish-bone, the tail-bone of 
the sting-ray, or a nail when one can be procured. The 
point of the arrow is sometimes poisoned. 

The bow of the Philippine Islands is a slab off the 
side of a large bamboo, or it is sometimes made of 
caryota wood; the string of abaca, 3""" in diameter. 223 

Other arrows (pana) have shafts (gaho) of caryota 
wood and points (bucM) of bamboo, or sometimes the 
whole arrow is of wood 1"' to 1.8 m in length. The heads 
are hastate, barbed, three-pointed, or carved spirally. 



230 Wood, vol. ii, p. 4(5. 
1221 Ibid., vol. ii, p. 225. 
222 Mouat's "Andaman," pp. '271, 3-21. 

sssjagor's "Travels in the Philippines," London, 1875, pp. 657, 
138, 210. 

S. Mis. 54 19 



k 



290 SAVAGE WKAFOXS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 





They have different Dames: bulog, bold, serdpong, &c. They are some- 
times dipped in a poisonous mixture looking like tar, and made from the 
mixed inspissated juices obtained from the bark of two trees. The quiver 
is of bamboo; the arrow is frequently a cane with a tip of hard wood 
(sharpened), bamboo, hone, or metal. The arrows exhibited in the 
Spanish Building are shown in Fig. 140. 
The bow, club, and sling are not found among the primitive Dyaks or 

any other aborigines of Malayo-Poly- 
nesia, except tbeBisayan race. 224 The 
Sagais of Borneo use the sumpitan 223 
for propelling poisoned arrows by 
means of the force of the breath. The 
natives called a rocket a "fire sumpi- 
tan." The blow-gun, which is similar 
to the zarabatana of the Macooshees 226 
of South America, is a tube of hard 
wood (Casuarina equisetifolia\ 7 or 8 
feet long, and with a bore of half an 
inch. An iron muzzle-sight is fixed 
upon the upper side and a spear upon 
the lower, the latter serving to keep 
the tube straight, its projecting blade 
also serving as a weapon. The arrow, 
*■ sumpit, is 9 inches in length, formed 
of a leaflet rib of the nibon palm. The point of hard wood is smeared 
with tlie deadly poison of the Upas tree, and has brittle barbs or the 
tail-bone of the sting-ray. which breaks off in the wound. The arrow 
is run through a cone of the pith of the nibon wood, which fits the bore 
and prevents windage. The range is variously stated at from 40 to 150 
yards— from 10 to s i> yards is the more probable statement. 

The common bow of India is made from the male bamboo, bound at 
intervals with belts of split ratan. Another form is made of horn and 
wood, 'flic hand-hold and the ends are wood and the two intervening 
pieces are of a buffalo horn which is sawed lengthwise, flattened by heat 
and pressure, and fastened by long splice joints to the middle and end 
pieces. It is like the arcus patulus of the Romans. Sinews are laid 
along the back of the bow and so agglutinated by heat, moisture, and 
pressure that they appear to form one piece with the body of the bow. 
'flic w hole is then anointed with glue and ornamented according to taste. 
The horn portions are principally involved in the flexure, and when the 
l'..\\ is unbent it recurves and assumes the shape of the letter ■•(•/• the 
back bring inward like the arcus sinuosus of the classic period. The 
bow string is of \ egetable fiber. The arrow is of reed with a hard-wood 

-•' I'.i-l. -h.T> "Eastern Archipelago," vol. ii. p. 338. 

!■••• Li 'a "Dyaks of Borneo," pp. 251, -s>-2: Raffles' "Java," 4to, vol. i. p. 296, and 
PL; Belcher's " Eastern Archipelago," vol. i. i>. -2-21 ; vol. ii, pp. 133, 134. 
Wood, vol. i. i>. . - 



Pig. 140. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 291 



point and butt, the former receiving a quad- 
rangular steel piece, and the latter the feathers 
and the notch for the string. Another Indian 
arrow has a wooden shaft with barbed head 
lashed to the shaft with twine, and "feath- 
ered," so to speak, with dry leaves set in slits 
in the butt of the arrow. 

The maritime people of Ceylon are largely 
from the Malabar coast of India and are dis 
tinct both from the Singhalese, the principal 
nation of the island, and from the Veddahs, 
the wild aborigines who still inhabit the less 
accessible forests. The Singhalese chronicles 
record that the Malabar arrows were some- 
times "drenched with the poison of serpents." 227 

The Veddahs 22 - are expert with the bow, 
whieh they hold in the right hand and draw 
the string with the left. The bow is G feet 
long, and the arrow 3 feet. 229 Iron arrow 
blades z3 ° are the only articles of foreign man- 
ufacture which they covet. Another Veddah 
bow is sprung by the feet, 231 the string being 
held by both hands, the archer lying upon his 
back. This unusual mode is mentioned by Ar- 
n'an, 2 ' 2 and is practiced by the Cabaclos of Bra- 
zil 233 and the Gran Chacos of La Plata. 

The Tartars and Chinese use a bow which 
assumes a recurved form when unstrung. The 
example shown in Fig. 141 was upon the effigy 
of aChinese soldierin the Mineral Annex to the 
Main Building. It is nearly 6 feet in length 
and a few inches from each end is a bone stud 
over which the string passes. The bow is 
bent by placing it behind the right thigh and 
in front of the left, then bending it by a sud- 
den stoop of the body throwing the force on 
the right leg, and, by a quick motion, catching 
the string over the end of the bow and into the 
notch. The body of the bow is a bent bamboo 
Strip of the solid variety, and to its ends 
wooden pieces are lashed with sinews. It has 
a cord string. The shape is exactly that of the 
Scythian bow {arcus scythicus) as shown on 



227 Tennent's "Ceylon," vol. i, p. 500. *" Tennent's "Ceylon," vol. i, p. 499. 

'•• K Knox, "Ceylon," HI. - M Indica, 1. xvi. 

-•' II. S., "Ceylon," London, 1876, vol. i. *» Fletcher & Kidder's "Brazil," p. 553. 
230 Forbes' "Ceylon," vol. ii, p. 78. 



292 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 



classic vases and gems. The Japanese bows and arrows are shown in 

Siebold's great work.-'" 
The bow of the North American Indian is seldom much over 4 feet 
long and is always used on horseback; his aim is not 
remarkable for accuracy, but he discharges the arrows 
with great force and rapidity. The bow ismade of wood, 
bono, or iron. An ash bow with the sinews of the buf- 
falo or deer worked into the back is no contemptible 
weapon either to draw or to face. The bow, Fig. 142, 
like the Roman arcus patulus, is made of several horns 
spliced together. In the present case, the 
horns are those of the mountain sheep, Oris 
Montana. They are made by heating the 
horns in hot ashes and drawing them out, 
then splicing pieces together with bands of 
deer sinew. The joints are hidden by orna- 
mental coverings of cloth, skin, or dyed por- 
cupine quills. Such bows are valued at the 
price of two horses, as the horns of which 
they are made must be obtained by barter 
with Rocky Mountain Indians. The arrow 
is of wood or reed and headed with flint, bone, 
or iron. Indian arrow-heads are the most 
common article in the American sections of 
ethnological museums, and show wide differ- 
ence in shape, material, and size. The exam- 
ple, Fig. 143, has a point of chipped chalced- 
ony. Fig. Ill also shows chipped flint 
arrowheads of the Pai-Utes of Southern 
Utah. They are cemented and bound to the 
wooden shafts. 

The Indians of the California peninsula 
make bows of willow-root, and attach strings 
of intestines. Their arrows are of reed with 
triangular hard wood heads. 235 Flint arrow- 
heads of Terra del Fuego, and of the stone 
age of Sweden, arc shown and described in 
Nil son,-"" and those of the dwellers on the ¥ 

I' i' • 1 r_' - Siott r Tn 

dianh -pile villages of the Swiss lakes, in Desor's F l r ;- ux ~^ ,x , 

ain sheep"! horns. , .,.,- i. • , ■, , „ ;",'",'"', 

wnrk.-" Bond arrow points and bows of yew arrow, Dakota. 

are also found in the same localities.-'- 1 



""Nippon," vi. PL l, bis; vii, pi. r.t. Figs. 1. 1, a, 2; vn, PL 22; see also Ibid, ii, 
PL 5, for Lows and arrows in greal variety. Also upper row in PL 15 and 21, vol. ii. 
Baegart, in Smithsonian Report., 1863, ]>i>. 362, :5. 
- one ago, Plate \ . and pages i. 43-5. 

anslatioii in Smithsonian Report, 1865, p. 374, 356. 
- • Morlot. Translation in Smithsonian Report, 1^(12, p. 376. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 293 




Fig. 144.— Chipped flint tu 
heads, Utah. 



The Oregon Indians make their bows of cypress, Cupressus Lawsoniana, 
or of yew, Taxus brevifolia. The. wood is strengthened on the back 
with sinew, in the manner so common throughout the Northwest, The 
string is of sinew and the arrow of reed pointed with obsidian. The 
arrow-head is chipped to form by a tool simi- 
lar to that by which the glazier nibbles his 
glass to shape. The feathers of the arrow are 
set on spirally. Poison for the arrow-heads is 
made by causing a rattlesnake to strike its 
fangs into liver, which is then allowed to pu- 
trify and the arrows are smeared therewith. 
The bow of the Ahts of Vancouver's Island 239 
is also of wood fortified with sinews. The arrow is large and has a 
barbed bone lip ; the arrow for fish has two tips barbed on the inside 
like the Australian fishing-spear, and clasps any object it may come 
across. The feathering of the arrow is put on spirally. The Ahts have 
also an arrow with a detachable barbed bone point, connected by two 
cords with the shaft, with which they form an equilateral triangle ; the 
shaft impedes the seal in its motions and acts as a float. The same fea- 
ture is common in Eskimo harpoons. 

The bow of the Kutchin tribes of the Mackenzie and Youcon Pavers 
are of willow, 5 feet long and with an enlargement at the grasp to pro- 
tect the hand against the snap of the string. The arrows are of pine ; 
arrow-head of bone of wild-fowl, or of bone tipped with iron for moose 
or deer. 240 

The bow of the Greenland Eskimo is made of horn, bone, or wood, 
re-enforced on the outer side with a multitude of deer sinews, which are 
put on so tight as to give the bow some backward curvature. Its aver- 
age length is 3£ feet. The bow string is twisted deer sinews. The 
Eskimo arrows are of wood tipped with bone or stone; or in some cases 
of wood and bone tipped with iron. Bow and arrows are in a quiver 

of seal-skin. Fig. 145 shows three arrow- 
heads in the Greenland division of the Dan- 
ish department ; the left-hand is of bone 
and the others of stone. The Eskimo uses 
a wrist-guard of bone plates tied together 
and fastened by a button and loop; it re- 
ceives the blow of the bow-string. 

In the warmer regions of America, like 
the countries to which we have referred, 
(lie poisoned arrow is no new thing. Her- 
rera, the Spanish adventurer, died from the 
effects of a poisoned arrow. De Soto's historians 241 mention arrows 
barbed with flint, arrows without barbs, arrows of reed tipped with 




Fig. ll">. — Eskimo arrows, Greenland. 



•239 Wood, vol. ii, p. 7-2."). 



-"' Smithsonian Report, 1866, p. 322. 



-«' Irving, op. cit., pp. 191, 1%, 225. 



294 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 

lozenge-shaped buck's-horn plates, and arrows tipped with fish-bones, 
with palm spikes, and with hard wood. 

The zarabatana 2 " or blow-gun of the Guiana tribes is made in two 
pieces, each of which has a semi cylindrical groove, so that the two form 
a perfect tube when bound together with spiral strips of the pliable 
iacitara wood. The outside is covered with wax and resin. A trumpet- 
shaped mouthpiece directs the wind from the mouth and luugs into the 
tube when the lips are suddenly opened ; the puff seems to be directly 
from the chest. The blow-gun is 12 feet long and quite heavy. A 
lighter gun, pucuna, of the same region, is made of a ten or fifteen feet 
section of a reed (Arundinaria Schombergll), which grows in a limited 
region on the Upper Orinoco, and has a length of over 12 feet between 
the joints of its lower portion. This reed forms the ourah or barrel and 
is slipped into a stick of palm (Ireartia sctigera) from which the pith 
has been pushed out. The mouthpiece end is bound with silk grass 
and the other end fortified with the half of an acuero nut, which also 
forms the muzzle sight. The breech sight is made of two incisor teeth 
of a cavy, which are secured with wax to the tube, the depression be- 
tween the teeth being the valley sight. The gun is held in the left 
hand, the elbow of that arm resting on the hip. The right hand grasps 
the tube near the mouth piece, and the gun is raised by bending the 
body. It weighs about a pound and a half — but a fraction of the 
weight of the zarabatana. The arrow is made of the leaf rib of the 
coucourite palm. It is 10 inches in length, about the size of a crow- 
quill, is pointed by means of a fish-tooth scraper, and is fitted to the 
bore with a pledget of wild cotton (Bombax ceiba). The arrows 
depend, like the sumpits of the Dyaks, upon their sharp poisoned tips. 
The poison is obtained from the icourali vine {Strycluios toxifera) and 
a bitter root, the hyarri, to which are added poisonous ants, poison 
fangs of snakes, and other things to give effect to the stuff, or to con- 
ceal the real ingredients, as the composition is a secret in the hands of 
the conjuror. The poison has an instantaneous numbing effect, the vic- 
tim seeming void of pain or fear, dropping immediately, and dying in a 
short time without a struggle. The arrows are kept in a "quiver" or in 
a "roll," and each is cut deeply near the head, so that the poisoned por- 
tion may break off in the wound. The range is from 50 to 100 yards. 
A modification of the arrow is one in which, instead of the cotton, a piece 
of bark is placed spirally on the stem of the arrow, terminating in a 
hollow cone, which fills the bore when the cone is expanded by the wind; 
a singular anticipation of the hollow-base Minie bullet, which is ex- 
panded into the grooves of the rifle by the evolution of gases due to the 
explosion of the powder. A piece or two of bark, laid spirally on the 
arrow-shaft, feather the arrow, and make it revolve in flying. This is 
equivalent to the rifling of a gun. This arrow is tipped with a small 
piece of iron. 

2 « Wood, vol. ii, p. 583. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 295 

For war or for killing the tapir or jaguar, au arrow 6 feet long is 
made of a reed, having for a head a hard-wood spike, an iron point, or 
the tail bone of the sting-ray. Poison is used on either. The arrow is 
projected by a bow. 

The blow-gun of the Uaupes of the Amazon 243 is called the grava- 
tana, and is made of two stems of the small palm Ireartia setigira, one 
slipping within the other so as mutually to correct curvatures. The 
pith is pushed out, and a conical mouth-piece fitted to one end. Arrows 
are made from the spinous processes of the patawa {JEnocarpus batawa), 
pointed and anointed with poison of the wouralL The butt of the 
arrow carries a little tuft of tree cotton to make it fit in the tube. 

The ordinary bow of the Uaupes, 244 the aboriginal Indians of Brazil, is 
of different kinds of hard elastic wood, and is from 5 to G feet long. The 
string is either of the tucum leaf-fiber (Astrocaryum vulgare), or the inner 
bark of trees called tururi. The arrows are 5 feet long or over, are made 
of the flower-stalk of the arrow-grass, and are tipped with hard wood, 
barbed with the serrated spine of the sting-ray. For war, the head is 
anointed with poison, and is notched in two or three places so as to break 
off in the wound. Arrows for shooting fish have usually iron heads, 
bought of the traders, but others are made of monkey's bones and barbed. 
The arrows have three feathers laid on spirally. 

The Indians of the Amazon also use a two-stringed bow for shooting 
stones. The pellet bow has a pad or net in the middle of the string, to 
hold a stone or ball of clay, to project it in the manner of an arrow. 
Such are used in South America and Africa. 245 

The arrow of the Guianians, used iu shooting turtles, is projected by a 
bow and has a movable harpoon-head of iron detachable from the shaft, 
but secured loosely thereto by a thong. The turtle-shooting bow of the 
Central American Indians is made from the Sonpar palm, Guilielma 
speciosa ; the shafts of the arrows from the dry stalks of the cane, saccha- 
rin um officinarum, tipped with hard wood or iron. 

The Peruvian arrows were tipped with copper or bone. 246 

The arrows of the Paraguayan Indians are of several kinds. Some 
have block points to kill birds without bleeding them ; others with long 
wooden four-sided heads, sharpened and cut into barbs. These heads 
are carefully lashed on to the shaft, which is in all cases of cane. The 
arrows were .shown in the Agricultural Building, are from 3 to 4 feet 
long, and have feather flyers put on straight. 

The Gran Chaco Indian of the La Plata region, 247 destitute of habita- 
tion himself, employs tire-arrows when attacking a settlement. He binds 
some cotton around the head of each arrow just behind the head, and then 
lying down he holds the large, bow with his feet while he draws the 

2<3 Wallaces Amazon, pp. 211,215. 

"■"Ibid., pp. 486,487. 

™ Sec Tylor's " Early History of Mankind," notes, p. 177. 

"6 "Conquest of Peru," p. 73. 

247 Wood, vol. ii, p. 570. 



296 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 




1-10. — Paraguayan arrows. 



striiig with both hands and lets fly the lighted arrows one after the other, 

with considerable rapidity. The malleolus of the Eoinans was a large 

missile like a distaff with an arrow-point; 
the cage of the distaff was filled with tow 
steeped in pitch. It was lighted before being 
discharged, and it was intended that the ar- 
row should penetrate the wooden object or 
thatch and hold it while the incendiary ma- 
terial should set tire to the building. 

The Fuegian bow is strung with twisted 
sinews ; the arrow is of hard wood and has a 
notch in the end, holding a piece of flint or 
obsidian, which comes off in the wound. 

We may conclude this account of savage 
weapons by some references to the cross-bow. 
This was shown in the Norwegian Department 
in the Main Building, and is a remnant of nie- 
direval times. The instrument, however, is 

found in use in several parts of the world, and some of the African and 

Asiatic examples show more ingenuity than the European weapons with 

which we are more familiar. 
The Norwegian cross-bow, Fig. 147, has a stock 30 inches long with a 

24-inch powerful steel bow. The stock is handsomely inlaid with ivory; 

the string is a covered 

cord, and the boltis shown 

in its groove. The Roman 

scorpio was perhaps the 

oldest instrument of the 

kind on record, and was 

used to discharge stones, 

plummets, and arrows. 

We find cross-bows among 

the Fans of the Gaboons 

in Western Africa; the 

Mishni, a tribe of Assam 

in Eastern India 




Fig. 147. — Norwegian crossbow. 

the Nicobar Islanders'-' 44 ; the Chinese and the Japan- 



cse- 



The cross-bow of the fans is 5 feet long and has a very strong bow l» 
feel long, which is bent by holding it with the feet while both hands 
strain the string into the notch. The string is thrust out of the notch 
by a clumsily ingenious arrangement. The shaft is split so that the for- 
ward end of the lower portion has a limited motion up and down, the 
split terminating a1 a point a little forward of the string-notch. To the 
lowerportion is attached a peg which extends upward through a hole 
to thrust the string out of the notch. A trigger-pin lies in the split of 
the shafl and holds the portions apart so that the string can lie in the 

"*Wood 3 vol. ii, p. 220. M»Siebold'H " Nippon," vol ii, PL 5 bis. 



SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 297 

notch ; but as soon as the trigger-pin is removed the separated portions 
fly together, the pin rises, lifts the string, and the arrow is discharged. 
The Chinese have a somewhat similar method. The arrows of the Fan 
cross-bow are small and light, and about a foot in length. Their range 
is about 20 yards, and they owe their efficiency to their poisoned tins. 
When laid in the groove of the shaft to be discharged, the arrow is 
slightly held by a piece of wax. A larger arrow with an iron head is 
used in hunting. 

The Japanese have also a cross-bow. The repeating Chinese cross-bow- 
is perhaps the greatest advance in this implement, which has been so en- 
tirely superseded in Europe. The magazine is above a movable block 
which has a slot in which the string moves, and the whole block is mov- 
able back and forth in the main stock by a lever attached to the latter 
and shackled to the block. As the lever is raised the block slides for- 
ward until the string of the unbent bow drops into a notch. This al- 
lows an arrow to fall out of the magazine into the slot. Xow draw back 
the lever; this action draws upon the bow-string and bends the bow in 
the first place, and when the lever is depressed to its fullest extent a 
pin in the block comes against the stock and is pushed up so as to lift 
the string out of the notch and discharge the arrow. The limit of speed 
in firing is the quickness with which the lever is lifted aud depressed. 
The bow is made of three thicknesses of the male bamboo, overlapping 
like the plates of an elliptic carriage spring. The string is a thick 
twisted gut. The arrows are straight, both with heavy steel heads and 
very slight spiral feathers. Its utmost range is possibly 200 yards. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Prepared under the direction of Prof. Otis T. Mason. 



THE PRESERVATION OF ANTIQUITIES AND NATIONAL MONUMENTS IN DEN- 
MARK.* 

A report made at the request of the legation of Austria-Hungary in Copenhagen. 

By J. J. A. Worsaae. 

[From the Memoirs of the Royal Society of Northern Antiquaries, 1877.] 

(As requests have frequently been received from institutions and individuals in 
many countries, as France, England, Sweden, and Finland, for information relative 
to the measures undertaken in Denmark for ethnological explorations and the preser- 
vation of antiquities and national monuments, it has been thought proper to publish 
the present report, made at the end of 1875, particularly since there exists no work of 
a similar character in the arclueological literature of Denmark.) 

A. — Antiquities. 

dp to the commencement of this century, there was no public collec- 
tion in Denmark devoted especially to national antiquities. A few 
objects found in the country were, indeed, preserved in the Cabinet of 
Arts (Kunstlcammer), founded by King Frederick III, in the latter half 
of the seventeenth century (1G48-1G70), and containing, according to the 
fashion of the times, antiquities of all lands, medals, specimens of nat- 
ural history, objects of ethnography and art, furniture, and curiosities, 
thrown together pell-mell. But these rarefies were obtained mainly from 
accidental finds, and not from careful explorations. They were prin- 
cipally objects of gold and silver exhumed in various places, and be- 
longing to the class called ddnefce (in old Norwegian ddnarfe, from ft-, 
"property," and ddnar, "of a dead man"). The Danish law, (5-9-3, 
authoritatively interpreted by the ordinance of March 22, 3737), in effect 
granted to the king, or to the crown, in accordance with an immemorial 
custom, all treasure or deposit of gold, silver, and precious objects, 
without an owner, found in the earth; and the finder was bound, under 
certain penalties, to turn over his stock to the treasury without any in- 
demnity. But since under this system many precious objects were sold 
and melted up secretly, to the prejudice of arclueological science, an 
ordinance was passed August 7, 175_', which claimed for the crown 
the right of danefce, under the same penalties, but granted to the finder 
the full value of the metal, except when the proprietor of the soil had 
caused explorations to be made with the express purpose of seeking 
treasures, or when that which should be discovered in the monuments 

* Translated from tin- French translation of E. Beauvois. The Danish text: Om 
Bevaringen a/ de fcedrelandske Oldsager og MindesmoerJcer i Danmark, appeared in "Aar- 
b^ger for nordisk Oldkyndighed og Historic," 1-77, pp. 1-19. 292 



300 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

explored by his orders, was expressly reserved. Experience has shown 
thai this plan was practical and very advantageous to the public collec- 
tions, and especially since it is generally known in Denmark that the 
finder will obtain from the State (the agents of which examine and ap- 
praise the articles found) not only a higher price than private persons 
would pay, but that the care taken in collecting and preserving the ob- 
jects will be recompensed by an honorarium added to the price of the 
metal. Moreover, in recent times, England, in modifying the ancient 
rigorous laws regarding treasure-trove, has taken very particularly into 
account the Danish legislation and experience acquired in this matter. 

With the exception of penalties provided against the unlawful detainers 
of danefce, the law had no provision concerning the bestowal of the ob- 
jects, nor prohibition against selling them in the country or to foreigners. 

At the commencement of this century Professor li. Nyerup, with a 
view to prevent the increasing destruction of national antiquities, com- 
menced to make a special collection of them, and the people everywhere 
having been invited to "lay their offerings upon the altar of their coun- 
try,"' in order to exhibit the progress of civilization in Denmark from the 
most ancient times to bur day, the government took the affair in hand, 
and established a royal commission for the preservation of antiquities 
(1807), charging them to look to the preservation of monuments as well 
as of antiquities throughout the realm. This commission was replaced 
in 1849 by a committee of two directors, the curator of the Museum of 
Northern Antiquities, (M. Thomsen,) and the inspector of ancient monu- 
ments, (M. Worsaae,) who were to act in concert in preserving the an- 
tiquities of the kingdom in general. In 1866 the two offices were united, 
together with the historic and ethnographic collections, under the control 
of one man, Professor Worsaae, in order that the regulations concerning 
the matter might be applied with more uniformity and efficiency. This 
organization is still in existence. 

The first commission founded the collection which has become the 
Royal Museum of Northern Antiquities, but it was only after 1815, and 
under the direction of Thomsen, that it acquired any importance; when, 
having been made a national institution, under the jurisdiction of the 
minister of education, it figured annually in the financial report. Be- 
sides its regular appropriation, it has, as before, a special fund for the 
purchase of danefce, and may obtain, when necessary, large sums of money 
to purchase collections, or to make extraordinary explorations. At rel- 
atively little expense the museum has been elevated to great importance. 
It has acquired successively the national antiquities preserved formerly 
in the Cabinet of Arts, the Cabinet of Medals, and other collections; 
moreover, it has been enriched by donations and by the results of dig- 
gings in different parts of the kingdom, until it contains between 40,000 
and 50,000 articles actually on exhibition in the Prince's palace. The 
number of relics coming in from all parts of the kingdom is increasing 
to such an extent that the idea of erecting a grand museum for the 



ANTIQUITIES AND NATIONAL MONUMENTS IN DENMARK. 301 

national collections becomes more and more popular. To the museum 
are annexed the public archives, which contain, besides an archaeolog- 
ical and topographical library, designs, and descriptions of remarkable 
finds, as well as of monuments scattered over the country. 

It was found necessary to interest the people in the progress of the 
museum, and to evoke and foster this interest the directors adopted the 
following means: 

1. To admit the public at all times to visit the collections, and to ex- 
plain the objects to visitors. Later, when the accessions to the museum 
and the number of visitors no longer permitted giving oral instruction 
to all, the directors published guide-books in several languages. 

2. To publish iu the journals the list of objects sent or given. 

3. To publish popular treatises upon the antiquities and their signifi- 
cation, a task in which the museum has been ably seconded by the 
Society of Northern Antiquaries. 

4. To hold popular conferences at Copenhagen and elsewhere. 

5. To form small collections — especially for the instruction of youth — 
in the provinces, the principal cities, in scientific schools, high schools, 
and normal schools. 

C. To interest in the work the priests, instructors, and eminent citizens, 
who have influence with the people, and wiio will oversee their labors. 

7. To distribute money, books, and other presents to those who dis- 
tinguish themselves by their zeal and care in collecting and preserving 
antiquities. 

As the fruit of these measures, it rarely happens that important 
treasures when found do not come promptly to the knowledge of the 
museum: the objects are ordinarily forwarded at once. The small 
public collections of the provinces, which have a superintendence inde- 
pendent of the state, have adopted the plan of offering to the central 
museum at Copenhagen such objects as are especially interesting and 
instructive, and of demanding in exchange duplicates of more common 
specimens. Uy reason of a strong national sentiment, the people make 
it a point of honor to collect material for the history of prehistoric 
times, so that it is no longer necessary to prohibit the exportation of 
relics of stone, bronze, ami iron.' The museum has fostered the spirit of 
spon taneousness, and, instead of discouraging, has favored the formation 
of private collections. Experience has shown that this is the proper 
way to save from destruction many objects which otherwise would have 
been lost, the private collections sooner or later becoming incorporated 
into the National Museum. 

As to the plan of the museum and its interior arrangement, the de- 
tails are amply set forth in the printed descriptions.* it should be 

* Mused I'm- de Nordiske Oldsager, en kort Ledetraad I'm- de Bes0gende. l'2mo. 
Copenhagen, (itli edition, 1874, — Guide Illustr^ du Music dea Antiquite's du Nord a 
Copeuhague. 8vo. 3d edil ion, 1868, — Das Museum fur nordische Alterthiimer. -\ o. 
Copenhagen. 2d edition, le>7G. All by M. C. Engelhardt. 



302 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

remarked that in general this institution aims to explain the method 
of colonization of Denmark, its relations with other countries, and the 
progress of its indigenous civilization in pagan times (from the begin- 
ning of the stone age to A. d. 1030) ; in the Catholic period (to A. d. 1536) ; 
finally, alter the Reformation, in the short period during which the 
ancient style of the Renaissance obtained, or, indeed, to the establish- 
ment of absolute power iu Denmark (A. D. 1060). 

In the classification of objects, chronology has been rigorously ob- 
served as far as this has been gradually worked out. We no longer 
confine ourselves, as at first, to arranging the specimens of the pagan 
era into great periods, simply the age of stone, the age of bronze, and 
the age of iron; but we are forced to distinguish in each of these that 
which belongs to the commencement or to the end, and also to the 
transition from one to the other, in order to show clearly the gradual 
progress of civilization and its passage from one primitive station to 
another more advanced, and finally to discriminate between foreign in- 
fiuence and the national and more independent labors. It has been a 
matter of particular importance in this regard only to class by series 
those objects found isolated, while the great finds of each period have 
not been dissociated, but preserved in their entirety and arranged geo- 
graphically. Thus it is possible not only to distinguish the objects of 
each period, and, indeed, of each subdivision, but to recognize the 
peculiarities belonging to the different sections of Denmark, whose 
southern and western provinces were evidently affected much earlier 
than the northern and eastern by foreign civilization, while the culture, 
coming from the south, penetrated earlier into Denmark itself than into 
the more northern and distant countries of Scandinavia — Sweden and 
Norway. 

In connection with the Museum of Northern Antiquities and the Cabi- 
net of Medals,* it is necessary to mention the Museum of Ethnography! 
and the Cabinet of Antiques! as terms of comparison, which from many 
points of view furnish valuable explanations of Danish antiquities. But, 
as is perfectly natural in Danish museums, the principal effort is directed 
toward making the most complete collections possible of all that char- 
acterizes particularly the civilization of this country. 

But we do not stop in our historico-archaological museums at the 
year 1660, the limit adopted for the Museum of Northern Antiquities. 
In the conviction that modern history, from 1060 to the present time, 
deserves, not less than ancient history, to be illustrated by contempo- 

Den Kgl. Mynt- og Medaille-Samling paa Prindsens Palais. (The Royal Cabinet 
of Coins and Medals a1 the Palace of the Prince) Visitors' Guide. 8vo. Copen 
hagen, L869, 

tC. L. Steinhauer. Kort Vejledning i det Kgl. ethnographiske Museum. (Guid< 
to the Royal Ethnographic Museum.) 8vo. Copenhagen, 1874. Das kgl, ethnograph. 
Museum in Copenhagen. 8vo. Copenhagen. 1876. 

I.. Miiller. Den Kgl. Antiksamling Eaandkatalog. (Catalogue of the Royal Col- 
lection of Antiques.) Bvo. 2d edition. Copenhagen, 1872. 



ANTIQUITIES AND NATIONAL MONUMENTS IN DENMARK. 303 

rary and characteristic specimens (a method of studying - the subject up 
to this time too much neglected in most countries), a historical museum 
has been established in the ancient castle of Bosenborg, at Copenhagen, 
built by Christian IV, from 1610-1617, which bears the name of "The 
Chronological Collection of the Danish Kings." This museum, under the 
direction of Professor Worsaae, forms the complement to that of the Mu- 
seum of Northern A ntiquities. It embraces, in fact, the period comprised 
between Christian IV and the death of King Frederick VII (1863), par- 
ticularly the whole period of the absolute monarchy, from 1660 to 1848. 
In the halls, which by a happy coincidence have partly preserved the 
successive styles of the different epochs, there has been arranged around 
the royal house as a center, and in a rigorously chronological order, a rich 
and valuable collection of portraits, representing members of the royal 
family and celebrated men of their times; costumes, furniture, orna- 
ments, arms, and other objects which characterize the style of each 
epoch, of which the printed descriptions will give a clearer idea.* This 
museum, in which the crown jewels are preserved contains also valu- 
able materials for the history of industry and art, and of the recent 
progress of civilization in Denmark. The chronological collection, which 
is a trust of the royal family placed under the control of the government, 
has, as such, a distinguished board of managers, consisting of the min- 
ister of public instruction, as the representative of the state, and one of 
the principal functionaries of the court, as the representative of the 
royal family. Moreover, the expense of increasing and preserving the 
collection is charged to the public treasury. 

B. — Monuments. 

It was in the time of Christian IV, from 1610 to 1648, that measures 
were first taken for the preservation of the principal remains of antiquity 
going to decay. By order of the king, several great runic stones were 
transported from different localities to Copenhagen, where many were 
destroyed in the fire of 1 728 ; those which were saved are now preserved 
in the Museum of Northern Antiquities. But during the remainder of 
the seventeenth and all of the eighteenth century the state did nothing 
for the national monuments, of which a large number disappeared, or 
were much damaged by pretended restorations. 

It was only after the royal commission for the preservation of antiq- 
uities had been established, in 1807, that any serious attempt was made 
to preserve that which there was still hope of saving. After having 
received from the pastors throughout the kingdom reports — often very 

* Carl Andersen. Do danske Kongers chronologisko Samling paa Rosenberg (Chron- 
ological Collection of the Danish Kings at Rosenberg), 8vo, 3d edition. Copenhagen, 
1875. Die chronol.Sammlung der Dan. Konige, 8vo, Copenhagen, 1872. Mindeblado 
fra de dauske Kongers chronol. Samling (Souvenirs of the Chronological Collection of 
the Danish Kings), 4to, 2d edition. Copenhagen, 1875. Notes on the chron. collection 
of the Danish Kings, 4 to. Copenhagen, 18G8. — Dr. C. Brock. Den Oldenhorgsko 
Kongeshegt isier under Enevaslden (The Dynasty of Oldenburg in the Times of Ab- 
solutism), 8vo. Copenhagen, 1870. 



304 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

imperfect — concerning the condition of the monuments, the Danish de- 
partment of just ice ( Ghancellerie), at the instance of the commission, placed 
under the protection of the law a number of the monuments of antiquity 
and of the middle ages throughout the country (1809-1810).* At first the 
legality of this measure was doubtful; the proprietors not being bound 
by any law to cede their right to these monuments, especially without a 
provision of indemnity; moreover, in those cases where no opposition 
was made, the fact that they had been taken by the government was not 
registered in legal form so as to bar future purchasers of the property. 

The consequences of this omission did not fail to be felt the more, 
since the commission, not receiving any salary, and having only small 
appropriations for their object, had not the means to employ competent 
men to inspect the monuments scattered throughout the kingdom. 
Moreover, many objects disappeared, little by little, without the knowl- 
edge of the commission, or without their being able to prosecute the 
guilty parties. 

However, an effort was made to induce the proprietors to relinquish, 
voluntarily, their rights to the relics, and to place them under the 
protection of the law; and in a great number of cases the end was at- 
tained. Specimens were also bought, when the price was not too high. 
From official inquiries made in 1817, it appeared that a great number of 
monuments declared national in 1809-1810 were entirely destroyed or par- 
tially damaged, and the necessity of having recourse to more efficacious 
measures was evident. By a royal decree of December 22, 1817, a 
salaried officer, Professor Worsaae was added to the commission, and 
charged especially as inspector, and later as director, to look after the 
preservation of archaeological monuments, and under this title he received 
the royal commission March 20, 181S.t A sum of money was annually 
placed at his disposal for the purchase, restoration, and sketching of the 
monuments, and for diggings and expeditions, in which he was author- 
ized to act in the name of the commission. 

As the conviction had gained ground that it was unnecessary to pro- 
hibit the traffic and exportation of treasures, so it was agreed to follow 
the same liberal policy as to the seizure of national monuments, and, in 
L848, the government did not think it advisable to give sanction to a 
project designed to apply the right of eminent domain in the case of 
proprietors who were recalcitrant, or who demanded too much indemnity. 

The newly appointed inspectors of archaeological remains, after hav- 
ing labored a year and a hall' in concert with the commission for the 
preservation of antiquities, up to the dissolution of the last-named body 
in August, 1849, were afterward placed in an entirely independent po- 

*The li'-i of these monuments is printed in the AntihearisJee Awnaler (Archaeological 
AnnaU), published by the Royal Commission for the Preservation of Antiquities, I. 
8vo, Copenhagen, 1-1J, pp. 1 5">-14.">, 318-379. * 

t It in i din led iii Antikvarisl Tid88krift (Arch«B3ljj;ical Review ), l846->48, pp. 150-153, 
and in Rescriptsamliny (Collection of Ordinances), by Ussing. 



ANTIQUITIES AND NATIONAL MONUMENTS IN DENMARK. 305 

sition, and, indeed, in more favorable circumstances. On the one hand, 
they had to convert into full proprietorship numbers of leases which had 
belonged to the state, to public foundations, to fiefs, to trusts, and to 
private individuals; on the other hand, the increase of prosperity had 
developed the taste for the restoration of ancient castles, churches, and 
other remarkable monuments. 

I. Relative to the seizure in the name of the state of stone heaps, 
funereal mounds, runic stones, fortifications, ruins of castles &c, the 
government passed an ordinance in 1S48 that all structures of this kind 
existing in the royal domains and iu the foiests of the state should be 
declared national property, and that if any part of the national domain 
should be alienated, these structures should be expressly reserved by 
the state and clearly designated in the articles of sale. At that time 
the archaeological director traveled over the country to make a list 
and a description of such objects as deserved to be saved. At the 
instance of the archaeological commission (July, 1848), the minister of 
justice invited the directors of religious foundations and the holders 
of fiefs and trusts to make the same reservation iu favor of the state 
upon leasing or selling their property. Moreover, the antiquarian com- 
mission (July 8, 1849), and later the director of monuments and of the 
museum (November, 1849), addressed printed circulars to all the land- 
holders of the kingdom to induce them to make the same reservations, 
and many of them submitted to it with the greatest good will. In this 
way, without much expense, a great number of important and charac- 
teristic monuments were placed under the protection of the law. Al- 
though in many cases the reservations announced in the leases and acts 
of sale were not stated so clearly as to avoid all conflict concerning 
tenure, yet a basis was established upon which to build in the future. 
In the numerous excursions made each year by the director of ancient 
monuments, frequently accompanied by artists who measured and 
sketched the different kinds of remains throughout the kingdom, and 
in his personal relations with the people, he acquired for the state a 
great number of relics, some of which were sold at a reasonable price, 
others given gratuitously — indeed, by yeomen hardly able to. do it. 
These journeys, which helped greatly to call the attention of the people 
of different localities to the fact that such monuments had been declared 
national property, had also the effect of bringing to light movable ob- 
jects, such as runic inscriptions, tombs, fragments of architecture, &c, 
which were exposed to great risks, and of securing for the National 
Museum important works of antiquity. 

By reason of the close connection of the Archaeological Bureau with 
the National Archaeological Museum, in the archives of which all the 
sketches made iu the journeys of inspection were deposited, it was 
agreed to prepare as soon as possible an archaeological chart of each. 
parish, on which should be indicated with precision the structures sub- 
S. Mis. 54 20 



306 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

jected to the ravages of time, and to prepare thus the material for the 
great archaeological chart of the kingdom. To guide the pastors, teach- 
ers, and others who desired to cooperate in this work, a circular was dis- 
tributed in 184*), upon which were noted the signs adopted for the differ- 
ent classes of objects. As the needed funds were not voted for the en- 
terprise, which was paid for by private subscription, archaeological topog- 
raphy was executed but slowly. 

Notwithstanding the progress of the work of preservation, it was 
evident that a director residing at Copenhagen, could accomplish but 
little and would not be able to inspect properly the numerous monu- 
ments scattered throughout the country, now more than ever exposed 
to destruction by reason of clearings, restoration of buildings, con- 
struction of railroads, &c. By a circular of November 1:0, 1866, the 
directors of monuments addressed the curators of the archaeological 
collections in the cathedral cities of Denmark and Iceland and proposed 
to them to form diocesan commissions, composed of residents having 
the greatest taste for archaeology, and to nominate diocesan inspectors 
to work in concert with the central directory at Copenhagen for the 
preservation of the monuments of each diocese. But although this 
project obtained numerous adherents, by reason of the failure of pecuni- 
ary resources it was not put into execution, as it was desirable that it 
should be, and as it probably will be in the future. 

.Meanwhile justifiable complaints continued to be made concerning the 
destruction of national monuments, and as the directors had not sufficient 
funds to arrest these ravages, they made an appeal, through the minister 
•of public instruction, to the Danish parliament, which had often given 
proof of its good will in this matter, and solicited the means for making a 
complete investigation and for placing under the protection of the law 
all the most important monuments of the country; the proposition, 
amply seconded, February 8, 1873, expressed the following views: 

1. That an inquiry as thorough as possible should be made into all 
the relics of antiquity existing in Denmark. 

2. That this inquiry should be confided to archaeologists and design- 
ers, whose duty it should be to make plans, sketches, and descriptions 
of the most important monuments, notably of those which deserve to 
be in the future placed under the protection of the law. 

o. That in order to arrive at this result, if it could not be obtained 
otherwise, the government should negotiate with the proprietors for the 
purchase of the said monuments. 

4. That there should be annually appropriated for these acquisitions, 
for about ten years, a sum of 3,500 rigsdalers ($1,900). 

These propositions were adopted unanimously by the parliament, as 
well lor the fiscal year from April 1, 1873, to March 31, 1874, as for the 
following years. 

In consequence, the archaeological bureau has been able during 



ANTIQUITIES AND NATIONAL MONUMENTS IN DENMARK. 307 

the past few years to send out several committees of inquiry, composed 
each of an archaeologist and a draughtsman, in the different divisions of 
the kingdom, where they have met the heartiest reception. Many relics 
have been already bought by the state, and others have been offered 
gratuitously by the farmers. Besides the arclueological charts, which 
have been prepared, sketches of many objects have been made, which 
will be of inestimable value in the future study of art in Denmark, and 
which, in a practical point of view, will be useful in the restoration of 
ancient edifices which are now undertaken in our kingdom to a previously 
unknown extent. 

II. Private individuals, as well as the state, are exhibiting great ac- 
tivity in the restoration of ancient forts and castles, churches and 
other edifices of the middle ages and modern times. This movement 
has manifested itself in the last twenty years as the outgrowth of the 
development of artistic taste, of a national sentiment, and of the relig- 
ous life, and in concert with the continued improvement in business. 
While formerly little account was made of the architectural style appro- 
priate to different edifices, the directory of monuments is obliged to 
consider it in all those restored by the state, and, moreover, has had, in 
this respect, all the co-operation necessary on the part of public institu- 
tions and great corporations. As to the restorations undertaken by 
private individuals the directory has abstained from acting officiously, 
but has ordinarily met with a good degree of success. It is quite rare 
that it has failed in its war against false taste, which prevails only in 
the petty communities. 

Among the great civil structures, for the restoration of which the 
state has made provision during these late years, we may cite: the an- 
cient tower called Gaasetaarn (goose tower), of the fourteenth century, 
forming part of the ruins of the castle of King Valdemar the Great, at 
Vordinborg, in Seeland, to the expenses of which a private benefac- 
tor has generously contributed; the remarkable castles of Seeland, in 
the style of the Renaissance, called Rosenborg, Kronborg, and Freder- 
iksborg, burned in December, 1859. For the last, however, the expense 
has been borne by the King, Frederick VII, or covered by a national sub- 
scription. While speaking of royal castles, it should be mentioned that 
the government has also caused to be restored and adorned in a proper 
manner nearly all the royal sepulchres throughout the kingdom. 

But incomparably more important is the restoration of churches, which 
has been going on everywhere, so to speak, although many of them, on 
account of their extent, could not be rebuilt without great difficulty 
and expense. The establishment of the Reformation (1536), which de- 
prived the churches, and above all the cathedrals and monasteries of 
the greater part of their revenues, for a long time brought architecture 
into neglect. Avery few of these edifices remained in the possession 
of the state, the greater part fell into the hands of those who paid the 
tithe, and many were abandoned to private individuals with the tax 



308 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

levied for their maintenance, but they were obliged to give them suitable 
care. In order to compel them to fulfill their obligations, the state has 
reserved the right to inspect these buildings, and it has annually im- 
posed this duty upon the first pastor of the canton with several skilled 
workmen. These inspectors, however, were generally devoid of all ele- 
vated artistic taste, and, moreover, the revenues were far from covering 
the enormous expense for the proper maintenance of these large build- 
ings. It is only in very pressing cases, after fires or great accidents, 
thai the churches receive extraordinary aid obtained by general sub- 
scription, by subsidies furnished by the state, and, as much as possible^ 
by the parish itself. In such circumstances many of the most remark- 
able religious edifices have fallen into a sad state of dilapidation. 

The law of February 19, 1801, on the inspection of churches was a 
grand step for the better. It established general rules to be followed 
hereafter for the restoration of churches in their primitive style, and for 
the ] (reservation of their furniture and their monuments ; and it reserves, 
for the benefit of the National Museum, the right to acquire objects of 
ho further use; furthermore, it prescribes the nomination of a special 
committee competent to inspect the most remarkable churches. This 
committee, which was composed of several distinguished architects and 
a practical archaeologist, and which exercised a great influence upon the 
restorations commenced already or undertaken after their appointment, 
has for its president the director of monuments. 

A progress not less important was the authority granted to the min- 
ister of public instruction to divide among the poorer churches the sur- 
plus of receipts from the richer, which were placed as independent in- 
stitutions under the direction of the diocesan authorities. Finally, it 
was made possible to proceed to the restoration of churches without re- 
sources, and which were in bad state of decay, by the contribution of 
extraordinary credits on the part of the state, by the increase of taxa- 
tion on the part of the parishes, and by the voluntary subscriptions of 
individuals. In this way there has been collected during the past few 
years about 110,000 francs ($28,000) to restore the ancient church of the 
monastery of Maribo, in the island of Lolland, constructed at the com- 
mencement of the fifteenth century. In the same manner the remark- 
able brick church of Kalluudborg (Sccland), built in the form of a Greek 
cross in the twelfth century, has been restored with its five towers, of 
which the largest, t bat in the middle, had fallen down. The expeuse has 
amounted to 170,800 francs ($34,000). Next year the restoration of the 
cathedra] of Viborg, in Jutland, which was constructed of granite in the 
twelfth century, will be terminated, at a total expense of about 1,057,000 
francs (8211,000). after which the oldest Danish brick churches will be 
repaired, to wit, that of the monastery of Ringsted, in Seeland, dating 
from about 1100, and the cathedral of Kibe, in Jutland, built in a semi- 
circular form, in the first half of the twelfth century. 

In Jutland the interior of the cathedral of Aarkus, a brick structure 



THE FRENCH HALF-BREEDS OF THE NORTHWEST. 300 

originally semicircular, dating - from the thirteenth century, has been re- 
stored by the church or by the community at a cost of 84,000 francs, 
(810,800), and the exterior now being repaired will demand about 280,000 
francs ($50,000). 

In Fionia, through the same agency, the church of Samt-Kniid, at 
Odense,.a brick structure, with a crypt recently discovered, in ogival 
style, dating from the thirteenth or fourteenth century, has been re- 
paired at a cost of 238,000 francs (847,000). 

In Seeland, the cathedral of Roskilde, a brick edifice transitional in 
style, dating from the commencement of the thirteenth century, has cost 
for reconstruction 420,00!) francs (884,000). 

The rich academy of Sorae, in Seeland, which belongs to the state, has 
restored at great cost the imposing church of its ancient monastery, a 
remarkable brick structure, dating from 1170 or thereabouts, and of the 
still more ancient church of Fjenneslevlille, of which it has the patronage, 
the academy has rebuilt in its primitive style the twin tower, previously 
much injured. 

In all these churches the paint which covered up the ancient figures 
or mural decorations has been removed, the old altar scenes, the bap- 
tismal fonts, the epitaphs, the monumental stones, the paintings, and 
other relics of antiquity have been carefully restored and preserved. 
From what has been said, particularly concerning the church of the 
village of Fjenneslevlille, it is scarcely worth while to remark that the 
example of the restoration of great churches has had a very salutary 
influence upon the refitting of the smaller ones. 



THE FRENCH HALF-BREEDS OF THE NORTHAVEST. 

By V. Havard, M D., Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. 
INTRODUCTION. 

The power of France in North America has passed away, but the 
memory of its regime still endures throughout the vast territories dis- 
covered and colonized by the hardy Canadian pioneers, with the blood, 
language, and character of a large proportion of their inhabitants. 

Always the friends of the Indians, the French explorers, traders, and 
voyageurs often became identified with their interests and fortunes, and 
freely intermarried with them. Their mixed-blood descendants, found 
mostly north and west of the great lakes, scattered throughout the British 
Possessions and the Northwestern States, have been, in their humble 
way, playing an important part in the colonization and civilization of 
the Far West. 

Sailing down the lied River of the North into the Canadian province 
of Manitoba, the traveler finds himself at their headquarters. Be 
observes men and women with almost the dusky complexion of the ab- 
origine, but dressed in a civilized garb. They speak a French dialect, 



3J.0 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

readily understood, but unlike any of the patois of France. He is sur- 
prised at their demonstrativeness and pleased with their urbanity. He 
discovers in them the instincts of the Indian blended with and modified 
by many of the moral and mental traits of the white, so that he is often 
unable to tell which blood preponderates. Such are the first general 
impressions made upon him by the French half-breeds. 

I. 

ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT. 

I shall first outline the history of their origin and gradual increase, 
beginning with the various causes which sent their fathers from Cana- 
dian towns and settlements into the wilderness to adopt savage life. 

Canada, during the seventeenth century, was a poor and snfferiug 
colony. Severity of climate, wily savage foes, bad government, all 
conspired against its prosperity and happiness. It became a severe 
t mining-school in which was developed an enduring, hardy race of men, 
eminently adapted to the hazards and toils of the life which awaited 
them. 

The fur-trade was then the main resource of New France. In its 
pursuit lay the only path to advancement and wealth, and the energy 
and enterprise of the colony were bent in that direction. Daring canoe- 
nun. not content to trade with the Indians at the settlements, set out 
lor the wilderness in quest of savage fur-hunters, and met with great 
success. The charms of this roving life, seasoned by danger and coupled 
with a lucrative traffic, soon allured many of the strongest men into the 
western wilds. ^ 

The population comprised a large proportion of disbanded soldiers, 
mined gentiWwmmes, and lawless adventurers. To such men the nar- 
row confines of Canada, then a mere strip of land on each side of the 
Sainl Lawrence from Quebec to Montreal, was too restricted a sphere of 
action, and the fur trade gave a vent to their restless activity. On the 
other hand, the paternal solicitude of the home government and the zeal 
of its clergy bound the infant colony within a net of ordinances and regu- 
lations from which many were glad to break loose. 

The bold and greedy spirits who, to war< Is the middle of the seven- 
tee^v"_ century, began thus to range forests and lakes for beaver skins 
were known as coureurs de bois. It soon became evident that their ex- 
ample was pernicious; but in spite of stringent repressive laws their 
number constantly increased, and as the nefarious trade could not be 
slopped it was deemed best to regulate it. 

The coureur de hois, or bush-ranger, would, at rare intervals, visit the 
settlements of Montreal and Three Rivers and squander in a few wild 
orgies the accumulated gains of a whole campaign; but, impatient of 
restraint and fearful of the law, he would soon take in a cargo of pro- 
visions and trinkets, and again set the prow of his canoe westward. 



THE FRENCH HALF-BREEDS OF THE NORTHWEST. 311 

Iii the forest, among the Hurons or Ottawas, he gave himself up to 
the ease and abandon of his adopted-home life, and let loose the cur- 
rent of his lower instincts. Divested of all the proprieties of his former 
civilized life, painted and tattooed, with feathered hat and beaded gar- 
ments, he gaily danced with the braves or gravely smoked the calumet 
at the conned of the tribe. 

The first admixture of French with Indian blood was the natural re- 
sult of the bush-rangers' mode of life; admitted to all the privileges of 
members of the tribes, they courted the facile dusky beauties and won 
them either as wives or concubines. They visited th£ natives of Sault 
Ste. Marie as early as 1654, had made a rendezvous of Mackinac before 
the establishment of the mission in 1071, and had a stockade at Detroit 
long before Du Shut fortified it in 1686. In all their migrations a 
cordial welcome was always extended them by the Indians of the lakes 
and of the Illinois country, and their first mixed-blood offspring can be 
traced baric to about the middle of the seventeenth century. 

We have strong evidences that, before the. conquest, the French had 
explored the Northwest, along the Saskatchawan and the Missouri, as 
far as the Rocky Mountains. They had important trading posts in the 
Winnipeg Basin and on the Upper Mississippi. After their downfall, 
shunning their conquerors, they emigrated from Canada, in large num- 
bers, to the distant Western settlements, and were thus thrown into 
still more intimate relations with the Indians. Then was organized the 
famous British Northwest Company, which enrolled under its Hag all 
the Canadians who had served at the various posts on the frontiers. It 
occupied the regions hitherto held by the French and, later, extended 
its operations even beyond the Rocky Mountains. When it became ab- 
sorbed by its more powerful rival, the Hudson Bay Company, in 1821, 
the Canadians continued to be the most numerous and valuable servants 
of the new organization. They were likewise a very important element 
in the formation and management of the various American fur compa- 
nies. It may be safely stated that, at the end of the first quarter of the 
present century. French engages were found at all the posts of the British 
and American fur companies from Lake Superior to Vancouver's Island, 
and from the Great Slave Lake to the Lower .Missouri. 

Whenever they became independent they generally formed settlements 
in the neighborhood of the companies' posts. The Lake Winnipeg Basin, 
first discovered and colonized by Dela Verendrye, in 1743, and, after the 
conquest, the center of the operations of the Northwest and 1 liaison 
Bay Companies, has always contained a large population of French 
Canadians and half-breeds. Before Lord Selkirk began his settlement 
on Red River, in 1811, they had considerable villages at Pembina and 
Fort Rouge. Inter Fort Carry. From Winnipeg they spread most along 
the great arteries of trade and travel the Assiniboin and Saskatchawan 
Rivers. On the Pacific coast their principal colonies were at Fort Van- 
couver, Walla Walla, and other points on the Columbia. 



312 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

The great majority of Canadians who, more particularly in the early 
limes of the colony, left the settlements as traders, hunters, voyageurSj 
or engagfa were single meu who cut themselves loose from kith and kin 
to seek fortune in congenial pursuits at the advanced posts and among 
the Indians. As already intimated, they were not strict monogamists. 
They would sometimes abandon the mother of their offspring to the care 
of her tribe and seek a second or a third wife (wherever chance carried 
them,) to be perhaps forsaken like the first. Such conduct, favorable to 
the production of a numerous progeny, was very objectionable to the 
missionaries, who combated it with all the weight of their influence. 
They generally succeeded in giving the sanction of law and religion to 
one of their illegitimate unions, so that, however loose in his morals, the 
voyageur had one lawful wife who, after the vicissitudes of a toilsome 
life, would share with him in his declining years the comfort and rest 
of the settlements. 

It may be apposite to our purpose to notice here the contrast between 
the French and the English colonies in their relations with the Indians. 
The latter, independent of the Indians from whose intercourse they 
could derive no benefit, regarded them simply as an obstacle to their 
progress, a natural foe, against which they waged a war of extermina- 
tion. The former, from the first, recognized in the red man a fellow be- 
ing, and as such entitled to consideration. They heated him with 
firmness, tempered by strict justice. Of a more gentle and sympathetic 
nature, t lie French felt kindly disposed towards the natives and had 
less repugnance to overcome to associate with them. Their religion, 
also, as exemplified in the self-immolating life of the missionaries, must 
have taught them impressive lessons of tolerance and Christian charity. 

As the result of their intercourse with the Indians there was not in 
New Fiance a single tribe whose alliance and friendship they did not 
win and retain, even long after their. power had passed away. They, 
however, as already stated, had less wortlfy motives to conciliate them. 
Having neglected agriculture for the sake of trade, the Indians were 
necessary auxiliaries. It was only through them that furs could be 
procured and prosperity maintained in the colony; only with their help 
that the King could extend his dominions westward and check the 
encroaching English and Dutch colonies. The cultivation of their 
friendship was therefore earnestly enjoined upon all the officials of New 
Prance, <>n political and commercial grounds, while the missionary 
preached forbearance 1 and justice in the name of humanity. 

The tribes of Canada, of the Lakes, of the Winnipeg Basinj and of the 
Illinois country, all belonging to the great Algonquin family, were most 
subjected to French influence. It was among them that the coureurs 
<lc hois loved to rove; with their guidance the voyagers explored the 
northwest, and it is from them that the great majority of half-breeds 
derive their Indian blood. 

Earlj in i he eighteenth ceutury, after all the lakes had been explored 



THE FRENCH HALF-BREEDS OF THE NORTHWEST. 313 

and the tribes' friendship secured, families began to emigrate into the 
northwest. A great number settled at Detroit, others at Mackinac and 
Sault Ste. Marie; some even as far as Green Bay, in Lake Michigan, 
and the Mississippi settlements. It was only in 1818 that one or two 
Canadian families moved to Fort Garry, and it appears that when 
Bishop Toche arrived at that place in 1845 there had been so far but 
four Canadian women on the Bed River. 

At the present day it seems certain that of the descendants of these 
numerous families very few, if any, can boast of pure white blood. The 
admixture proceeded very slowly, but surely. It was immediate, of 
course, in the case of the wandering coureurs and voyageurs ; it ad- 
vanced more gradually in colonies formed of emigrant families. Detroit 
had still a preponderance, and Kaskaskia a large proportion, of incon- 
taminate families at the time of the conquest. 

Afterwards Detroit and its environs increased considerably by new 
accessions from Canada, but through Indian alliances the French there 
eventually lost their identity as a white race, to such an extent that 
there is scarcely any portion of the large Canadian-descended popula- 
tion of Eastern Michigan not infused with Indian blood. 

The French colonies on the Illinois shore of the Mississippi, at Kas- 
kaskia, Cahokia, Fort Chartres, &c, had acquired considerable import- 
ance in 1703, and counted several thousand inhabitants. Speaking of 
the Illinois mission, the historian, John G. Shea, says: "More than in 
any other part the settlers intermarried with the Indians, and there are 
few of the French families in Illinois and Missouri that cannot boast 
their descent from the noble tribe which has given its name to the 
former State." Michael Ako, one of the members of the La Salle's ex- 
pedition, married, in 1093, the daughter of the chief of the Kaskaskias. 

II. 

TnE OFFSPRING OF INTERMARRYING- RACES. 

The blood of intermarrying races becomes mixed in various propor- 
tions. A white man marrying a squaw begets half-breeds; these by 
successive marriages with either white or red blood will procreate 
quarter-breeds or quadroons in the second, and eighth-breeds or octo- 
roons in the third generation. Marriages between the first and second 
generations are common, producing three-eighth breeds, either white or 
red. Of course, marriage between the offspring of the same generation, 
as between hall' breeds, would not alter the relative proportion of either 
blood. 

From these possible combinations it is seen that the caste of Indian 
mixed-bloods is neither fixed nor well defined. Like all hybrid races, it 
is liable to many changes, and generally tends to approximate one or the 
other of the types of its progenitors. If a district, inhabited by half 
breeds or quarter-breeds, becomes settled by white people, and corre- 



314 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

spondingly abandoned by the Indians, the reversion, naturally, will be 
towards the white race, and the red blood may become so diluted as to 
scarcely give traces of its presence either in the complexion or intel- 
lectual acquirements. Such is the case in parts of the States of Illinois 
and .Missouri, as well as In Eastern Michigan and other places about 
the lakes. 

Again, if half-breeds live exclusively among Indians, the reversion 
will be towards the red type, so that a point is reached when it is im- 
possible to discriminate between a mixed-blood and a pure-blood native. 
We And such individuals among the Northwestern tribes, of which they 
are a component part. Between these extremes is a large middle ground 
occupied by intermarried mixed-bloods, ranging from quarter white to 
quarter-red, and including many half-breeds. These true representatives 
of the race are most numerous on the lied River of the North and the 
Winnipeg Basin. 

Appellations of French mixed-bloods. — The French mixed-bloods of the 
Northwest are known under the several names of half-breeds, metis, and 
bois -brules. Metis is probably derived from the Spanish mestizo, itself 
traceable to the Latin mixtus. Bois-brule (burnt- wood), an appellation 
mostly used in the British provinces, is explained by referring to the 
maternal dialect of a large proportion of half-breeds. In Chippewa they 
are called Wisahkotewan Mniwak (men partly burned, or half burned), 
that is, I infer, men tiuged with Indian blood, but not quite burned into 
the coppery complexion. The usual name of half-breeds used by English 
and Americans presupposes blood from the paternal and maternal an- 
cestors, mixed in equal proportion; but, as mentioned before, this is not 
often the case. The term mixed-blood is too vaguely comprehensive. 
Metis, when referring to French mixed-bloods, seems the most appro- 
priate name. The designation of French is often indifferently applied 
to < tanadians, metis of all grades, and even pure Indians who associate 
with met is and speak their patois. It should also be stated that in Man- 
itoba and other places a certain proportion of mixed -bloods, from En- 
glish and Scotch fathers, bearing such names as Grant, Grey, Suther- 
land, &c, are classified as French, from their language, religion, and 
associations, while occasionally such names as Lambert and Parisien are 
found among English half-breeds. 

III. 

GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION AND POPULATION. 

I have endeavored to form a near estimate of the population and as- 
certain the geographical distribution of the metis. Their uncertain 
status as to nationality, their wide scattering over large areas, and. the 
constant shifting of many families from one place to another, make this 
no easj task. My own observations have been supplemented by infor- 
mation gathered from missionaries, travelers, and Indianagents and other 



THE FRENCH HALF-BREEDS OF THE NORTHWEST. 315 

government officials, so that I have reason to believe the following sum- 
mary to be tolerably full and correct. 

Michigan,. — There are about 8,000 people of French origin in the city of 
Detroit, and 2,000 more in its neighborhood. Farther off are Canadian 
colonies, at Bay City, Saginaw, Monroe, and other places, with a popula- 
tion of 5,000. Total in Eastern Michigan, 15,000. As explained before, 
very few, if any, of these people are free from Indian blood. 

We find many metis along the straits which connect the Great Lakes. 
At various points of the southern coast of Upper Michigan, from the 
Bay des Moquets to Point Detour; on the islands of Mackinac and Bois 
Blanc; at the towns of Saint Ignace, Pointe la Barbe, and Gras Cap; 
south of the straits, near old Fort Mackinac, and at the village of Che- 
boygan. By including those who have only one-eighth Indian blood, 
their probable number is 1,000. Others are also scattered on Saint 
Mary's River, Sault Ste. Marie (Michigan and Ontario sides), Garden 
River (Ontario), Whisky Bay, and Sugar Island; on Saint Joseph and 
Drummond Islands; at several points in Georgian Bay (French River, 
Killarney, Little Current, &c); at l'Auxe, in Keweenaw Bay; in all, about 
400. Total in Michigan and the adjoining Ontario shore, 10,100. Of 
this number from 300 to 400 live on Canadian territory. 

Wisconsin. — In this State we find metis at the two old French settle- 
ments of Green Bay and La Pointe. Green Bay, settled by Augustin 
de Langlade aud his son Charles in 1703, was the cradle of the State of 
Wisconsin. About 350 half-breeds live at several places ou the bay, 
principally Menomonee, and on the Indian Reserve. La Pointe received 
a Jesuit mission as early as 1005, where flocked thousands of Indians, 
and became a great trading emporium. Half-breeds are numerous there 
and at other points of the Wisconsin coast from Fond du Lac to Montreal 
River, also in the interior, on the Wisconsin, Black, and Chippewa 
Rivers; in all, about 1,100, giving a total of 1,450 for the State. 

Minnesota. — In Minnesota they are distributed as follows: 

At and near White Earth Agency, 400; Red Lake Agency, 25; north 
shore of Lake Superior (Bay de Goulet, Badji warning, Fort William, 
Grand Portage) and northern line, 100; in Saint Paul and vicinity, L00; 
about Crookston, G families; at Morehead and Fargo, 10 families; 
along the Red River (Minnesota side), 15 families. Total, 780 (counting 
five persons to a family). 

Dakota, — In this Territory we find French half-breed guides and inter- 
preters at most military posts and agencies; a, few families scattered on 
the Missouri, mostly between Green River and Yankton; a small set I le- 
nient about the Lower Brule Agency; about L5 families on the Sisseton 
Reservation, and as many at Devil's Lake Agency, partly settled on 
Cheyenne River and partly roaming with the Indians. 

Theearliest marriage on record on the bower Missouri between French 
and Indian is probably that of Sergeant Dubois, of De Bourgmont's 
company, who, before 1725, had wedded a girl of the tribe of the Mis- 



316 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

souris. He was afterwards left in command of Fort d'Orleans, erected 
on an island in the Missouri 5 miles below Grand Eiver. At Berthohl 
Agency 1 can hear only of 2 or 3, which is rather surprising, as the 
French had relations with the'Eees, Mandans, and Gros Ventres long 
before Lewis and Clarke ascended the Missouri, in 1804. The Mandans 
were first visited by De la Verendrye's sons in 1738. There are also a 
few at Spotted Tail and Eed Cloud Agencies. 

Pembina, first colonized by discharged Canadian servants of the 
Northwest Fur Company at the end of the last century, consequently 
the oldest settlement in Dakota, contains 110 half-breed families, whose 
houses line Eed and Pembina Livers. There are families at Salt 
Eiver and 14 at Grand Fork. On the upper part of the Pembina Eiver, 
at Saint Joseph, and on the Pembina Mountains are about 70 families. 
Total in Dakota, estimating each family at 5 persons, 1,280. 

Montana. — In Montana there are as follows: About 15 at Crow Agency 
and adjacent points on the Yellowstone; about 20 near Fort Benton, set- 
tled on Teton and Maria's Eivers; 1 or 2 at Wolf Point, on the Missouri. 
On Milk Eiver, below Fort Browning, near the Big Bend, is a large, 
moving camp of about 150 lodges, or 050 persons. They probably mi- 
grated from Manitoba, and subsist mostly on the products of the buffalo 
hunt. At Fort Belknap reside 1 or 2 families; at Carroll, on the Mis- 
souri, 1 family. In Missoula County, originally settled by Canadian fur 
traders, we find about 300 half-breeds, principally located at the Flat- 
head Agency, Saint Ignatius Mission, Flathead Lake, and French Town. 
Total in Montana, 1,008. 

Iowa. — At the Sac and Fox Agencies a few families, about 25 persons. 

Nebraska. — We find Canadian mixed-blood guides and interpreters at 
several of the military posts; at the Sautee Agency about 45, who re- 
moved there after the Minnesota outbreak of 1862; at the Winnebago 
Agency about 40; at the Pawnee Agency and Fort Laramie, a few. 
Total, about 130. The French had pretty thoroughly explored Nebraska 
at the end of the last century. Lewis and Clarke met several of them 
on tlie Missouri who had been wintering on the Platte and other western 
tributaries, and engaged as interpreter one Durion, a half-breed, who 
had lived twenty years with the Sioux. 

Wyoming. — About 12 at the Shoshoni Agency, and 2 or 3 hunting in 
the vicinity of Fort Fetterman. Total, 15. 

Indian Territory. — About thirty settled on North Fork of Canadian 
Liver, and the Cheyenne and Arapahoe Reservation. Most of these are 
probably the descendants of the 8 Canadians, employes of the Hudson 
Bay Company, who at the beginning of this century, having wandered 
in a southern direction in quest of furs, were captured by a party of 
Mexicans and afterwards allowed to settle in New Mexico. Canadian 
Eiver was named after them. 

Idaho. — About 15 at the Nez Perces Agency, and 8 near Fort Lapwai. 
Total, £3. 

Oregon. — The Northwest and the Hudson Bay Companies, during the 



THE FRENCH HALF-BREEDS OF THE NORTHWEST. 317 

first quarter of this century, imported many Canadians into this Terri- 
tory, then the seat of an active fur trade. When Wilkes visited Oregon 
in 1S3S he found there 700 or 800 Canadians who had preceded, by sev- 
eral years, the American emigration. Their half-breed offspring num- 
ber about 300, and are found at French Prairie and in its neighborhood, 
in Marion Comity, and in the valleys of the Willamette and Kaoulis 
Rivers. 

IV '<(sh ington Territory. — In this Territory they are also in the majority; 
being the descendants of the Canadian employes of the fur companies 
named above. They have a village at Cowlitz and settlements in the 
Colville Valley, on the Okanagon River, at Tulalip, and Lummi. The 
total for the Territory is estimated by Father Chirouse at L'50. 

Adding the numbers obtained in each State and Territory we have a 
total of 21,691 for the Northwestern States. 

British Possessions. — The province of Manitoba, extending from the 
boundary line to Lake Winnipeg, is the great center and rendezvous of 
French half-breeds. They are mostly settled at the following places: 
Winnepeg, or Fort Garry, St. Boniface, St. Vital, St, Norberf, St. Agatha, 
St. Anne, St. Charles, and St. Francis Xavier. Their population in the 
province is about (5,500. On the shores of Lakes Winnipeg and Manitoba 
and in the Rainy Lake district are probably 500. 

In the Saskatchewan district we find many scattered along the Sas- 
katehawan, clustering about the Hudson Bay Company's posts. They 
are most numerous at the base of the Rocky Mountains, near Fort 
Edmonton, at the two missions of St. Albert and St. Anne, and num- 
ber in all about 2,500. On little Slave Lake and vicinity are 500; on 
Lake Labiehe and vicinity, 500: on Peace River and vicinity, 300. 

Scattered families are seen as far north as the Great Slave Lake, but 
seldom beyond it. As early as 1778, the first employes of the North- 
west Company who arrived on the shores of that lake found one Francois 
Beaulieu who had been born there. On Turtle and Wood Mountains 
are about 100^ on Cypress Mountains and head of French Creek about 80. 

In British Columbia we find half-breeds on Fraser and Okanagon 
Rivers, Lakes Kamloops, Babine, and Stuart, in all about 250. 

Total in the British Possessions, 11,230; grand total for the North- 
west, 32,921. 

If we could obtain the number of metis in Canada, New Brunswick, 
Nova Scotia, Labrador, and in the northern part of New England, as 
well as thai of the French-descended families tainted with Indian blood 
in the States of Illinois and Missouri, 1 doubt not the total would reach 
at least 40,000 as the strength of the population of French-Canadian 
mixed-bloods in North America. 

IV. 

TRIBES FROM WHICH METIS DEKIVE THEIR INDIAN BLOOD. 

In a general way it may be asserted that, north of the fortiel h parallel, 
from Quebec to Vancouver's Island, there is scarcely a native tribe, from 



318 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

the Sioux to the Esquimaux, that lias not been tinctured with French 
blood. The ( !anadians showed preferences in the choice of Indian mates, 
yet seem to have slighted no tribe, and generally made selection wherever 
fortune and circumstances led them. 

Along the Saint Lawrence they took wives among the various hordes 
of Montagnais, Ottawas, and Ilurons, and, at a later period, the Iroquois. 

In Michigan most of the metis derive their Indian blood from the 
Ottawas and Chippewas; some from Pottawatomies and Menomonees; 
one or two families from Crees; one or two from Sioux. Along the 
shores of Lake Superior, mostly from Chippewas, a few from Sioux, 
Assinaboines, Illinois, and, in Green Bay, from the Menomonees. From 
Lake Superior to Eed River, and in Minnesota, from various bands of 
Chip] >ewas, especially the Saulteaux, so named from their place of origin, 
Sault Ste. Marie. 

The Crees, the largest tribe in the British Possessions, roaming over 
the plains of the Saskatchawan, were always held in high esteem by the 
French, and united to them in close friendship. It was found that Cree 
women were superior to those of other tribes in moral and mental qual- 
ities, and they are generally preferred by white traders. The majority 
of the metis of Fort Garry, Saint Boniface, and other points on the Bed 
River are of Cree, and the balance mostly of Chippewa-Saulteaux blood. 

Aronnd Pembina and Saint Joseph the Chippewa element predomi- 
nates, also around Lakes Manitoba and Winnipeg, and westAvard to 
the northern branch of the Assinaboine. On the Saskatchawan, at the 
missions near Fort Edmonton, and northward to the Great Slave Lake, 
the metis are almost exclusively of Cree origin. 

North of Lake Manitoba are some Maskegon metis, and where the 
Saskatchawan issues from the Bocky Mountains are a small number of 
[roqtiois metis. The settlement of a band of Iroquois in the Rocky 
Mountains is a striking illustration of the roaming propensity of savages. 

A small proportion of Blackfeet and Montagnais metis are found at 
the base of the Bocky Mountains; the former south, the latter north, of 
the Crees. 

The Assinaboines have also mixed-blood representatives in Southern 
Manitoba, on the liver of that name, and in the Bed River Valley. 

In Dakota t lie met is are mostly ( 'hippewa and Assinaboine on the Red 
River and at Devil's Lake, and Sioux at other places. In Montana they 
are Gros Ventre on Milk River, Flathead in Missoula County, Cree and 
Chippewa elsewhere. In Iowa they are from the Sacs and Foxes, and 
in the Indian Territory from the Cheyennes and Arapahoes. Farther 
west, and on the Pacific coast, the.\ derive their Indian blood from the 
various tribes among which they live. 

V. 
OCCUPATION. 
flu- capacity Oi the metis for work and industry is great, and is ex- 
ercised over a wide range, from the highest callings of civilized life to 



THE FRENCH HALF-BREEDS OF THE NORTHWEST. 319 

the miserable shifts of the sensuous savage. In Michigan and Wiscon- 
sin, many hold positions of trust and responsibility, requiring education 
and integrity, while the majority live in towns and villages, occupied in 
the same pursuits as their white neighbors. Probably one-half of those 
living at Detroit, Green Bay, Mackinac, La Pointe, and Red River are 
permanent settlers and honored tax-paying citizens. About one-fourth 
or one-fifth of the Northwest half-breeds, mostly hired men, hunters, 
and trappers, although hovering about the settlements, have no fixed 
home, and lead a semi-nomadic life. A smaller proportion, in the re- 
mote Western States, on the Saskatchewan and other points in the 
British Possessions, have not yet severed their tribal relations, and live 
like Indians. In Upper Michigan and on Lake Superior, the greater 
number rely principally on farming and fishing for a livelihood. Only 
few give to agriculture their exclusive attention and depend altogether 
on the produce of their farms. There are none who subsist exclusively 
by hunting and trapping, though a number are thus occupied for a part 
of the year. 

Metis carpenters, blacksmiths, shoemakers, &c, are not uncommon. 
Many work in the saw-mills during the summer and go out lumbering 
in winter. A certain proportion are boatmen on the lakes. 

In Manitoba they occupy a due proportion of the government offices. 
Until very recently they had a large majority of members in the provin- 
cial parliament. Farming, stock-raising, and fishing are their prin- 
cipal means of support. Formerly many went buffalo hunting on the 
plateau of the Missouri during the season, but this resource has been 
exhausted.* 

On the Assinaboine, Saskatchewan, and the lakes north of the latter 
river, the half-breeds perform all the menial duties at the posts of the 
Hudson Bay Company, where they also act as guides and interpreters. 
They are hardy and sagacious voyageurs, either with ox-cart, dog-sleigh, 
or canoe. They hunt and trap, and often make a dash at the buffalo. 
At the Catholic missions of St. Anne and St. Albert many are tilling 
the soil, and begin to reap the fruits of patient industry. 

Their women are expert in bead-work and very skillful in the orna- 
mentation of furs and buckskin. The colonies on Milk River, Wood 
Mountains, Frenchmen's Creek, and Maria's River are nearly altogether 
dependent upon the buffalo. They cure, robes with great skill and make 

* These, annual hunts were on a large scale, as may he seen from the following illus- 
tration, condensed from the "History of the Red River," by Alexander Ross: "In 
June, 1840, 1,03 ) half-breeds, including a few < lanadians and Indians, rendezvoused at 
Pembina with 1,210 carts and 542 dogs. After organizing into a, sort of military com- 
mand, with ten captains and one president, they journeyed 250 miles before striking 
the buffalo. In the evening of the first day's hunt no less than 1,375 tongues were 
brought into camp. In the m6Ue one rider broke his shoulder-blade, another lost 
three fingers by the, bursting of his gnu, and the third received a spent hall on the 
knee. Scarcely one-third of the animals killed were turned to account. The party 
returned with about UOO pounds of meat per cart." 



320 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

excellent pemmican. Their fall and winter trade averages from seventy- 
live to one hundred robes per family, each robe selling at from $o to $5. 
Pemmican, a peculiar half-breed produce, is made as follows: The 
lean meat of the buffalo is cut into thin slices; these are dried in the 
sun. then pounded and compressed into a rawhide sack. An equal 
amountof not fat is poured upon the meat and the sack is closed. Some- 
times the berries of the amelanchier are added to the mass. Each sack 
weighs from 100 to 150 pounds. The food thus prepared is tasteful, 
wholesome, and keeps many months. 

VI. 

CHARACTER AND HABITS. 

Iii intellect, as in physique, the metis occupies a middle ground be- 
tween the races from which he is issued. Combining many of the facul- 
ties of both white and Indian, yet identified with neither, he is, in most 
respects, a member of a distinct class of our population. 

Wherever I have met him, he has always appeared to me endowed 
with many qualities of heart and of mind which readily develop and 
ripen on contact with civilization. Even in the wilderness he bears 
within himself the germs of a higher life which make him aspire to a 
belter state. Unfortunately many circumstances have hitherto been 
adverse to his advancement. His paternal ancestors, from whom he 
derives the better part of himself, were but too often indifferent and 
careless parents, noted for greediness and licentiousness. On the other 
hand, until a very recent period, he had never felt the gentle and refin- 
ing influence of civilized woman, either inside or outside the family cir- 
cle. Even to-day many metis in the remote Northwest are still strangers 
to it. Schools have also been scarce at many of their settlements, and 
attendance at them often difficult. Their present degree of cultivation 
in Manitoba and on the Saskatchewan is mainly due to the missionaries 
who since ISIS have been laboring among them with unremitting zeal. 

In the character of the metis, when not perverted by bad associations, 
we discover a guileless nature, easily swayed; a clear, but not strong 
moral sense; good purposes, but weak will. Fickle and impulsive, they 
are mostly free from greed, egotism, and seem incapable of deliberate, 
calculating fraud. 

They are kind hearted, genial, and sympathetic, practicing in all its 
patriarchal fullness the virtue of hospitality. Generous even to a fault, 
often prodigal, they cheerfully share all they have with friends or even 
strangers, sometimes to the point of depriving themselves of necessities. 
Such generosity is often indiscreet; it encourages a set of idlers and 
drones who are a burden upon the community. Whenever destitute, 
they ask from their neighbors as freely as they give. There is among 
them ( Lves a sort of spontaneous freemasonry which unites them in the 
bonds of good-fellowship, but without any prejudice to the claims of 



TIIE FRENCH IIALF-BREEDS OF THE NORTHWEST. 321 

their other fellow-men. They resent an injury quickly, but are as quick 
to pardon and do not treasure up animosity. 

Like Indians, they have a quick and discerning eye for "the lay of 
the land." From its general outlines they readily infer its minor topo- 
graphical accidents, and this faculty enables them to reach any objective 
point, through virgin forests and over untrodden prairies, by the most 
direct and practicable route. While on the way they notice minutely 
all the details of the landscape, and these seem to remain indelibly 
printed on their memories. 

They are fruitful in shifts and resources on the plains and in the woods, 
and no accident or danger will dishearten them; they may change their 
purpose, but will not lose their temper. They are wary trappers, expe- 
rienced hunters, and daring warriors. In the light they exhibit all the 
native emit of Indians combined with better disciplined valor. For this 
reason, as well as on account of their kinship, they are very seldom 
molested by the latter. 

Theft is not one of the vices of the metis. They freely ask and beg, but 
do not steal, neither from one another nor from the whites. Their cot- 
tages, on the Eed River, are mostly without lock and key and under the 
sole safeguard of mutual honesty. This regard for the rights of prop- 
erty is duly appreciated by their employers. 

By the side of these lights let us place a few shades to complete the 
picture. 

The great moral infirmity of the half-breed seems to be his inability 
to exercise self-control. Of a light-minded, gay, and passionate dispo- 
sition, he is ever ready to enjoy himself and would fain reverse the trite 
maxim : " Duty before pleasure." He does not avoid and does not know 
how to resist temptation, which makes him an easy prey to his appe- 
tite; hence, waste of time, neglect of duties, and a certain inconstancy 
of character which renders him the facile dupe of designing men. This 
love of pleasure leads frequently to drunkenness, often excessive and 
violent; it is also adverse to daily work and steady industry, hence the 
poverty and low social status of many. 

Morality. — The morality of the half-breeds depends very much upon 
their bringing up and surroundings. Credulous and impressionable, 
they quickly reflect whatever influence is brought to bear upon them. 
Submissive to their spiritual teachers, whenever roused into sufficient 
determination, they become better Christians and more worthy citizens 
than the white frontiersmen of their neighborhood. Unfortunately, as 
already stated, they exhibit a lurking infirmity of purpose and debility 
of will which often defeat the best resolutions. 

Their immorality, however, is never of a gross kind; the women sin, 
but do not become deeply corrupted and completely abandoned to a life 
of shame; they never lose a. certain fund of native modesty, which, un- 
der proper guidance, easily leads to reform and to a better life. The 
amount of illegitimacy and crime among them is less in proportion than 
in most civilized countries. 
S. Mis. 54 21 



322 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Religion. — Tn religion, the melis are Roman Catholic almost to a man. 
They inherited their creed from their fathers, and through all the vicis- 
situdes of a hard life cling to it with great fondness and tenacity. 

On account of their remoteness and scattered condition, many have 
been, and still are, cut off from religious instruction, but there must be 
few who never heard the voice of the missionary. As early as IS is, 
Canadian priests were ministering to them on the Eed River, and, to- 
day, ;i band of zealous missionaries, under the direction of Archbishop 
Tachc, of Saint Boniface, preach the Christian faith to Indians and mentis 
alike, at numerous missions, from Lake Winnipeg to British Columbia, 
and nearly to the mouth of the McKenzie River. 

Education. — The education of the m6tis varies according to their means 
and opportunities. It may be said, in a general way, that their innate 
love of roving freedom indisposes them greatly to the restraint and con- 
finement of school life. The children are naturally apt and intelligent 
scholars, but seem incapable of the sustained application which the 
study of books requires. The little influence and authority of the mother 
over the boys is regretable, as, in the absence of the father, often called 
away by the necessities of his life, no coercion is brought to bear upon 
them, and they find it easier to play than to learn. Wherever schools 
have been opened in their midst a majority of the children are sent to 
them, but their attendance is often irregular and seldom continued long. 
As if is, however, the result is already gratifying and promises well of 
the next generation. Of the present it may be said that in the British 
Possessions and the remote Western States the great majority of adults 
can neither read nor write. 

A French weekly paper is published at Winnipeg in the interest of 
the me i is. 

VII. 

PHYSIQUE. 

The mentis are of middle stature, well proportioned, with dark com- 
plexion, regular features, and open, pleasing countenance, smiling more 
readily than it frowns. The peculiarities of the Indian face, such as 
salient cheeks, hooked nose, semi-lunar profile, i&C, can often be no- 
ticed, but are very much softened, and in many individuals unapparent. 
The hands and feet are small and neatly shaped. The muscles con- 
cerned in locomotion are well developed, but the whole body is rather 
slender and free from all superfluous flesh. Their complexion, gener- 
ally tawny, varies greatly in its shades from quasi-coppery to pure white. 
Many, in color and cast of features, bear a striking resemblance to the 
border Mexicans. The women are fairer than the men, somewhat pale 
and sallow; some have a skin as white and delicate as that of any Eu- 
ropean lady. They are well featured and comely; I have seen among 
them -iris with faces of classic beauty. 

The men. Indian-like, are beardless and cultivate longhair. They are 



THE FRENCH HALF-BREEDS OF THE NORTHWEST. 323 

not stronger than the whites, and, for a short time, perhaps capable of 
less powerful exertion, but they possess extraordinary powers of endur- 
ance, and, in the long run, would easily outstrip the whites. They are 
indefatigable voyageurs. During the long northwestern winter they travel 
immense distances on snow-shoes, at the rate of 30 and 40 miles a day. 
With a dog-sled, now trotting by the side of their team, then over 
smooth ground standing on the rear of the sled, and again over rough 
places, pushing from behind with a pole, and launching at the panting 
team a few rolling imprecations, they make from 50 to GO miles a day. 
As boatmen they display a vigor, skill, and a sum of endurance unex- 
celled by any other class of men. 

YIII. 

habitations; etc. 

The average half-breed house, such as the traveler notices along the 
banks of Red River, is a small one story log structure, with often but 
one, seldom more than two or three apartments, scantily furnished. In 
one corner of the principal room is the bed of the heads of the family, 
painted in some vivid color ; an open fire-place, tall and narrow, so as to 
accommodate logs placed upright, occupies the middle of one of the 
walls ; a table, dresser, and a few boxes, doing duty as chairs, constitute 
the furniture. In this room, if it be the only one, eat and sleep all the 
members of the family, seldom a small one. This promiscuous mode of 
living, however objectionable, is not attended with the lowering of mor- 
als which one would expect, nor does it harden young girls out of their 
native coyness and modesty. Metis, who can afford to build larger and 
more commodious houses, often have them paiuted red and blue with 
sharp contrast of colors. 

Vehicles. — The vehicles ordinarily used by the metis deserve men- 
tion. They are during the summer the charratte or cart, and during the 
winter the carriole and dog-sled. ]STo better description of the cart can 
be given than in the words of Assistant-Surgeon E. Woodruff, U. S. A.: 

" These singular vehicles were composed entirely of wood, and consisted 
of two wheels nearly 6 feet in diameter, with very broad tires, and a small 
body resting on the axle and shafts. Roth ponies and oxen were used 
to draw them, attached by a peculiar harness of raw hide. These carts 
would carry from GOO to 800 pounds, and one man could drive five or six 
of them in a train. No grease was used, and as a long train crept over 
the prairie an indescribable noise was made by the creaking of the wheels. 
* * * The broad felloes of the wheels prevented their sinking in the 
soft ground, and the driver, with only the most primitive tools, could at 
any time or place repair a broken cart or even construct a new one. 
When progress was interrupted by a swollen stream, the (-art could be 
taken to pieces and floated across." 

As late as 1870, although steam navigation had already begun on the 



324 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Red River, the trade of Fort Garry and the Selkirk settlements with St. 
Paul, a distance of 000 miles, was carried on in these carts. It was esti- 
mated that 3,001) of them passed through Pembina in one season going 
south, freighted with furs, and returned loaded with various supplies. 

The carriole, or sleigh, is simply the body of a cart laid on the snow, 
with shafts raised in front, and drawn by oxen or ponies. The dog-sled, 
or tabawga, used for long journeys through the British Possessions, con- 
sists csscnt ially of a broad board raised up in front, and is drawn by three 
or four dogs harnessed in tandem fashion. The collars and traces, usually 
of moose skin, are ornamented with brass bells, fox tails, and ribbons. 
Three good animals can pull a load of 300 pounds, with blankets and 
provisions, and now and then the driver, many miles a day. The tab- 
awga, with its canine team, is independent of roads; it selects its course 
over the boundless expanse of the great " Lone Land" as does the mariner 
at sea. These dogs, of a breed akin to the St. Bernard's, are fed on fro- 
zen fish or pemmican ; at night they burrow their bed in the snow. 

Before the running of the steamers on the Bed River, a daily mail 
was received at Fort Pembina, brought from Saint Paul in dog-sleds. 

Dress. — In their dress the m6"tis show no marked peculiarities, but be- 
tray, in a tempered way, the fondness of the Indian for finery and gaudy 
raiment. In Manitoba the men usually wear a blue overcoat or capot with 
conspicuous brass buttons, black or drab corduroy trowsers, a belt or 
scarf around the waist, leggings, and moccasins, the whole variously 
adorned with colored fringes, scallops, and beads. The legging is an im- 
portant article of the young buck's toilet; it is usually made of blue 
cloth, extends to the knee, below which it is tied with a gaudy garter of 
worsted work, and has abroad stripe of heavy bead work running down 
the outer seam. 

The women generally dress in a black gown with a black shawl thrown 
over the head, in a manner at once comfortable and becoming. The girls 
often wear a colored shawl about their shoulders and a showy handker- 
chief upon the head; they like scarlet petticoats and prize gaudy ribbons 
and cheap jewelry. 

Marriage. — The metis marry young. At twenty the young men seek 
mates, and the girls are eligible at fifteen. The ceremony usually takes 
placeduring the winter, which is with them a season of leisure and fes- 
tivities. The conjugal knot is tied in the chapel of the parish by the res- 
ident missionary, after which there is dancing and feasting for several 
days, often to 1 he great detriment of the provisions accumulated against 
along winter. When all the guests have dispersed, the young husband 
takes his bride home to begin life on a capital stock of the merest neces- 
sities of life, and they are happy. 

The metis are prolific and raise large families of healthy children, 
seldom less than two or three, often as many as seven or eight, thus 
controverting the statement sometimes made that hybrid races are 
Sterile, The mothers love their children dearly, and bring them up with 



THE FRENCH HALF-BREEDS OF THE NORTHWEST. 325 

care; but the boys, fond of roving' freedom, escape early from their intlu- 
ence and become often guilty of gross iilial ingratitude. The daughters 
are more dutiful and generally reciprocate the affection of their parents 

IX. 

LANGUAGE. 

The metis generally speak several languages, one or more Indian dia- 
lects, French, and often English. In the States most of them under- 
stand English, and use it when conversing with Americans, but seldom 
when among themselves. On the lied River, the Saskatekawan, and 
Milk River settlements, English is only exceptionally spoken. 

All the metis, from Lake Superior westward, speak more or less In- 
dian ; in Manitoba many prefer it, and this preference becomes more 
general as we near the Rocky Mountains. The Cree principally, and, 
in a much less degree, the Chippewa, are the ordinary languages of 
the half-breeds in the British Northwest. 

The Cree is easily learned, expressive, and euphonious, and for these 
qualities has become the universal medium of conversation among the 
Northwestern tribes and their kindred, the metis. In Minnesota the 
latter speak Chippewa ; in Dakota, Sioux and Cree; and at the other 
places the dialect of the tribe from which they originated. 

French is understood by all Canadian half breeds ; it is their ordinary 
language in Michigan, Wisconsin, and around Lake Superior, and every- 
where their official medium of communication. At all the parishes on 
Red River, on the Assiuiboin, and even at Saint Albert, on the Saskateh- 
awan, the sermons are usually preached in French. 

The French of the metis is a patois, somewhat analogous to that of 
the poorer classes in Canada. It is not comprehensive but contains a 
large number of peculiar words and expressions grown out of the char- 
acter of the land they live in, and their mode of life. The pronuncia- 
tion, although very defective, is not as bad as that of many of the 
provincial patois of France. It is readily understood by a Frenchman 
in spite of its grotesqueness, but correct French, unless made very plain, 
is not readily understood by the average metis. Whether spoken about 
the lakes, on the Saskatekawan, or in British Columbia, it is very nearly 
identical. 

Many words in common use are obsolete French, but may still be 
heard to-day in Normandy and L'icardy; for instance: Alter cri (querir), 
to fetch; fieur, flour; pa(<il<; potatoe; patir, to suffer; mouiller, to rain- 
raisonner, to grumble; grouiller (of persons), to stir; brailler, to weep; 
jongler, to think; magauer, to maltreat; bo;:caue, smoke; moucher, to 
beat, 

A large number belong to the vocabulary of the prairie: Fourehcr, 
to branch off ; fourches, forks of a stream; charrette, cart; carriole, 
sleigh; trahie, sled; embarquer, to get aboard cart or .sleigh; /aire 



326 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

ckaudiSre, to cook ; coulee, ravine or gully ; buttc, bluff or cliff; mauvaises 
terres, bad, broken lands ; tetons, small, round peaks ; plateau, table-land ; 
plateau du coteau, land system of a river or lake; travail, the Indian 
conveyance, consisting of a frame resting on two poles dragging on the 
ground; poudrer, to storm and snow; babiche, strip of raw hide; 
cabresse, lasso; pemmican, meat dried and pounded; capot, overcoat with 
hood; equipage, team ; train, outfit. 

Some originated with the far-trade: Coureurs de bois, bush-rangers ; 
voyageurs, fur carriers, collectors, and boatmen; engages, employes, la- 
borers at trading posts ; portage, place where canoes are carried over 
shoals or to another stream; bourgeois, proprietor or mauager of a post ; 
mangeurs de lard (pork eaters), green, inexperienced hands ; plut, peltry; 
hat run, barge. 

Some are English words with a French termination and pronuncia- 
tion: Salon, saloon ; biter, to beat; settler, to settle, &c. 

The metis moid grammatical difficulties in the use of verbs and pro- 
nouns, by using as few tenses as possible, and these preferably in the 
third person singular; for instance: go, dit ca, they say so; ou va oiler, 
we shall go, &c. 

As peculiarities of bad pronunciation I may mention the diphthong 
oi, always pronounced as ai, with the sound of the final consonant, thus: 
Froid, droit, &c, are fraite, draite, &c; also the broad, nasal sound of 
the a, as in the following sentence: go, neva pas. The latter peculiarity 
is characteristic of the Canadian pronunciation of French. 

Xames. — The names of metis are those of many Canadian families, and 
arc mostly found in those western and northern provinces of France from 
which Canada received its first settlers. 

We find here and there a scion of aristocracy. On the Lakes and in 
Manitoba: Saint-Luc de Repentigny, Bonaventure Saint-Arnaud, 
Charles de Montigny, Louis Saint-Cyr, Pierre Saint-Germain, de la 
Morandiere, de la Rondo, &c. Farther north : Le Camarade de Mande- 
ville, de Saint-George, de Laporte, de Saint-Luc, de Chaumont-Racette, 
de Lepinais, de Charlais, &c. 

Among the most common family names, we notice on the Red River: 
Boucher, Bois- Vert, Bourassa, Boyer, Cadotte, Capelette, Carriere, De- 
lornie, Deschambeau, Dumas, Flamand, Galarneau, Gosselin, Grand- 
Hois, Gaudry, Goulefc, Hupe, Larocque, Lucicr, Lagemodiere, Laderoute, 
Lepuie, Laframbaise, Letendre, Morin, Montreuil, Martel, Norma ml, 
Binville, Villebrun, &c. 

At Mackinac and other place on the Lakes: Saint-Andre?, Brisebois, 
Bellanger, Bonneau, Boucher, Landry, Biron, Chevalier, Cadotte,Chenier, 
Deschamps, Frichette, Giroux, Gendron, Grondin, IJamelin, Lapierre, 
Lavallee, Lecuyer, Levequc, Lusignau, Labutte, Lepine. Mainville, 
N-iliii, Plaute, Pelletier, Perrault, Pilotte, Piquette, Riel, Saintonge, 
Thibault, &c. 

At French Prairie (Oregon) : Grcgoire, Maison, Lachapelle, Delorme, 
Vandal, Lucicr, Gervais, Rondeau, &c. 



PREHISTORIC REMAINS IN MONTANA. o27 

In Missoula County (Montana): Asselin, Jaugras, Moriceau, Lade- 
route, Lafontaine, Larose, Lavallee, Poirier, Dupuis, Bisson, Ilouille, 
Carrier, &c. 

In British Columbia. : Allard, Boucher, Boulanger, Danant, Dionnc, 
Durocher, Palaudeau, Gagnou, Giraud, Lacroix, Lalleur, Napoleon, 
Perault, &c. 

It is probable that many of these names, especially those beginning 
with the article la, originated in the wilderness, and, when applied to 
individuals whose paternity was unknown, were made to designate 
some peculiarity of body or of mind, or some circumstance of birth or 
parentage. 



PREHISTORIC REMAINS IN MONTANA, BETWEEN FORT ELLIS AND THE YEL- 
LOWSTONE RIVER. 

By P. W. Nonius, Superintendent of the Yellowstone National Park. 

While crossing from Fort Ellis to the Upper Yellowstone Biver, 
through Trail Pass, iu the spring of 1870, 1 diverged from the main route 
upon an ancient, nearly abandoned trail, through an eroded valley, some 
live miles, to Bight-mile Creek, and thence over the second basaltic ter- 
race to Bottler's. 

Upon and between these creeks I then, and again in 1875, observed 
not only the usual stone heaps for winter guides in snowy passes, but 
also scattered groups of what I supposed to be burial cairns, but had 
neither time nor tools to examine them. But in July of this year, learn- 
ing that Squire Petrel, who now has a fine ranch in Trail Pass, had seen 
some apparently ancient excavations, we together sought and found sev- 
eral, and I subsequently alone found some larger ones. Within an area 
of somewhat over a square mile, midway between Trail and Eight-mile 
Creeks, near the ancient trail, are four distinct groups of ancient shafts, 
or rather drifts along a vein. The debris was thrown out below the en- 
trance as iu the ancient copper drifts of Lake Superior. The largest are 
40 feet long, lit) wide, and 8 deep, but most of them are much smaller. 
But as an excavation, 5 feet deep, which 1 made in the largest, failed to 
reach either bottom or side walls, they are all doubtless very ancient 
and much filled in with eroded materials from the crumbling basaltic 
terraces. 

One set of drifts was made through the crumbling basalt, for a red or 
brown mineral paint, evidently not recently, if ever, used by the present 
red Indians. Another is a line of drifts along the nearly horizontal out- 
crop of a or 8 inch layer of rock as hard as Hint and as beautiful as 
moss agale, along a hillside of vitreous limestone. 

The other two groups of drifts are upon veins of a wavy, variegated, 
colored rock, but it, like the flinty agate last, mentioned, splits with a 
fracture apparently wholly unsuited for any kind of implement, and 
none were found there. 



328 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Most of the stone heaps are from 3 to 5 feet high and 8 to 12 in diam- 
eter at the base. In every case fragments of charcoal, a half cart-load 
of coarse square -ravel, evidently arrow heads, and of other tools or 
weapons of merely the dSbris of rocks there fractured by fire, and frag- 
ments of Hint, jasper, obsidian, and other materials were found, but no 
human or animal bones. 

About ten miles from this locality, upon the basaltic terrace back of 
Bottler's ranch, and along the basaltic terraces above a chain of lakes 
between Emigrant G-ulch and Dome Mountain, and on the West Galla- 
tin, are long, and frequently, though not always, parallel lines of very 
small stone heaps. 

Long and patient investigation failed to develop any definite form or 
apparent object in them, though they are always continuous, connected, 
and tolerably uniform in shape, average from one-half to a whole 
bushel in size, and are situated about a pace apart, so that a man can 
walk for miles upon them. They areseldom inclosures and never squares, 
circles, or other regular forms. They never, in any remembered case. 
show, by their position on summits of hills, on forks of canons, or on 
slopes of terraces, the slightest attempt at defense, often passing around 
and below crests, rocks, and bowlders, which now absolutely overlook 
and command them. 

That they are the work of human hands cannot be for a moment 
doubted, and, being somewhat eroded and imbedded, I suppose them 
also to be very ancient. These are my only conclusions in reference to 
them. 



THE SHOSIIONIS, OR SNAKE INDIANS, TIIEIR RELIGION, SUPERSTITIONS, 

AND MANNERS. 

By Col. Albert G. Brackett, U. S. A. 

The different bands of Shoshonis roam throughout Wyoming, Mon- 
tana. Idaho, Northern Utah, Northern California, and Southern Oregon, 
Taken as a whole, they number fully 8,000 souls, but are broken up and 
never operate together. While some have always been friendly to the 
whites, others have been their enemies, and the renegades living in 
( Oregon pursue the pale-faces with peculiar rancor. The party of Indians 
which gave SO much trouble to the whites in 1878 near the boundary 
line between Oregon and California, under the name of Modocs, was 
made up in part of Snake Indians. The Snakes Living near Stien's 
Mountain, in Oregon, hunt and fish for a living, and never let an oppor- 
tunity pass without doing what damage they can to the white settlers. 
Why one portion of this nation should be so hostile and another so 
friendly is not easily explained. 

These Indians were first encountered by Lewis and (Mark's party while 
on their way to the Pacific, in 1805. They were very poor, but assisted 
our people as well as they were able. They lived in the valleys and 



THE SHOSHOMS OR SNAKE INDIANS. 329 

along the courses of the streams, and had but little idea of laying up 
stores for winter. Their bread was made of sunflower (Helianthus an- 
nuus) and lambs-quarter (Chenopodium album) seeds, mixed with service 
berries (Amelanchier canadensis). They had a few horses, which they 
valued highly, that had been brought from the south by the Comanches, 
who speak the same language as the Shoshonis, and may, therefore, 
be considered as belonging to the same stock. The Shoshonis traveled 
far to the south, the greater portion of the tribe living, in fact, at that 
time, in the territory belonging to Mexico, or ISTew Spain. 

The tribal relationship between the Comanches, Shoshonis, and Ban- 
nacks is very close; and any one speaking the Shoshoni language may 
travel without difficulty among the wild tribes from Durango, in Mexico, 
to the banks of the Columbia River. Of course, each band has its pecu- 
liarities, but in the main they are much alike, and, if they could be com- 
bined, would form one of the most powerful Indian confederations in 
America. Some are richer in Indian property than others — having all 
that is desirable in an aboriginal point of view — while others are very 
poor indeed, living in the fastnesses of the mountains, and afraid to be 
seen by any one. A more utterly forlorn and friendless race of people 
than those last mentioned cannot be conceived. 

The Shoshonis love to fish in the spring time, in the streams which 
flow into the Colorado of the West; in the summer and fall they wander 
oif to the buffalo-grounds to the east of the Wind River Mountains. 
They are a contented race, and are on friendly terms with all the Indian 
tribes except the Sioux, Arapahoes, and Cheyennes. 

Their lodges are made of dressed buffalo-skins ; that is, skins that have 
had the hair taken off, and which have been rendered pliable by pound- 
ing and rubbing. Some of them are very elaborately made, painted on 
the outside, and divided into different compartments, answering the pur- 
pose of rooms in more pretentious dwellings. In each compartment 
there is a good bed made of buffalo, beaver, or bear skins, and blankets. 
In the center of the lodge is a fire, the smoke from which makes its way 
through a hole in the top. Each family has several brass kettles and 
drinking cups, &c. In the evenings the fires give a ruddy light, making 
everything look cheerful inside, and the children play about in as good 
spirits as any on earth. They have their little plays and games, and 
laugh and chatter away as merrily as crickets. There is a great degree 
of freedom in nil of their movements, and I cannot see but that they enjoy 
themselves as well as any people I have ever met. 

At present the Shoshonis occupy several reservations. One band, in 
company with the Bannaeks, is on the Lemhi farm in Montana, where 
they have some land under cultivation, and a good fishing place in the 
Lemhi Fork of Salmon River, a tributary of Snake River. The Eastern 
Shoshonis have a reservation in Wyoming Territory, which embraces 
the Wind River country from its source to Owl Creek, a large tributary 
of the river itself. These Indians are under the leadership of Washakce, 



330 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

one of the ablest red men now living. At the Fort Hall Agency, in 
Idaho, there is another band that is thoroughly mixed up with the Ban- 
nacks. The Northwestern Shoshonis have an agency in Utah; but this 
band does not seem to be united at all, and is scattered over Western 
Utah and Eastern Nevada. 'ihe Walpahpe and Yahooskin bands of 
Shoshonis are in Oregon and formerly roamed about with the Modocs, 
before their removal from Oregon, as they now do with the Klamaths 
and Pi CTtes.| 

Nearly all of them receive annuities from the government, and some 
effort has been made toward teaching them how to carry on farms, but 
the farming land is generally so badly located, the frosts so severe, the 
grasshoppers so plentiful, and the altitude so great, that, in most in- 
stances, but little can be said in favor of these farming operations. It 
would be difficult for the best American farmers to raise crops on some 
of the reservations that have been set apart for the Indians, and I do 
not think that we ought to expect more from them than we can from our 
own race. 

By far the larger portion of the eastern reservation is barren and 
mountainous. The valley of the Little Wind River, in which the agency 
is situated, contains eight or ten sections of land which can be irrigated 
and cultivated. There is little or no wood except on the mountain-sides, 
distant some ten or twenty miles from the agency, if we except some 
tine shade-trees along the course of the river. The Wind River Mount- 
ains are supposed by the Indians to be the home of the spirits, and they 
believe a person can see the spirit land, or the land they will occupy 
after death, from the top of them. They are fond of describing the beau- 
ties of this land, and the enjoyments and pleasures they Mill find therein: 
fresh and pure streams; wide prairies covered with grass and flowers, 
and abounding in deer; beautiful squaws to wait upon them; horses, 
always ready and never tired, to take part in the chase; new lodges 
supplied with every comfort, and provisions and meat so plentiful that 
they will never again suffer the pangs of hunger. 

These [ndians have not much of an idea of God, though they be- 
lieve in Tamapah, or Sun-Father, who is the Father of the Day and 
Father of us all, and lives in the sun. They believe that when a good 
Indian dies, he falls into a beautiful stream of bright, fresh water, and 
is carried to the pleasant grounds 1 have described, whereas when a 
bad Indian dies, he falls into a stream of muddy, filthy water, and is 
borne off to a dark and noisome swam]), where he is unhappy, dirty, 
and miserable. When an old man is dying he finds himself near the top 
of a high hill on the Wind River Mountains, and, as the breath leaves 
his body, he reaches the top of it, and there, in front of him, the whole 
magnificenl Landscape of eternity is spread out, and the Sun-Father is 
there to receive him and to do everything in his power to make him happy. 
They recognize the fact that there is a difference in the future state 
made be1 \\ ecu the good and the bad, though the idea of eternal torment 



THE SHOSHONIS OR SNAKE INDIANS. 331 

they do not entertain at all. Material pleasures alone are those which 
a Shoshoni understands. lie can conceive of none aside from those 
which go towards nourishing the body or appeasing the appetite. The 
voting man after death continues to hunt, while the old man has every- 
thing necessary for himself without labor. 

A Shoshoni warrior dressed in all his finery is a picturesque object. 
He has a fine blanket of blue; blue leggings heavily trimmed with red 
cloth and masses of white beads; a hunting-shirt of tanned buckskin 
adorned with heavy fringes of the same along the seams, on the shoul- 
ders and around the waist and skirts, and dense rows of white and pink 
beads on the shoulders and outside of the sleeves. His hair is braided 
up and adorned with brass bosses; huge hoops of brass wire are in his 
ears, and his fingers are plentifully adorned with brass rings — as many 
as ten frequently being on one finger. His moccasins are well beaded 
over, and his broad-brimmed black hat adorned with feathers. His 
horse, too, comes in for his share of adornment; the check-pieces of the 
bridle being made of red cloth; the brow-band finely ornamented, and 
the bit heavy with curved horse-shoe nails. The stock of his rifle is 
studded with brass nails, as is also the sheath of his knife, while the saddle 
is covered with heavy cloth. Xo people in the world are more fond of dis- 
play. These beaux of the wilderness have a high opinion of themselves, 
and are as grave and dignified as can be; they think the world beside does 
not contain such finery as is done up on the outside of a Shoshoni brave. 

They are not bloodthirsty as a race, but are inclined to be peaceful, 
nor are they quarrelsome, but love to take their ease. They know how 
to appreciate a good horse, and some of them have small herds of cattle. 
Their history, so far as known, is not a bloody one, they as a general 
thing preferring to seek the fastnesses of the mountains to fighting. But 
it must not be inferred from this that they are a cowardly race, they 
being brave, adventurous, and excellent guides. Until the last few 
years they were very poor indeed. Words can scarcely express their 
extreme poverty when first met by white people. They seemed to have 
very few worldly goods, w.ere indifferently armed, and with great diffi- 
culty succeeded in taking a tew buffaloes. In the fishing season they 
caught great quantities of salmon-trout in Snake River, which they pre- 
served as well as they could for winter use. At times, too, they suc- 
ceeded in capturing many antelopes, but still they often suffered from 
hunger and cold, beiug improvident and unskilled in the ways of. pre- 
serving fish and meat. 

The men among the Shoshonis are true republicans, each one being 
a sovereign, and subject to no man. lie is sole owner of his wives and 
daughters and can dispose of them as he sees lit. The children are 
seldom if ever chastised, as the Indians say it breaks their spirits, and 
they are ever afterward cowed down. Plurality of wives is very com- 
mon, an Indian buying as many as he can maintain. Female children 
are betrothed when very young, and sent oil' to the lodges of their hus- 



332 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

bands as soon as they get old enough. The price of a squaw varies 
considerably, but generally amounts to three or four horses or mules, 
and sever;;] plugs of tobacco. Sisters are not usually married to the 
same man, as it is considered better to change about, and have relatives 
in as many families as possible. The squaws collect roots, and cook, put 
up the lodges and take them down, dress the skins, and make clothing. 
They also make parfleches, or heavy bags of buffalo skin, in which buf- 
falo meat and fat are packed away, and manufacture bowls and baskets 
from wood and grass. They collect seeds and wood, and take care of 
the horses, load and unload the animals, and have general charge of the 
baggage. The whole drudgery of camp devolves upon them, and the 
life which women lead among the savages is one of abject slavery. 
An Indian thinks it beneath his dignity to do any kind of work except 
hunting, fishing, and engaging in war. 

In the long and dreary days of winter the Indians sit in their lodges, 
where there is a good supply of meat, and pass the time as best they 
can. They tell stories of their hunting expeditions and war parties, and 
embellish their narratives as much as possible. They tell of the Great 
Brown Bear of the Mountains, who dwells amid the snows that hang 
about their summits, and whose howls mingle with the thunders of 
summer and the wild wailings of the winter storm ; of Giant Big Horn, 
who roams through the deep gorges of the Sierras, and climbs the rugged 
rocks, whose feet are swifter than the north wind, and as untiring as the 
rushing waters. They tell of the ghosts, or Tsoaps, who haunt the 
meadows and forests, and are ever ready to give them warning of 
the time of their departure to the land of spirits. They tell of the 
Big Beaver, who dwells in the marshes near Green River, whose breath 
can split the hardest rock, and the tire from whose eyes can melt the 
thickest ice. They tell of the Black Raven, who sits above the battle- 
ground where so many Shoshonis were killed by the Sioux in 1801), 
who croaks over the remains of the dead and flaps his broad wings 
noiselessly through the dreary nights when the moon is dead. These 
stories and many more they tell each other, until, like children, they 
cower near the lodge-tiros and are afraid to go out alone. Never were 
there more marvelous story tellers, and never were there more willing 
listeners. Almost every summer they get thoroughly frightened by 
some prophet predicting the speedy end of the world. 

Old and young mount their ponies, and, crossing the mountains, as- 
semble near Bear River, where they go through a series of dances, 
incantations, and rites until they are almost beside themselves with 
excitement. This excitement disappears as quickly as it makes its ap- 
pearance, and then all hands pack up again and bundle themselves oft 
home as contented as can be. Instead of doing harm, these meetings 
seem to do a great deal of good. They stir up the Indian blood and the 
excitement exhausts itself. Were it not for these displays the Indians 
might consider it their duty to make a raid upon some white man's 



RUINS IN WHITE RIVER CANON, PIMA COUNTY, ARIZONA. 333 

flocks and herds, aud carry off a few bead of horses by way of variety; 
but after having glorified themselves sufficiently they are willing- to re- 
main quiet for a considerable time and smoke their pipes with renewed 
pleasure. 



RUNS IX WHITE RIVER CVNOV, PIMA COUNTY, ARIZONA. 

By R. T. Burr, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. 

In White Elver Canon, situated in the Chirachui Mountains, in South- 
eastern Arizona, about 35 miles south of Cainp Bowie, and 25 or 30 
miles north of the Mexican line, I discovered the remains of an ancient 
settlement shortly after the establishment of Camp Supply, May 1, 187S. 
White River Canon is near the southern portion of the mountain chain 
opening to the west. There are many indications that this canon and 
vicinity have in the past been occupied by a race much superior to the 
Apaches. 

The ruins are located in the forks of two branches of White River, or 
where Henley's Branch joins the main stream from the south. The land 
is at present a military reservation. They are less than 100 yards from 
either branch of the stream, on a ridge 40 or 50 feet above the river- 
bed. The land is rather rocky, but in many places there is excellent 
alluvial soil along the streams. In the vicinity of the ruins arc at least 
1,000 acres susceptible of irrigation. The canon has now a growth of 
pine, oak, juniper, some walnut, and a few sycamores. The surrounding 
mountains are well covered with pine and oak. It is impossible to tell 
what changes have taken place since these ruins were occupied. They 
must have been considerable, as the water supply in the dry season is 
now limited, the river ceasing to run, and only holding water in a few 
places. 

Rucker's Spring is a large basin of water that contains as much at one 
season as at another. The water is strongly impregnated with sulphur. 

The remains occur in groups, some consisting of from two to four or 
five squares or circles, showing that at the time they were built defense 
was not a primary object. Isolated in the heart of the mountains, this 
community would be first exposed to the hostiles, and probably fall a 
prey to the Apache invasion from the north. 

The other two isolated groups are small, the nearest having three or 
four squares and no circles; the second, on the east of Rucker's Branch, 
having five or six squares from 10 to 15 by 20 or 30 feet. The ruins 
described seem to be the most important ones. I took a sketch of the 
ground-plan of the ruins. I traced out the walls of the main building 
as well as I could, the only guide I had being the uprigb.1 stones placed 
singly from G to 12 inches apart. No remains of a wall exist save these 
stones that are placed on end and partly buried in the ground. Walls 
or lines arc, with one exception, due north and south, and east and west. 
I tested this by means of a compass, and, making allowance for varia- 
tions of the needle, they are certaiuly wonderfully correct. The walls, 



334 ANTIIROPOLOGY. 

if they were walls, must have been made of adobe, and the heavy rain- 
falls of the canon, aboul 30 inches this year, would have destroyed all 
traces, as this building was erected on the incline of the ridge, while the 
circles arc on the level ground. The large circles, all about ;;:> feet in 
diameter, have the walls much better preserved than the squares. The 
mounds arc from 12 inches to 2 feet higher than the surrounding land, 
and, in some cases, spread out some 4 to 10 feet. The walls seem to have 
been made of adobe and stones. 

Near the center of most of the mounds is quite a depression, caused, I 
suppose, by the washing down of the walls. lean see no evidence of 
special construction in the center. The materials could be obtained in 
abundance in the immediate vicinity. None have been explored, as 
labor is so high here that I have not been able to bear the expense, and, 
indeed, had but little hope of finding anything worth the while. On the 
ground I have found an abundance of [tottery in small pieces, some of 
it glassy, one piece ornamented in colors, many bits carved or marked. 

For eight or nine months of the year White River would afford, at the 
present period, abundance of water. Rainfall begins in the latter part 
of June or the first of July, and continues almost every afternoon for 
sixty days, and the river remains full many months after. 

These mountains have long been the stronghold of the Apaches, and, 
so far as 1 can learn, none of our scouts ever noticed the remains. The 
Indian .scouts have a tradition that this canon has evil men living in it. 
There are no recent signs of occupation by Apaches. 

In conclusion, I would remark that 1 have thought that the quad- 
rangles and the circles were to be attributed to different peoples and 
different dates. The circles, seemingly more recent, may have been 
built by the Apaches in ages past, or by people less advanced in civili- 
zation than the first inhabitants. The small circles, about 3 feet in 
diameter, were ovens. They have a floor of flat stones well fitted, around 
which a wall is built up 8 to 12 inches high. There is no indication of 
a covering. In one I discovered some charred juniper-wood. 

I found here a stone mortar weighing about 100 pounds. The cavity 
is tour inches in diameter and as many dee]), perfectly round. It is con- 
veniently located near the four ovens. On the hillside I also found 
another mortar that had been turned over, and two broken metates. 

Near the mouth <>!' the canon, and distant from camp about miles, 
are some ruins that I have not examined with care. They consist prin- 
cipally of quadrangles of small size, 15 by 20 feet, and but few together. 
One group that I came across was at some distance from permanent 
water. There is a small ravine close by that now affords water in the 
wet season. This last group was on a high hill, and no agricultural 
ground was near, the ravine having precipitous banks. Other ruins are 
scattered along the banks of White River after it reaches the open 
plain outside the canon; but where they are placed no water is to be 
found in the dry season, it being at least 2 to 5 miles to the nearest 
permanent supply. 



MOUNDS IN WINNEBAGO COUNTY, WISCONSIN. 335 

MOUNDS IN WINNEBAGO COUNTY, WISCONSIN. 

By Thomas Armstrong, of Ripon, Fond du Lac County, Wisconsin. 

There are many "ancient aboriginal structures" in this section ; mounds 
of various shapes, and designed for various uses, being very plentiful. 

The only other indications of the occupation of this region by the 
aborigines are stone axes, arrow and spear heads, chips of flint, and 
pieces of broken pottery, which may be found in almost any newly- 
plowed held, or in gullies washed by the rains. 

The mounds which are especially to be noticed in this communication 
are in the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter of section 34, town- 
ship of Nepeuskun, Winnebago County, Wisconsin, on the property of 
a Mr. Hintz. 

They are situated about ten rods from the shore of Rush Lake, CO 
feet back from the edge of a steep bank, which undoubtedly at one time 
formed the shore of the lake, whose waters have now receded, and are 
every year becoming more and more shallow, and giving place to marsh. 

The mounds were originally covered with a heavy growth of oaks, 
which have been cleared off within the last ten years, and the land cul- 
tivated. Some stumps of trees of from 100 to 150 years' growth re- 
mained on them until this last summer. 

The mounds are in a group, of which No. 1 is isolated, and Nos. 2, 3, 
and 4 are in a line, the nearest about 200 feet from No. 1. 

Nos. 1 and 4 are about 15 feet in diameter, and 2£ feet high ; No. 2. 
56 by 42 feet, and 3.} feet high ; No. 3. 30 by 40 feet, and 3< feet high; 
Nos. 2 and 3 are 75 feet apart. A quadrilateral ridge, indistinct in some 
places, but quite prominent enough to be easily recognized, and having 
on it several small mounds at irregular intervals, passes through Nos. 1 
and 2. The mounds 2, 3, and 4 are the only ones which are very dis- 
tinct and striking. 

The shape of all was once circular, or nearly so, but it has since been 
changed to oval by long cultivation. 

All except No. 2 are composed of the same sort of material as the 
ordinary surface soil of the surrounding fields, and these fields were 
undoubtedly the source whence it was derived. 

No ditches or hollows from which such a quantity of earth could have 
been taken are now to be seen in the vicinity, and it must therefore have 
been scraped uniformly from the surface. 

No. 2, however, is of different material, having in its center a, stone 
heap covered with the same sort of earth as the others. This is the 
largest mound on IJush Lake, and peculiar in this regard, for in most 
of the other mounds not even a pebble could be found, and in none were 
there rocks of any great size; but here was a conical pile of bowlders, 
such as the farmer to-day hauls off Ins fields, built in tin; exact center 
of the mound, and reachiug to within a few inches of the surface. We 



336 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

explored the four mounds. In 1 and 4 we found nothing; but in 2 and 
3 human remains were plentiful enough, and a quantity of these, in a 
tolerably good state of preservation, we were able to obtain. Some of 
these are now in the cabinet of Eipon College, Eipon, Wis., and some 
are in my possession. 

No account of these mounds has, so far as I know, ever been pub- 
lished; certainly no examination of them prior to ours has ever been 
made, though similar mounds on the sections adjoining these, and like- 
wise situated on the shore of Eush Lake, were described by me in a 
paper read before the Lapham Archaeological Society in 1877. 

Mound No. 2, as I have said, is a conical stone pile, built of bowlders 
weighing from 5 to 100 pounds, and perhaps 50 in number. Underneath 
this stone pile, and somewhat mingled with its lower layer, was a large 
quantity of ashes and charcoal, and also human remains; most distinct 
among them Mas the skeleton of a full-grown man of ordinary size — his 
thigh-bone measuring 17 inches — lying in a donbled-up position, with 
his head toward the west, and near it the remains of three or more 
other human beings. These bones were in such a crumbling condition 
that it was very difficult to save any of them, but, nevertheless, by 
careful work we were enabled to get out two skulls and several long 
bones. These were all found at the depth of 3 feet inches, and had 
evidently been placed on the original surface and the mound heaped 
over them. 

Mound No. 3 was more fruitful in relics than its larger neighbor. On 
and near the surface were a few small rocks, weighing from 1 to 30 
pounds, not arranged in any order, and not found after we had dug a 
foot or two into the mound. 

At the depth of 2 feet we found a few small and much broken pieces 
of pottery, made of a reddish clay mixed with fine particles of broken 
stone. The pieces were too few, small, and badly broken to admit of 
even a guess ;it the articles of which they once formed apart. They 
had never been burned, as it seemed to us, and were very fragile, ready 
to crumble ;ii the si ig litest touch. A piece of red chalk, or soft chalk- 
like stone, with which a red mark can be made on wood or paper, and 
;i small chip of Hint were the only other relics found in this mound, ex- 
cept the bones which we came upon at the depth of 3 feet. These were 
much better preserved than those in No. 2, and we were able to obtain 
a large number in tolerably good condition, among them several skulls. 

So tar as we could determine, there seemed to be no order whatever 
observed in the arrangement of these bones; skulls and long bones, 
ribs and finger and toe bones were mixed in utter confusion. In no 
case did a skeleton seems to have been placed in the mound entire. The 
bones of twenty-five or thirty individuals had evidently been gathered 
into a heap on the original turf, and a simple mound raised over 
them. It was very evident that no pit had been dug to receive them, 
and the only question is why the bones were in this confused condition. 



MOUNDS IN WINNEBAGO COUNTS, WISCONSIN. 337 

That these were not the remains of warriors slain in battle is evident 
from the number of bones of children found in the mounds, and also 
from the very great number of bones to be found in those and neighbor- 
ing mounds. 

Uo other bones than those of human beings were found, nor did any 
of theai bear marks of fire, though ashes and charcoal occurred iu a 
layer about inches above the remains. 

A skull obtained from this mound, the pieces of which we have been 
able to put together so as to get some idea of its original shape, is of fair 
size, with low forehead and very narrow across the eyes; the great bulk 
of the head, and by far its highest part, being back of the coronal suture. 
From the forehead the skull slopes rapidly up to this highest portion, 
and on its summit, an inch from the coronal suture, and J of an inch to the 
left of the sagittal suture, is a remarkable circular depression, an inch in 
diameter. It shows no signs of fracture or violence, and the inside of 
the skull shows no corresponding elevation. What could have occa- 
sioned this thinning of the bone we cannot tell; we only know that it 
must have been done long before the death of its owner, for the wound, 
or whatever it is, is perfectly healed, and the bone in the depression as 
smooth and of the same sort as the remainder of the skull. Viewed as 
a whole the cranium appears very one-sided. 

Several lower jaws with teeth still in them were also obtained from 
this mound, but not much could be learned from them except that the 
jaw was massive, and the teeth large, strong, and well preserved. In 
fact, in many cases, the enamel was completely worn through on the 
crown of the teeth, and yet they showed no signs of decay ; we found 
no defective teeth whatever. In the case of one individual the teeth on 
one side of the jaw were very badly worn off, while on the other no wear- 
ing at all was visible- 
All the bones we obtained were of ordinary size, and could be matched 
in any collection of modern bones. A general characteristic of the skulls 
was the very low and narrow forehead. 

The gentlemen who accompanied me on this expedition, and to whom 
much of its success is owing, were Prof. A. II. Sabin and Mr. Everett 
Martin, both of Ripon, Wis. 

The following are extracts from my paper on the Cleason mounds, as 
read before the Lapham Archaeological Society last year: 

"These mounds are situated on the southern shore of Rush Lake, on 
land belonging to Mr. Gleason, in the southeast quarter of the southeast 
quarter of section 27, and the southwest quarter of the southwest quar- 
ter of section 26, township of Nepeuskun, Winnebago County, Wiscon- 
sin, and were visited by a party of students from Ripon College, May 
12, 1877. 

"The mounds, sixteen in number, are ranged in an irregular line run- 
ning essentially east and west, about 20 rods from the shore of the lake, 
which is here high and steep, though all the adjacent shores are low and 
S. Mis. 51 22 



338 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

marshy. The mounds are in what is now a wheat field, formerly cov- 
ered with timber— an oak tree, some 60 years old, having been cut from 
the summit of one of them. All these mounds are circular in form, vary- 
ing from 15 to •"»() feet in diameter, and from 2\ to 5£ feet in height, 
though not much can be said with certainty about this latter dimension, 
the land having been cultivated for a number of years, and the mounds 
plowed down as much as possible every year. 

" We selected the largest and most conspicuous mound we could find, 
the fourth or fifth from the eastern end of the liue, and sank a trench 
into it. Each shovelful of the soil thrown out was carefully examined, 
but it was found to present no different appearance from that of the sur- 
rounding field, until we had reached the depth of 18 inches, when a few 
pieces of coarse-grained charcoal were found. The earth now began to 
si io\v the action of heat, it being harder and of a reddish hue, until at 
the depth of 2 feet G inches layers of ashes mixed with earth began to 
present themselves. These appearances were not the same all through 
the trench on the same level, being only seen near the ends of it, as it 
separate tires had been built. These appearances continued until we 
had reached the depth of 3 feet 9 inches, the ashes meanwhile growing 
more plentiful, when we found charred bones, evidently those of human 
beings, mixed with the earth and ashes. A few inches more of calcined 
earth were passed and then we struck bones in earnest. 

" Within the space of 3 feet square we uncovered 7 skulls, mingled 
with the various long, short, and flat bones of the human body. These, 
unlike those in the upper stratum, did not show the action of fire in the 
least, but were so badly decayed that we could get none of them out en- 
tire. 

''The bones were not arranged in any order whatever; no single skel- 
eton even could be traced through the mass. We did not uncover all 
the bones in the mound, but, finding that none of them could be taken out 
entire, contented ourselves with digging through the layer of bones and 
earth, which was about 4 inches thick, to the hard subsoil underneath, 
which we found so compact that we concluded it had never been dis- 
turbed, and so did not go deeper. 

••A careful search Tailed to bring to light any ornaments or implements 
of any kind. 

" We now abandoned this mound, and, selecting two nearer the east- 
ern end of the line, which in size were most unlike the first and unlike 
each other, proceeded to sink trenches into them. In the larger of these 
at the depth of 4 feet human hones were found, which were much better 
preserved than those in the first mound opened, though they showed the 
same lack of arrangement and dearth of ornaments and implements. 
Fewer ashes were found in this mound and no charcoal or burnt bone. 

"In the third mound, at the depth of 2 i- feet, a skeleton was found 
lying with its head toward the west. This was in so good a state of pres- 
ervation that many of the more heavy and solid bones could be taken 



MOUNDS IN WINNEBAGO COUNTY, WISCONSIN. 3o9 

out; this skull, like all tlie others, could not be gotten out except iu small 
pieces. 

"This was the only mound of the three into which we dug, in which 
a skeleton could be traced, and even in this the bones were somewhat 
crowded together, the skeleton not lying extended at full length, and 
also somewhat mixed up with others, though, I think, fewer bones had 
been buried in this mound than in any of the others. 

"I would mention that the second and third mounds were much 
smaller than the first. 

" The bones belonged to individuals of ordinary size, the largest to a 
man perhaps Oi feet tall, but certainly not any taller than that. 

"As to how the bones came to be placed in these mounds we can, of 
course, only conjecture; but from their want of arrangement, from the 
lack of ornaments and implements, and from their having been placed 
on the original surface (for the old turf was visible just under the low- 
est bone layer in the second mound) we are inclined to believe that the 
dry bones were gathered together — those in the larger mounds first and 
in the smaller ones afterward, and placed in loose piles on the ground, 
and then earth heaped over them until the mounds were formed. Where 
the earth came from, if it was not scraped uniformly from the surface of 
the surrounding fields, is more than we can say, for there are no hollows 
anywhere about the mounds from which such a quantity could have 
been taken. It also seemed, from the ashes and charred bones near the 
surface, that the larger mounds had been used as a place for sacrifices 
or feasts." 

Professor Sabin, Mr. Martin, and I afterward made an investigation 
into another of these Gleason mounds. This one is situated near the 
center of the group; is 30 feet in diameter and oh feet high. Like the 
others, it contained nothing but bones, was built of the same material, 
and had its full share of ashes and charcoal. But unlike the others, 
however, the bones had not been placed on the original surface, but in 
an oval pit 18 inches deep, 8 feet long, and 5 feet wide, its major axis 
lying in a general northwest and southeast direction. In this case some 
arrangement was apparent, the bones of the lower extremities being, as 
a rule, near the center of the pit, and those of the trunk and upper ex- 
tremities ranged around the sides. 

THE GREEN LAKE MOUNDS. 

On the shores of Green Lake, G miles west of this place, are a large 
number of mounds, which have not as yet received any thorough inves- 
tigation. They consist, first, of circular, flat-topped mounds built on a 
high bank at the northeast end of the lake, mostly in sect ion 27, town- 
ship of Brooklyn, Green Lake County, Wisconsin. They were evidently 
built for observation, as they command a view of the whole length of 
the lake; and careful digging has failed to reveal relics of any kind 
buried in them. 



340 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

They are all built after the same pattern, about 28 feet in diameter 
at the base and from G to 10 feet in diameter at the summit, usually 3 
or 4 feet high, but some of them being near the top of a steep side-hill, 
of course the lower side is much higher than this. 

They are 16 in number, and at distances from each other varying from 
15 to 80 feet, according to the nature of the shore, being erected only on 
commanding elevations. 

This is still a favorite camping-ground for the Indians, many wigwams 
having been located here last summer. The locality is known as 
Pleasant Point. 

Near the opposite shore of the lake, in section 34, township of Green 
Lake, same county, are a great number of long mounds, round mounds, 
and a few shaped like animals. One, which we called the "Beaver 
Mound," we dug into in several places, and near the center of the body 
we found, at the depth of 1 foot 7 inches, a thin layer of charcoal. 
Nothing else was discovered. This mound is situated in the woods, and 
several large trees of second-growth timber are standing on it. Near 
by, as Prof. C. A. Kenaston, of Bipon, who owns the land, tells me, are 
the remains of an ancient corn-field, the hills of which can even yet be 
distinguished in places where the underbrush has been cleared away. 

From this place down the lake for a mile is a high, sloping shore, 
wooded down to the water's edge, except where clearings have been 
made for the erection of summer cottages, of which there are a large 
number, the spot being a very beautiful one. Several fine springs are 
scattered along the shore, the beach furnishes a good landing place for 
boats, and lisli are plentiful in the lake. 

Within this mile there are no less than 30 mounds of all shapes and 
sizes, some circular, some long, some in the shape of animals. Of these, 
the long mounds are the most remarkable, some of them running par- 
allel with the shore and some at various angles to it. Their general 
outline is that of a ridge 6 inches to 1 foot high, 4 to feet across, and 
often terminating at one end in an irregular expansion, higher and 
broader than the main ridge. 

On land belonging to Mr. Cyrus Dodge, in section 34, township of 
Green Lake, are two of these long mounds, beginning within 20 feet of the 
lake and running back at right angles to it, one 210 feet, the other 220 
feetlong, both terminating in irrcgnlar expansions about 18 feet in diam- 
eter and 2 feel high. The mounds are parallel, and 40 feet apart. At 
the end of the former is a slight depression for 21) feet, and then another 
round mound L8 feet in diameter, which has a tail running off across 
the road and into the woods 135 feet. 

On the property of .Air. Mill, adjoining Mr. Dodge on the west, are a 
few long and round mounds, not very well defined, however. But in 
the lot adjoining Mr. Dodge's on the east are a number of mounds run- 
ning parallel with the shore of the lake, and still very distinct. 

J made two excavations in Xo. 1, one in the center of the tail, as we 



MOUNDS NEAR QUINCY, ILLINOIS, AND IN WISCONSIN. 341 

might call it, and found nothing; the other in' the circular head of the 
mound, and at the depth of less than two feet found the badly-decayed 
skeleton of a human being, which had evidently been placed in the 
mound long- after its construction, as the earth still showed signs of 
having been disturbed, and the remains were buried much nearer the 
surface than is usual in mound burial about here. 

About one fourth of a mile east of these again, on the property of Mr. 
J. Bowen, is a long mound at right angles to the lake shore, and 100 
feet in length ; also an animal-shaped mound 95 feet long. 

Besides these there are circular and irregular shaped mounds in great 
abundance on Mr. Bowen's place, several of which have been opened, 
and, so far as I can learn, nothing of interest found in them. And this 
brings us again to the land of Professor Kenaston, on which is the 
beaver mound and corn-field above spoken of. 

These embrace nearly all the mounds on the shores of Green Lake, all 
of which are situated at its eastern end. Many of them have been opened, 
but in none except the one from which I obtained the recent skeleton 
have relics of any kind been found, so far as I can learn. There are 
still a few — twelve, I think — at the northern and western end of the lake, 
in sections 3, 4, 9, township of Dayton, Green Lake County, which we 
have not as yet found opportunity to examine carefully. 



MOODS NEAR QUINCY, ILLINOIS, AND IN WISCONSIN. 

By William Gildeut Anderson, of Quincy, III. 

In the vicinity of Quincy, 111., along the banks of the Mississippi 
Biver, there are numbers of burial mounds of unusual size and beauty, 
made with wonderful precision, and varying in height from 5 to 30 
feet. These are all circular, no animal mounds being found in this 
neighborhood. They are built on high prominent land overlooking 
the river, while on the opposite side, in Missouri, there are none. Ex- 
cavations were made during the years 1S7.">, '70, and '77, and over fifty 
mounds were opened, all built alter the following plan: first, the. 
ground was trampled down firmly, then the body was placed in its 
position; a layer of fine sand was thrown over the body, upon which 
was built a tire, remains of which are now found in the shape of char- 
coal; over this were three successive layers of gravel, sand, and line 
gravel mixed with dirt. In smaller mounds there are two layers, one 
of dirt and the other of sand. The sand corresponds to the river sand, 
and was brought a distance of three miles. Near the <'<\ , j;(' of the mounds 
are found the skeletons of Indians who were buried later than the mound- 
builders. As many as thirty skeletons have been taken from one mound. 
They are buried without any apparent system, being merely thrown in 
and covered up. The skulls of these Indians have foreheads averaging 



342 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

about half an inch in height, and in comparison with the skulls found in 
the center of the mounds show that they are of a much lower grade. 
The bones of the late Indians arc in good condition and are easily re- 
moved. Scattered through the mounds are found shells, broken pottery, 
and flint. In some cases it is hard to say whether the pottery belongs 
to the mound-builders or the late Indians, as it is found with both. The 
shells are evidently fresh water species, and are brought from quite a dis- 
tance, as they are not found in this vicinity. When found they are white 
and crumble easily. On account of age the outside has fallen off, thus 
leaving only the pearl. A large quantity of flint is also scattered through 
the mounds. The flint is of no particular shape and is broken in 
small pieces. This is, however, not properly flint, but chert. One ex- 
cavating finds the earth very compact and solid, and can even with a 
pick do but little work. Just before reaching the center of the mound 
the remains of charcoal are found in small quantities. As a general rule 
the bodies are found in a rude coffin which can hardly be called a sar- 
cophagus. This coffin is made of rude slabs of limestone, which is found 
in this neighborhood in abundance. The slabs were at one time fast- 
ened together by what seems to be a cement. The whole inside of the 
coffin was plastered with the same kind of cement, thus making it for a 
time perfectly tight. The body was placed in the sarcophagus with its 
head pointing toward the east, and with the body were buried a few 
valuables, such as necklaces, pottery, &c. The skeletons of small 
animals resembling squirrels and rabbits have also been found buried 
with the bodies. Urns were placed at the head, evidently containing 
food of some kind. The necklaces were made of pieces of shell and 
the claws of wolves. Two bodies have been found in one coffin with 
their heads pointing east and west. These coffins when found are 
broken and fallen to pieces, and the bones of the mound-builders are so 
far decayed and so damp that to remove them is almost an impossibility. 
They crush when any weight comes in contact with them, but on being 
exposed to the air they turn white and become hard. The weight of 
• me of these coffins is about 1,700 pounds, and they cannot therefore be 
removed. 

The pottery found in these mounds is made of clay and rudely deco- 
rated, but contains no hieroglyphics. The vessels hold from 2 gills to 
several gallons. A few pipes have also been found. Two were filled, 
but with what could not be ascertained. It was evidently not dirt. 
Quite a Dumber of pieces of wood are found in the mounds, but too far 
decayed to be removed. From one mound an image was taken weighing 
li pounds. It was made of a greenish stone resembling granite, nicely 
polished, and very perfectly made. In one end a hole was bored, through 
which a thong or string was passed, evidently for the purpose of sus- 
pending it from the neck. The base was oval-shaped, sloping upward 
to a figure which, in its general appearance, resembled a lamb, bul what 
it was intended to represent is difficult to say. The exact nature of the 



MOUNDS NEAR QUINCY, ILLINOIS, AND IN WISCONSIN. 343 

stone was not ascertained, but there is no stone in these regions resem- 
bling* it. 

In none of these excavations have copper or copper implements been 
found. Three pieces of lead have been dug up, weighing G, 8, and 1 1 
ounces respectively. The lend had no special shape, but had evidently 
been melted and thrown into the mounds. Lead is found in these re- 
gions, but not in abundance. A few stone adzes and flint arrow-heads, 
&c., have been unearthed. In the center of one mound a body was 
found in a sitting posture, its head resting on its knees and the hands 
clasped around the ankles. Around the body was a limestone box, 
which had fallen to pieces. With this body were buried two pipes and 
a quantity of broken pottery. 

In opening the mounds one thing is noticeable in regard to the posi- 
tion of the skeletons. tSome of them have been found with their feet 
lying as near as inches from the head, and the whole skeleton in a dis- 
ordered condition. Around it the coflin was disturbed in a similar way, 
the stones lying far apart. In several cases the skeletons and the cof- 
fins have the appearance of having been disturbed by a movement of the 
earth. 

About three miles north of Quincy, built upon the highest of a range 
of hills, is a lookout mound. The tumulus itself is about 15 feet in height, 
while the hill is over 300 feet high. This is the highest mound in this 
vicinity, and from the top one can obtain a view for nearly 18 miles 
around. 

WISCONSIN MOUNDS. 

Near Madison, Wis., there are hundreds of animal mounds, averaging 
about 3 h, feet in height. The burial mounds are very low and poorly made. 
Eight of these have been opened, and all without exception have been 
built in the same way, with only one layer of earth, and that a large layer 
of simply black dirt. The earth is very firm and hard, making the work 
of excavation exceedingly laborious. These mounds are about 4 feet 
high, and are all circular. Skeletons are found as near as 12 or 13 inches 
from the surface, but are in a very poor condition and can hardly be 
removed. 

There are no sarcophagi or coffins of any description, nor were the 
bodies buried as most of the bodies of the regular mound-builders were. 
In all cases the head points toward the west. On the foreheads of two 
skeletons there were found two stones weighing about two pounds each. 
Pottery is found buried in these mounds, rudely decorated and generally 
broken. One vessel, when restored, was found to hold about a gallon. 

From one mound was taken a large clay platter 11 inches in diameter 
and 1 inch in thickness. This was covered with charcoal, and the .uround 
around it for a radius of aboul 8 inches had the appearance of having 
been burned. But in this mound there were no skeletons, only some, 
flint. About a foot under the surface of the ground was found a layer 



344 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

of thick gravel, and under this simply a layer of sand, a characteristic 
of the ground in that vicinity. 

These mounds are of a much poorer quality than those- farther south. 
On the largest mound visited, near the center, was found a stump of a 
tree 20 inches in diameter, hut too far decayed to note accurately the 
annular rings (125 were counted). Near the edge of the mound stands 
a tree 11 inches in diameter. 

Out of these eight mounds only five skeletons were taken. Two or 
three whole arrow-heads were found, also a large quantity of broken 
1 tottery. 

The animal mounds represent many figures, which were probably but 
the conceptions of the builders. In many cases it is hard to tell what 
they represent, on account of the brush and trees which have grown over 
them. On the sloping shores of Lake Mendota are many of these mounds, 
and running parallel to the lake are ridges about 2G0 feet long, forming- 
rude steps. 

There is one mound, having the shape of a bear, 60 feet in length and 
about 3 feet high. Also, a snake mound, with four curves, is noticeable. 
At the head of the mound two stones, weighing about 500 pounds each, 
indicate the eyes. 

Mounds made to represent bears, snakes, alligators, deer, &c, are very 
numerous. 



NOTES OX SOME OF TIIE PRINCIPAL MOUNDS IN THE DES MOINES VALLEY. 

By Samuel B. Evans, of Ottumwa, Iowa. 

The opinion held by some writers that successive peoples are attracted 
to the same localities and build towns on the ruins of those of their pre- 
decessors holds good in the Des Moines Valley. The writer has passed 
almost a quarter of a century in this region, which he has partially ex- 
plored in the search of relics of the unknown race. Who the mound- 
builders were, or whence they came, is the problem we wish to solve; 
and in the narration of simple facts by observers at different points 
there may be collected a mass of testimony which may lead to clearing 
u]> the mystery. It has been my privilege to examine rather critically 
someof the mounds in the vicinity of Ottumwa, Iowa, the exact locations 
of which are shown in the diagram on the next page. 

In the group known as the Sugar Creek mounds are two which 1 have 
personally examined. My mode of examination was to dig a trench 2 
feel in width, beginning at the outer limit of the base, and thence to the 
center, digging down to the original soil. These mounds measured 50 
feel in diameter and 150 feet in circumference, and are about :>\ feet in 
height. In Mound No. 1 of the Sugar Creek group I found nothing but 
bits of charcoal and decomposed ashes. This mound is on the highest 
poinl in the vicinity, and may be termed for convenience a mound for 



PRINCIPAL MOUNDS IN THE DES MOINES VALLEY. 



345 



observation, as it overlooks the one lying north of it, and from its sum- 
mit the Trawell group is visible. No. 2 of the Sugar Creek group was 
also examined and a few bones diseovered. It is GO feet in diameter and 
180 feet in circumference, and has growing on it trees over one foot in 
diameter. The decayed trunk of a large tree was found lying on its 
summit. A few bones were discovered here, including a portion of the 
skull bone, which was so much decayed as to fall to pieces upon exposure 
to the air. Xo implements, not even broken arrow-heads, were found 

Diagram. 




ANCIENT WORKS IX THE VICINITY OF OTTUMWA, IOWA. 

No. 1. Mound <>n section 13, township 72, range 14. 

No. 2. On section 21, township 7v>, range 13; known as the Sugar Creek mounds. 

Nos. :', and 4. On section i:t, township 72, ranee 13; known as tin- Trawell and Stiles 
mounds, respect ively. 

Nos. 5and(i. On sections 7 and 8, township 71, range 13; known as the Village 
Creek mounds. 

Scale of diagram: Five-eighths of an inch to the mile. 



here. East of Mound No. 1, and one-fourth of a mile distant, the re- 
mains of an ancient furnace or hearth were found, and in the vicinity of 
the hearth a number of arrow-heads. This furnace presented the ap- 
pearance of great age, and was fust brought to my notice by ('apt. W. 
H. Kittermau, a very intelligent observer and an old settler in the 



346 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

vicinity, who would have known of it long before had it been used by 
the whites who came on the heels of the departing Indians. 

The Trawell group has only been partially examined. It consists of 
three mounds, of about the same size and appearance as those last de- 
scribed, and perhaps of the same character. One of them was opened in 
1877 by Mr. Trawell, who obtained from it one small hatchet of greenstone. 
From the Trawell group the Stiles niouuds may be seen. These, as 
indicated by the diagram, are in the suburbs of the town of Ottumwa,and 
were examined by me in 1878; nothing of importance was found in them 
except a few broken arrow-heads, a small hatchet of greenstone, and 
some small bits of obsidian. If the valley and the intervening ridges 
were cleared of the growing young timber, one group of the Village 
Creek mounds, three and a half miles away, would be plain to view 
from the Stiles mounds. In the fall of 1877, in company with Mr. 
Richard Williams and Mr. A. T. Holly, of Ottumwa, I examined rather 
critically three of the Village Creek mounds. They are situated as 
shown in the sketch, and include seven or eight in each group. The 
eastern group embraces the mounds which we examined with the most care. 
They are on a high ridge or promontory which juts out toward the river, 
presenting a view of the valley below for miles in extent, and suggests to 
the observer that they might have been a system of signal stations, com- 
municating by the way of the Trawell and Stiles groups with the Sugar 
Creek mounds on the north side of the river. These mounds (the Vil- 
lage Creek group) are about 150 feet in circumference, 4 feet high, and 
150 feet apart. They contain evidences of fire, and under the follow- 
ing conditions : after removing about 1 foot of earth we discovered 
a st latum, about 2 inches in thickness, of decomposed ashes, small bits 
of charcoal, and what appeared to be calcined bones. Two similar 
strata of ashes and charcoal Avere discovered on going down deeper 
into the mound, each occurring at intervals of about 1 foot. It is im- 
portant to note that these strata extended to the outer circumference of 
the mound, indicating that successive fires had been kindled covering 
the entire upper surface; substances were reduced to ashes and then 
covered with earth. A partial examination of mounds in the western 
section of the same group was made, aud the same evidences of fire 
were obtained. White-oak trees 10 inches in diameter were found grow- 
ing on mounds in this section, and stumps of decayed trees of larger 
circumference were found on two mounds of the eastern section. 

In the month of July, 1878, in company with lion. Robert Sloan 
and I). C. Iranian, esq., 1 visited the Ely Ford mounds, near Keosautjua, 
in Van Buren County. I here present a sketch of the ancient works 
and the surroundings. 

No. 1. Shell-heap. In northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of 
section 3, 20 rods, JT. 55° W., from mouth of Ely's Creek ; 20 feet above 
riverbed; 40 feet from water's edge. Large quantities of fresh-water 



PRINCIPAL MOUNDS IN THE DES MOINES VALLEY. 



347 



shells, pieces of pottery, broken arrow-heads, bones of animals, such as 
deer, wolf or dog and bear, and birds of various kinds. 

No. 2. Mound in northeast quarter of southeast quarter of section 3, 10 
rods, N., GOO w. 

No. 2. On bluff point 100 feet above river bed, 200 feet from water's 
edge; timber, large white oak and young jack oak. In this mound 
found human skull entire except lower jaw, and leg bones; also frag- 
ments of pottery. Position of head southeast, 2 feet under mound sur- 
face. 

Diagram B. 




MOUNDS, NEAR KEOSAUQUA AND PITT8BUUG, VAN' BUEES COUNTY, IOWA. 

Explanations. 

A bluff extends over sections 2 and :?, township 68, range 10. 

Mounds on sections are known as Ely b'ord mounds, from their vicinity to creek 
and old ford. 
The square on the creek, near its mouth, is the shell-heap referred to herein. 
The stream running thr agh Pittsburg is Chequest Creek. 
Scale: Five- eighths of an inch to the mile. 

No. 3. Half-moon-shaped mound 15 rods, X. 55° W., from No. 2; 200 
feet from water's edge; found thigh bones. 

No. 4. Mound 15 rods, N. 45° W., from No. 3. No discoveries made 
except small x)iece of pottery. 



348 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

No. 5. Large mound, 60 feet in diameter, 5 feet 6 inches high ; in 
northwest quarter of southwest quarter of section 2, 30 rods, S. 45° E., 
1V( tin mouth of Ely's Creek; 100 feet above river bed; 20 rods from 
water's vd'tic. Decayed white oak stump, 24 inches in diameter, on 
mound 12 feet, N. 10° W., from center. Decayed oak stump, sixteen 
inches in diameter, 4 feet from center. Found human thigh bone by the 
south side of stump 5 feet below surface; also shells (fresh water) and 
upper arm bone. 

The following are the measurements taken of the skull found in mound 
marked No. 2: Horizontal circumference, 20 inches; longitudinal arc 
from nasal depression along middle line of skull to occipital tuberosity, 
13 inches ; transverse measurement, 5 inches ; vertical height, 3.75 
inches ; longitudinal measurement, 8 inches. On comparison it will be 
found that this skull resembles in some particulars the celebrated Nean- 
derthal or cave skull of Prussia. It was found badly decayed, and was 
with difficulty removed. 

The description of ancient pottery found near the month of Chequest 
Creek, given in the next article, will also answer as a description of all 
the pottery mentioned in the foregoing. 

Since writing the above I have explored the mounds near this city on 
the grounds of General J. M. Hederick, which are indicated in the sketch 
north of the city of Ottumwa. There are two prominent mounds, 50 feet 
in diameter, situated on the highest point in this vicinity; of which the 
southern one, which we shall denominate No. 1, was rather critically ex- 
amined. A shaft 6 feet in length and 4 feet wide was sunk in the center, 
revealing nothing of interest to the ordinary observer; but the mere fact 
that lew relics were found makes the mound mystery still more profound. 
The material of which the mound was composed was foreign to the sur- 
roundings, and had been carried there. Beyond a lew chips of Hint 
nothing was found in it. It is of interest to note that signals could have 
been established between this mound and those heretofore described. 

My attention had been frequently called to the presence of numerous 
mounds in the vicinity of Eldon, in Washington township, in this count y. 
They were on the river bottom, and I attached no importance to them 
from the fact that they were so situated. I could not believe that they 
were ancient works, as my experience had led me to believe that the 
mound-builders proper always selected the highest points for the erec- 
tion of their tumuli. Bui I was prevailed upon to make an examination, 
and during the month of November, L878, surveyed and examined them. 
On the farm of Saul 1 learn, one and a half miles east of Eldon, on a 
level piece of -round of forty acres, now used as a sheep pasture, are 
three lines of mounds ranging east and west and varying in size from 
10 feel to 50 feet in diameter. There are fifteen of them, live in each 
range, and the ranges about 80 yards apart. They are composed of 
loose sand and mold, and three of them contained human long bones, but 
no skulls were found. They vary in height from 1£ to 24 feet. So soon 



COMPOSITION OF ANCIENT POTTERY. 349 

as I thrust the spade into one of them my suspicions were confirmed 
that they were not ancient, and my interest in them correspondingly de- 
creased. I knew that I was on the old camping-ground of Black Elawk, 
and alter examining the principal one rather critically 1 left the laborers, 
with instructions to them to open one of the smaller ones, and made a 
visit to the home of Mr. James .Jordan, an old Indian trader, who lives 
two miles below on the same farm he has occupied for nearly half a cen- 
tury. Mr. Jordan was intimately acquainted with Black Hawk; was 
his chosen friend and companion, and from that distinguished chieftain 
learned that these mounds were the burial places of the slain Omahas, 
whom he (Black Hawk) had surprised and defeated in battle soon after 
his expulsion from Illinois. I particularly inquired of Mr. Jordan if he 
had ever talked with Black Hawk and other Indians about the mounds 
on the hills. He told me that he had, and that they bad no knowledge 
of them; that they regarded them with awe and tuperstition and as 
having been made by people long ago and beyond airy of their tradi- 
tions. Investigations of hill mounds made the next day after talking 
with Mr. Jordan convinced me more fully of the antiquity of these 
works and with the idea that they were not made by any modern tribe 
of Indians, In returning to Ottumwa I stopped at Clifdand, a sta- 
tion on the Des Moiues Valley Railroad, six miles distant from this city. 
On the highest point, and in view of the Village Creek mounds, on the 
opposite side of the Des Moines River, I discovered three mounds about 
forty yards apart lying in a range east and west. The eastern mound 
I excavated, discovering that it was composed of nearly the same mate- 
rial as the Village Creek mounds, viz, ashes and clay intermingled. 
These mounds are 50 feet in diameter and nearly 4 feet high. I found 
in the eastern mound several small stones of magnesian limestone, yeh 
low and red sandstone, a few pieces of flint, and all showing unmistak- 
able evidences of having been exposed to considerable heat. There 
were no bones, but indistinct traces of bone material reduced to a gray 
pulpy mass. It is a noteworthy fact that after digging down one foot 1 
found the interior material dry, very hard, and compact ; so dry was the 
material that it seemed there was not a particle of moisture. Beneath 
this and at the bottom of the mound, and where the surface should have 
been, I found no traces of soil, but wet clay which seemingly had never 
been disturbed. 



COMPOSITION OF ANCIENT POTTKKY POUND NEAR THE MOUTH OF CHEQUEST 
CREEK, AT PITTSBURGH, ON Till: DES MOINES RIVER. 

By Robert N. amt> Charles L. Dahlberg. 

The pieces of pottery found are composed of clay and sand mixed 

with small pebbles, forming a cement which appears t<> !><• baked rather 

than burned. The most of the pieces found show thai the heal applied 

in its construction was not suflicieut to melt the sand or pebbles, or in 



350 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

any way affect their original condition. No glazing appears on'the pot- 
tery, and yet it is of a bard, firm, and durable substance which is im- 
pervious to water. One piece of pottery is about four inches square, 
but of an irregular shape. At one point it is shown to be a part of the 
top of a wide-mouthed vessel, evidently about two inches less in diam- 
eter at the neck than al the top. Judging from the arc described by the 
piece in question, the neck of the vessel must have been at least 18 
inches in diameter. This piece also shows attempts at ornamentation, 
having a horizontal row of dots or beads about an inch and a half from 
the top of the vessel; these have the appearance of being made by 
punctures from the inside or the vessel, and are about half an inch apart, 
or seven eighths from center to center. There are also parallel lines run- 
ning about it horizontally about half an inch apart, which have evidently 
been made by some blunt instrument about one-eighth of an inch square 
pressed into the clay, leaving little ridges between each impression of 
the in si run lent that would average about one-sixteenth of an inch 
thick. There are a number of small pieces; one showing distinctly 
the neck, and rim of the vessel above it, to be quite flaring; but this 
rim does not show entire. The rim is ornamented by diamond-shaped 
figures, made by lines crossing each other, which lines are formed very 
much like the parallel lines in the larger piece. Another piece shows par- 
allel lines. One small piece is corrugated as the Ely Ford pottery, and 
shows distinctly the application of heat sufficient to fuse the silex in the 
composition of the pottery, making it a very hard and firm substance; 
this piece is thinner than the baked pieces. Another piece shows bead 
work distinctly about an inch from the top of the vessel; the body of 
the vessel ornamented with parallel lines running at right angles with 
the top of the vessel, made as in the first piece described, and the top 
itself ornamented in the way our mothers ornamented the edge of a pie. 
Several other pieces show the application of heat sufficient to fuse the 
silex used in their composition. 

Several pieces, including the larger one described above, show on the 
edges glittering particles which appear to be small pieces of isinglass. 
This pottery was nearly all found on the surface of the ground, having 
1>, ■en washed out by the action of the water. In the river bank in front 
of the village is also a bed of ashes and charcoal about 3 inches in depth 
and about 2 feel from the surface of the ground. 



PREHISTORIC EVII)E\CES IX MISSOURI. 

By G. C. Broaduead. 

In many portions of the State of Missouri we find evidences of the 
existence, in years long past, of a now extinct race, in the form of rock 
vaults, earth mounds, stone axes, flint arrow and spear heads, and bones. 
In Pike County my attention was directed to an ancient walled burial 



PREHISTORIC EVIDENCES IN MISSOURI. 



351 



place situated on tlie summit of a ridge 250 feet in height, which rises 
on the north side of Salt River, in the southeast quarter of section 11, 
township 55, range 3 west. The walls were constructed of rough lime- 
stone taken from the subjacent strata of the hill, and they inclosed two 
vaults, each 9 feet square, and from 2 to 3 feet in height. The vaults 
were not exactly in the same line, but varied about 5°. Some of the 
stones had been removed and carried off. I saw only a few fragments 
of human bones, but was informed that other and very large bones had 
been found. The annexed sketch exhibits the form and relative position 




Fig. J 



of the two vaults, with their dimensions in feet marked thereon. They 
appear to have been originally built with a step ou the outer face, as 
shown at B. The outer portion of the wall lies partly tumbled as if 
pulled down. Other similar burial places have existed in the county, 
but at present their sites only remain, the stones having been used for 
building purposes. 

Beck's Gazetteer of Missouri, published in 1823, on pages 305 and 306, 
mentions curious ancient rock works two miles southwest of Louisiana, on 
the bluffs of Noix Creek. He describes them as having been built with 
great regularity on the top of a high bluff of the creek. As this book 
is now out of print and but few copies can be found, 1 thought it but 
proper to notice the account. I would add also that I have heard old 
citizens speak of these now demolished walls. The figure I copy from 
Beck. All the walls were of rough stone. 

E is a chamber, 3 feet wide, which was probably arched the whole 
way, as portions of the arch still remained. It was made as repre- 
sented in Pig. 7, and was probably about 5 feet above the ground. In 
F, a similar chamber, a portion of the arch was still remaining. II was 
a larger room with two entrances, 1 and K. The walls of this room were 
partly remaining, from 3 to 5 feet high. Trees 2 feet in diameter were 
growing on the inside. Fig. was a similar structure 80 rods due east, 
with two rectangular closed chambers and an oval chamber having no 



352 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



communication with the others. A few human bones were found in G, 
but that does not determine it to be a place of sepulture. 

In Montgomery County, on the bluffs of Prairie Fork, near its mouth, 
in the southeast quarter of section 9, township 47, range 6 west, there 



Ancient Works on Noix Cr., 
Pike Co., Mo. 




S 



Fir?. 5. 



Fig. 6. 




19Jt. 



Fig. 7. 



are remains of a similar walled burial place to that on Salt Eiver, Pike 

County. The walled space is 10 feet square, and the walls were 2 feet 

high when I saw them in 1859. A few pieces of human bones were 

found. 

MOUNDS OF CLAY COUNTY, MISSOURI. 

Mr. E. P. West, of Kansas City, has enumerated about twenty-live 
mounds situated near the boundary line of Platte and Clay Counties, 
Missouri, located on the highest points of the Missouri Bluffs, most of 
them containing concealed rock vaults, generally directed north and 
south. 

In the summer of 1878, iu company with members of the Kansas City 
Academy of Science and the Kansas State Academy of Science, I spent 
a day in exploring certain of these mounds, which were found to be 
located on the tops of the higher bluffs, 250 feet above the Missouri bot- 
toms, from which there is a line view of the river above, below, and 
across. We noted seven mounds, as represented in the annexed sketch, 
Fig. 8. 

Three of these (1, 2, and 3) form a nearly equilateral triangle, and 
are about 40 to 45 feet apart. Externally they seemed to be nicely 
rounded earth mounds, hut digging into them each disclosed regularly- 
built walls about 3 feet high, exactly at right angles to each other, and 
inclosing a space 7 feet !» inches square. The walls were constructed 
of thin even layers of limestone laid Hat upon each other, and built 
up with a regular, perpendicular face, in fact much more true to 
the line than many so-called masons would place them. The crypts 



PREHISTORIC EVIDENCES IN MISSOURI. 



353 



appeared to have been built above ground, the stone having been 
borne up the hill not less than a quarter or perhaps a half mile, and 
from a location at least 100 feet lower. The rock in its original beds 



^3&!'» 






'^<^h''"\ 




*, '//up 



Fig. 8. 



is not found above 150 feet from the base of the hill, the hill above 
being covered with loess clays supporting a growth of large trees. 
Both of the mounds 1 and 3 contained human bones. In No. 3 several 
skulls and one good skeleton were found, to- 
gether with fragments of others. With the ex- 
ception of this one skeleton all seemed to have 
been buried in a sitting posture, or with knees 
bent, the hands close to or resting on the knees. 





Fig. 9. 

The bones, from long decay, could with difficulty be removed. This 
vault had an entrance 3 feet wide opposite the eastern side, as repre- 
sented in Fig. 9. 

The vault in mound No. 2 contained a large quantity of charcoal, with 
fragments of charred bones, and much of the clay was reddened by burn- 
ing. This was evidently a cremation vault. 

The vault of Mound No. 1 is similar in shape and contents to that of No. 
2, but had been previously excavated and partly filled up. The vaults 
in each of the mounds 1, 2, and 3, had entrances or openings in the wall 
3 feet wide, extending to the bottom of the wall. The skulls contained 
full sets of sound teeth worn off smoothly. 

Mound No. 4, the largest, is about 5 feet high and 40 feet in diameter, 
and is built entirely of earth. Excavations revealed one black Hint spear- 
S. Mis. 54 23 



354 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

point, a little charcoal, and a fragment of ochre. The stump of an oak 3 
feet in diameter stood on the side of the mound, the trunk having been 
broken oft" apparently many years ago. 

On Mound Xo.5 there stood a red-oak stump, which showed 200 rings 
of growth. 

Mound No. was similar to 1 and 2, and contained a concealed vault 
7 feet 9 inches square, but without an entrance. Eight human skulls were 
obtained from this vault, but no complete skeleton, although some pieces 
of bones were exhumed in a fair state of preservation. In digging 
into this vault a few flags of limestone were found a few inches below 
the surface. Eighteen inches below was another fragmentary roof of 
limestone, beneath which skulls and portions of vertebrae were disclosed. 
The flagstones were not regularly arranged nor quite close to each other, 
but only a few appeared to have been placed above the bones and then 
earth was heaped upon them. Some fragments of flagstones were also 
found in No. 2, perhaps the remains of a former roof. 

The bones in the several mounds, or rather vaults, were generally soft, 
and as easily cut through with the spade as the earth itself; but some 
of them were firm. A few of the bones had been gnawed, probably 
by rodents, and do not furnish as some might say, evidences of canni- 
balism. 

JOHNSON COUNTY MOUNDS. 

These I have not seen. They are located on the bluffs of Blackwater 
River, and are described as being very similar to those of Clay County, 
but of larger dimensions, with vaults built of stone, and having lids of 
the same kind of material, the whole covered over with earth so as to 
present the contour of large rounded mounds. Some pottery and flint 
implements have been obtained from them. 

Ancient mounds or graves are found on the tops of the bluffs of all 
the principal streams of the Missouri. I have noticed them on the Mis- 
sissippi at various places ; on the Missouri, from Saint Charles County 
to Holt County ; on the Osage, the Gasconade, the Sac, and Shoal Creek, 
and along other smaller streams. They are generally built of earth, 
being often constructed of stones arranged in a circle, their tops inclined 
towards the center, with earth heaped on the outer side. When rocks 
abound and earth is not easily obtained, I have observed them con- 
structed solely of stones piled in a rough circular mound on the hill- 
top. 

Rock mounds have been observed on the summits of the highest bluffs, 
where the material had to be carried up 50 or 75 feet above the ledges. 

It is but rarely that a single mound is found at a place, but there are 
generally several ; three or four, or even a dozen, may be found arranged 
in ;i line, with their bases contiguous. 

Theearth mounds are generally circular, from 15 to 40 feet in diameter 
and from 3 to G feet high, and are often found with large trees growing 



PREHISTORIC EVIDENCES IN MISSOURI. 355 

upon tbeni. When dug iuto, they disclose boues, aud sometimes weapons 
or trinkets. 

On Spencer's Creek, Balls County, near Fisher's Cave, are mounds 7 
feet high and 40 feet in diameter, with trees 2£ feet in diameter grow- 
ing upon them. From this place, I was informed by Mr. Fisher, 
mounds can be traced in nearly a direct line to the mouth of Peno 
(J reek, G miles off, none of them being over 300 yards apart, excepting 
across the bottom-lands, for they were all built on high ground. These 
are chieily built of stones set on edge, sloping outward, and covered with 
about 2 feet of earth. Mr. F. also informed me that bones of men of 
large frame had been found there, buried with their feet to the east and 
head to the west, the grave roughly arched over with rock. 

On the west side of Cedar Creek, on Missouri Bluffs, Boone County, 
are six mounds arranged nearly in a line and closely touching, three of 
them in a line X. G0° E., the others N. G5° E. They arc from 20 to 30 
feet in diameter, and from 1 to 7.V feet high, all circular. On them were 
growing sugar trees from 1 to 2ifeet in diameter. 

A mile east, on the top of a bluff 20G feet high, is another mound, 8 
feet high, bearing a white-oak tree 2.} feet in diameter. 

Five miles east, also on the top of a high bluff, is another mound, 8 
feet high, with a Spanish oak 2 feet in diameter growing upon it. 

On the bluffs of Crows Fork, in Callaway County, are mounds with 
white-oak trees 2 feet in diameter growing upon them. 

On Aux Vases Bluffs, in the same county, are many mounds yet un- 
opened, and on Little Aux Yases Bluffs, near the Missouri bottoms, are 
mounds 3 to 4 feet high, bearing X. G 5° W. ; two of them with white- 
oak trees 3 feet in diameter growing upon them. 

On Middle Aux Vases and Missouri Bluffs we observed a mound 
G feet high, with a black oak 2 feet in diameter growing upon it. One 
mile east and on Missouri Bluffs, are three mounds in a line, N. 65° E., 
built of stones and covered with earth. Sometimes, though rarely, 
Hint arrow-heads have been found in these mounds, and at Saint 
Auberts, Osage County, a pipe and stone-beads were obtained. 

But mounds are sometimes found on lower ground, though not on low 
bottoms. They are then often much linger than those above named. 
One at Ashburn's, near the Mississippi Elver, in the northeast part of 
Pike County, is 6 feet high, and 51) feet in diameter. Another, unopened 
in 1858, two miles west of Cote Sans Dessein, Callaway County, is 
represented in Fig. 11. 

In Franklin County, on the "Hat" west of Berger Station, Pacific Rail- 
road, are two mounds, each about 400 by 200 feet and 12 feet high, 
formed of dark clay. The excavation indicated a curved line of stratifica- 
tion parallel to the surface, showing that the earth had been regularly laid 
up and packed; and pursuing the same line was a stratum of calcareous 
concretions resembbng those sometimes found in the " bluff" formation. 
The railroad excavations cut through these mounds, and G feet below 



356 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



the surface of one, a pipe and earthen pot "were found. The pipe was made 
of a soft stone of alight-red color, and the eaithen vessel apparently had 
been partially baked. It was If inches in diameter on the inside, ^ 
inch thick, 2£ inches deep, and 2J inches in greatest diameter, outside 
measurement. The bottom was f of an inch in thickness. Around the 
top were notches or tubercles £ inch long, and extending around the 
\ ( ssel was a punctured band having a hieroglyphic apppearance. 



Mound two-and-a-half 'miles TV. of 
Cote Sans Desseln, Calloway Co., Mo. 



<»^5# 



'//A 





Section. 
Fi<j. 11. 



In Saline County, Missouri, four miles southwest of Miami, I visited, 
in 1X7l.\ ;u i Interesting locality showing ancient earthworks, walls, and 
ditches on high ground in a dense wood. The outline was somewhat of 
a circular shape, though quite irregular, caused by ravines breaking oft' 
near the outer rim, the walls being re-entrant at such places. The in- 
closed space is about 40 acres, around which there partly extended three 
ridges and two valleys, or rather depressions, where atone time existed 
deep ditches. We have first a ridge 8 feet wide and 3 feet high, then a 
ditch 6 feet wide and 3 feet deep, then a ridge 8 feet wide and 3 feet 
high, then a ditch 10 feet wide and 3 feet deep, and lastly a ridge 10 
feet wide and li feet high. The ridges were apparently entirely formed 
of earth dug from the ditches, and two of them extended entirely around 
the space. No locks appeared near by or in the inclosure. Black-oak 
trees 3 to 5 feel in diameter were growing over the walls, ditches, and 
inner area, and the whole surface was covered with a dense and luxu- 
riant growth of hushes, vines, and trees. The ridges had certainly been 
al one lime much higher, and the ditches much deeper. This overlooked 
the well known Petite Osage plains ou the west, celebrated for their 
beauty and fertility. 

IMPLEMENTS. 

Flint arrow and spear points are found throughout Missouri. In the 
timbered districts they seem to be more abundant than elsewhere. They 



PREHISTORIC EVIDENCES IN MISSOURI. 357 

are generally made of flint found in the neighborhood. In Western Mis- 
souri we find them of black and of ilesh-colored flint, the latter obtained 
from coal-measure rocks; in Central and Southern Missouri they are 
chiefly of white chert from the inagnesian limestone series. In Madison 
County I have found them of porphyry. Hatchets are rarely found, but 
are almost invariably of syenite — a few have been found made of red 
hematite. Disks or shallow mortars are generally made of syenite. 

On the Moreau, in Cole County, I found a number of flint implements 
of various sizes and workmanship, some quite regularly and carefully 
made, others from which but few chips had been taken, thus showing 
the various stages of workmanship. It is very probable that this was a 
place where the natives resorted to make their arrow-heads, as the proper 
flint is abundant in the neighborhood. At another place in Morgan 
County I also obtained flint implements in all stages of workmanship. 

Some years ago Mr. B. B. Holland, of Bear Creek, Montgomery 
County, plowed up a deposit of flint implements all set on their edges 
and arranged in a small circle, and buried about a foot beneath the sur- 
face of the ground. They were about 2 inches long, with sharp edges 
and a heart-shaped point. 

An article of the disk variety from Morgan County deserves mention. 
It is nearly cubical, being about 2 inches square, with corners and edges 
rounded off, and a shallow depression on one side, from which circum- 
stance it is probable that it was used for pounding medicine. It is of 
bard syenite and smoothly polished. 

Stone clubs are sometimes found. I have seen one from Henry 
County, of red quartzite, that would weigh 8 to 10 pounds. 

Flint implements are often found on hill slopes where the bluff forma- 
tion is deep, but I cannot certainly say that I have found them in the 
bluff, though some observers positively report having found them in an 
undisturbed position in the bluff. 

HUMAN FOOT PRINTS. 

Some of us have seen the sculptured footprint in possession of Mr. 
Mepham, of Saint Louis. It is cut in magnesian limestone from De 
Soto, Jefferson County. There is another in possession of the Smith- 
sonian Institution at Washington City, presented by Mr. John P.Jones, 
of Keytesville, Mo., who obtained it from Gasconade County. 

Another and more remarkable one is noticed by II. R. Schoolcraft, in 
Travels in Missouri in 1821. In chapter viii he speaks of seeing in pos- 
session of Mr. Rappe, at Harmony, Ind., a stone with sculptured impres- 
sions of two human feet. This stone had been obtained from Saint Louis 
by Mr. Rappe and carried thence to Harmony. Schoolcraft thought the 
tracks represented those of a man in an erect position, with the left foot 
a little advanced and the heels drawn in. The distance between the 
heels measured G\ inches, and between the extremities of the toes 13£, 
the toes being spread and the foot flattened. From this circumstance 



358 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Mr. Schoolcraft thought they might belong to a race anterior to the 
present Indians, or to a race unacquainted with the method of tanning 
skins. The outlines of the muscles of the feet were represented with 
great accuracy, hence Mr. Schoolcraft seemed to incline to. the belief that 
they were impressions. The length of each foot was 10^ inches, the 
breadth across the toes at right angles to the former line 4 inches, and 
the greatest spread of toes 4£ inches, diminishing to 2£ inches at the 
heel. Directly in front of the prints and approaching within a few 
inches of the left foot is a well impressed and deep mark, having some 
resemblance to a scroll, whose greatest length is 2 feet 7 inches and 
greatest breadth 12J inches. Mr. Schoolcraft addressed a letter to the 
Hon. Thomas H. Benton in regard to the foot-marks and received an 
answer, which I copy, as follows: 

"Washington City, April 29, 1822. 

"Sir: Yours of the 27th was received yesterday. The prints of the 
human feet which you mention I have seen hundreds of times. They 
were on the uncovered limestone rock in front of the town of Saint 
Louis. The prints were seen when the country was first settled, and 
had the same appearance then as now. No tradition can tell anything 
about them. They look as old as the rock. They have the same fine 
polish which the attrition of the sand and water have made upon the 
rest of the rock which is exposed to their action. I have examined them 
often with great attention. They are not handsome, but exquisitely 
natural, both in the form and position — spread-toed, and were of course 
anterior to the use of narrow shoes. I do not think them 'impressions,' 
but the work of hands, and refer their existence to the age of the 
mounds upon the American bottom and above the town of Saint Louis. 
My reasons for this opinion are: 1, the hardness of the rock; 2, the 
want of tracks leading to and from them; 3, the difficulty of supposing 
a change so instantaneous and apropos as must have taken place in the 
formation of the rock, if impressed when soft enough to receive such deep 
and distinct tracks. Opposed to this opinion are: 1, the exquisiteness 
of the workmanship ; 2, the difficulty of working in such hard material 
without steel or iron. 

"A block 6 or 8 feet long and 3 or 4 feet wide, containing the prints, 
was cut out by Mr. John Jones, in Saint Louis, and sold to Mr. Eappe, 
of Indiana, and under his orders removed to his establishment called 
Harmony, on the left bank of the Wabash. 
"Very respectfully, yours, 

"TITOS, n. BENTON. 

" n. R. Schoolcraft, Esq." 

A letter from Prof. E. T. Cox, of Indiana, informs me that he remem- 
bc is the stone very well; that it is still at New Harmony; it is by 
4 fei't superficially and 8 inches thick, and rich in fossils of the Sainl 
Louis group of the Sub-carboniferous. Trofessor Cox is of the opiniou 



MOUNDS IN IOWA AND ILLINOIS. 359 

that the foot-prints were carved, and Dr. D. D. Owen was of the same 
opinion. 

Maiitell, in the first edition of his Wonders of Geology, vol. i, p. GG, 
copies the account and figure from Schoolcraft, hut he falls into the 
erroneous opinion that they were actual impressions of feet. 



MOUNDS IN MUSCATINE COUNTY, IOWA, AND ROCK ISLAND COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 

By Tiieron Thompson, of Muscatine, Ioiva. . 

Along the bluffs of the Mississippi River, near Muscatine, Iowa, for a 
distance of 10 miles, is a series of mounds and earthworks. Opposite 
this point, in Illinois, is a similar series of mounds running down the 
river for a distance of 20 miles. The mounds on the Iowa side are all in 
Muscatine County ; those opposite are iu Rock Island County, Illinois. 

The mounds are now surrounded by a growth of young timber, prin- 
cipally oak, which shows no evidence of an older growth before it. 
The localities were no doubt prairie lands before, or when the mounds 
were constructed. The laud is all tillable, except the more precipitous 
bluffs. The river runs east and west at this place, and the mounds are 
generally upon the most commanding positions. There are, however, 
some remains of mounds upon a large island known as Muscatine Island. 
They have been very much reduced by cultivation. The river below 
Muscatine formerly followed the Iowa bluffs in the shape of an elbow 
for a distance of 20 miles ; but at some remote period it cut a new chan- 
nel across this elbow, making, as it were, an island, low, flat, and sandy, 
about 20 miles long by 8 miles wide. The old channel along the bluff 
remains deep and full of water. It is around these bluffs, which for- 
merly bordered the river, and upon this island that the mounds are sit- 
uated. Those on the island are on the river side overlooking the river, 
and were evidently built after the river changed to its present course, 
which may serve as a clue to the age of the mounds. In some places 
gullies have washed back into and past the mounds, and, upon Musca- 
tine Island, the river has encroached so far as to frequently wash out 
pieces of pottery, &c. The mounds are in size from 3 feet to 30 feet in 
diameter and 6 inches to 5 feet in height. They are generally in groups 
and covered with timber. Nine out of ten are round, the others re- 
sembling remains of earthworks from 6 to 20 feet in* length and 5 feet 
wide, placed end to end, with a gap of 5 feet between. There are quite 
a number of them in group No. 1. They are composed of the same ma- 
terial as the surrounding surface, which is clay and sand on the bluffs, 
and on the island sand and gravel. In exploring the mounds we some- 
times find in the center some evidence of fire, bits of charcoal, &c. In 
none of those that I have thus far examined is there evidence of layers 
of other earth than that of which the mounds are composed. There is 



360 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 




MOUNDS IN IOWA AND ILLINOIS. 361 

no evidence of ditches or excavations of any kind near the mounds 
whence the earth might have been obtained, but as it is similar to that 
in the vicinity it must have been scraped up from the surface near the 
mounds, but so taken as to leave no traces at this late day of any 
depression or hollow. 

In group No. 1 nothing was found. I opened ten mounds in a group 
of twenty ; went from 2 to 3 feet below the surrounding surface ; opened 
both by trench and by leveling the entire mound. I found, once in 
a while, a bit of charcoal or a fragment of common river mussel very 
much decayed. In No. 2 I found one skeleton almost decayed, and some 
small pieces of broken pottery. The body was evidently buried iu a 
reclining position, as we found by following with our tools the remains 
of bones through the clay. Near No. 3 there have been several 
inouuds opened. I was not able to be present and do not know the 
position of the mounds, &c, only that they are situated on the bluffs 
overlooking what is known as "Whiskey Hollow." A creek runs 
through this hollow into Muscatine Slough, which surrounds the island 
of the same name. Only one of the mounds opened here yielded any- 
thing — a skeleton so much decayed that it was impossible to tell posi- 
tion, &c, and underneath the head of the skeleton a stone ax, very 
much in shape like others discovered in this locality. But we had never 
before heard of an ax being found in a mound in this region. The ax 
weighed 2 J pounds. 

No. 4, on the island, is so leveled that the shape of the mounds can- 
not be ascertained. Pottery abounds all over the surface, also very small 
triangular arrow-points. The ground is also strewn with flint chippings, 
and in no instance are the points found so large nor of the same shape 
as the specimens from higher ground. The points are all alike and have 
no variation of design. This, with the softness and rudeness of their 
pottery and their low position on the island, leads one to believe that 
they were of a more recent period, and their constructors somewhat de- 
generated from the Mound Builder of the overlooking bluffs. 

No. 5 is iu Illiuois. In this group, so far, only one mound yielded 
anything. The mound in question is one of a group of live, all large 
mounds, upon a prominent bluff, situated at the extreme upper end of 
the series. They are not arranged with any noticeable regard to posi- 
tion. We went to work on the smallest (two had been carelessly opened 
by some unknown party before). We deviated from the usual manner 
of opening by a trench (as in that way we would have missed the con- 
tents), and proceeded to reduce the mound to a level with the surround- 
ing surface. At a distance of 2i feet from the center, a little below the 
natural level, we discovered the remains of three bodies. With great 
care, we were enabled to sec their position, &c, and to obtain parts of 
the skull and of the large bones of the legs and arms. By the head of 
the center one was deposited an earthen pot holding about two quarts, 
which had been crushed by the weight of earth. The pot was empty, 



3G2 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

but immediately surrounding- it we found some half dozen arrow-points 
of curious construction, also a slate pipe. Three of the arrow-points are 
different in shape or style from any in my collection of about a thousand. 
This is the first instance in this region of flint implements being found 
witli remains in mounds. 

The few fragments that occurred in No. 2 are in my possession; the 
ax found in No. 3 is in the possession of Mr. Leverck, of this city (Mus- 
catine). The pipe, arrow-points, and skull found in No. 5 are in the 
Academy of Science in this city. Nearly all the articles of value found 
in this region are picked up on the surface, or found in excavating for 
buildings, tilling, &c. Young timber is growing on nearly all the 
mounds. The oldest I have seen shows one hundred and twenty years 
of annual growth. The mounds upon Muscatine Island have been 
washed out within the last seven years by tillage and the washing of 
the river. The dead are found in mounds. No plan whatever seems to 
Lave been followed in their burial. They are scattered among the 
mounds as if by chance, sometimes found in one large mound, while the 
next will be destitute of all traces of burial, while a little mound off to one 
side, apparently but half completed, will contain remains. I have made 
the utmost effort to discover a law in the shape of the mound and 
its situation in reference to other mounds, whether overlooking the val- 
leys or situated back from the edge, whether surrounded or on the out- 
skirts, but am as far from any decision in the matter as in the beginning. 
I do not believe that they were all used for burial places ; since the dead 
must have been buried in the midst of the village. All those of which 
I have knowledge were lying stretched out. In No. 5 the body was 
lying on the right side with the face to the west. Although, generally, 
it is almost impossible to determine the position of real Mound-build- 
ers' remains — as they are general ly so disintegrated — I have frequently 
found the remains of the modern Indian in mounds near the surface 
buried in a sitting position. In Nos. 2 and 5 the bodies had the head 
to the north. In No. 5 they were lying on the right side with the face to 
the west. I think they are always found with the head to the north in 
this locality They were simply buried in the earth, although in No. 2 
we thought we discovered an arch-like crust over the remains, as if 
some pasty substance had been spread above the body and allowed to 
dry. They are generally on a level with or a little below the present 
natural surface. 

Nests or pockets of arrow-points, &c, are said to have been found in 
Illinois opposite the city of Muscatine. I have been told by farmers 
who Hist tilled the land opposite that "they sometimes plowed up from 
a peck to a half bushel of arrow-points, &C." Sometimes these would be 
nearly all perfect, at other times but partly completed. This occurred 
in early times when the country was new. They say they have never 
plowed 1 1 1 > stone implements, such as axes, &c, under the same circum- 
stances. The refuse here consists of thousands of flint chippings and 



ANTIQUITIES OF ROCK ISLAND COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 



363 



Hakes, also broken triangular arrow-points, all of white flint. They are 
scattered over a space of about five acres; a great deal of pottery also is 
lying around which is fast being dissolved by the action of rain, &c. 
There is no locality near here where this flint could be obtained in such 
quantities as must have been worked up at this point. 




ANTIQUITIES OF ROCK ISLAND COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 

By Adolpu Toellxer, of Molinc, III. 

Eock Island County is especially rich iu aboriginal remains. In the 
vicinity of Moline I have discovered about 80 mounds, single and in 
groups. I have also found shell-heaps several miles in length, three 
pits dug in the clay, workshops for preparing spear and arrow heads, 
old cemeteries, together with stone and copper implements in abundance. 
The mounds are 
found generally 
on the banks of 

rivers and their J^fe: ^SwSSwSS 

tributaries, or on ^^rzr^^^§j^m^^nf^ 
islands, seldom in teijf^#^l'' %W W* 
the interior. On !il "^ 

Campbell Island, 

Hampton Township, is a cemetery containing 200 or 300 graves. I have 
seen 10 mounds in Hampton, on Dr. Ottman's farm (Fig. 1) ; 2 on 
Tohead Island (Fig. 2); 
4 at Valley City, in Scott 
County; 7 on Hubbard's 

farm, six miles east of, ( JHMi&i 

Moline; 28 at Deere's X&- ■< 
farm, one mile east of 
Moline, as well as many 
shell-heaps (Figure 4); 
40 near Black Hawk 

Tower, Milan; 1 large ^ W^W^i WjH 

one five miles east of "^fig 2 

Moline, on Deere's land; 

4 on Davenport's land, within the limits of Moline. Without exception, 
the mounds occupy the most beautiful prospects in the country. The 
graves occur indiscriminately on high and low ground. 

One largo mound, five miles east of Moline, on a blnfi', was opened, 
and disclosed the following structure : (1) 3 feet of soil; (2) 22 iuehes of 
wood-ashes, mingled here and there with fragments of burnt bones; (3) 
12 to 14 inches of unburnt bones and charcoal. This stratum has a very 




364 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



unctuous appearance. Tlie skeletons of four Indians were found 2 feet 
below the top of the mound (Fig. 3). 

^^rrrn?iTfTTTT>>. ^ u tue v i cm ity, blocks of limestone or sand- 

^xfltfljllJnJ^ stone furnished the material for the sculptured 

| ^ttli , ; ' ,*&m&Sto*: ' xi lUllW slabs found in the mound. 
\ tt \& \ ■ a About one-half of the mounds with which I 

i am acquainted have been explored. I m \ sel 1 
I have found in thirty mounds two entire skele- 
| tons, five more or less decayed, fragments of 
1 bones, a part of a broken pot, spear-heads, 
lead ore, and shells. 

In seven mounds I found all the bodies 

buried with the knees drawn up to the chin, 

and laid on their right side, with the head to 

the west and face to the south, excepting 

one that had the face directed to the north. 

Fig. 3. The bodies were two feet below the surface. 

In two cases the lower jaws were lying near the feet, while another had 

the bones of his feet between his teeth. 

Shell-heaps near the banks of the Mississippi and the Eock Eiver are 





teitsissippi Rttf^j. 



"Wa&on. Road 




in i uinm'.nwrTiTTTi-rt 



W-UU-tt 



Rail Hoa.(L. 



1 1 ; i f f I U 1 1 LUU 



i ', 1 1 : i : 



MOUNDS 

on 

Hon. John Deere 



P| 1 railo E. of Moline 



™ r , /f %... , % 






Fig. 4. 



very plentiful, and extend for miles without interruption. They are coin- 
monly located in the neighborhood of mounds. They are composed of 
recent shells and contain few implements. 



ANTIQUITIES OF ROCK ISLAND COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 



365 



Mounds near Black Hawk Tower, at Milan, are scattered along for the 
distance of a mile. They are about 3 feet high, from 30 to GO feet in 
diameter, and, for the most part, are undisturbed. They are all burial 
mounds, and follow no particular arrangement, lying in rows on a bluff 
130 feet above Eock River. Black Hawk Tower is an elevated spot near 
the falls of Bock River, on the southeast corner of Bock Island Bluffs. 
The view from this point extends 8 or 10 miles up Bock Eiver, and G or 
8 miles northward to the Mississippi. Black Hawk is said to have used 
this site in the war as a lookout for his enemies. 

The following is a list of mounds on the land of the Hon. John Deere, 
one mile east of Moline (Fig. 1) : 



No. 


Size. 


Shape. 


Height. 


Remarks. 




Feet. 




Feet. 


In. 




1 


25 


Circular 


3 






2 


27 


do 


2 
1 


6 
6 




3 


60 x 18 . 


Obloug 




4 


36 


Circular 


3 




Dug ; fouud a stone ornament. 


5 


36 x 15 . 


Oblong 


1 


3 




6 


30 


Circular 


4 




Dug ; fouud nothing. 


7 


21 


....do 


1 
1 

1 
1 
1 

2 
2 


3 
3 

6 

6 
6 




8 


21 


do 




9 


24 


do 




10 


12 


do 




11 


21 


do 




12 


24 


....do 




13 


36 x 18 . 


Obloug 




14 


30 


Circular 


2 


6 


Dug ; found a few decayed bones. 


15... 


147 x 15 . 
30 


Rectangular. 
Circular 


i 

2 


6 




16 




17 


30 


....do 


2 




Dusr; found bones, lead ore, arrow- 








bead, and stone image. 


18 


30 


....do 


o 


6 


Dug; found bones and stone images. 


19 


30 


....do 


2 






20 


24 


....do 


1 

2 
2 


6 
6 

6 




•a 


30 


....do 




22 


24 


do 




23 


1^1x15. 


Rectangular. 




24 


188 x 15 . 


....do 




6 




25 


69 x 15 . 


....do 




6 




26 


40 x 16 . 


Oblong 




6 




27 


27 


Circular 




6 


Explored ; no remains. 


28 


69 x 15 . 


Rectangular. 




6 


Found skeleton. 


29 


60 x 18 . 


....do 




6 




30 


40x15. 


Obloug 









31 


36 x 24 . 


....do 






Skeleton and pottery found. 


32 


24 


Circular 






Found a few bones. 


33 


60 x 15 . 


Rectangular. 




6 





P. S. — The mounds are made of limestone slabs from the river shore. 
In jSTos. 18, 21, and 23 the rocks were 9 inches below the surface. The 
limestone belongs to the Hamilton Group of the Devonian age. 



3G6 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

STONE CISTS NEAR HIGHLAND, MADISON COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 

By Arthur Oehler, of Highland, III. 

I beg leave briefly to call attention to some lately-discovered In- 
dian graves in the southeastern part of Madison County, Illinois. 
They are situated in the southeast corner of the southwest quarter 
of section 10, township 3 north, range 5 west of the third principal me- 
ridian, on the present property of Mr. John F. Eodt, about 4 miles 
southeast of the town of Highland. 

There are two of them, of the same shape and size, lying in exactly 
the same direction. The first discovered lies about 400 feet south of the 
northern and about 500 feet east of the western boundary of the above- 
described parcel of land. Sugar Creek, which at that point makes a 
bend westward toward the graves, is due east about 400 feet distant, 
while to the south it is farther away. About two and a half years ago the 
proprietor plowed up several limestone rocks and fragments of slabs of 
different sizes, mostly small ones. This excited his curiosity, and as 
the same thing happened every time he plowed, last spring he got a hoe 
and shovel and went to investigating; but, having no idea of what was 
coming, did it in such a manner as to entirely unfit the contents for any 
further careful examination. He then called the attention of my friend, 
Mr. A. F. Bandolier, to it, who, as near as could be learned from the 
circumstances, reports : " That the grave contained the complete skele- 
tons of two persons, one superposed upon the other." 

Mr. B. then exacted from the proprietor the promise that if any more 
graves were found he should immediately be notified, they, meanwhile, 
not being disturbed. About May 20, Mr. Bandelier received word that 
another had been discovered and awaited his further pleasure. We 
then went there and carefully investigated the place, an account of 
which is given below. It is situated about 350 feet due west of No. 1, 
on the top of a hill that slopes southward toward Sugar Creek, which 
is about one-fourth of a mile due south. It has the shape of a rectangle, 
2 feet 3 inches by 3 feet, the longer side lying north-northeast by south- 
southwest. It is made of limestone slabs, of which two are at the bot- 
tom, two on each longer side, two on top as a lid, and one on each 
shorter side. These slabs show no signs of incisions or workmanship 
whatever, but are simply limestone slabs. The grave is about a foot 
1 >elow t he surface. There were five skulls and the skeletons of five adult 
persons. There was no trace of charring or fire about the remains, 
which had evidently been placed in the grave after the flesh had by 
some process or other become decomposed. The skeletons show that 
the people were of nil her small stature. The skulls lay in a semicircle 
along the southeastern longer side. All the other bones lay transversely 
to the skulls, and were very closely packed. Some of them were so far 
decayed as to crumble while being handled. There were no arms or 



MOUNDS IN PIKE COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 367 

ornaments found in the mound except a little burnt, partially glazed, 
clay object, having- the shape of a cylinder, about 2 inches long and 
h inch in diameter, one small flint chip, and several fragments of 
limestone slabs. Three feet to the east of the grave is an oak stump, 
measuring 2 feet in diameter, from which several roots, as thick as a 
fiuger, penetrated the Assures of the slabs and worked their way be- 
tween the bones. One of the skulls was examined by Dr. George J. 
Engelmann, of Saint Louis, Mo. From this he judges that they are of 
great age, and that they appear as normal Indian skulls, with the ex- 
ception that the superciliary ridges show great development. A rather 
striking circumstance is that on all the jaw bones seen, the two front 
lower teeth are missing, as if artificially knocked out. On the skull ex- 
amined as above, the left parietal appears to show a rather prominent 
protuberance, while on the right is a corresponding flattening. Whether 
this is artificial or natural, cannot for the present be decided. As far as 
we know, this mode of burial is more or less different from those of other 
Indian tribes at present known. A great many flint chips and arrow- 
heads of different shapes and sizes are found in the neighborhood of 
these graves, also a short distance southward along the creek, which 
fact, most probably, indicates a battle ground, possibly a settlement. 



MOUNDS IX PIKE COUNTY, ILLINOIS. 

By Braixerd Mitchell, of Pearl Depot, III. 

The mounds are generally on bluffs along the west side of the Illinois 
River, with here and there one in the valleys. There are hundreds of 
them between the mouth of the river and Pearl Depot, the bluffs being 
lined with them, separated in some instances only a few feet apart. 
Those back from the bluffs are isolated, while those along the edges fol- 
low the breaks and stand on the highest ground. They are round or 
oval, and vary from C feet in diameter to 20 or 30, and are from 2 to S 
feet high. The isolated mounds back from the river are composed of a 
light-colored clay, almost white, directly over the remains ; on the top 
of this is a stratum of yellow clay and soil. Those along the bluff have 
first a layer of lime rock, then a layer of clay and soil ; the rocks are 
arranged in a row set on edge around the body, and a covering of rocks 
placed over this. Those explored furnish stone implements, shell beads, 
pottery, bone needles, and copper implements. 

The dead found in graves were evidently stretched out, while those 
interred in mounds were buried doubled up or in a sitting posture. In 
one cemetery the dead were found inclosed in rocks very carefully set 
on edge and covered over. In one spot thirteen graves were arranged 
in the form of a crescent on a slope facing south. The site has been 
plowed over for fifteen or twenty years, and washed down so that the 



368 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

plow turned up the rocks. In some places fire seems to have been used, 
as we find only charred pieces of bones and burnt rocks with fragments 
of pottery. 

One mound explored contained the remains of 25 or 30 persons. Most 
of the bones were chaired or burnt to ashes. One had been buried in a 
sitting posture, the rest lay indiscriminately. They had been inclosed 
by placing rocks on edge around them and two in the middle for the 
flat rocks that formed the cover to rest upon. Pieces ot pottery were 
found on the top of the rocks that formed the cover, which had fallen in 
and rested on the bones. 



MOUNDS IX THE SPOON RIVER VALLEY, ILLINOIS. 

By W. H. Adams, of Elmore, III. 

The most important group of mounds is situated on the northeast 
quarter of the southwest quarter of section 9, township 11 north of the 
base line, range 5 east of the fourth principal meridian. They are nine 
in number, commencing at a point 126 feet west of the southeast 
corner of the first-mentioned tract of land; thence following the brow 
of the ridge in a northeast course to a point on the east side of said 
40-acre tract, 564 feet north of the southeast corner. The ridge is 
composed of the usual yellow clay of which the bluffs of Spoon Eiver 
are composed. For convenience we have numbered the mounds, com- 
mencing at the south. The east and west line crosses the north side of 
No. 1. The distances here given are from center to center. From No. 
1 to No. 2 is 50 feet, from No. 2 to No. 3 is 46 feet, from No. 3 to No. 4 is 
67 feet, from No. 4 to No. 5 is 67 feet, from No. 5 to No. 6 is 225 feet, 
from No. 6 to No. 7 is 72 feet; No. 7 is northwest of No. 6; from No. 6 
to No. 8 is 67 feet, from No. 8 to No. 9 is 55 feet. Opened No. 3 at a 
depth of 2 feet 6 inches; found a flat stone in an upright position; a 
few inches below this found a thin layer of ashes with small fragments 
of charcoal. At a depth of 5 feet 4 inches found human bones, very 
much decayed, the articulations all wasted away. Found one skull to the 
east and t wo to the south ; all the bones occupied a space less than 3 
feet in diameter. The bones were very fragile; the teeth in a good state 
of preservation; the grinding surface very smooth and even. .The base 
diameter of this mound is 55 feet; the apparent height above the sur- 
rounding surface 3 feet. Opened No. 4 with about the same result as No. 
3, except the flat stone. In company with W. Lewis opened No. 7; 
found large quant it ies of ashes at a depth of 3£ feet and one or two small 
fragments of charcoal. At a depth of 5 feet 3 inches found human 
bones, which fell to pieces on exposure to the air. No. 6 was opened by 
S. Swenny, George Lappan, and George Miller. At a depth of 3 feet 
they found a layer of flat stones nicely fitted together, having a diam- 
eter of 6 feet; they were unable to determine whether anyone had been 
buried in this mound. 



MOUNDS IN THE SPOON RIVER VALLEY, ILLINOIS. 3G9 

This group of mounds, distant from Spoon River about one-third of a 
mile, is on land owned by Samuel S. Seward. On the northwest quar- 
ter of the northwest quarter section 14, township 11 north, range 4 
east of fourth principal meridian, is a tumulus, which we shall designate- 
as the Sam. Parker Mound. This mound is 25 rods south of J he north 
line and 15 rods east of the west lines of said tract and 80 rods north of 
Spoon River, which is 125 feet wide at this place. It has a base diam- 
eter of 90 feet, and an apparent height of three feet above the surround- 
ing - surface. I opened this mound in company with W. J. Morris. At 
the surface we found a few small fragments of pottery; at a depth of 2 
feet some ashes; 1 loot below this a layer of ashes lh inches thick ; below 
the ashes a compact layer of clay ; below the layer of clay a thin layer of 
what I supposed to be red ochre; below this was a layer of dark yellow 
clay about 12 inches thick ; below the clay a layer of the red material about 
£ to 1 inch in thickness and 18 or 20 inches in diameter. In this red 
material we found two spear points, one 7 inches in length and one 5 
inches, very thin, the larger notched at the butt, the smaller not notched; 
five arrow-points of dark Hint or hornstoue notched at the base or heel, 
very smooth, as if polished, 3£ inches in length; twenty-two arrow- 
points of the leaf pattern, of white jasper or chert, from 2i| to of inches 
in length; one copper needle or awl 3 inches in length, rounded at the 
point, the remainder of the blade being what the harness-makers term 
diamond bladed; the spear and light-colored points have every appear- 
ance of being new. Mr. Julius Johnson, who formerly owned the land 
on which this mound is situated, found a gorget or breast-plate (now the 
property of the writer) inches in length, 2 inches in width in the mid- 
dle, and 1J inches wide at each end, with two small holes through it 
about 2 inches from each end, and f inch in thickness, and composed 
of a material resembling greenstone. The pottery found is of superior 
quality. Near the south line of section 11, township and range afore- 
said, is a low mound on land owned by a Mr. Mackey. This we 
thoroughly examined to the depth of the original surface soil, and 
found a small fragment of a stone implement, highly polished on one 
side, a small piece of charcoal, and some ashes. On section 10 of this 
township, at the foot of a high bluff facing the south, occurs what is 
designated by archaeologists as a kitchen-midden. On the south side 
of the tumulus is a bayou; this was the former channel of a creek, 
now some 40 rods to the east. In the material composing this tumulus 
we found arrow-points; one or two skinning- stones; fragments of pot- 
tery, with some attempts at ornamentation. One piece had the appear- 
ance of having been marked below the rim when in a plastic state 
with an implement similar to the point of a tliree-cornered tile; the 
tool with which the marking was done was moved in an upward direc- 
tion. No evidence of glazing appeared on any of the fragments. One 
small implement of j-asper, about 2j inches in length byf inch in thick- 
ness, was discovered, supposed to be a drill, and a disk of syenite If 
S. Mis. 54 24 



370 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

inches iii diameter by about 1 inch in thickness, similar to ISo. 209 de- 
scribed by 0. C. Abbott in the Stone Age in New Jersey. We found 
two or three fragments of the antlers of a deer; also the bones of a deer. 
These were all split except a small part next to and including the articu- 
lation ; and a large quantity of fresh- water unios, now common to Spoon 
River. These were very fragile and offered but little resistance to the 
spade. In the center of the find was a layer of ashes 2 or more inches 
in thickness, at a depth of 15 inches from the top of the mound; below 
the ashes there was a layer of brick-dust 2 inches in thickness; below 
this the soil had no appearance of having been disturbed. Only part 
of these tumuli were examined. I am somewhat inclined to believe that 
it would be profitable to make a more extensive investigation. Mrs. A. 
J. Eeed, who has resided near this place for the past twenty four years, 
says her children have found many Indian relics in this immediate vicin- 
ity. The most extensive kitchen-middens that we have met with are on 
the land owned by W. J. Ghross, to wit, the southeast quarter of the 
southwest quarter section G, township 11 north, range 5 east of the 
fourth principal meridian, and a small strip of land between this and 
Walnut Creek on the east. The kitchen refuse is scattered over three 
or four acres of land at various depths, from a few inches to 3 feet. 
The creek washes the land on the east side, with Spoon River 40 rods 
distant on the south. In these heaps are great quantities of shells, 
now common to the creek and river, of one of which I have never seen 
.a living specimen. The shells of helix are very plentiful ; one variety 
marked with bright red or scarlet spots. This was then the most abund- 
ant species, but is now rather rare. Besides these are found antlers 
and bones of deer, shields — or rather fragments of them — of the turtle, 
bones of small animals, &c, and of implements, stone axes, hammers, 
whetstones, pestles, skinning-knives of flint, fragments of what Mr. Ab- 
bott denominates as gorgets, arrow-points, spear-points, &c. The wiiter 
found a carnelian pebble in one of those heaps; also a peculiar imple- 
ment, composed of an unknown material which has some characteristics 
of a low form of Hmestone. 



MOUNDS IN FRANKLIN COUNTY, INDIANA. 

By Edgar R. Quick, of Broolcville, Lid. 

In Franklin County, Indiana, are remains of ancient mounds and 
earthworks, and other indications of former occupation of this locality, 
consisting of stone implements of various kinds. The most uotieeable 
group of mounds is on the land of H. Bruns, one mile and a half south 
of Brookville. Other mounds are scattered singly or in pairs all over 
the county, wherever a suitable place seems to offer. 



MOUNDS IN FRANKLIN COUNTY, INDIANA. 371 

The only earthwork (enclosure) which I know of in the county is sit- 
uated three miles north of Brookville, on a hill nearly 350 feet high, 
which juts out against the west bank of the east fork of the White 
Water Biver, immediately beside the bridge at that place. 

The mounds of this county are nearly all situated on prominent points 
or headlands overlooking the valley below. The site does not seem to 
have been selected with reference to convenience of water or ease of ac- 
cess. The land in most cases is in the same condition as found by the 
present inhabitants, except that a part is used as pasture and is cleared 
to some extent. I know of but one case of the grouping of mounds which 
has been before referred to. This group is situated on a terrace about 
one mile and a half south of Brookville. This terrace is about 00 feet 
above the river, and 250 feet below the tops of the hills and level of the 
adjacent country. It contains about 250 acres of land, most of which is 
cleared and under cultivation. The part which is occupied by mounds 
is at present covered by a heavy growth of sugar trees (Acer sacchari- 
num). The mounds are all low, none being more than 4 feet high by 40 
feet across. Approaching along the brow of the terrace from the west, 
we first come to a pair of low mounds almost on the edge of the terrace. 
They are situated so near each other that their bases almost blend to- 
gether, one a little smaller than the other. Going on directly east about 
200 yards, we find another pair about 50 yards from the edge of the ter- 
race. These two are almost exactty like the first in relative size and 
position. About .40 yards north of this pair is a small heap of earth, 
which I am certain is of artificial origin, but being so small is hardly 
worthy of being called a mound. Southeast of the last pair, on the edge 
of the terrace, is another pair similar in every respect to the others. 

Near these, and nearly north of them, is a curious circle of earth. The 
center is slightly below the surrounding level, while the edge is as much 
above. The circumference is about the same as that of the mounds. 
The outline of the terrace here turns to the north, and following it we 
find three more mounds situated singly, at intervals of 200 or 300 yards, 
on the brow of the terrace. Northwest of the first pair about 500 yards, 
in a field, is another, almost obliterated by plowing. The mounds are 
composed of a mixture of sandy clay and loam taken from the sur- 
rounding surface. In the single one which I have examined the mate- 
rial is heaped together without respect to arrangement. Slight depres- 
sions about the mounds show that the material was obtained from the 
surrounding surface. One mound has been explored (by digging a pit 
in the center) by the writer and others; all appear to have been opened, 
but by whom is unknown. Nothing was found but charcoal and a few 
charred bones. No account has ever been published, with the exception 
of the one mentioned before. No trees grow upon them at present. 



372 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 




MOUNDS IN FRANKLIN COUNTY, INDIANA. 373 

The earthworJc. — In describing this work I can do no better than to 
extract from Dr. Kufus Haymond's Report of Franklin Comity, in the 
Geological Report of Indiana, by E. T. Cox, 1SG9: 

"Three miles north of Brookville, and immediately west of the east 
fork of White Water River, upon the top of a hill nearly 350 feet high, 
there is a semicircular wall of earth 300 yards in length. It is built 
across a narrow ridge, which is formed by two deep ravines, one on the 
south, the other on the north, which, with the river on the east, isolate 
the flat on top of the hill (containing 15 or 20 acres) from the level 
country to the west, and was built probably to protect the inhabitants 
from any enemy approaching from that direction. The " wall of earth " is 
at all points low, being in its present condition not more than 3 feet high, 
but the ditch from which the material was taken is 3 feet deep, and being 
just outside the embankment makes it more of an obstacle to overcome 
when defended from the inside. The stump of a tree which had been 
cut on the embankment showed about two hundred rings, and there 
were others much larger standing near it. The hill toward the top is so 
steep that one can scarcely climb up without assisting himself by hold- 
ing on to shrubs or some support, making this part naturally fortified. 
This inclosure is undoubtedly a work of defense, the building material 
being all taken from the outside." 

The dead of prehistoric people in this locality are nearly all found in 
the small mounds which occupy every prominent point along the valley. 
We generally find in exploring a mound, near the original surface of 
the earth, from one to several skeletons very much decayed and not 
touched by fire. Above and around them are human bones charred and 
blackened, also charcoal, ashes, &c, and in one case the earth was 
vitrified, so great had been the heat. The bodies were generally stretched 
out without reference to points of compass. 

Quarries. — In regard to aboriginal quarries, quite a mistake has crept 
into our literature on this subject. A great many pieces of worked stone 
of the striped slate are found in this State and in Ohio. Archaeologists say 
it was obtained far to the north, in the lake region. This was not always 
the case, if it ever was. I have seen in a field where a great many un- 
finished implements were found, ami which to all appearances had been 
a " workshop," bowlders of this same striped slate, from which large 
and small pieces had been flaked. Small caches of " flint disks " have 
been found, one cache containing twelve, another eighty or ninety disks 
of the leaf shape. 

Several localities in this county have the appearance of having been 
workshops, the surface being covered all over with Hint chips and spalls 
of diorite or greenstone and slate; also unfinished pestles, axes, «&o. 



374 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

MOUNDS AND EARTHWORKS OF RUSH COUNTY, INDIANA. 

By F. Jackman. 

The remains of the early inhabitants of this and its adjoining counties 
are quite numerous, and in most respects similar, though it is evident 
either that different races dwelt here at about the same time or that they 
had different modes of burial or worship, for it is my opinion that these 
mounds were places of burial made in accordance with their religious 
rites. The only traces of these lost races in this section are small cir- 
cular mounds, from 25 to 40 feet in diameter, and 7 to 10 feet in height, 
except one set of earthworks, which seem to have been some kind of 
fortification or works of defense. They are located about two miles 
«aiu. ^M'^l^g^ south of Rushville, near the Eushville 

*JP«*MM9fam ** aml Moscow i )lke ' on what 1S wel1 

|K.#:^ ! - F ' i;S h% % known as the Hilligos farm. The 
A / j%$e^ / ^».*fe^ '"1#P B surrounding country is rough and 

%?f^' !l ^\S broken for miles around, but this is 

,^%#^*»^rf%fife#%^'Sa% D the highest point. A small stream 
^^^^^^^ijj^!^:^^ fed by a spring runs on the south 
E side of them, and Flat Rock River 

Fig. 1. is half a mile to the easi The works 

are in a woods-pasture, but the adjacent land is mostly tillable. No 
geological changes have taken place since their erection. They con- 
sist, first, of a curved elevation (Figure 1, A, B) 300 yards long, about 
."» feet high at one end and 25 feet at the other, making the top per- 
fectly level with the horizon, the site sloping to the south. It is 
perfectly level, smooth and rounded on top, and 30 feet wide. Sec- 
ond, a, straight bank behind the one just mentioned 200 yards long, 
5 feel high at one end, and 25 feet at the other. In the middle of this 
hank is a circular mound 80 feet in diameter and 5 feet high (above 
the top of the bank). Extending from the mound, between the two 
grades, is a semicircular plain on alevej with the base of the straight 
ridge, and extending towards the larger semicircle 50 yards. The inter- 
mediate space is a gully GO yards wide, sloping to the south. The south 
half of the larger semicircle I think to be a natural elevation smoothed 
down. The others are undoubtedly artificial. The spaces between A 
and C and B and D are open, but would be very easily guarded. The 
country immediately south and west is very hilly and broken for about 
two miles. The works are mostly covered with large ash, poplar, and 
beech trees, and have never been explored. 

Must of the mounds in the immediate vicinity of Milroy I have ex- 
plored. One group, which I have not opened, is on the farm of Thomas 
Meek, four miles southeast of Milroy. It consists of one large mound 
30 feet in diameter, G feet high, surrounded by five smaller ones 10 feet 



MOUNDS AND EARTHWORKS OF RUSH COUNTY, INDIANA. 375 

across and 3 feet high. The country is level, covered with trees, and 
exhibits no geological change. 

Another is in a woods-pasture on the farm of Reuben Farlow, 3 A miles 
southwest of Milroy. It is 40 feet in diameter and 10 feet high ; not 
explored. 

A third one on the farm of Finley Carter, 3 miles west of Milroy, in 
a woods £ mile south of his house. It is 25 feet across, 5 feet high ; not 
opened. 

A fourth on the farm of John Overleese, Sr., lA miles south of Milroy, 
on the Greensburg road, 50 yards north of a grave-yard on the same farm. 
It is in a cultivated held and nearly plowed down. Several arrow points 
and stone hatchets have been found near it; not opened. 

Several others are scattered over the country, but they are so nearly 
alike that I will not take the time and space to describe them. 

The first one of these curious remains which I opened was on Reuben 
Farlow's farm, 3i miles southwest of Milroy, on a bluff 20 feet high, at 
the foot of which flows the stream Little Flat Rock. It was about 30 feet 
in diameter, and 5 feet high; round. Inside of it was what might be 
termed a stone wall inclosing 10 feet square of the mound. Though the 
wall was not of perfect masonry, yet very evidently it was built for some 
purpose, and was not a mere accidental arrangement of stones, of which 
there were a goodly number scattered through the mound. On top was 
common soil 18 inches deep, then clay, next clay and ashes, with coal 
mixed in it 2 feet thick; then a "hard pan" of clay, on top of which 
were three human adult skeletons and the skull of an infant, all side by 
side, with their feet toward the east. Around the neck of one were a 
number of copper and bone beads, the latter of which crumbled im- 
mediately. The copper ones were made of sheet copper rolled up, with a 
hole left through the center by which to string them. The land around 
was level, and there was no trace left to show where they procured the 
earth. A maple tree 15 inches in diameter grew on the side of it. 

No. 2 was on the farm of Frank Power, 1 mile west of Milroy. It was 
situated on a small rise about 150 yards from a small stream. It was 
of precisely the same structure as No. 1, with the exception of the rock 
wall. Nothing was found in it, save a stone maul or hammer and 
some arrow points. On the "hard pan" 1 found, all in one place, nine 
flint arrow points, no two of the same color, and a plate of mica which 
I call a "looking glass." It is of an oval shape, 10 inches in long 
diameter, and 7 inches in short diameter, and J inch in thickness. Also 
two slate specimens were found 4£ inches by 2 inches by | inch. About 
feet east of them was a copper needle or awl inches long and J inch 
thick, three-cornered at one end. Four feet north of first batch was a 
stone hammer — merely a bowlder shaped up to fasten a handle on. No 
bones found. 

No. 3, on the farm of James Brown, 1 mile west of Milroy, of about 
the same size and structure as No. 2, surrounded with trees 2 feet in 



876 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

diameter on an elevated spot § of a mile from any stream. I found noth- 
ing in this but a small piece of galena. 

No. 4, on the farm of George Brown, 3 miles southwest of Milroy, on an 
elevation A mile from a large spring. This is different in structure from 
any of the others. It is 40 feet across and 7 feet high. Directly in the 
center and bottom of it was a small mound 10 feet in diameter and 3 feet 
high, of hard red clay, so hard as to be difficult to dig with a mattock. 
All over this was a layer of charcoal 2 inches thick, yet so perfect that 
I could easily distinguish the oak, ash, and poplar wood from which it 
had been burned. Over this was a stratum of ashes mixed with clay, 
and the remainder was yellow clay. Near the bottom was a skeleton 
lying with its feet towards the west (all the others lay in the opposite 
direction). On one wrist were two copper bracelets made by rolling 
up sheet copper, and close by, a bear's claw, probably an ornament. 
The right forearm was absent. Though this skeleton crumbled and 
could not be saved, the others were gotten out in a nearly perfect 
condition. Nothing strange about them except the peculiar bottle- 
shaped teeth, especially the bicuspid and molars, and the fact that the 
larger of the two bicuspids on both upper and lower jaws came first, 
coni dry to the fact in the white and modern Indian races. From the 
appearance of the frontal bone they evidently possessed a fair degree of 
intelligence. 

1 have opened a number of other mounds, but they are all about the 
same, and I found nothing in them. 



PRIMITIVE MANUFACTURE OF SPEAR AND ARROW POINTS ALONG THE LINE 
OF THE SAVANNAH RIVER. 

By Charles C. Jones, Jr., of Augusta, Ga. 

In selecting sites for the manufacture of arrow and spear points, respect 
was had to the convenience of the localities. Ready access to the raw 
material and to food and water, and the physical advantages offered 
for transporting their implements, when manufactured, entered largely 
into the calculations of the primitive artificers and determined their par- 
t icular fields of operation. That such is the fact, may be readily inferred 
from the presence of extensive and numerous open-air workshops along 
the line of the Savannah River, and especially that portion of it bordering 
the counties of Richmond, Columbia, Lincoln, and Elbert, in Georgia, 
and the counties in South Carolina lying opposite. Here mnky quartz, 
chert, and some varieties of jasper abound. The substance from which 
the implements were to be fashioned was at hand, and in quantities 
practically inexhaustible. The Savannah River, with its numerous trib- 
utaries, w;is a never failing storehouse of food. Its islands and banks, 
adjacent forests, and dependent swamps afforded ample cover for 
game of various sorts. At that early period the woods and waters were 



PRIMITIVE MANUFACTURE OF SPEAR AND ARROW POINTS. 377 

far more replete with animal life than they are at present. Then, the 
Savannah was a limpid river. At regular times the shad and sturgeon 
ascended and descended the river in countless numbers, while all the year 
round, perch, bream, catfish, trout, suckers, gar-fish, sun-fish, eels, and 
other varieties of fishes were found in i t in abundance. These waters teem ed 
also with turtles and mussels, which constituted favorite articles of food 
among the primitive peoples of this region. The buffalo, the black bear, 
the deer, the raccoon, the opossum, the wild-cat, the wolf, the mink, the 
otter, the beaver, and other wild animals, the turkey, the eagle, the fish- 
hawk, owls, and various birds had here their habitat. Eeptiles, some sorts 
of which were utilized as articles of food, crawled beneath the shadows 
of the forests. The mulberry, plum, haw, crab-apple, and other native 
fruits yielded their annual tribute, while from the nuts of the walnut 
and hickory trees were obtained generous supplies of oil. It was a re- 
gion attractive to man in a state of nature. Here, under temperate 
skies, the battle for life was not severe. Intermediate between the 
mountain ranges of Upper Georgia and the sterile pine barren belt to 
the south, running parallel with the coast, this territory was well suited 
for the abode of primitive peoples. Many are the indications that it was 
occupied for an indefinite period by a by no means insignificant abor- 
iginal population. 

That the Indians resorted in considerable numbers to the banks of 
the Savannah and its tributaries to hunt and fish is attested by frequent 
and large refuse piles, still existent at many well-selected points, by 
ancient burial-grounds, by occasional tumuli, and by the sites of aban- 
doned villages upon the islands, and the high grounds adjacent to the 
streams. 

With a view, therefore, to easy subsistence, companionship, and a 
ready sale at home of the manufactured articles, it must be admitted 
that the primitive arrow-makers were wise in here locating their most 
extensive open-air workshops. Surrounded by multitudes engaged in 
the capture of birds, animals, and fishes, the demand for stone darts 
was necessarily continuous and very general. The loss and destruction 
of such projectiles must have been constant and great, and hence ex- 
tensive manufacture was requisite, especially during the seasons set 
apart for hunting and fishing, to supply the waste thus occasioned. In 
exchange for them food and skins were freely offered. While to the 
women was mainly committed the fabrication of fictile ware and domes- 
tic utensils, and while nearly all the male members of the community 
were able, on an emergency, to chip implements of hunting and fishing, 
the manufacture of spear and arrow points was in large measure mo- 
nopolized by certain men in each tribe. In such labor were they con- 
stantly and professedly engaged, acquiring a degree of skill born only 
of an accurate knowledge of material and continual practice. Day by 
day were these chipped barbs bartered away for food, clothing, and 
ornaments, and when the products of manufacture accumulated beyond 



378 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

present and local demand they were stored away in the ground, in places 
known only to the artificers, whence they could be taken as occasion 
required. 

It must not be forgotten that the occupation of the primitive worker in 
stone was deemed not only useful but honorable. For the purpose of 
disposing of his surplus stock he frequently made long journeys, and the 
knowledge of his mission and avocation secured him a welcome among, 
and hospitable treatment by, the tribes he visited. 

While along the coast may occasionally be seen nuclei or parent blocks 
of jasper, transported from a distance, and there kept to be manufac- 
tured into implements, and while at some points, even in the depths of 
the swamp region, may still be noted traces of small open-air workshops, 
it appears entirely probable that the Indians inhabiting the sea-islands 
and the adjacent territory were largely supplied with arrow and spear 
points and other stone objects manufactured in the interior and furnished 
by the ancient trader. Stone implements found along the coast, as a 
general rule, are beautiful in material and of admirable construction. 
This suggests and seems to justify the idea that these primitive mer- 
chantmen brought with them in their trading expeditions articles well 
selected, attractive to the eye, and calculated to command the highest 
price in the way of exchange. From the dwellers near the saltwater 
were obtained beautiful ocean shells, large drinking cups made from 
conchs, beads, gorgets, shell ornaments, and shell money. This in- 
terchange of commodities was very extensive, and prevailed from a re- 
mote antiquity. By means of long rivers traversing vast regions and 
finally emptying into the sea were these trade relations most easily 
conducted. Geographically considered, the location of workshops in 
the region we have indicated was most judicious. The territory per- 
meated by the Savannah was extensive. Its tributaries, capable of nav- 
igation by canoes from single trees, were neither infrequent nor indiffer- 
ent. The population permanently established in this region was con- 
siderable, and when the mouth of the river was reached, the network of 
inlets afforded ample opportunity for communicating by water with widely 
separated communities. All the outer islands guarding the coasts 
of Georgia and Carolina, and the headlands where these primitive peo- 
ples delighted to congregate, were thus rendered accessible. In the 
light of discovered relics it appears impossible to prescribe limits to the 
peregrinations, by land and water, of these traders of the olden time. 
To the knowledge of the writer, within a limited area in the heart of 
Georgia have been found copper implements from the Lake Superior 
region, a bead and pipe of catlinite, not of recent manufacture, huge 
heads made of the eoluinns of shells native to the Gulf of Mexico, and 
stone implements, whose material must have been transported from great 
distances. 

From hmg experience, and after frequent and careful examination, 
we are persuaded that we can in many instances designate with cer- 



PRIMITIVE MANUFACTURE OF SPEAR AND ARROW POINTS. 379 

tainty the locality on the Middle and Upper Savannah where many 
forms of arrow and spear points were manufactured, which have been 
found ou the sea islands and in the territory of Southern Georgia adjacent 
to the coast. Despite the similarity in forms and style of manufacture 
which characterizes all objects of this class, to the practiced eye and to 
one critically conversant with the archaeological products of particular 
localities there are certain marks or indicia which proclaim unmis- 
takably the home not only of the material, but also of the artificer. 
It is curious and interesting to trace and recognize the indestructible 
proofs of these trade relations among these primitive peoples, and to 
note with what confidence the origin of the bartered article, alien to the 
locality where found, may often be assigned. 

These open-air workshops exist not only along the line of the Savan- 
nah River, but frequently occur ou the banks of the Oconee, the Ocinul- 
gee, the Flint, the Chattahoochee, and other southern streams. While 
possessing a remarkable similarity in construction and identity in ma- 
terial, the products of these various factories often indicate diversities 
which, to the eye of the careful observer, are capable of ready recog- 
nition. In the particular region to which our attention has been directed, 
by far the greater number of arrow and spear points were chipped from 
milky quartz and chert. Many rude specimens occur made of slate, and 
attain unusual dimensions, some of them being a foot long and four 
inches wide across the wings. In the Flint Eiver region these points are 
broader, thicker, and generally made of beautiful varieties of yellow and 
striped jasper. Not content with utilizing the milky quartz, chert, and 
slate which lay at their very doors, the primitive workmen of the Savan- 
nah obtained from a distance material of varied hue and much beauty, and 
from it fashioned implements which, for excellency of workmanship 
and intrinsic attractions of suriace and color, challenge admiration. 
Those manufactured from pellucid crystals, chalcedony, rose-colored and 
black quartz, and jasper of brilliant hues, are peculiarly attractive. 
Within the past few years not less than eight thousand well-formed ar- 
row and spear points have been collected on both banks of the Savan- 
nah where it separates the counties of Columbia and Lincoln in Georgia 
from Edgefield County in South Carolina. Even now the supply is by 
no means exhausted. The annual plowings and constantly recur- 
ring freshets reveal each season new examples of the taste and skill of 
these ancient workmen. In the enumeration of the implements taken 
from this locality we do not include multitudes partially formed and 
broken, which, with quantities of chips, still mark the spots set apart 
for the manufacture. Sometimes we encounter a locality, many yards 
long and several wide, the surface of which is covered to the depth of 
several inches with fragments struck off during the process of manufac- 
ture, and with cores and wasters abandoned from some inherent defect 
in the material or broken by the workman. Some idea may thus be 
formed of the extent and duration of the labors of these primitive 
workers in stone. 



380 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

We can but regard these workshops as the places whence were ob- 
tained, and that for centuries, many of the darts used not only by the 
peoples who resorted for supplies of fish and game to the banks of the 
Savannah, but by the tribes of Southern and Southeastern Georgia and 
Southern Carolina. 

If we may credit Adair and other early observers, the Savannah River 
at certain times of the year must have presented an animated scene. 
Upon its banks, at appointed seasons, multitudes of Indians from the 
interior congregated. Weeks were spent in the general and active pur- 
suit of fishes and game. All accumulations beyond present subsist- 
ence were smoked and dried, and in the end transported to their homes. 
It was during these periods, when these riparian abodes were thronged 
by peoples from a distance, that the primitive arrow-makers reaped 
their richest harvests. Some of these spear-points are 14 inches in 
length, while arrow-points are occasionally seen scarce half an inch long. 
These last are marvels of delicate flint chipping; and, attached to a 
very small arrow-shaft, and feathered with thistle-down, were probably 
blown from a tube. Swamp-canes supplied the ordinary shafts, and 
these were guided by feathers. Into the larger end a spike-shaped flint 
tip was sometimes inserted, but in most instances a slit or notch was 
made for the reception of the barb, which was securely fastened by 
means of moistened threads of deer sinews, or glue made from the soft 
horns of a buck, or small thongs of deer skin. Reserve arrows were 
carried in a quiver made of fawn or cougar skm, suspended from the left 
shoulder, and hanging just behind the right hip, where most convenient 
access could be had. Hickory, locust, white oak, ash, and red cedar are 
said to have been the favorite woods employed by these peoples in the 
manufacture of their bows. These, the customary shape of which was 
that of a single curve, they seasoned well, and frequently anointed with 
bear's grease to render them flexible and to keep them from cracking. 

Upon the use of these bows and arrows the Indians relied for sub- 
sistence and for defense. They "never lack meat," says the Hidalgo of 
Elvas. " With arrows they get abundance of deer, turkeys, conies, and 
other wild animals, being very skillful in killing game." Cabeca de Vaca 
describes the Florida Indians as being all archers, admirable in their 
proportions, spare, and of great activity. Their bows were as thick as a 
man's arm, eleven or twelve palms in length, and capable of projecting 
arrows for a distance of two hundred paces, and with such precision as 
to miss nothing. Even the good armor of the Spaniards proved an in- 
sufficient protection against these missiles; and a bufl'alo or bear could 
not withstand the fatal effect of these well-directed shafts. But the 
history of the use of the bow and arrow among these primitive peoples, 
and their various methods of hunting and fishing, are foreign to our 
present purpose. We desire simply to call attention to the manifest 
proofs of the extensive and long-continued manufacture of arrow and 
spear points along the line of the Savannah, and we conclude with the 



PRIMITIVE MANUFACTURE OF SPEAR AND ARROW POINTS. 381 

remark that almost every kuown type here finds rich expression. The 
triangular, the leaf-shaped, the shark-tooth form, the spike-shaped, the 
one-winged, the chisel-ended, those with bifurcated tang, the repointed, 
and many other forms are here seen. As we write, no less than twenty- 
three varieties lie before us, all indicating the skill, the taste, and the 
fancy of the aboriginal workmen. 

In his "Last Rambles amongst the Indians," Catlin furnishes us with 
the following account of the manner in which arrow-points were made 
among the Apaches. We presume the method adopted among the 
Southern Indians was not dissimilar: 

"Every tribe has its factory in which these arrow-heads are made, 
and in those only certain adepts are able or allowed to make them for 
the use of the tribe. Erratic bowlders of Hint are collected (and some- 
times brought an immense distance), and broken with a sort of sledge- 
hammer made of a rounded pebble of hornstone set in a twisted withe, 
holding the stone and forming a handle. The flint, at the indiscrimi- 
nate blows of the sledge, is broken into a hundred pieces, and such 
flakes selected as, from the angles of their fracture and thickness, will 
answer as the basis of an arrow-head. 

"The muster workman, seated on the ground, lays one of these flakes 
on the palm of his left hand, holding it firmly down with two or more 
fingers of the same hand, and with his right hand, between the thumb 
and two forefiugers, places his chisel (or punch) on the point that is to 
be broken off, and a co-operator (a striker), sitting in front of him, with 
a mallet of very hard wood, strikes the chisel (or punch) on the upper 
end, flaking the flint off on the under side below each projecting point 
that is struck. The flint is then turned and chipped in the same manner 
from the opposite side, and so turned and chipped until the required 
shape and dimensions are obtained, all the fractures being made on the 
palm of the hand. 

" In selecting a flake for the arrow-head a nice judgment must be used 
or the attempt will fail; a flake with two opposite parallel or nearly 
parallel planes is found, and of the thickness required for the center of 
the arrow point. The first chipping reaches near to the center of these 
planes, but without quite breaking it away, and each chipping is shorter 
'and shorter until the shape and the edge of the arrow-head are formed. 

" The yielding elasticity of the palm of the hand enables the chip to 
come off without breaking the body of the flint, which would be the 
case if they were broken on a hard substance. These people have no 
metallic instruments to work with, and the instrument (punch) which 
they use, I was told, was a piece of bone, but on examining it I found 
it to be a substance much harder, made of the tooth (incisor) of the 
sperm whale, which cetaceans are often stranded on the coast of the 
Pacific. This punch is about six or seven inches in length and one, inch in 
diameter, with one rounded side and two plane sides; therefore present- 



382 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

mg one acute and two obtuse angles, to suit the points to be broken. 
This operation is very curious, both the holder and the striker singing, 
and the strokes of the mallet being given exactly in time with the music, 
with a sharp and rebounding blow, in which, the Indians tell us, is the 
great medicine (or mystery) of the operation." 



MICA BEDS IN ALABAMA. 

By William Gesner, of Birmingham, Jefferson County, Alabama. 

In Clay County, township 19, range 7 east, section 26, in a corn-field 
on the east bank of a small stream flowing into Gold Mine Branch, a 
tributary to Talladega Creek, is a stone heap, many of the rocks from 
which have been used in forming a retaining wall on the lower side of a 
wagon-way into the Talladega and Ashland road. It is supposed by 
the residents here to have been formed by the followers of De Soto to 
mark the locality of an ancient excavation in one of the mica-bearing 
beds of quartz and feldspar belonging to this neighborhood, and that 
they obtained silver from it, and from others of like character. 

The geology of this region is Huronian, being constituted in this 
immediate vicinity of gneissoid and mica slate, and hornblendic rocks. 
This excavation is in a stratum of mica-bearing quartz and feldspar 
exceeding 8 feet in thickness, and, judging from the apparent area given 
to its entrance, the aborigines must have worked in it for a long time, 
and without any of our appliances for quarrying, as no marks made 
by metallic tools or pieces of them are found, though the place has been 
searched time and again for silver, and latterly formica, affording sheets 
of the latter (Muscovite) squaring from 1 to 10 inches, and in one in- 
stance 11 by 14 inches. 

Southeasterly from this place about 300 yards, in the same range, 
township, and section, occurs a smaller excavation in a similar micaceous 
bed, trending parallel with the former, both of them being easily traced 
on their outcrop for miles in a northeasterly and southeasterly direction, 
with a dip of 62° toward the southeast. In Talladega County, township 
20, range 0, section 12, there is another one of these excavations of as 
Large dimensions as the first mentioned, and in a similar bed of mica- 
bearing quartz and feldspar, from both of which it is evident the 
aborigines obtained large quantities of mica. 

ll is observable in these three instances that these beds were attacked 
by them at their outcrops on the banks of streams, where denudation 
had revealed them, and that the entries were made on them in the most 
simple manner. 



MOUNDS IN WASHINGTON COUNTY, MISSISSIPPI. 



MOODS IN WASMNGTON COUNTY, MISSISSIPPI. 

From notes by James Hough, of Hamilton, Ohio. 

The following description of mounds in Washington County,, Missis- 
sippi, is prepared from rough memoranda of surveys made by the late 
James Hough, of Hamilton, Ohio, and sent to the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion by Mr. John M. Millikin. 




~-. '< i R. 



IWiliWililf 



Fio. 1. 



On page 115 of "Ancient Monuments," by Squier and Davis,* will be 
found a description of a group of graded mounds situated upon the 

* Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley. By E. G. Squier and E. H. Davis. 
(Smithsonian Contributions, vol. i.) 



384 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

right bank of Walnut Bayou, in Madison Parish, Louisiana, seven miles 
from the Mississippi River, surveyed by Mr. Hough for Mr. McBride. 
Plate XXX I X>>i' that work gives a graphic representation of the group. 
The mounds described in the present sketch are situated about four 
miles east of the Mississippi River, nearly opposite Point Chicot, about 
latitude 33° 30' N, a mile or more from Williams on the west, and two 
miles from the Black Bayou in the same' direction, and near the road 
leading from William R. Campbell's plantation, on the Mississippi River, 
in Washington County, Mississippi, to the Mississippi River above, at 
Colonel Wm. Perkins's plantation, in Choctaw Bend, Bolivar County, 
Mississippi. 

No. 1 is 20 yards by 15 yards on the top, 40 yards by 30 yards at the 
base, and 8 feet high. 

No. 2 is 12 yards by 9 yards on the top, 25 yards by 20 yards at the 
base, and 6 feet high. 

No. 3 is 10 yards in base diameter and 4 feet high. 

No. 4 is of the same dimensions as No. 3. 

No. 5 is 10 yards by 6 yards on the top, 20 yards by 15 yards at the 
base, and 5 feet high. 

A graded way leads from No. 2 to No. 1, and from No. 1 to No. 5, 
and thence to No. 6, about 5 yards wide and 3 feet high. 

No. G is 25 yards square on the top, 110 by 130 yards at the base, and 
35 feet high. There is a platform at the south end 25 yards wide and 
10 feet high, and another at the north end 10 yards wide and G feet 
high. A road leads from the top to near the edge of the platform at the 
north end. 

No. 7 is 20 yards square on the top, 50 yards square at the base, and 
15 feet high. A road leads from the top to the level ground at the south 
end, and another from the base on the north to No. 8. 

No. 8 is 20 yards square on the top, 50 yards square at the base, and 
13 feet high. 

No. 9 is 20 yards by 10 yards on the top, 40 yards by 30 yards at the 
base, and feet high. A road leads from the top to the bottom on the 
north side. 

No. 10 is 25 yards by 10 yards on the top, 40 yards by 30 yards at the 
base, and led high. A road leads from the top to the bottom on the 
north side. 

No. 11 is 15 yards square on the top and 35 yards square at the base. 

No. 12 is 40 yards by 30 yards on the top, 140 yards by L30 yards at 
the base, 55 feet high, with a platform at the northeast corner 25 yards 
wide and 10 feet high. A road leads from the top at the east end by a 
regular grade to the outer edge of the platform. At the west end of the 
top there is an excavation 25 feet by 30 feet and 6 feet deep. A road 
25 feel (yards?) wide and 4 feet high leads to No. 13. 

No. 13 is 25 yards by 15 yards on the top, 40 yards by 30 yards at the 
base, and 8 feet high. 



MOUNDS IN WASHINGTON COUNTY, MISSISSIPPI. 



385 



In "Ancient Monuments," page 116, is a small sketch of graded mounds 
encircled by an earthwork, situated in Bolivar County, Mississippi, near 
Williams's Bayou, in the Choctaw Bend, one mile and a half from the 
Mississippi Biver. In Mr. Hough's notes is a rough sketch of a similar 
group in the same locality, and said to be on the plantation of Mr. Will- 
iam P. Perkins (Fig. 2). 






•(»<»«<>"/„ 









' 5%. '."> ^ 



.,..,„,,.„ .rwfi 



:;::%%-:pii^ m^z;-4 

' ' W's. #,.»u- .u;«i «... ^-S 



::^4:.'"v-. *-A.'^iBg 



®S8^ 



^f'^^^^^z::. 

-•" ""■■ • v/ ""'rm, M „i,nmi\^" ,, 




Fig. 2. 

No. 1 is 25 yards square at the top and 50 yards square at the base, 
with a graded way reaching from the top to the bottom. 

No. 2 is 20 yards square at the top, 45 yards at the base, 15 feet high, 
with a road leading from the top to the base. 

Nos. 3 and 4 are circular at the base, with a diameter of 10 yards, each 
5 feet high. 

The circular earth wall surrounding the group is 250 yards in diam- 
eter and 3 feet high. 

No. 5 is a circular mound on P. Williamson's plantation 20 yards in 
diameter and feet high. 

The similarity of these measurements with those given in "Ancient 
Monuments," page 116, leads us to believe that the two sketches are 
meant for the same group. The difference of position in the graded 
ways makes it desirable to have the ground resurveyed by a competent 
topographer. 

S. Mis. 54 25 



386 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



MOUNDS IN MOREHOUSE PARISH, LOUISIANA. 

By Benjamin H. Brodnax, of Plantersville, La. 

In reply to your circular relative to an exhaustive work on the "Archae- 
ology of America," containing a request for "information concerning any 
mound or other ancient remains in our parish," I annex the following : 
I have carefully gone over all the mounds, camping places, &c, that I 
can find in our parish, having traveled over 100 miles in so doing. There 




are only two clusters of mounds, one of them on the plantation of Dr. 
William P. Harrison, one mile west of Oak Kidge, and the other on the 
plantation of Mr. G. H. Johnson, in section 18, township 22 north, range 
7 east, formerly the "Kaleigh Lassiter Place." (Diagrams I, II.) 



MOUNDS IN MOREHOUSE PARISH, LOUISIANA. 



387 



The sketch (Diagram II) shows correctly the relative height of mounds 
in the latter location. In mound No. 1 human bones have been found, a 
skull, teeth, &c. I tried to get the skull, but the negro who plowed it 
up told me that, although nearly perfect when he found it, it crumbled 
into dust on the shelf where he placed it, in less than twenty-four hours. 
A small pottery jar or jug was also found in it, and a round ball of lead- 






U 


^ 


p 


5* 


m 




*-i 




p 




B 




3 




o 



1 §* 



-^ fat 



ill*, w r 



.--"IF 



°^ 



ress ^ f 



-^ 









f *$* 






colored mica, 3 inches in diameter. The jar was broken in the tines, 
about one-half only remaining; it is made of soft grayish-blue clay, 
mixed with ground shell (I think); at least there were shiny and flaky 
patches mixed with the gray-blue clay. 

The mounds are about 200 yards from the present east bank of the 



388 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

bayou, which, however, seems to have gradually encroached on the bluff 
about 150 yards. The distance from No. 1 to No. 2 is 150 yards ; from No. 
2 to No. 3, 100 yards. The land has been in cultivation for thirty-five 
years, and the mounds are much broken down in height and spread 
out at the base from washing down. 

In No. 2 and No. 3 nothing except some rough arrow-heads have been 
found, and a polished broken quartz ax or tomahawk. It must have been 
a place of resort for fishing, &c, as there are remains of the river mussels 
found in the ground around the mounds, and in the mounds themselves. 

These mounds have never been dug into, and I find no burnt clay 
about them to show that fire was used during their construction. The 
cypress brake east of the mounds is the head of a considerable chain of 
brakes and lagoons extending about 12 or 15 miles in a curve south and 
southeast, and on its banks are numerous camping places in which are 
found arrow-heads, broken pottery, shells (fresh-water) not now found 
in the brakes. This would show that either the brakes were once run- 
ning water, or that the shells were brought from the bayou. This coun- 
try is peculiar in its formation. From the Mississippi, extending west, 
is a vast level expanse of rich land, covered with luxuriant vegetation, 
cut up by sloughs, bayous, and brakes, with perhaps not 20 feet elevation 
above the Mississippi until you reach what are called the bluffs. These 
elevations were once the banks of the immense lake which formed the 
backwater from the Mississippi River. On both banks of the bayou, 
on the hills as well as on the low lands, are evidences of a once numer- 
ous population, extending back to the hills. Beside all the little rivulets 
are remains of camps and places where pottery was burnt and arrow- 
heads chipped. 

These mounds appear, however, to have been the center of civiliza* 
tion, as the villages seem to be more scattered as you leave them. 

I have prepared a plot of sections in my immediate neighborhood, 
where are camps, &c, marked down. These mounds are the only places 
in which there have been found bones (G. H. Johnson's place), and from 
the paucity of them, I think that either the common people buried their 
dead promiscuously or burnt them on piles of wood. Only one skull 
has thus far been found in these mounds. 

The mounds at Oak Bidge, in the southern part of this parish, were de- 
scribed by a former representative of this district, and sent to your in- 
stitution just after the war. 

They stand in the Mississippi bottom-lands, about 20 miles from the 
bluff, 2i miles from Lake Le Fouche, and must have been sacrificial 
mounds, as evidences of piles of dry canes having been burned on damp 
clay are found in them. They seem to have been built in layers, covered 
with clay, and the canes (such as we now use for fishing-poles) were burnt 
on them, the impressions of the joints of the canes remaining in the 
burnt red clay. Bones and human remains found in them show great 
age. Quantities of celts, arrow-heads, chisels, wedges, &c, have been 
found in the fields and plantations for miles around. 



WAMPUM BELTS OF THE SIX NATIONS. 389 



WAMPUM BELTS OF THE SIX NATIONS. 

By W. M. Beauchamp, of Baldioinsville, N. Y. 

Some of these wampum belts of the Six Nations are remarkable for 
their great width; a belt of 30 rows being called "a prodigious large 
belt," while the widest of them contains 49 rows. 

No. 1, formed of white beads on dark ground of wampum, is about 
half of a belt of 7 rows, supposed to have been brought by the French 
missionaries. The "Long House" represents the Five Nations, and the 
cross, the French. No. 2 is a belt of 7 rows, with 4 pairs of diamonds 
remaining. No. 3 has 12 rows, and there are now 7 dark bars. No. 4 
has a house in the center, with two small men inside. On one side 
without, are seven men clasping hands; on the other, six. This is 
several feet long, and contains 15 rows. No. 5 is considerably broken ; 
it has 13 rows of beads and 4 bars. No. 6 is of 7 rows, quite long, but 
not complete ; the general design is a series of dark crosses. No. 7 
represents the league of the Iroquois. It is of 38 rows, having white 
figures on purple ground. The league has but one heart,, and each 
nation (a square) is united to that and each of the others. There are 
but two squares on each side now. No. 8 is of 49 rows. The figure 
shows about half of it. No. 9 is of 45 rows, about one-third of it is 
here represented. No. 10 is of 7 rows, and has 5 hexagons, one for 
each of the Five Nations. Both sides of the belts are alike, deerskin 
thongs running through, the length of the belt, the shell beads being 
sewed between. There are two others of 6 and 8 rows respectively, 
without particular design. 

The outlines will give the general patterns accurately, but it would 
be difficult to show their real beauty. The beads themselves are of deli- 
cate colors, and the belts are very substantially made. 



390 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 




INDIAN RELICS FROM SCHOHARIE, N. Y. 391 

INDIAN RELICS FROM SCOHARIE, N. T. 

By Frank D. Andrews, of Vineland, N. J. 

While collecting fossils from the limestone rocks of Schoharie, N. Y., 
my attention was attracted by the numerous chips of horn stone which 
I noticed on crossing a cultivated field, and I determined upon giving 
some time to their investigation. 

About 50 rods west of the bridge crossing the Schoharie Creek, and 
at an elevation of about 75 feet, there issues from the rocks of the Lower 
Helderberg formation a fine cold spring. In the immediate neighbor- 
hood the soil, when under cultivation, appears dark and rich compared 
with the rest of the field. Here the Indians must have lived for some 
time, judging from the chips and fragments of their arrow-points and 
larger implements so plentifully scattered about. 

Having visited the place only during the summer season, when the 
ground was partially covered by growing crops, I have never been able 
to give the locality as thorough a search as I would wish. Notwith- 
standing the unfavorable circumstances, I have found nearly one hundred 
arrow-heads in perfect or nearly perfect condition; a large number of 
broken spear and arrow heads, knives, and scrapers in various stages of 
completion; also whetstones, sinkers, and hammer-stones in abundance. 

The arrow heads do not show very much skill in their execution, 
though most of the types are found. The material used is hornstone 
and comes from the corniferous rocks of this locality. I have seen 
another workshop close to the creek, not far distant from the Cold 
Spring, where are abundance of chippings, and where I have found bits 
of pottery, arrow-heads, scrapers, and an ax of rude manufacture. 

Down the creek a half mile or more, and on the eastern side, are 
fields— showing evidence of having been the sites of Indian encamp- 
ments — from which I have gathered many of the articles mentioned 
above. Some of them are of material not found here, indicating that 
they must have been brought from a distance, by exchange or otherwise. 

From the banks of a small stream emptying into the creek I have dug 
a number of fragments of pottery evidently belonging to one dish ; with 
these occur ashes and burned pieces of bones. I have not been able to 
find any burial places. In building the railroad, and in making the 
road near the Cold Spring, bones were found. 



392 ANTHROPOLOGY. 



PRELIMINARY EXPLORATIONS AMONG THE INDIAN MOUNDS IN SOUTHERN 

FLORIDA. 

By S. T. Walker, of Clear Water, Florida. 
INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 

Much of the work reported in the following pages was done during 
the spring and summer of 1879, at intervals snatched from business 
engagements, and whatever was obtained in the way of relics at once 
transmitted to the Smithsonian Institution, together with letters fully 
explanatory, written while the whole affair was fresh in my mind. 

I have endeavored to keep my imagination in subjection to reason, 
and whatever is offered in the way of theory is the result of much 
thought, and supported by many facts. 

It is also necessary, perhaps, to state that the mounds were not ex- 
amined in the order adopted in this report, as the first on the list were 
among the last examined. I have pursued the present plan in order 
that the reader may follow them in regular order along the coast as they 
occur, going south, into and around the shores of Tampa Bay. I have 
purposely omitted any descriptions of mounds composed entirely of 
shell, as I believe them to belong to an entirely different class. These 
will be described in a separate paper devoted especially to their con- 
sideration. 

1. MOUNDS AT THE MOUTH OF ROOTLE RIVER. 

This little stream is known by various names. The older maps desig- 
nate it as the Achaskotie, others as the Pith-le-ches-ko'tie, but it is com- 
monly known among the people as the Kootie. It empties into the Gulf 
of Mexico about ten miles north of Anclote River, in Hernando County. 
Its mouth is filled with oyster bars, which extend up the river some dis- 
tance, making navigation difficult for the smallest craft. On the south 
bank of this stream, one-fourth of a mile above its mouth, are two 
mounds of considerable size. The one nearest the sea is oblong in shape, 
168 feet in length, 55 feet in breadth, and 5 feet high. It lies with its 
longest diameter nearly due north, and is composed of alternate layers 
of sand and shell, each layer being from 8 to 12 inches in thickness. 
The superincumbent soil was 8 inches thick. The shells used in its con- 
struction are those of the common oyster principally, with a slight ad- 
mixture of small conchs and scallops. Figs. 3 and 4, Plate I, will give 
a good idea of this mound in ground plan and in section. The dotted 
portions show where excavations were made by me. Ko relics whatever 
were obtained from this mound, and, from its level top and general con- 
struction, I class it as a mound for residence. About 300 feet east of 
this lies another mound, somewhat longer and higher than the preced- 
ing, remarkable for its singular shape, which is somewhat like a club, 



PLATE I 




Fig.1. 



Z^^j^M^^ 



WCff.3. 



393 




JFty &' 




^Mounds on 

ACHASKOTIE RIVER 
ZHbiniaiicLo Co. 



JCola. The, shaclc^-partimvs 
inclicctjfe JExplornXAons . 



394 INDIAN MOUNDS IN SOUTHERN FLORIDA. 

with a projecting branch or horn near the smaller end. The structure 
is 175 feet long. The larger or wider end is 50 feet wide and the smaller 
15 feet across. The horn or branch leaves the main structure at an 
angle of about 45 degrees, 58 feet from the smaller end, and extends due 
north 20 feet, having an average width of 10 feet. Figs. 1 and 2, Plate 
I, represent this mound in ground plan and section. The whole struc- 
ture slopes gently from the wide end, attaining its greatest height op- 
posite the projecting horn ; from this point it slopes rapidly away to the 
narrow end of both the horn and main mound. 

Excavations systematically conducted revealed human remains in vast 
quantities in every part of the mound, but, owing to their great age, 
they crumbled at a touch, and it was with great difficulty that I obtained 
one perfect cranium. This skull was that of an adult. One side of the 
head had been broken in, and imbedded in the sand. Inside the head 
I found a rusty iron spike about 3 inches in length, and a broken arrow 
head. Excepting some highly ornamented fragments of pottery these 
were all the relics I obtained. These fragments were scattered through- 
out the mound. 

The mode of burial was interment at full length, with the heads di- 
rected toward a common center, the body reclining on its right side ; I 
discovered three of these circles of bodies, each containing from seven 
to fourteen adult skeletons. 

These mounds are situated convenient to good water, and in a vicinity 
that afforded their builders easy access to oyster bars and shell-fish of 
every variety. No large trees grow on or near them, and the growth 
upon them consists of scrubby bushes and saw-palmetto. 

2. ANCIENT ARROW-HEAD FACTORY. 

About five miles south of the Kootie Eiver, and some two miles north 
of the mouth of Anclote River, is a small stream called Trouble Creek. 
A considerable body of blue flint-rock occurs here, cropping out along 
the shores of the creek, with scattering nodules lying in all directions. 
This point was evidently used for a long time by the aborigines as a 
factory for arrow and spear heads. Bushels of chips and fragments 
strew the ground, and large quantities have. been washed from the banks 
of the creek and cover its bottom. A long search revealed nothing ex- 
cept a few arrow points and spear heads spoiled in making, and a lot of 
broken pottery. 

No doubt excavations along the banks would bring other relics to 
light, as the Indians must have resorted to this place in large numbers, 
and have worked here for a long series of years, judging from the depth 
of soil over the chips. 

3. MOUNDS ON ANCLOTE RIVER. 

In ascending Anclote River one of the most prominent objects that 
attract the eye is a large oblong mound on the northern shore, which, 



PLATE II 



395 



Orvnimd's Hawse* 
Spring 




396 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

rising abruptly from the level coast, looks both larger and higher than 
it really is. (Plate II.) It is situated about half a mile from the mouth of 
the river, and about the same distance from Mr. Hope's dwelling and 
store, very near a well-known spring of water called the " Old Spanish 
Well." 

The length of this mound is 235 feet, its breadth 166 feet, and its 
height 10 feet, and it is composed of alternate layers of sand and shell. 
The surface soil is 18 inches in depth, followed by a layer of shell one 
foot thick ; below this is a stratum of sand two feet in thickness, fol- 
lowed by shell. This is as deep as I penetrated, but long experience 
convinces me that this order is maintained to the base, which begins 
with a foundation of shell. The shell used in the construction of the 
mound is that of the common oyster, doubtless obtained from the river 
close at hand. A well-defined roadway on the southern side led to the 
top, which is perfectly level, and no doubt contained the residence of 
the chief of the tribe. 

No explorations had been attempted previously to my visit, and I ob- 
tained no relics of any sort. The growth upon the mound was similar 
to that of the surrounding country, consisting of small stunted pines 
10 or 12 inches in diameter, and saw-palmetto. 

4. THE MYERS MOUND. 

This mound is situated about one mile higher up the river, on the 
north bank, near the residence of Mrs. Myers, and about one-fourth of a 
mile from the stream. (Plate II.) Some fresh-water ponds close at hand 
supplied the builders with fresh water, and the numerous shell heaps 
in the vicinity attest the productiveness of the fishing grounds. 

The length of this structure is 168 feet, its breadth 88 feet, and its 
height 5 feet ; it is composed entirely of sand. The pits from which 
this sand was obtained are three in number, located on the western end, 
and it is probable that a portion was excavated from the pond on the 
north side. The mound lies with its longest diameter nearly east and 
west. 

No explorations had been made previously. I sunk a shaft in the 
center quite to the bottom ; also one in each end below the foundation. 
The soil on top was 8 inches deep, and the timber upon it similar to that 
on the mound near the mouth of the river. This also will have to be 
classed with those enumerated before as having contained a residence. 

5. THE ORMOND MOUND. 

Following the course of Anclote Eiver to the eastward, above the 
ferry a large bayou breaks off to the south and southwest. Near the 
head or end of this bayou is a deep round pond called the " Boiling 
Spring." This spring is known for miles around, and is said to be of un- 
fathomable depth. The water is deep blue, intensely salt, and before 
storms the spring boils in the center like a caldron. I saw sharks, tar- 



PLATE III 



397 




M0.1. 




Mound at Ormon&'s, 

ANCLOTE RIVER 

"FLORIDA. 



398 INDIAN MOUNDS IN SOUTHERN FLORIDA. 

pum, and other large fish in it. Half a mile northeast of this spring is 
a circular sand mound, built at the foot of a low sand ridge. (Plate II.) 
Close at hand on the northeast is a series of shallow ponds, surrounded 
by marshes. 

The mound is 95 feet in diameter, and is now about 5 feet high. Orig- 
inally it was probably surrounded by a ditch, which is nearly filled up 
and obliterated, though faint traces of it can be seen on the southern 
and southwestern sides. 

Partial explorations had been made by the ladies of Mr. Ormond's 
family, who informed me that they had found numerous skulls, pottery, 
&c, which were thrown about until destroyed. The growth upon the 
mound is precisely similar to that of the surrounding forests, consisting 
of tall pines from 18 inches to 2 feet in diameter. 

I began operations on the southern side, intending to cut a wide trench 
entirely across the mound nearly to the foundation ; but, after spend- 
ing considerable time and finding nothing, a closer examination revealed 
the fact that interments had only been made in a small area about the 
top and a short distance down the northern slope. So, abandoning my 
ditch, I went to work on the other side, and soon came upon large num- 
bers of bones, fragments of pottery, &c, seemingly mingled in heartless 
confusion and disorder; arm, leg, and thigh bones being piled on top of 
skulls or wedged beneath them. As the work progressed, however, I 
began to see order arise out of the apparent confusion, and at length I 
found a skeleton in pretty good preservation, entirely separated from 
the others. I set to work to solve the problem in earnest. The entire 
absence of vertebrae, ribs, shoulder-blades, &c, had struck me as very 
singular in the outset. Working away the sand with a small trowel 
from the bones imbedded in the wall before me, I got a perfect view, 
in section, of the mode of burial pursued by the aborigines. Plate III, 
Fig. 2, will give a correct idea of the method — A representing the bones 
as they lay in the earth ; B, a mass of ashes, cinders, partly burned ver- 
tebrae, and calcined sand ; a, a, the position of the arm bones ; &, b, the 
bones of the leg and thigh; and c, the cranium. 

Kow, let us see if this does not unravel the whole mystery. We will 
suppose the mound-builders are about to perform the burial ceremony. 
First, a shallow grave is dug long enough to accommodate the body at 
full length, as at c, d, Fig. 2. A fire is kindled at B, and the body laid upon 
it, the legs, arms, and head projecting beyond it. The fire is confined 
entirely to the trunk of the body and kept burning fiercely until it is 
completely destroyed. This being accomplished, the legs are doubled 
as represented at A, the head placed face downward between the 
thighs, and the arms laid on or by the side of the head. Cooking 
vessels, cups, dishes, &c, are now broken and thrown into the grave, 
which is tilled with sand, and the ceremony is completed. 

As to the age of the interments in this mound, I can only state that 
it is extremely probable that they were made previously to European 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 399 

settlement, and before the growth of the present forest. In Plate III, 
Fig. 1, c and d represent the relative position of two large pine trees 
growing about two feet apart ; near the roots the distance is reduced to 
one foot or less, making it impossible for an interment to have been made 
between them at any time. I made a careful examination between and 
beneath these trees, and at a depth of about 3 feet I found fragments 
of pottery and bones. A portion of a human cranium lay rather under 
the roots of the tree marked d, and I also obtained quite a large piece 
of the inferior maxillary, all of which were sent properly labeled to the 
Smithsonian Institution, together with ten crania and other objects of 
interest obtained from this mound. 

6. MOUND NEAR DUNEDIN. 

Leaving Anclote Eiver and proceeding south into Saint Joseph's Bay, 
we come to the little village of Dunedin. Half a mile north of this vil- 
lage, and about 300 yards from the beach, is a large mound, with a wide 
roadway leading to the top, evidently built for a residence. It is sit- 
uated near some fresh- water ponds, and in the immediate vicinity are 
several springs of good water. The face of the country is low and flat, 
and the growth is the usual saw-palmetto and pine, though at no great 
distance is a small hummock of good land, containing live-oak, &c. It 
lies with its longest diameter to the northwest, and is 156 feet in length, 
80 feet wide, exclusive of the roadway, and is 9 feet high. The road- 
way commences 50 feet from the mound on the southwest side, and 
makes a gentle rise to the top of the main structure. It is composed 
entirely of sand. Explorations to a small extent had been made pre- 
viously to my visit, but nothing valuable was found. 

I sunk a shaft in the center G feet in diameter, quite to the foundation, 
and many smaller ones at various points along the crest, but found no 
relics whatever. Several large trees grow upon the mound of similar 
appearance to those in the surrounding forest. Plato IV gives a good 
idea of the shape of this mound and the ditches from which the sand 
of which it was built was obtained. 

7. BURIAL MOUND NEAR SAXE'S. 

About two miles south of Dunedin is the mouth of Stevens' Creek, 
a small stream which rises about four or five miles inland. Due east 
from the head of tide- water in this creek, on land belonging to Mr. John 
Eussell, is a small burial mound, situated in a "rosemary scrub," 
between two fresh-water ponds. 

The mound is circular, 40 feet in diameter and 3 feet high. It is com- 
posed entirely of the snow-white sand peculiar to "rosemary scrubs." 

Explorations had been made previously to mine, and the few human 
remains it contained thrown out upon the surface, where they had 
crumbled into fragments. The remains found, I was told, consisted of 
four or five human skeletons in a pretty good state of preservation. 



400 



PLATE IV 




PLAN OF 
"MbuniL ab 

DTJNEDIN" 

Efflsboro Coi 



INDIAN MOUNDS IN SOUTHERN FLORIDA. 401 

After digging' up the entire surface, I found nothing worthy of note. 
My predecessor left little excepting a few fragments of crania, teeth, 
and broken bones. Signs of fires were visible in several places, and as 
I saw no fragments of vertebras, I suppose that partial cremation was 
practiced here as it was on the Anclote River. 

8. BURIAL MOUND AT JOHN'S PASS. 

No other mounds occur, that I am aware of, until we reach John's 
Pass, 18 miles south of Clear Water. Here, on a low mangrove island 
just inside the pass, lying nearly east and west, is a small burial mound. 
The situation of this mound is peculiar in several respects, as the island 
contains very little habitable land and no fresh water whatever. The 
larger portion of the island is covered daily by tide- water, leaving only 
two low narrow ridges of dry land parallel with the northern and southern 
shores. These ridges are not over 25 yards in widtli in their broadest 
parts, and in most places they are not more than that number of feet iu 
width. 

The ridge running parallel with the southern shore is very low and 
narrow, and at its eastern termination is not more than 2 feet above tide- 
water. At this point is situated the burial mound under consideration, 
covered by a dense growth of sea-grape and Spanish bayonet. 

The mound is oval in shape, 50 feet long by 25 feet wide, and not ex- 
ceeding 3 feet higher than the original level of the ridge upon which it is 
built. The material used in its construction is sand, which was obtained 
by cutting away the ridge to the east and west, and heaping the sand 
thus obtained upon the land left between the ditches. 

The mound had never been explored, but many bones and skulls lay 
exposed upon its surface, the result of weathering, or possibly of inva- 
sions of the sea, or both. The surface about the base was thickly 
strewn with fragments of pottery ; in fact, it seemed that the whole 
foundation of the mound was covered with broken pottery previously to 
the interment of any of the bodies. 

Here the mode of burial changed. There were no signs of fire what- 
ever, and the skeletons reposed at full length, generally resting on the 
right side. Another point of difference was the large number of children 
and infants buried here — only about fifteen adults to some forty inter- 
ments. I succeeded in obtaining nine perfect crania from this mound, 
among them those of several children, but no ornaments except a soli- 
tary glass bead and a short tube of silver formed by rolling a thin plate 
into a cylinder. 

There are no large trees on tin ' island, excepting a few scraggy cedars ; 
consequently, the growth upon tin; mound consisted of small bushes 
similar to those growing along the higher ground. On either side man- 
grove flats stretch away, where the soldier-crabs hold high carnival. 
The finding of the glass bead does not prove conclusively that the inter- 
ments do not antedate the period of European emigration, as it lay upon 
S. Mis. 54 20 



102 



plate: v 



Turtle sTraped Mound. 

on 

LONG KEY, BOCA CIEGA BAY 

FLORIDA 
JTbtQ. Site dolled portions on 
•ihej^urea s7votr location/ 
o/* excavations _ 







^ - - - i- 7 !^ 

Cross Scctuorir 




Circular Mound 

PT. PINELLOS 

FLORIDA 

JTbte. T?ie Soiled portions on/ 
ticcfitjiar'ea -vn6UcaZf» the 
places H-Jiero shctfia itncZ 
pita -n-ere tninte. 



PtiBto-EnETaving C"., No.v York. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 403 

the surface and may not have constituted a part of the interments. It 
is possible, as it was alone, that it might have been lost there long after 
the burials were made. 

9. MOUNDS ON FOUR-MILE BAYOU. 

Nearly opposite John's Pass, upon the mainland, on the south side of 
Boca Ciega, or Four-Mile Bayou, at or near the mouth of a small creek 
which empties into the bayou, are two large mounds, one of shell and 
the other of sand. As the owner of the land required pay for the privi- 
lege, I made no examination either into their structure or contents. As 
it is not at all probable that any person will pay the required tribute, 
the mounds will no doubt remain intact until they fall into the hands of 
a more liberal owner. 

10. TURTLE-SHAPED MOUND, LONG KEY. 

Long Key is a narrow island, about five miles in length, lying between 
Boca Ciega, or Blind Pass, on the north, and Pass A'grille, on the south. 
About midway between the passes a tongue of land makes out into Boca 
Ciega Bay toward the southeast, covered by a dense forest of cabbage- 
palms. The land is good and there is an abundance of oysters and shell- 
fish along the shores and on the adjacent flats. 

It is not without some hesitation that I attribute to this mound a 
turtle shape, as such an occurrence among the mounds in this part 
of Florida is an anomaly. Whether the shape depicted in Plate V, 
Fig. 1, was the result of deliberate design on the part of the build- 
ers, or was the accidental result of irregular ditching, I cannot say. 
The mound proper consists of a structure of sand 108 feet long and 66 
feet wide. It is about 5 feet high at the point marked A in the figure. 
This constitutes the body, or carapace, and tail of the supposed turtle. 
The ditches, a, a, a, are distinct and leave the flippers, B, B, and the 
head, C, at the natural level of the laud. The view in section, Fig. 2, 
will convey an idea of what I mean, A being the mound and B, B, 
the ditches, leaving the flippers as before stated. In other words, the 
flippers are not the result of heaping up sand, their shape being given 
by the ditches. Whether the design was to give the form of a turtle or 
not, the result was precisely the same, the whole structure having a won- 
derful resemblance to that animal. It is not at all improbable that the 
ancient architects had that form in view in the const ruction of this mound, 
as the beaches of this island are still the resort of hundreds of turtle, 
which come up to lay their eggs in the sand during the summer ; and 
successful turtle fisheries are now carried on in Boca Ciega Bay, imme- 
diately opposite this point. 

Some one had dug into the mound before me, but with what result 1 
know not. The excavation was about (> feet in diameter and 3 feet in 
depth. I explored it thoroughly in every portion, finding all parts of 
the human skeleton except the skull. The bodies were buried at full 



404 INDIAN MOUNDS IN SOUTHERN FLORIDA. 

length, and uo signs of fire were to be seen. I found several lower jaw- 
bones and many teetb, but fragments of crania were not discovered. 

One large cedar grew upon the mound, and many tall palm trees, the 
positions of wliicli are indicated by small circles in the figure. A few 
oyster-shells were scattered through the sand, but no utensils or orna- 
ments of any kind were found. Pottery was also wanting, and the 
whole structure and contents indicated a different race, or, at least, dif- 
ferent customs, mode of burial, and building, from any of the mounds 
hitherto described. 

11. MOUNDS ON PINE KEY. 

About three miles further south, below Pass A'giille, are two islands, 
divided by a narrow bayou, which are known as Pine Key. On the 
older maps tfie northern key is named Cabbage Island and the otber 
Pine Key. On the southern key, below the bayou, is a long lagoon 
called the Duck Pond. At the southern extremity of this pond, in 
a dense wilderness of cabbage-palms and saw-palmetto, is a mound of 
imposing height and considerable size. The view from the top is quite 
extensive, and looking thence one would suppose that the mound could 
be seen for a long distance, but such is not the case ; in a search of two 
days I frequently passed within 100 yards of it without finding it. 

Explorations bad been made previously along the top by persons who 
professed to have found numerous arrow-beads and ornaments of bone, 
human skeletons, &c. In my own work I was not so fortunate, as it was 
with great difficulty that I obtained four crania and one bone ornament 
inlaid with copper. The bone of this ornament decomposed rapidly 
upon exposure to the air, but before tbis happened I was successful in 
obtaining a pretty correct drawing of it, which was sent to the Smith- 
sonian Institution along with the other relics obtained. 

This mound is 135 feet in diameter, and is about 15 feet above the 
level of the island. However, it is built upon a natural elevation, and 
tbe actual structure is not above 5 or feet high. Tbe material was ob- 
tained close at band, and the outlet of tbe pond appears to have been 
artificially enlarged by ditching. Tbe evidence is positive that tbe abo- 
rigines \ isited tins island in vast numbers, as the eastern side is strewed 
with shells, which in many places lie in masses many feet in thickness. 
Several large palms and a large live-oak grow upon the mound. 

12. MOUND AT MAXIMO POINT. 

At Maximo Point, on the mainland, is an immense mound, entirely 
bidden from view by tbe rank growth of the hummock in which it is 
situated, surrounded by embankments of shell, winding in all directions 
like modern fortifications. On the eastern side there is a deep excava- 
tion, perhaps 200 feet in diameter, which contains water. Tbe situation 
for obtaining food was excellent, as the laud is fertile and the fishing 
grounds good. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 405 

I did not attempt to make any drawings of this complicated affair, as 
the growth upon and around it is so dense that a person is obliged to 
crawl through it, and after following the winding banks for half an 
hour one is about as likely to come out exactly where he goes in as any- 
where else. Cabbage-palms of all sizes, intermingled with thorny bushes, 
prickly pear, and Spanish bayonet, make progress slow, painful, and 
unsatisfactory, at the same time obstructing the vision totally. 

After three or four hours of hard labor, I arrived at the following con- 
clusions : the mound proper is a structure 15 feet in height and several 
hundred feet in length, level on the top, with three sides almost precip- 
itous. On the south the usual roadway reaches the top by a gentle slope. 
It is composed of alternate layers of sand and shell, the sand being ob- 
tained from the beforementioned excavation on the eastern side, which 
is surrounded, except in one place, by an embankment, the break in 
\\ Inch constitutes an outlet for the water. Along the beach, and extend- 
ing back to the mound, there are winding banks of shell from 3 to 5 feet 
high. These continue at intervals along the coast to Point Pinellos, 
three miles below. 

After digging in many places, and finding nothing excepting a few 
fragments of pottery and the sharpened end of a cedar post, which no 
doubt formed a part of an ancient building, I gave up the search until 
fortune should favor me with more leisure and fewer mosquitoes. In 
the bluffs along the beach, half a mile below, I picked up a skull that 
had been washed out by the sea, but diligent search failed to reveal 
anything more. 

13. MOUND AT BETHEL'S CAMP. 

One mile south of Maximo Point is the most beautiful mound that I 
have seen in South Florida. It stands about one-fourth of a mile in- 
land, immediately opposite a place known as Bethel's Camp. There are 
good springs of water along the beach, between which and the mound 
is a narrow strip of hummock. The mound is situated in a " rosemary 
scrub," and rises to an imposing height above the low trees in its vicinity. 
Its outlines are beautifully regular, and all its angles are sharp and well 
defined. 

Its length (estimated) is about 200 feet along the top, and its heighi 20 
feet. It is about ."><» feet wide on the top, with a beautiful inclined road- 
way leading up its western side. Figs. 3 and 1, Plate VI, will give an idea 
of its ground plan and end elevation. At A, Fig. -">, an excavation was 
made many years ago, consisting of a ditch 25 feet long. No one could 
tell me who dug it. On a pine tree at a, Fig. 3, the date " L840" is cut 
in the bark; the tree is about twelve inches in diameter, and is about 
as large as any of the trees in the vicinity. At the point B, same fig- 
ure, another pit had been dug, and 1 was informed by reliable parties 
that the skeleton of a man had been taken from it — also an Indian pipe. 
The bones had long since fallen into dust and the pipe been lost. 1 ex- 
tended this pit in all directions, but found nothing excepting a few pieces 



40G 




INDIAN MOUNDS IN SOUTHERN FLORIDA. 407 

of pottery. I also opened other points, as at c arid d, with a like result. 
This mound is probably more modern than any of the domiciliary 
mounds, and may be considered typical of its class. 

14. MOUNDS OF POINT PINELLOS. 

Nos. 1, 2, 3 are large mounds composed of shell and sand. 

Nos. 4, 5, are low shell-heaps (very ancient) on sand flats. 

Nos. 7 and 8 are sand mounds, one 2 feet the other 5 feet high. 

No. is an immense mound over 20 feet high, built of alternate layers 
of shell and sand, surrounded by an irregular wall from 5 to 10 feet 
high, partly shell and partly sand. The dense growth prevented an 
accurate plan during my short visit, but this is the most stupendous 
work I have seen anywhere in Florida, slightly explored. 

No. 10 is a large oblong mound 25 feet high, built of sand and shell, 
with a graded way on west side sloping to the top. The sides are pre- 
cipitous. A pine tree on the summit bears date 1840. 

Nos. 11 and 12 are low sand mounds 5 or 6 feet high and 100 feet in 
diameter. 

No. 13 three large shell mounds 25 feet high. 

Nos. 14, 15, and 1G sand mounds about the height and dimensions of 
11 and 12. 

No. 10 is very interesting from the fact that it contained skeletons. 
An old excavation is visible, probably made in 1840, and one quite recent. 
One skeleton was obtained a few years ago. I dug in the old ditches 
extending them in all directions, and obtained numerous specimens of 
pottery, arrow-heads, and implements, but all were lost in the wreck of 
our boat. I also explored slightly Nos. 9, 11, and 12, but found nothing 
valuable. 

As the circular sand mounds on Point Pinellos are precisely similar, 
except in dimensions, I have selected one out of the seven located there 
for description, that one being in the best state of preservation and 
combining all the peculiar characteristics of the class. 

This mound is situated at the foot of a gentle slope, near a series of 
shallow ponds, on the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter sec- 
tion 28, township 1l>, range 31 east, half a mile from the residence of 
John II. McLauchlin. The structure (Plate V, Figs. 2 and 3) is a perfect 
circle, 175 feet in diameter and 5 feet high, surrounded by a ditch 
feet wide and 3 feet deep, except at two points exactly opposite, where 
the ditch is discontinued and a pathway feet wide left to the interior. 
The mound is built of sand, and contains no pottery or relics whatever; 
no signs of lire could be seen, nor any clue, however small, to lead even 
to a guess as to the uses to which these structures were applied. I have 
examined four out of the seven mentioned here, with a like result. The 
growth upon all these mounds consists of large pines, similar in size and 
age to those in the surrounding forests. 

The locations of the remaining six are as follows: 



408 



PLATE VI 




F19L 



C~~r~ 



Fy.Z. 



Mound 

— sac — 
PAPYS BAYOU 

M> (e. TAe S/ia dad portions indicate 
exploration s. 












M 



% will ■ & 1#1^ 



I 5 



mi iiiiu 



■■vm&nzwt 



J?ig.S. 



1 g 

\ 4 




Ftg.tt-. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 409 

One in section 33, same township ; one in section 26, ditto ; two on 
the land of Mr. Vincent Leonardi, near Pinellos Post Office, and half a 
mile from the Salt Lake; and two on the extreme point one mile south 
of the large mound at Bethel's Camp. 

The one in section 26 is the largest and highest, being perhaps 250 
feet in diameter and 7 feet high. The neighborhood school house stands 
upon it. The others are similar in dimensions to the one described. 

15. MOUNDS AT PAPY'S BAYOU. 

These mounds are situated on a narrow peninsula on the north side 
of Papy's Bayou, on Old Tampa Bay. The place is known as Pillan's 
Hummock, and had been settled at some time in the past, but I pre- 
sume the settlers fled before invading hosts of mosquitoes and sand-flies. 
A few tumble-down houses in a small clearing, surrounded by strag- 
gling orange and lemon trees will serve as a starting point to any one 
seeking the mound. From these " improvements " a due north course 
will bring one into the neighborhood of this rather singular structure. 

It is an oval-shaped mound, about 5 feet high, situated on a low ridge 
in a very dense hummock. For 100 feet a ditch 2 feet deep runs in the 
direction of its longer diameter. At this point the structure forks, and 
two embankments 5 feet high continue for 50 feet, making the entire 
length of the mound 150 feet. The shorter diameter is 75 feet in the 
center, and at the southern end it is 00 feet w ide. The central trench 
is 15 feet in width, and from the southern end traces of a ditch or ancient 
road may be followed several hundred yards into the hummock. The 
embankments forming the forks are 20 feet wide where they leave the 
main structure, gradually narrowing down to 10 feet at the ends. Fig. 
1, Plate VI, represents a ground plan of the mound, A being the central 
depression, and B, B, the higher portions. C represents the trail or 
roadway leading to the mound. Fig. 2 is a section across the end, 
looking down the ditch. 

Excavations revealed human bones in every portion of the mound, 
but by far the larger part occupied the central trench. They were in a 
bad state of preservation, and 1 succeeded in getting out only three 
sufficiently sound to bear transportation, after thorough saturation with 
boiled oil. I also found one whole bowl, but on my taking it out the 
bottom crumbled into powder, and the rim broke into several pieces; 
enough was preserved, however, to make restoration possible. 

The mode of burial was precisely the same as thai described minutely 
in the history of the Ormond mound, and represented in Fig. 2, Plate 
III, which renders repetition unnecessary. 

The growth on the mound consisted of small oaks, and was precisely 
similar to that around it. It lay with its longer diameter toward the 
north. 

Three or four hundred yards west of this is another mound, composed 
of alternate layers of sand and shell, 150 feet in length, by 15 in width, 



410 INDIAN MOUNDS IN SOUTHERN FLORIDA. 

lying in the same direction as the other. It differs from other mounds 
of this class in sloping gradually from the southern to the northern end- 
No doubt the northern end was once level and contained a dwelling. 
At the highest point it is about 4J feet above the level of the earth. 
Excavations here brought nothing to light worthy of note. 

MOUND AT BAYVIEW. 

We now have arrived at a mound which, though of insignificant size, 
yielded a rich and valuable collection of Indian relics. It is situated on 
the south side of Alligator Creek, which empties into Old Tampa Bay, 
one mile north of Bay view Post Office. It is located in a dense spruce- 
pine scrub, on the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter section 
8, township 29, range 16 east, half a mile north of the residence of Mr. 
Bufus McMullen. So low and flat was this mound previously to the exca- 
vation that one might have walked over it without noticing it. I am 
indebted to the courtesy of Mr. McMullen for my knowledge of this 
mound, for without his assistance I should never have been able to 
find it. 

The mound was circular in shape, 4G feet in diameter, and not above 
3 feet above the level of the ground iu its highest part. It was a mass 
of human bones, disposed in three strata or layers, the mode of burial 
differing very slightly from that figured in Plate III. 

In the lower stratum I found no ornaments and but little pottery, 
but in the middle and top layers, especially the latter, nearly every cra- 
nium was encircled by strings of colored beads, brass and copper orna- 
ments, trinkets, &c. Among other curious objects were a pair of scis- 
sors and a fragment of looking-glass. By using patience and care I ob- 
tained many strings of beads in the order they were worn by their own- 
ers. In two cases fragments of string remained in the beads, preserved 
by the copper. The beads, many of them being of cut glass and of va- 
rious colors, were very beautiful. 

The latest interments in this place evidently took place after the in- 
vasion of the peninsula by the Spaniards, and cannot possibly be older 
than three hundred and forty years — probably much less. The peculiar 
pattern of the scissors may throw some light on the subject when exam- 
ined by persons competent to judge. It is possible that many of the 
heads and trinkets may have been obtained from De Soto's expedition, 
for tradition points out Phillippi's Point, eight miles north of this, as the 
place of his landing. I also obtained thirty-four skulls, carefully selecting 
the best specimens from each layer, together with numerous fragments 
of ornamental pottery. These, all carefully labeled, were sent to the 
Smithsonian Institution at the time. 

MOUND AT PHILLIPPl'S POINT. 

This is one of the largest mounds on Tampa Bay, and it is unfortu- 
nate that there are impediments in the way of exxdoration. The struct- 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 411 

ure is nearly half an acre in extent, and four different men claim an 
interest in it, a land corner being located on it ; besides this it supports 
an orange grove. The location is beautiful, the land fertile, and fresh 
water abundant. 

Some years ago a storm drove the waters of the bay against it, car- 
rying away a portion of the eastern base and exposing its internal struct- 
ure. It is built of sand and shell in alternate layers. It is said that 
many bones were washed out of it at the time ; but its structure and 
general appearance indicate that it was designed as a domiciliary mound, 
like others of its class. As the permission of the owners was necessary 
before anything could be done, I did not take any measurements or 
make any explorations. 

VOGDES' MOUND AT TAMPA. 

I will conclude the present report with a description of this mound, 
copied from the Tampa Sunland and Tribune of November 18, 187G, 
written by Lieut. A. W. Vogdes, of the Fifth Artillery, U. S. A., not that 
I agree with any of his deductions or conclusions, but simply because it 
contains a very minute description of what he found in the mound. I 
will further state that it is not a shell mound proper, but is built of al- 
ternate layers of sand and shell, like all the domiciliary mounds hitherto 
described. The measurements, which he neglects to give, are: Length, 
108 feet; width, 100 feet; height, 7 to 9 feet. The sand was obtained 
close at hand from excavations along the western base. I examined 
the shells taken from several layers, and found none that arc not common 
and abundant in the bay to-day, and I see no good reason for attribut- 
ing to this mound a greater age than any described in this report be- 
cause some of Xh& shells are found fossil in the Pliocene. Partial cre- 
7iiation, which I have shown to have been common in this region, will 
account satisfactorily for the charred bones, and relieve the aborigines 
of the unnecessary charge of cannibalism. 

" On the military reservation of Fort Brooke, near the seashore, there 
are several shell mounds, the largest of which the writer has spent many 
spare moments investigating. After carefully measuring this mound 
we dug into its center, and at a depth of 5 feet struck a layer of oyster 
shells (Ostrea virginianum) about one foot in depth. Below this heap we 
found the remains of a mound-builder, a male, giving us the following 
measurements: The greatest longitudinal diameter [of the cranium], 1\ 
inches; breadth between the points of parietal bones, \S inches; inter- 
nal capacity, measured with No. 8 shot, -1 pounds, avoirdupois; cir- 
cumference, taken by tape measure on a plane, including glabella, occi- 
put, and lateral points, i'l inches. The body lay at an angle of about 
10°, the head lowest and towards the east. No ornaments were found 
deposited with or near the remains. 

"During other visits to this mound, and after making many excava- 



412 




SHELL HEAPS OF TAMPA BAY, FLORIDA. 413 

tions on the crest and at its base, we were enabled to find the position of 
former fires, which give sonic evidence of the former cannibalism of the 
ancient people of Florida. We found near this fire but few remains of 
implements, consisting of one arrow-head, very primitive, broken pieces 
of pottery, a few ornamented with very rude stamped figures, which 
generally consisted of raised lines drawn at equal distances from each 
other. 

"The animal remains consisted of the bones of the dog, a claw of the 
common crab, and a human tibia burned and split, which discovery 
almost directly points to the cannibalistic habits of the mound-builder. 
We were so fortunate as to procure several specimens, one having the 
anterior process, which shows some tendency to flatten above the nu- 
trient artery. 

" The evidence we have to offer regarding the age of the mound is very 
unsatisfactory, consisting of rude pottery which would point to a greater 
age, or parallel with the mounds on Saint John's River ; but we find 
this pottery in another place on the same mound. (Plate I, a, b.) 

" The shells point more or less to the Pliocene age, although the mound 
gives us a limited genera. We find the Busycon carica, a common shell 
on the Atlantic coast, but occurring as a fossil in the Miocene of Mary- 
land, South Carolina, and North Carolina ; B. perversion, fossil in the Pli- 
ocene of South Carolina; Ostrca virginianum, common to the coast, but 
fossil in the Pliocene; Pyrula pyrum, fossil in the Pliocene of South 
Carolina. The larger specimens are still common (according to Holmes 
and Tourney) to the Atlantic coast. We find in this mound the larger 
and smaller specimens mixed." 



REPORT 0\ TnE SHELL HEAPS OF TAMPA RAT, FLORIDA. 

By S. T. Walker, of Char Water, Florida. 

No little speculation has been expended upon those vast accumulal ions 
of shells which line the coasts of Florida, and stand as silent witnesses 
of the labors of an ancient people that once inhabited this peninsula. 
These immense mounds strike the mind of the beholder with amazement 
when he considers the limited resources of the savages who constructed 
them; for in the presence of these great monuments the largest domi- 
ciliary mounds of sand sink into utter insignificance, and it becomes 
hard to realize how the united efforts of a savage people, the larger 
part of whose time must have been occupied in procuring a bare suf- 
ficiency of food, could have been concentrated on such useless works for 
a sufficient time to erect them. 

It was thoughts like these which fust led me to examine them criti- 
cally, in order to discover the object of their erection and the method 
of their construction. Mound after mound was explored with pick and 
shovel, and every object that presented itself, however minute, was ex- 



414 




If. 

WW 
1»; 




415 



//ft 1 1? Ww ' 



V 

r t I, 



>'vU(±iX: U\if!t 11'; 






1 1 fete 1 . ^'iii'if/iiH 




'« i i v j i> 






f • ' 






416 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

amined with care and interest; but the mystery remained, and its 
solution seemed as difficult as at the beginning. These explorations 
were continued for two years, at intervals snatched from business, and 
during that time I examined many mounds of various sizes ; but, owing 
to their great dimensions, and the extreme difficulty of opening them 
with the limited means at my command, I was very little wiser than 
when I began, except that I became familiar with their contents, and 
Mas prepared by some experience and thought to grasp the secret when 
opportunity threw it in my way. This opportunity occurred in No- 
vember, 1879, while I was connected with the United States Fish Com- 
mission, at Shaw's Point, mouth of Manatee Eiver. 

The shell heaps or mounds at this place extend along the shore 564 
feet, and are from 15 to 20 feet in altitude at the highest points. The en- 
croachment of the sea upon the northern front has cut away the slope 
and left a perpendicular wall 15 feet high, presenting a perfect section 
of the mound through its greater diameter, and affording a better view 
of its internal structure than could possibly be obtained by anything 
short of many months' labor and the expenditure of many hundreds of 
dollars. Here the archaeologist may read the history of the shell heaps, 
as the geologist reads the history of the earth, in the sections pre- 
sented by bluffs or land-slides, and on that crumbling Avail is written 
the prosy, practical fact that, far from being witnesses of industry and 
of patient labor, they are the mighty monuments that want and hunger 
have erected to appetite ! The shell heaps are simply the debris, the 
fragments, of former feasts. 

In order to understand what is to follow, the reader is referred to 
Plate I, where a rude sketch of a portion of the wall is presented. The 
shaded points A A, represent the position of former flics; a, a, a, thin 
strata of soil in which are scattered bones of the turtle, crabs' claws, spines 
of the sea-urchin, &c.j and B B, the surface soil on the top and sides of 
the mound. 

Referring now to Plate II, let us suppose a company of savages to en- 
camp and build fires at A. They feast upon the shell-fish procured upon 
the adjacent flats, throwing the shells around the encampment at some 
distance from the fires. The fishermen bring shark, drum-fish, crabs, 
&c, and the hunting parties bring deer, birds, &c, whose bones are 
added to the ever-increasing circle around the camp, until in the course 
of time the wall has grown in height and thickness so as to encroach 
upon the central fires, and removal becomes necessary. The fires are 
now removed to the top of the encircling heap, and occupy its periphery 
at many points, as B, C, D, and E. The shells and fragments again 
being thrown on all sides, but the center, A, receiving half the shells 
from all the tires along the crest, it naturally grows to be the highest, 
the dotted lines/,/,/ showing the outline of the mound at this stage. 
The shells having again encroached upon the tires, another removal be- 
comes necessary to higher points, and so the structures ascend, always 



417 




•rJ 
L 

R. 
s 

PS 



S. Mis. 54 27 



418 SHELL HEAPS OF TAMPA BAY, FLORIDA. 

growing highest in the center, until in the course of long ages they at- 
tain their present imposing altitudes and dimensions. Whenever a 
fire-place was abandoned for any considerable time, a thin stratum of 
soil accumulated, in which we find occasional bones, shell, &c. These 
strata, which are quite thin, are represented by shaded lines as a, a, 
Plate I. 

In confirmation of this view, I refer to the circles of shell E E, in the 
ground plans of the mounds at Shaw's Point and Indian Hill, Plates III 
and IY, which are the beginnings of new mounds. 

I do not wish to be understood as affirming that the plan I have de- 
scribed was pursued in the regular order I have indicated. Far from it. 
The irregularity of their shapes proves rather that their erection was due 
to chance rather than design, and the long irregular walls running par- 
allel with the beach show that in many cases the fires were scattered 
along the shores, and that it was only when forced by the accumulating 
mass that the fires were removed to the top of the heap. Indeed, where 
room was afforded we generally find walls or banks, and in most cases 
the largest shell-heaps occur where the savages were crowded together 
on the higher grounds nearly or quite surrounded by water, as at the 
mouth of Bullfrog, and notably at Indian Hill, but there are, of course, 
exceptions to this rule. 

The materials of which the shell heaps are composed are indicated by 
the name applied to them, shells constituting by far the larger portion 
of the mass, differing only in the species composing them ; and here I 
will state that, after diligent search, I have never discovered a shell in 
these heaps belonging to a species that is not common in Tampa Bay 
to-day. The kinds of shell that predominate are those which are most 
abundant in the immediate vicinity. Thus, if the mound be located near 
oyster-bars, as on bayous, or near the mouths of creeks or rivers, we 
find that shell constituting the mass of the structure. If on or near 
sand-flats, we find conchs, clams, scollops, &c, predominating. Inter- 
mingled with the shell, but forming only a small part of the mass, are 
crabs' claws, and the bones of the turtle, shark, drum-fish, deer, and sea- 
birds, occurring as named, the bones of the turtle being most plentiful. 
Broken pottery of a very thick, heavy pattern, without ornament, is 
scattered about the sites of former fires. Stone ornaments and arrow- 
heads are sometimes found on the surface, but never, to my knowledge, 
in the interior of these mounds. 

in one instance only I discovered human bones in a shell-heap, viz, in 
the small detached mound marked E, Plate IV, Fig. 2, where a ground- 
plan of the shell-heaps at Indian Hill is given. The bones were those 
of women and children buried in a doubled position face downward. 
The bones were all crushed and broken by the weight of the superincum- 
bent mass, and 1 obtained but one partially perfect skull. The short time 
at my disposal here did not permit me to make the work at all thorough. 
At every point opened on this mound I found human bones, even along 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 419 

the sides and near the base, aiid in such close proximity to ancient fires 
bhat the advocates of the " cannibalistic propensities of the ancient in- 
habitants" would need no further proof. I admit that the finding of 
human bones in the fragments of a feast looks, to say the least, a little 
suspicious, especially as they occur in company with those of the turtle 
and deer, but I think we can account for it satisfactorily without resort- 
ing to the repulsive theory of cannibalism. 

In the first place, it must be remembered that these heaps are com- 
posed of very loose materials liable to move and change position at the 
slightest tonch, and it is not only possible but extremely probable that 
the boues found near the sites of former tires along the sides and base 
had been carried there by the sliding down of the shell along the crest 
where they were originally decently interred. All the bodies found upon 
the crest had been buried in the usual manner and none of them were 
on or near a fire-place ; hence I argue that these were chance burials 
made, long subsequently to the erection of the mound, and in no manner 
connected with the history of its erection. 

Having now considered the origin and construction of the shell-heaps 
nothing remains but to give a list of the principal ones along the shores 
from Clear Water Harbor, on the Gulf coast, around Tampa Bay, to the 
mouth of Manatee River. 

The first shell-heap of any consequence occurs at D wight's orange 
grove, one mile north of Clear Water post-office. It consists of two long 
heaps lying nearly parallel with each other, and at right angles with 
the coast, and one rather small one between them. These heaps are 300 
feet long and from 10 to 15 feet high. From these heaps a well beaten 
roadway extends 150 yards to a fresh-water pond. The roadway is still 
distinct, although the land has been in cultivation for ten years. 

Two small heaps occur five miles south of this, near Indian Pass 
Church. 

The next of importance is on Four-mile Bayou, near Murphy's. 

Two more occur near the water's edge on the sand fiats at the mouth 
of Bear Creek, Boca Ciega Bay. 

Extended banks of shell wind along the shores in every direction at 
Maximo Point, Boca Ciega Bay, and continue at intervals all the way 
to Point Pinellos, occasional mounds occurring here and there at differ- 
ent points. 

At Pinellos post-office, on Big Bayou there are three immense shell- 
heaps, IT) or 30 feet high, and from 300 to 400 feet in diameter, composed 
almost entirely of oyster-shells. 

One mile north, on the land of Mr. Cox, is a huge shell heap nearly a 
mile inland. It is about 15 feet high and 200 feel in diameter. 

On Booker Creek, one mile north of this, are several Large shell-heaps 
on the premises of Mr. Williams. These heaps are from 25 to 30 feet 
high, and from .500 to 350 feet in diameter. The largest can be seen for 
several miles. 



420 




m -z. q 
«! o 3 

t3 a. g 



^ , -a w ^ 



I k*s 



GQ 



W 



PLATF IV 



Fig. h 



421 




SAND FLATG BARB. AT 
J.OW WATER 



Shell Mound e ^ 

at — 

BULLFROG 




SHELL°MOUND 
INDIAN HILL 

Tampa. Bay 



Fig.< 



422 mounds on Gideon's farm, Minnesota. 

Passing over many small collections, we come to the great shell-heap 
at the mouth of Bullfrog Creek, 10 miles southeast of* Tampa. This 
mound is 30 feet high and 200 feet in length by the same in breadth. 

Next in order is the shell-heap at Indian Hill. This mound, with the 
shell banks connected, is 700 or 800 feet in length and from 20 to 30 feet 
high. The three highest pinnacles rise above the trees and may be seen 
four or five miles at sea. 

The last of the great shell-heaps of Tampa Bay is the mound at Shaw's 
Point, mouth of Manatee Eiver, which has been described at length in 
this report. The ground-plan, Plate IV, gives all the dimensions of the 
crest. Of course the base is much greater. 



MOUNDS ON GIDEON'S FARM, NEAR EXCELSIOR, HENNEPIN COUNTY, MINN. 

By Frajstk H. Nutter, of West Eoxbury, Mass. 

The accompanying plan shows one of the groups of Indian mounds 
on the shores of Lake Minnetonka, in Excelsior Township, Hennepin 
County, Minnesota. 

Excelsior is in the same county as Minneapolis, and is, by road, eight- 
een miles west of that city. It lies in the edge of the " big woods," a belt 
of hard- wood timber extending nearly across the State. The country is 
very rolling, though the hills are not generally of much height, and, 
except where cleared by the farmers, or in the sloughs around the 
numerous lakes, are covered by a heavy growth of hard wood, mostly of 
the following varieties: white, burr, red and black oak, rock and rarely 
white inaple, white and slippery elm, basswood, and ironwood, or hop 
hornbeam. Except on the shores of the lakes, rocks and stones, even 
of small size, are very scarce. 

This lake was in former years the hunting-ground both of the Dakota 
and Chippewa Indians, and as they were deadly enemies, has doubtless 
been the scene of many battles. The last one was fought about twenty 
years ago at Shakopee, on the Minnesota Biver, about eight miles south 
of this point, in which several lives were lost. 

The group of mounds shown on the plan is located about one and a 
half miles (byroad about a mile farther) northwest of Excelsior Villa ; ge, 
at the head of a branch of the lake, known as Gideon's Bay. In the 
map the location is marked by a cross. As shown on the plan, there 
ran now be distinguished sixty-nine mounds (one was leveled to afford 
a site for the house), and two lines of embankment, one running nearly 
north, the other about west. The largest, together with the embank- 
ments, are found mostly in the grove and the orchards overlooking the 
lake, and on the height of ground, as shown by the figures on the plan, 
giving approximate heights above the present level of the water. 

The trees of the grove are fine forest trees, left when the land was 



423 




424 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

cleared, twenty-five years ago, and are of very large size. I liave shown 
on the plan several whose position on the mounds would indicate that 
the work was finished before they took root upon them. These trees 
are elm and bass-wood, and from 1£ to 2 feet in diameter. 

The wood land, except an occasional culling for fire- wood, has not 
been touched since the country was settled, and no difference can be 
distinguished between the growth upon the mounds and that elsewhere. 

The " grass-meadow," though now dry and used for pasturage, was, 
when the farm was settled, impassable, but by opening it more freely to 
the light and air, and on account of the subsidence of the lake, it has 
now become dry land. There seems to be no doubt that at a compara- 
tively recent date this tract and the other slouglis around the lake were 
submerged and formed portions of the main body of water. This fact 
may account in some degree for the peculiar arrangement of the mounds. 
The rapidity with which the shallow portions of protected bays and 
small bodies of water in this section become land is very wonderful. 
The pioneer plant is the wild rice, growing in almost impenetrable 
masses, in from 1 to 3 feet of water. Other aquatic plants and mosses 
follow, which afford a foothold for sedge and wild grass, while the 
gradual fall of the water, owing to continued winters without heavy 
snows, assists in hastening the process. I myself this season went dry- 
shod across a meadow where seven or eight years ago a boat was neces- 
sary. A short distance to the north of these mounds, but beyond the 
limits of the map, are sloughs, which extend to the "Upper Lake," so 
the two sheets of water, which, measured on an east and west line, are 
now about a mile apart, probably were once separated by a much nar- 
rower neck of high land. 

These mounds, excepting the scattering ones south of the "grass- 
meadow," are located about on the height of land and on the brow of 
the slope running down to the low land inclosed within their circle. 
Those within the woodland are not generally of much height, as will be 
seen by the figures on the plan, and as they are unprotected by turf or 
grass, every severe rain assists in washing them down, and must finally 
obliterate them, as the last twenty-five years has plainly shown. 

The necessary cultivation of the orchards is also destroying these 
interesting remains of some former race, although the owner of the farm 
takes much pride in them, and does all he can to preserve them. 

The embankment which runs parallel with the lake shore once ex- 
tended nearly across the orchard south of the house, but now all trace 
of it is lost. It is, in section, a ridge, sloping equally on either side, and 
where best preserved is about 25 feet wide and L'.} feet high. 

A little mound in the north orchard has been opened. At the depth 
of ~>\ feet, somewhat below the original surface of the ground, were 
found between thirty and thirty-live skulls, arranged in a circle of from 
5 to (! feet in diameter, and embedded in and covered with sand, evi- 
dently brought from the lake shore, as the soil is a clay loam. These 



MOUNDS ON GIDEON'S FARM, MINNESOTA. 



425 



skulls rapidly crumbled on exposure to the air, so they were returned 
to their rest ing-place, aud again covered with earth. One of these skulls 
was cloven from tbe top of the head to the jaw, as though by an ax, aud 
a lower jaw, which, though in two portions, seemed to belong to the 
skull, also bore witness to the force of the blow. 

To Peter M. Gideon, esq., owner of the farm where the mounds are 
located, and superintendent of the State Experimental Fruit Farm, 
which adjoins it, many thanks are due for his kindness in giving infor- 
mation, and for assistance rendered in making the survey. 

The group of mounds shown in the upper left-hand corner of the 
plan are, as their title shows, at Minnetonka Lake Park, and about one 
mile in a straight line to the northeast of the larger group. They are 
situated where the strip of high land between the upper and lower lakes 
has diminished to the narrow limits shown in the plan. About a quarter 
of a mile farther north it ends at a large slough, through which winds 
the narrow creek which connects the two lakes. These mounds have 
not been explored. 

lam informed that about two miles southwest of "Gideon's" there 
are about forty or fifty mounds, thrown up close together, and covering 
two or three acres of ground. They are not ou the shores of the lake, 
but some distance inland. 

At the west end of the " Upper Lake," and about seven miles from 
the group shown on the plan, is Mound City, a small settlement so 
named from the number of the mounds which are found there. 

At Ferguson's Point, about two miles north of Excelsior Village, on 
the east shore of the lake, is another collection of mounds, and at many 
of the prominent points 
and headlands of the 
lake shore may be found 
one or more mounds. 
Other employment how- 
ever, has pie vented me 
from finding opportu- 
nity to visit them or ob- 
tain further information 
in regard to them. 

The following informa- 
tion, which is of rather a 
miscellaneous character, 
I have obtained through 
the kindness of a friend, 
wiio is also a civil en- 
gineer. "The Indian 
mounds which in a Mounds at Eden Prairie, Minn. 

former letter I located at Eden Prairie, are in Bloomington Township, 
about twelve miles southeast of Excelsior. I give a rough sketch taken 
from my note-book, which will give some idea of the locality. 




,. i : 



Kl»,,t MlJ/'r *\>J>'->- '<6J, V W'//'7/' \\\IB) 

,1 "■%';> «"*"- 



mliV iW>- -*'//,-. .>.' 
'"''''^ VIU/fyt wMft Ui/'//. 

0///// 



<tn, . -OW/////, \\\W//, xM'////// 
K \l!/Url \\UU/l \Mll!//r Mil//* 
MSlW/tf \H/'////.. 



yj>//fl. \lli////» ON/"A 



kiitt 







426 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



" These mounds, thirteen in number, are of the usual size, and are sit- 
uated in what is now an open field, on a level plateau, from which the 
laud slopes rapidly away on the south to the banks of the Minnesota 
Eiver, and on the north into a deep, narrow ravine, through which 
flows a brook. I do not think these mounds have ever been examined 
in any way." 

This engineer was also engaged in the survey and subdivision of the 
reservation assigned to the Sisseton and Wahpeton tribes of Indians, 
in Dakota Territory, and in the work found the mounds to be very 
abundant and located some of them in the survey. The Indians, though 
unable to explain their origin, have a great reverence for them, and will 
not allow them to be disturbed if they can prevent it. 

The mounds which I mention are all on or near the summit of the 
Dakotas, and overlooking the valley east of them. The first one 
noted was on the eastern edge of the hills, and was about 20 feet in 
diameter and 3 feet high. It had been occupied by foxes, and at the 
mouths of their burrows human bones were abundant. Near the corner 
of section 1G, township 126, range 52, was a large mound 50 feet in diame- 
ter and 4 feet in height, located exactly on the top of the Dakotas, and 
overlooking the whole valley. A pit w r as sunk in the center of this, and 
scattered through the soil were found bones, but so thoroughly decom- 
posed as to be but little more than deposits of lime. At the depth of 
4 feet, the original surface of the ground, was struck what seemed to be 
a layer of lime cement, and so hard that a couple of hours' labor with 
spades only penetrated to the depth of 3 or 4 inches. At this point 
time failed, and the workmen were obliged to abandon their investiga- 
tions. 

About one and one-half miles northwest of this mound was another, 
75 feet in diameter and 10 feet high, but there was no opportunity to 
examine it. 




A \V», -MX:,. <XUt>J, ,.■- r;l ...:■./'. VMl/'l. VwUK. '• 

\ln, .Mi//, on///. <f\\iu, wiii/'i >\'l»///- \WliA wain/, .^l^^jpo- v " 

, i\U///. «\ih/i wttii'i «uinu miM/i#arte\iiii kw.ii/h >«>?5^§3|§^A""' 

'= Yvttlff/> wn/i/ \\\Mn \\MHi ^\\"'^\vui ( y : >>\.\i\>» i\4l««e -j g^Su. M. 

2=mi/c wiii« .Hi'/ "it/// - %f >nm, m/i - s^= r ,u '"" 

Mil/'/ \|ll//. \\\ll' MHZ: r | I" ^Wllsjfo *l "/' \\l'//,.. = Sg?"* *'" 

II, \\\\tln Willi, \\»ll.. <*■£'<,, ^J? l '"' «'"'• lVU, "c^^''"'"" 



tt\Ml//. 
I^NIi.'i/i win n/ 



\\\m \-\WW 1 1 0,M\f>.\V> H WW'/' WWII/ 
, w\\\i// \W\llli \\Ai ii ii \\tl/> \\\iiii >\ut"' 

wiiz \mi/// ww//// \\n/// \>n///i .mi/'/- v- 



Earthwork near Sisseton and Wahpeton Res., Dak. Ter. 

In this vicinity they also found an earthwork, which, in its shape and 
good preservation, seemed to be of rather more recent origin, and to be 
the work of white men rather than Indians; although the military offi- 
cers connected with the reservation could not account for it, as there 
had never been an Indian Avar in that vicinity. It may have been 
erected by some of the early pioneers or explorers. It was about 75 



mounds on Gideon's farm, Minnesota. 



427 



feet in diameter, with the entrance also protected, but' it was almost 
useless for defense, as it was commanded by a bill-top about GOO feet 
distant, and 49 or 50 feet above it. On the other side was a belt of 
timber about a rifle-shot away. Within the enclosure was found a hu- 
man skull with a metal arrow-head embedded in it, thus hinting at the 
fate of its builders. I give a rough sketch of the locality. 

Around Lake Minnetonka arrow-heads and other implements are 
sometimes found. I was shown a stone hammer this 
summer, but was uuable to obtain it. It was made of 
an egg-shaped quartzose pebble, was 4^- inches long, 
3^ in diameter, and would weigh about four pounds. 
It had a deep groove around it, probably to bind it to 
its handle. 

I also examined the skull, probably Ox an Indian, 
which was found while excavating for a street in the 
city of Minneapolis. There were three or four bodies f rom Lake Minne- 
close together, which had evidently been buried for a tonka, 
long time. The appearance of the teeth showed it to be that of a per- 
son in the prime of life. It measured in circumference 21 inches, and 
from ear to ear, over the top of the head 12£ inches. 




428 ANTHROPOLOGY. 



SUMMARY OF CORRESPONDENCE OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRE- 
VIOUS TO JANUARY 1, 1880, IN ANSWER TO CIRCULAR NO. 316. 

By Otis T. Mason. 

The following report is a collection of abstracts from the replies made 
by archaeologists in various parts of our country previously to 1880, in 
answer to Circular No. 316. Allusions to collections of fine specimens 
are purposely omitted. 

The readiness with which many have responded to the circular is a 
good omen for the future. It is designed, at some future time, to prepare 
an exhaustive work upon our North American antiquities. This, how- 
ever, cannot be done until every township is heard from, and the an- 
tiquities of those which contain remains accurately described. 

If in the present summary any incorrect statements occur, or if the 
authors wish to make more extended observations, it is hoped that all 
interested in the subject will keep the Institution posted upon the very 
latest results of exploration. 

It may be that, in this first effort to epitomize the labors of many cor- 
respondents, the names of some are omitted. If such be the case, they 
are invited to let the Institution know of it, and the correction will be 

made. 

OREGON AND THE NORTHWEST COAST. 

Eells, M. — The Twana Indians have a tradition that the agate arrow- 
heads found about here were made by the wolf before he degenerated 
into his present form. 

Felserthal, L. — Is collecting facts and traditions relating to the use 
of shells by the Nez PercCs and Klikatats, Pelouses, Spokanes, and Co- 
lumbia River tribes, Oregon. The writer describes a shell used by the 
Indians to ward off the u evil eye," and to keep them from being made 
sick by their "medicine men." 

Swan, J. G. — Is collecting photographs of the Indians of Queen Char- 
lotte's Islands with a view to studying the tattoo marks. On shaving a 
young chief of the Clyokwat tribe, near Xootka, he observed the close re- 
semblance of some of the marks to Habel's drawings. The bird of the 
sun devouring a human victim is the Thukloots, or Thunder Bird, of all 
the coast Indians, and the only difference is that Thukloots devours 
whales. The coast Indians serve their enemies as the priest is serving 
his victims in HabePs plate I. They do not scalp their enemies, as do 
the Indians of the plains. 

CALIFORNIA AND ARIZONA, 

Barton, Stephen. — No large remains are found in Tulare County. 
The only earthworks are small ditches and cavities such as are now used 



SUMMARY OF CORRESPONDENCE. 429 

by Indian doctors for the erection of " sweat-houses." The tribes now 
here seem to have been the true aborigines and claim to have sprung 
from the adjacent hills. Rock paintings are found in abundance. One on 
the north bank of Kaweah River, eighteen miles northeast of Visalia, con- 
tains pictures of fishes, owls, and rabbits. The paint is about the color 
of red lead and very durable. The natives bury their dead in cemete- 
ries, the graves grouped by families. The body is folded in a sitting 
posture with the head between the knees. After burial the ground is 
leveled off, and small stones which the family can identify mark the grave. 
Large pots or basins have been found carved in granite rock, from 1 to 3 
feet deep, and from 5 to 8 feet in diameter, holding from one to ten bar- 
rels of water each. They are thought by some to have been used in the 
same manner as the trapicJie of Chili, for grinding ore. The exact 
locality of the most noted group of these pots is forty-five miles east 
of Visalia, three miles north of the east fork of the Kaweah River, and 
near the head of a creek called Lake Canyon. 

Brayton, G. M. — Gives information of old ruins five miles north of 
Camp Verde, Arizona, on a point of rock 50 feet high and 300 feet from 
the Rio Verde. 

Cooper, J. G. — Describes cave in Kern County, California. 

McAllister, A. A. — Mentions a shell mound in Berkeley, Alameda 
County, California, on the block bounded by Second and Third, and Uni- 
versity and Bristol streets. 

Poston, C. D. — Correspondence with reference to the preservation of 
the Casa Grande in Arizona. 

Yates, L. G. — Describes crania from mounds in Alameda County, 
California. 

NEW MEXICO AND UTAH. 

Aldrich, Charles. — Describes pottery pipe, from ruins on San Juan 
River, New Mexico. 

Dellenbaugh, F. S. — Remarks that many hundreds of groups of 
picture-writings are to be seen on the rocks in Southern Utah, Nevada, 
and Arizona. 

Meigs, General M. C. — Describes stone mound on the summit of a 
pass through a range of mountains two or three miles east of Mohave 
stage station, on the Gila River, Arizona, sixty or seventy miles above 
Yuma. It is of rough heaped stones, 12 feet long, G feet wide, rudely 
resembling a tortoise, with smaller mounds resembling the head and 
neck, legs and feet, and tail. There are many mounds in Arizona; one 
on the Pinal Mountains gives evidence of extensive buildings divided 
into numerous departments, around which may still be found broken 
pottery and stone implements. 

Metcalf, Henry. — Long correspondence from, concerning cave near 
Silver City, New Mexico. 

Olmsted, Frank. — Mounds on Fort Cameron United States mili- 
tary reservation, township 29 south, range 7 west, Salt Lake meridian, 



430 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Utah. The most important system is in Parowon Valley, fifty miles 
south of Fort Cameron, township 35 south, range 12 west. 

Pease, W. B. — Speaks of a cave in southwestern part of New Mexico; 
same mentioned as belonging to Mr. Metcalf. 

Pope, George. — Inscription on rock in Provo Caiion, Utah, described. 

NEBRASKA AND MINNESOTA. 

Allen, C. P. — States that no remains whatever have been found near 
Eed Lake, Beltrami County, Minnesota. 

Bowdish, W. M. — Beports having opened graves in Houston County, 
Minnesota, but they are evidently quite modern. 

Bruner, Lawrence. — Many mounds are scattered all through the 
country between the town of Norfolk and the Verdigris country in Ne- 
braska, situated on the level bottom lands close to the bluffs and in- 
variably near the mouth of a ravine running into the bluffs. They 
vary from 30 to 100 feet in diameter, 3 to 8 feet high, and are covered 
with vegetation. 

Bunnell, L. H. — Beports a number of mounds on Maggie Burns's 
farm, Winona County, Minnesota, and in nearly all the larger valleys. 
At the fertile points adjacent to water a few may be seen. There are no 
mounds in and about LTomer, but shellheaps are found. The mussels were 
brought out of the Mississippi Biver by muskrats for their winter food. 
Opposite Homer, in Wisconsin, a large area is covered with mounds and 
earthworks. At La Moille there are several small mounds, and a number 
on Cedar Creek. On Money Creek they are quite numerous, and on Pine 
Creek they are to be seen at intervals all the way down from Lilh 's. New 
Hartford, to La Crescent. The largest mounds, a group often near Homer, 
are ten miles below La Crosse, at the mouth of Coon Creek Valley. The 
AYinnebagos here have lost all tradition even of the use of stone arrow- 
heads by their ancestors. White Snake, a chief of the tribe, said in all 
sincerity that they were not made by the Indians. 

Clark, Martin. — No ancient earthworks are at present known in 
Clay County, Nebraska. 

Cramy, T. G. — Quite a number of mounds occur in Meeker County, 
Minnesota, near Litchfield. 

Hurlbut, W. D. — No arch ecological remains have been found in Olm- 
sted County, Minnesota. 

Morey, C. A. — The region around Winona, in the county of the same 
name, Minnesota, is rich in aboriginal remains. 

Williams, F. G. — Large stone hammers in Minnesota were halted by 
means of an elastic sapling to grind food. 

IOWA. 

Allis, Samuel. — Lodge cavities are frequently found on bluffs of the 
Mississippi Biver, Mills Comity. The usual mode of burial is to dig a large 
hole in the ground projecting under at the bottom similar to their corn 



SUMMARY OF CORRESPONDENCE. 431 

caches. The dead are wrapped in a robe or blanket, placed in the niche 
in a sitting posture, with implements and ornaments. Sticks are stuck 
crosswise at the mouth of the cave, covered up, and the earth heaped in 
a small mound. The burials are in groups on high bluffs. The women 
weep daily at the graves for about six months. Once Mr. Allis wit- 
nessed the burial of a distinguished woman, the wife of a French trader. 
Something to eat and a bottle of whisky were deposited in the grave. 
Her favorite horse was choked to death and the tail hung over the mound. 

Banta, W. V. — Furnishes a brief report on mounds in Henry County, 
Iowa. Further information desired by the Smithsonian Institution. 

Bassett, Leslie. — Describes stone and copper implements from 
Keokuk County. 

Beaman, D. C. — Explored mounds on the Des Moines Biver, uear 
Keosauqua, Van Buren County. Account published in Ottumwa Demo- 
crat. None sent to Smithsonian Institution. 

Cakdee, F. C. — Describes copper implements from one of a group of 
mounds on the farm of P. Hass, two miles west of Grand view. 

Davis, Henry, and W. A. MacDonald. — Explored mounds in Clay- 
ton County, on high bluff", overlooking Mississippi Biver, 350 feet above 
the water, opposite Prairie du Chien, on land of Girard Land Company. 
On another bluff, one-fourth mile south, are two circular mounds 25 feet 
in diameter, I feet high; and 70 feet back of them is still another mound. 
All were evidently for lookouts, as there were no relics in them. 

Evans, Samuel B., Ottumwa. — Sends notes of works in sections 2 
and 3, township 08 north, range 10 west, fifth principal meridian, near 
Keosauqua, Van Buren County. Locations, course, and distance ap- 
proximated. 

No. 1. Shell heaps and pottery. — On south bank of Des Moines Biver, 
in northeast quarter of southeast quarter section 3, 20 rods north, 55° 
west, from mouth of Ely's Creek, 20 feet above river bed, 40 feet from 
water's edge. Found mussel shells in large quantities, pieces of pottery, 
arrow-heads, bones, part of jaw, teeth, leg and foot bones, &c.j fair 
degree of preservation. Two feet from mound surface generally. 

No. 2. Mound. — In northeast quarter of southeast quarter section 3, 
south bank of river, 10 rods north, 00° west from No. 1, on bluff point 
100 feet above river bed, 200 feet from water's edge ; timber, large white 
oak, young jack oak. Found human skull entire (except lower jaw), part 
of an upper jaw, and one tooth ; bones of the leg, &c. Position, two 
feet from mound surface; head southeast; burial horizontal. Also same 
pottery as in No. 1. * 

No. 3. Half-moon shaped mound. — Fifteen rods north, 55° west, from 
No. 2, on same bluff, 120 feet above river bed, 200 feet from water's edge. 
Found thigh bones. 

No. 4. Mound. — Fifteen rods north, 45° west, from No. 3. No dis- 
coveries except small piece of crockery, probably modern. 

No. 5. Large mound. — Fifty feet in diameter, 5 feet high, in north- 



432 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

west quarter of southwest quarter section 2, 30 rods south, 45° degrees 
east, from mouth of Ely's Creek, on high bluff point 100 feet above river 
bed, 20 rods from water's edge. Decayed white oak stump, 24 inches in 
diameter, on mound, 12 feet north, 10° west, from center; decayed oak 
stump, 16 inches in diameter, on mound 4 feet north from center. 
Found thigh bones (human) under south side of 24-inch stump, 5 feet 
from surface of mound; also shells as in No. 1; also upper arm bone; po- 
sition of thigh bones, horizontal ; head west ; lower leg bone doubled 
under. 

Ketterman, W. H. — Wapello County. Mounds, township 72, range 
13 west, on a line almost north and south through the county, on highest 
bluffs, from 75 to 100 feet in diameter, and 4 to 5 feet high. 

Mansfield, J. M. — There are mounds in Henry County, near Mount 
Pleasant, but no report has ever been made on them. 

Witter, F. M. — Describes mound in prairie, 40 rods from bluff of 
Iowa River, in Toolesboro, Muscatine County, 100 feet long, 40 feet 
wide. Copper implements and bones found. Promises map of Mus- 
cat! ue County in the name of the Academy of Sciences. 

MISSOURI AND KANSAS. 

Ballou, W. H. — Reports progress upon a complete report of the 
mound-builders of Mississippi County, Missouri. 

Beach, J. W. — On northwest quarter section 32, township 57, range 
35, Buchanan County, 1A miles south of Saint Joseph, at King mil, are 
earthworks on a high bald point, facing the Missouri River, partly ob- 
literated by weathering. The dead were buried very closely together, 
at length, on the back, east and west, not deep. A plot of the ground 
promised. 

Black, J. W. — Surveyed an earthwork in Lawrence County, Missouri. 

Drake, I. S. — There are ancient mounds near Mount Vernon, Law- 
rence County, Missouri. 

Dunlap, J. K — Mounds and earthworks are common in Saline 
County, Missouri, crowning almost every hill along Missouri River, iso- 
lated and in groups ; fortification four miles southwest of Miami, on sum- 
mit of a ridge which terminates in one of the so-called Pinnacles. The 
following account is from the Miami Index, Saline County, Missouri : 

" It crowns the summit of a ridge which terminates in one of the so- 
called ' Pinnacles' of this region. There is a double ditch and double 
embankment, embracing an oval area of 15 acres, and also a secondary 
ditch and embankment adjoining oil the west, with an area pf perhaps 
8 or 10 acres. The ditch is now, after the lapse of centuries, in many 
places 5 or G feet deep. Our reason for using the word centuries is the 
fad that in the ditch we found stumps of black-oak trees recently felled, 
measuring from 45 to 50 inches in diameter, and a growing tree that 
could not be encircled by the extended arms of two large men. 

" The approaches of the elevation on which this fortification is situ- 
ated are exceedingly steep. 



SUMMARY OF CORRESPONDENCE. 433 

"At the base of the pinnacle in which the ridge terminates is a spring 
which we are informed is subject to periodical ebbs and flows; its basin 
when seen by us was probably 20 feet in diameter. We think that 
the water was designed to be protected by the fortification. About one 
fourth of a mile south of ' the old fort ' was evidently an old battle-ground, 
as shown by a large quantity of crumbling bones which are turned up 
by the plow, together with arrow-heads, stone axes, pikes, and other 
Indian equipage. There is also found much pottery of a peculiar sort, 
being made of shells, comminuted and mingled with clay without being- 
subjected to fire." 

Newlon, W. S. — On Shoal Creek, in Jasper County, Missouri, at 
Reddin's water-mill, are twenty or thirty mounds on each side of the 
stream. Shoal Creek is a branch of Spring River, flowing through 
Kansas and Missouri lead mines. 

Serviss, E. F. — There are a number of mounds near Wyandotte, 
Kans., of which a map is in preparation. A workshop one acre in 
extent and covered with chips and sherds is reported. 

S3HTH, Q. C. — Several mounds occur in Stoddard County, Missouri, 
about 14 miles south of Bloomlield, near the road leading to West 
Prairie, unexplored. 

Stephens, J. L. — Found three mounds in northeast portion of Boone 
County, Missouri, on east bank of Cedar Creek, ten miles below the 
head of the stream; also three mounds two miles southwest of Colum- 
bus, on the south bank of Hickson Creek. A single mound one mile 
southwest of the first-named group is located on a high point. 

Watkins, J. C. — Reports mounds on bluffs of Mississippi, near Ash- 
ley, Pike County, Missouri. 

ARKANSAS. 

Boyd, C. H. — Examined mounds at the mouth of Saint Fraineis 
River, Phillips County. 

Buchanan, S. H. — Reports mound near Galley Rock, on Arkansas 
River. There are round mounds on Stuart farm, near Washington, 
Hempstead County, and a similar one on Little Missouri River, in 
Nevada County, near Prescott, 50 to 75 feet diameter, 20 feet high. 

Chase, John R. — Reports many large mounds in Crittenden County. 

Greene, Ed. — Found rock inscriptions in Johnson County. 

James, F. L. — The makers of vases in Arkansas used gourds as 
molds. Drawings of gourd-shaped vessels given. 

McCormick, E. G. — Reports a stone image from Evansville, Wash- 
ington County. 

Warnick, J. R. — Small mounds are found in abundance in Lawrence 

County. 

WISCONSIN. 

Beach, H. — Describes a mass of obsidian dug from mound in Wya- 
lusing, Grant County, together with 12 large shell beads. The whole 
S. Mis. 54 28 



434 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

valley of the Mississippi around Prairie du Chien, and for miles up and 
down the river, is full of the remains of an ancient population, and it 
would take months of labor to give a description of the mounds and 
earthworks. Nearly all examined were burial mounds. One opened 
contained remains of about a dozen persons whose bodies had been 
burned. 

Dunlap, Seymour. — Reports copper implements in Walworth County. 

Henry, William T. — Found many mounds in Iowa County. 

Lewis, C. H. — Describes four groups of mounds near Mount Vernon, 
Dane County ; also several workshops. There is a group of mounds, 
four in number, on section 15, in Springdale Township, 50 feet base 
diameter, C feet high, 50 feet apart, extending east and west, commencing 
at a distance of 50 feet from the most eastern and extending in a direct 
line eastward, is a long low ridge, 100 feet in length, 4 feet high, and G 
feet wide. 

Marvin, D. S. — Reports Earthwork near Watertown, in the forks of 
two small streams, four or five miles from the village. 

Parks, Warham. — Examined mounds near Oconomowoc, Waukesha 
County ; one evidently a lookout, the other in shape of a swan, 20 feet in 
length. They are one mile apart, near the banks of Washotah Lakes, 
and in one of the most beautiful spots in Waukesha County. All through 
the county occur cemeteries. 

MICHIGAN. 

Anderson, Abel. — Numerous mounds are found in Muskegon and 
adjoining counties, but few have been explored. There are three mounds 
Located on the north bank of Grand River, about 20 rods east of the 
Chicago and Michigan Lake Shore Railroad. They form a semicircle, 
and are about two rods apart. The two largest were excavated. Upper 
layer sand, then clay taken from the river bottoms, then vegetable mold 
overlying the bones. Six skeletons were found, and with them copper 
hatchets and awls, large plates of mica, shells, pipes, and pottery. A 
large mound in the town of Bridgeton, Newaygo County, lies near the 
county line. On the banks of Muskegon River, southwest corner of 
Newaygo County, are a number of mounds. 

1 '. \ bnes, Charles E. — The works of the mound-builders are meager in 
Calhoun County. Further information promised. 

Rrady, Samuel. — Is making explorations of mines at Minong, Isle 
Roy ale. 

Da r, John E. — Has in preparation, a paper on the forts and mounds 
of Macomb County. 

FOWLER, S. W.— There are no earth works in Manistee County. Shell 
heaps are found near mouth of Manistee River. Mounds are common. 
Several are at the west of Lear Lake; one on Sauble River, two miles 
south of Manistee Lake. 

IIijjbard, Lucius. — Three mounds are in southwest quarter section 



SUMMARY OF CORRESPONDENCE. 4oO 

17, range 18 west, near Indiana State line, Berrien County, from 20 to 50 
feet across. 

Jenison, O. A. — Sends drawings of Michigan relics, accompanied with 
descriptions. 

Jones, Joshua. — Describes mound in Livingston County, three miles 
from Howell, on west bank of Shiawassee River, 40 to 50 feet base 
diameter. Five skeletons were found in the moui?d. 

Stockwell, G. A. — Has traced out a triple series of mounds along 
the lake shore, five miles above Fort Gratiot; map in preparation. 

ILLINOIS. 

Adams, W. H. — Describes examination and excavation of mounds, 
Peoria County. 

Andrews, S. J. M. — Mounds in Effingham County extend over twenty 
miles on either side of the Wabash. They vary in height from 2 to 15 
feet. Large trees are growing on them. The bones are sometimes 
charred, and frequently animal bones are found with them. 

Artes, C. F. — Images, pottery, and stone implements occur in Van- 
denburg County. A skull found with, one of the images. 

Atkinson, Charles. — Carved image found in Adams County in a 
mound. Mounds in Calhoun County. Further information desired for 
the Smithsonian Institution. 

Conly, J. D. — Describes shoe-shaped stone and cemetery in Macoupin 
County. Promises map of the mound in that region. 

Foster, A. — Reports numerous mounds in Cass, Schuyler, and ad- 
joining counties. One mound, 25 or 30 feet high, covering nearly an 
acre, from the apex of which a view can be had of parts of five counties. 
Within the limit described every form of mound relics is obtained. 
Cache of chipped implements on the land of Mr. George Trauman, con- 
taining two barrels of specimens. 

French, G. H. — Mentions stone fort near Carbondale, Jackson 
County. 

Gettens, W. H. — Shell beds occur near Hamilton, Hancock County ; 
also a number of mounds. 

Gray, W. B. D. — Lake County is very rich in aboriginal remains. 
In the northern and northwestern portions, in the lake regions, arc many 
mounds. One examined contained fifteen skeletons in a circle, face down- 
wards, heads to the center. There are several trails passing through 
the county from the Lake Superior region. One fortification, not lo- 
cated, 200 feet on each side. 

Henderson, J. G.— Antiquities of many new and beautiful forms of 
stone implements described. 

Hitt, D. — Quite a deposit of hornstone disks was discovered on 
the south end of the east half of the northeast quarter section 29, 
township 33 north, range 5 east of third principal meridian, about 
three miles southeast of the town of Marseilles, about the same dis- 



436 ANTHROPOLOGY 

tance west of the town of Seneca, La Salle County, and very close to 
the bluff bordering the Illinois River. The bottom is very wide at this 
point, and so high as never to overflow. There were G5 found in the 
center of a pond on the south side of the river, which ranged in size from 
about 2 inches wide by 2| inches long to about 3 inches wide by 4 long, 
and were manufactured undoubtedly from nodules, as they show the cir- 
cles plainly, similar to fortification agates, and were most likely made 
and used for the same purpose as those described by J. F. Snyder, M. 
D., in the Smithsonian Report for 1.87G, that were found near Frederick- 
ville and at Beardstown, in this State. They were probably placed in 
this pond for safe keeping or as a place of concealment, as it was a num- 
ber of years ago running water, fed by a large spring or springs. It is 
now drained, and in digging the ditch to the center of it these disks 
were found two feet below what is now the surface, in a pile, as though 
they had been placed there. The proprietor, Mr. Osborn, thinks they 
were being transported in a canoe, which was capsized at this point. 

Holbrook, W. C. — Is preparing map of all the groups of mounds and 
earthworks along Rock River and its tributaries in Whitesides County. 

Kilian, Ed. A. — States that there are near Edwardsville, Madison 
County, remains of many ancient earthworks, of which an investigation 
will be made. 

Locke, W. M.— Wabash bottom, White County, is full of mounds: 
Mr. Locke has opened many, but in the low bottoms they are poor in 
relics. In a row of seven opened nothing was found. 

McAdams, William. — Caverns exist about the Grand Pass, Greene 
County. 

McClelland, M. A. — There are but few mounds within the limits of 
Crawford County. In Scott Township, Vanderburg County, Indian;) , is a 
group of five or six mounds, and near by a conical pit, from which they 
were probably constructed. Northeast, about half a mile, occur two 
other mounds, much larger. 

Ong, J. L. — Several mounds in the vicinity of Coulterville. 

Partridge, H. E. — Lake County abounds in mounds, mostly circu- 
lar, solitary and in groups. 

Rogers, O. P. — Mounds are found near Clintonville (South Elgin), 
forty in number, near bank of Fox River, tour miles below Elgin City, 
Kane County. Survey and plots are promised. 

Schneck, J. — Wabash County is rich in mounds, Indian towns, &c. 
Mr. Schneck is preparing a map of the county. 

SHALLENBERGER, J. M. — A group of fifteen mounds occurs east of 
Cambridge, not surveyed. 

Sibley, H. F. — Two deposits of disks were found in Wayne County, 
one in White County, and one in Jefferson. The first contained 37, 
the second 4<> specimens. Examined a group of fifteen mounds in 
Massillon Township, on west side of the river, on a high bluff. Seven 
mounds in Barnhill Township, just east of Fairfield, Wayne County. 



SUMMARY OF CORRESPONDENCE. 437 

Examined one, which contained nothing but charcoal. The mound in 
Big Mound Township, three miles from Fairfield, is the largest one on 
the prairie. It is supposed to have been a natural mound, shaped up 
and finished by the mound-builders. It contains many graves, and 
several bodies seem to have been placed in one grave. The graves are 
stone cists, made of slabs brought seven or eight miles, from Skillet 
Fork. Two trees growing on the mound, one a catalpa, the other an 
oak, were probably planted there. The other mounds in the same town- 
ship are also large. They are in the bottoms. One contained human 
remains, mixed with river shells, deer hoins, wolf jaws, &c, united with 
charcoal and small stones. Group of mounds in Four-mile Township 
are near Skillet Fork ; two explored contained remains and bright-red 
pottery. These mounds are on Fleming's Ridge, above the overflow. 
Just below is the best ford on the river. A more accurate description, 
with map, is in preparation. 

Smith, H. K. — There are many mounds and earthworks near Clear 
Creek, Putnam County, between Hennepin and Peoria. They are in 
groups of five to eight, running parallel with the river, from one-quarter 
to one-half an acre in extent, and 5 to 12 feet high. Further explorations 
in progress. 

Tandy, Mark. — Mounds occur in Hancock and Henderson Counties. 
Part of them are close to the Mississippi River, mostly on bottom lands 
or fiats, but some are on high bluffs or eminences. Quite, a number are 
along Camp Creek. They are generally formed of loam; a few of shell- 
rock. One mound examined was composed of loam the first 2 feet, the 
rest was sand; no bones, but charcoal mingled with flint chips. A stone 
mound, one mile below Dallas, made of very large flat rocks, was ex. 
amined; bones, teeth, and stone relies found. 

Townshend, R. W. — Mound explored in the northern part of Clay 
County, two miles south of Effingham County line, on Little Wabash 
River. 

Trouslot, R. B. — Describes two mounds, five miles from Piano, Ken- 
dall County, ten miles south of Post Mills, five miles from Sandwich. 
See the "History of Kendall County," published at Aurora, by Rev. E. 
W. Hicks. 

Wallace, S. -T. — Three mounds occur two miles northwest of Car- 
thage, Hancock County, section 11, 5 north, 7 west. One 30 feet base 
diameter, .'!() inches high ; the second similar in dimensions; the third 
larger, unexplored. A group on Mississippi River, same county, near 
1'ontoosuc, and others on bluff between Nauvoo and Montebello. Mr. 
Wallace sends many drawings of Hint implements. 

Whitney, L. — Describes ancient burial-ground within the limits of 
Morris, Grundy County. A cedar pole st ill standing on one of the streets, 
protected by an iron railing, marks the spot. 

Wilcox, P. W. — Will carefully prepare diagrams and measurements 
of mounds in La Salle County. 



438 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Witter, F. M. — Mounds occur on both sides of Mississippi River, 
from near New Buffalo, Iowa, and opposite in Illinois, to Toolsborough, 
in Iowa, and New Boston, in Illinois. Topographical survey in progress. 

INDIANA. 

Artes, C. F. — Opened burial mound near Evansville. Two burials, 
one above the other, at length ; crania preserved. 

Irwin, J. W. — Has surveyed and promises sketches of groups of 
works on White River, on the east and west forks of White River, and 
several in the valley of the Great Miami not hitherto described. 

Holland, Joshua. — Is making survey of mounds and inclosure near 
New Castle. 

Long, T. P. — Mentions extensive remains near Terre Haute, running 
through Sullivan and the southern part of Yigo Counties, and on the 
opposite side of the Wabash, in Clark County, Illinois, and thence down 
the river for many miles. 

Rerick, John H.— -Describes village of Pottawatomies named Mon- 
goquinong, formerly at Lima, in Lagrange County. There are but few 
traces of the mound-builders. One mound, 50 feet base diameter, 2 feet 
high, near Brush}* Prairie post-office. Human remains, potsherds, and 
flint implements abound. 

Stinson, Floyd. — Is preparing map of Henderson, Daviess, and 
Hancock Counties, Kentucky, and Posey, Vanderburg. Warwick, and 
Spencer, in Indiana. 

QUICK, Edgar R. — Describes group of mounds on land of H. Brim, one 
and a half miles south of Brookville, Franklin County. Earthwork three 
miles north of Brookville, on hill 350 feet high, jutting out on west bank 
of east fork of White Water River. Mounds nearly all on prominent 
points. 

OHIO. 

Brant, B. K. — Reports investigations of mounds in Butler County. 

Crider, F. E. — !s making a complete survey of all mounds, earth- 
works, &c, in Hamilton County, numbering about 200. 

Ellenberger, D. — Mentions ruins of old block-house near Wooster, 
Wayne County, described in letter of December 6, 1S79. 

Green, S. C. — Sends description and drawings of stone implements 
in Morgan County. 

Hill, F. C. — Mentions three mound localities in Greene County: 
Xenia, or more properly Tawawa Springs, four miles north of Xenia; 
Cedarville, in the township of the same name; and Miami Township. 

Ilr.uPSTEAD, G. S. B. — Sends interesting correspondence concerning 
the Portsmouth work, accompanied by a new survey of the works. 

IIiu.. II. 11. — Gives description of Sixth and Mound streets mound, 
Cincinnati. 

Kite, J. L. — Describes flint deposits, •">'*> acres in extent, southwest 
section of Smith Township, Manning County, which have been largely 



SUMMARY OF CORRESPONDENCE. 439 

worked. Several excavations were found 15 to 20 feet across and 10 to 
12 feet deep. Deposit about 1 foot thick ; land around strewn with frag- 
ments. 

MacLeAn, J. P. — Author of a work ou the antiquity of man, and a 
scries of articles on the Star in the West. Is preparing a full account of 
the earthworks, &c, in Butler County. 

Metz, C. L. — At the junction of the two branches of the Duck Creek, 
near Red Bank Station, in the vicinity of Madisonville, a kind of oven 
was uncovered; that is, two parallel lines of stone set on edge and cov- 
ered over with large, flat limestones, all showing effect of Are. In sec- 
tion 11, Columbia Township, west of the railroad, is a precipitous range 
of hills, along the face of which is an ancient roadway extending from 
the creek to the top of the range, GOO yards long, 4 to 10 feet wide. Has 
in preparation a chart of Anderson Township, where mounds and works 
abound. 

Miller, R. — Describes mound three-quarters of a mile north of West 
Farmingtou, Trumbull County ; 100 feet base diameter, 20 feet high, on 
a ridge 80 feet above surrounding country. 

Morrow, Josiah. — There is another ancient work (beside Fort An- 
cient) in Warren County, on the west bank of Little Miami Fiver, con- 
taining 15 or 20 acres, of which no description has ever been published. 
It is situated at Foster's Crossings, in Warren County. The most re- 
markable feature is the fact that the walls were constructed of baked 
earth. Wherever excavations have been made, or trees uprooted, the 
clay is very red and bears evidences of fire. This occurrence of burnt 
clay is confined to the inclosing bank. The work is on the top of the 
river hill. 

Pease, A. P. L. — Gives minute description of stone implements from 
near Hamilton. 

Pocock, B. D.— There are several mounds near Shrove, Wayne 
County, which will be mapped and described for the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. 

Randolph, T. C. — No mounds or earthworks occur in Columbiana 
County, but stone implements abound. 

Read, M. C. — Describes rock shelters, three miles west of Hudson Vil- 
lage, Summit County. Accumulation of 1 to 5 feet of ashes mixed with 
burnt soil, fragments of bone, stone implements, &c. The bones repre- 
sent nearly all the native mammalia. The shaft bones and larger jaw- 
bones were all broken. The pottery is of two kinds, one thin, the other 
very thick, and all mixed with powdered quartz. The stone implements, 
drawings of which accompany the letters, were mostly rude. Mr. Read 
will prepare a monograph upon these shelters. The author also men 
tions a cache of 200 black chert disks found on the land of Mr. M.Graham, 
in Summit County, and draws attention to a "speculation published by 
him in the American Antiquarian, to the effect that these enigmatical 



440 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

disks are a step in the division of labor in arrow- making. At a meeting 
of t he State Archaeological Society at Wooster, September 5, 1878, Pro- 
fessor Bead was appointed to co-operate with the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion in preparing the ethnological and archaeological history of Ohio. 

Boss, A. C, and Col. W. H. Ball. — Flint Bidge lies in Licking and 
Muskingum Counties, about three miles southeastward from Newark, 
and twelve to fifteen miles west-northwest from Zanesville. It extends 
eight miles southwest by northeast, and is from one-fourth of a mile to 
one mile wide. The ridge is cut by hollows, ravines, and gorges. Por- 
tions of the highest land are comparatively level, and this plateau is 
underlaid by ;i stratum of flint rock from 15 inches to 3 feet in thick- 
ness. Besides this stratum are numerous flint bowlders standing up 
several feet above the surface of the ground. On the exact level of the 
flint are the " diggings," hundreds of which may be seen, which range 
in depth from 1 or 2 to 30 feet, their depth depending upon the relation 
of the flint stratum to the surface of the earth. The very deep diggings 
are from the top of a hillock on the summit of the ridge. The trenches 
are from a few feet to 30 feet across at the top, all sloping so gradually 
that it would be easy to walk down them. From the deeper cuts the eart h 
appeared to have been carried out ; the one from the top of the hillock 
is still very deep, and was about 40 feet in perpendicular when completed, 
with proportional width. In one portion was a drift 60 to 80 feet in 
length, G to 8 feet wide, and 4 to 5 feet high. The excavation was pur- 
sued with the same diligence when there was no flint as when the stra- 
tum was found, and was of the same character, to the same level. Of 
course, when the earth is below the flint level there is no evidence of 
digging, but when the earth is above thai level the work extends to the 
flint. These works follow the dip of the flint towards the east-northeast 
until the hills became too high above the stratum. In a meadow, and 
near a stream of water, on land very much lower than the ridge, occurred 
a bed of crumbled flint and sandstone. This bed was about 14 inches 
in depth, 7 feet across, and 15 to 18 feet in length. The sandstone was 
near the north part and had been subject to great heat. A quantity of 
ashes was mixed t hrough the whole bed. Several such beds are reported 
in that vicinity, and were generally near water. No arrow-heads or 
other objects made of flint occurred. Old, gnarly, full-grown oaks, some 
of them three hundred years old, have sprouted and grown since these 
excavations were made. There has not been any signs of a workshop 
discovered in the last sixty years, but at the point usually sought by 
visitors and curiosity hunters flint spalls cover the ground for acres. 
Only one arrow head has been found there lor years. 

Wilkinson, E., Jr.— Sends notice of a fortification near -Mansfield, 
Richland County; survey in preparation. 

WlLTHElS, C. T.— Tablets of burnt clay were found on farm of W. 
Morrow, near Piqua. 



SUMMARY OF CORRESPONDENCE. 441 

WEST VIRGINIA. 

Campbell, S. M. — Describes mounds on Meadow River, a tributary of 
the Gauley, eight in number, 20 feet in diameter, nearly plowed down. 

Lacy, T. H. — Mentions mounds in Mason County. 

Marshall, T. M. — Mounds occur iu Gilmer County, near Glenville. 

Nutter, I. — Explored graves near Worthington. 

Page, W. X. — Discovered wall in Fayette County, near Chesapeake 
and Ohio Railroad, between Loup and Armstrong Creeks, one mile from 
their confluence with the Great Kanawha. 

KENTUCKY. 

Friel, Jos. — A mound is located five miles east of Benneitsville, 
Breckinridge County, and, near by, is a rock-shelter. Mr. Friel sends 
description of stone implement of his county. 

Harris, S. A. — There are in the eastern portion of Kentucky several 
earthworks aud other aboriginal remains which have not been investi- 
gated! 

LAMPTON, W. J. — Mounds occur in the corporate limits of Ashland, 
Boyd County. 

Middleton, G. B. — Mentions aucient wall in La Rue County, on one of 
the bluffs of the Boiling Fork River, northeastern portion of the county, 
seven miles from Hodgensville, and live miles from Buffalo. It is 432 
feet long, and extends northeasterly from cliff to cliff. Its southwest end 
rests upon the solid rock of a ravine just above a cliff 20 feet high. A 
small stream pours over this precipice. The wall is approachable only 
from the northwest. About 270 feet behind the wall are three pits par- 
allel with it, now 5 feet deep, 20 feet apart. Just behind the two 
smaller pits, C feet diameter, .'] feet deep, appearingto have been walled 
up. A mound of flint is near these smaller pits. The ruins are now 
from 3 to 5 feel high, and from 17 to 20 feet wide. See Collius's History 
of Kentucky, under Lake County. 

MUMFORD, R. S. — Mounds and relics were found near Rowlett's Sta- 
tion, Hart County. 

TENNESSEE. 

Bailey, W. B. F. — Several mounds occur near Chattanooga. 

Clarke, W. M. — Describes a mound near Franklin, Williamson 
County. At the bottom, 22 feet below the top, a circle of flints was 
found with the points to the center, and around these was another cir- 
cle of twenty-five shells (Busycon carica) with the large ends out. 

Richie, R. W. — Explored a mound in Hardin County; mica, burned 
earth, skull inclosed. 

Roessler, A. R. — Speaks of a mound near Big Creek, Cocke County, 
60 feet base diameter, 5 feet high. Near the center. .'! feet from the top, 
a skull was lying, face upward, top eastward. Near by, another was 
found lying on left side, face southeast, other bones lay at random. 
Lower down, two more crania. No arm or leg bones. Surface covered 
with pottery shards, flint chips, &c. 



442 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

THE GULF STATES. 

Biddle, Henry J. — Describes mound on Saint John's River, Florida, 
four miles below Palatka; the most northern mound on the river, except 
one ; 200 feet long, 40 feet wide, 10 feet high. 

Bomar, Thomas H. — Spartanburg County, South Carolina, is singu- 
larly barren of any vestiges of prehistoric man. 

Bracht, V. — Aransas County, Texas, reports that there are no an- 
tiquities on Live Oak Peninsula, but many mounds and graves near Salt 
Creek, on Byrnes Bay, where the Carancahua Indians formerly dwelt. 

Cadle, C. — On the eastern shore of Mobile Bay, Alabama, one mile 
from Point Clear, are banks of shells, 10 to 30 feet wide, 1 to 3 feet 
thick, and one-quarter mile in length. On this bank are two annular 
elevations of shells 2 feet above the surface and 00 feet in diameter. 
There are other shell banks in the vicinity. 

Floyd, Henry. — Unexplored mounds occur on Ouachita River, Louis- 
iana, on Mississippi and Yazoo Rivers, in Warren County, Mississippi, 
and on Deer Creek, in Sharkey County. They are situated on streams, 
near springs. They are in groups of threes, oval in shape, or nearly 
circular, flat on the fop, the largest occupying over an acre. 

Clarke, S. C. — On the Halifax and Hillsborough Rivers, in Volusia 
County, Florida, are great numbers of shell heaps, almost every im- 
portant bluff and landing place being thus occupied. Although called 
" rivers," these stretches of salt water are more properly sounds or bays, 
being shallow expanses, separated from the sea by narrow beaches of 
Sand. Some of these mounds have been described; turtle mound, for 
instance, on Musquito Lagoon, by Dr. Brinton, of Philadelphia. There is 
one of these shell heaps on the Halifax River, near the inlet, which 
differs in form from any otherthat he has seen, being in the form of a circu- 
lar bowl, the walls of which are perhaps 20 feet in heigh i. audi he inclosed 
space from 50 to 100 feet in diameter. The mound lies about 50 yards 
from the river, and has an opening on the river front, as if for a gate or 
sallyport, the whole structure giving the idea of a military work. It con- 
sists principally of oyster-shells, all of which have been separated and 
opened by human hands. It may be here remarked that these mounds 
consist either of oyster or clam shells — seldom of both. Among these 
oyster-shells are mingled those of conchs (Pyrula, Busycon, and Strombus) 
now occurring in the vicinity; also those of the Thorny Conch (Melon- 
gena corona), which is at present very rare on this coast. Charcoal and 
the bones of small mammals and birds are found among the shells, as 
also many fragments of pottery, some samples of which have been sent; 
the whole mound is covered with a natural grove of wild orange trees. 
Flint arrow-heads have been found here also, which must have been 
brought from a considerable distance, the nearest deposit of flint being, 
it is believed, in Georgia, some hundreds of miles away. In Albany, 
Dougherty County. Georgia, are great beds of the purest flint or horn- 
stone, which splits easily; and here seems to have been a great inanu- 



SUMMARY OF CORRESPONDENCE. 443 

factory in old times of arrow-heads, which are still found on the banks 
of Flint River. 

Galloway, J. C— JLittle is to be found in Jefferson County, Georgia, 
in the way of relics, or noted landmarks. Vestiges of large cemeteries 
still remain, and a broad trail leading to Old Town, eight miles from 
Louisville, and on the eastern side of the Ogeechee. It runs east and 
west, is 12 or 15 feet wide, and deeply worn, resembling an old aban- 
doned road. 

Garrett, W. M. — Three groups of mounds are in Lowndes County, 
Alabama. The first is in the southern part of the county, and in the 
southern part of township 12, range 14, on Muscle Creek, land of Mr. 
Fisher Merritt; all explored. The second group is on Big Swamp 
Creek, in the center of the county, township 11, range 11, on the Cheek 
plantation. The third group is in the northern part of the county, 
on the Alabama River, not far from Whitehall and Benton. Several 
"workshops" are near Mount Willing; one on Mr. Hartley's plantation, 
section 36, township 18, range 13; and one on Mr. Lee's plantation, sec- 
tion 32, township 13, range 11. 

Gesner, William. — Describes mica mine and stone wall in Clay 
Township, Jefferson County, Alabama. In Talladega County, township 
20, range (>, section 12, another mica pit. "Workshop" in Lee County, 
Alabama, east of Youngsborough, on the Western Railroad, at the foot 
of Story's Mountain, in the fields, township 19, range 27 east. 

Glasoo, J. M. — There are many ancient remains, such as mounds and 
earth works, in Upshur and Camp Counties, Texas. One in southeast 
corner of Camp County, on property of Nathan Lee, three miles east 
from the town of Lafayette, and a road-bed 8 feet wide and from 1 to 2£ 
feet high leads from this to another about one mile northeast. Still 
another road leads from the first named to a mound four miles off on 
the land of W. li. D. Ware. This road passes through a square inclosed 
by a bank 18 inches high. There are twenty-five or thirty mounds on 
the Sarah Powel league in a group. Near a large one is a raised burnt 
clay floor. Another group is on the property of S. P. Monyhhon, with 
a burnt place. They are on Walnut and Gum Creeks, tributaries of 
bill le < '.\ press. A few of the mounds examined indicate a wooden pen 
covered with soil. Mr. Glasco also mentions rock-carvings and other in- 
teresting remains which he has not visited. 

I1a#,i;s, LIiram. — Mentions an old Indian fortification on southeast 
quarter section 1(J, township 17, range 1 east, Saint Clair County, Ala- 
bama. 

EARRIS, T. K. — Describes a, mica quarry in Hall County, Georgia. 

HoxiB, WALTER. — There is an Indian mound near Way's Station, 
Bryan County, Georgia, and one on Saint Helena, Island. There are a 
number of mounds on Bryan's Neck, lying south of the Ogeechee River 
and bordering on Ossabaw Sound. One or two lie near Fort McAllister, 
and some on the road between Sweet Hill and Flandersville. 



444 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Johnson, H. F. — In Rankin County, Mississippi, is a ruin known as 
the "Platform;" in Claiborne County the remains of a wall; and in 
Marion County mounds of great size. * 

Kuykendal, John C. — No mounds are near Yorkville, York County, 
South Carolina. 

Le Baron, J. Francis. — Sends map of prehistoric archaeology of 
Eastern Florida. [A masterpiece of patience, locating 173 mounds, shell 
heaps, &c] 

McKlerot, Jno. M. — Eeports several mounds in Barbour County, 
Alabama, near Eufaula. Promises fuller examination. 

MacSwain, L. D. — There are mounds, in Thomas County, Georgia, 
from which skeletons and stone implements have been taken. 

Pratt, R. H. — Sends brief account of explorations in the Diego and 
Jenks mounds, near Saint Augustine, Fla. 

Quinn, Moses. — In Whitfield Comity, Georgia, on Conasauga River, 
eight miles from the Tennessee line, is an old fort on the top of a mount- 
ain, inclosing three or four acres, encircled by a deep ditch and earth 
embankment. 

Sharp, J. M. — Describes a mound near Wyko, Morehouse Parish, 
Louisiana, 35 feet base diameter, 5 feet high. Anywhere one digs from 
base to summit bones and pottery are found. The pots are generally 
between the legs of the skeleton, against the pelvic bones. This mound 
is two miles north of Lake Lafourche. Mounds and pottery are found 
all about Prairie Jefferson. One on the land of Mrs. V. C. Harrison is 
50 feet in base diameter and 30 feet high. 

Steeruwitz, W. H. — Artificial dug-holes are found in Harris County. 
Texas, twenty-eight miles from Houston, formed as follows: The rain- 
water stands in the depressions after the surrounding prairie is dry. 
The cattle and horses bring out of the bottom a portion of mud every 
time they go to drink. The dam on the edge is l^> to 24 inches high, 
depth of dug-hole 24 to 30 inches, width of dam 18 to 24 feet, size of pit 
about 300 yards square. [This fact, tor the first time brought to the 
knowledge of archaeologists, may be useful in the regions once roamed 
over by thousands of buffaloes. — O. T. M.] 

Stella, J. P. — Texas now presents the finest field for the archaeologist 
in the United States. 

Wade, J. 1). — There are several mounds in Leon County, Florida, un- 
explored. 

NEW YORK. 

ALEXANDER, J. W. — Sends stone gouge from Saint Lawrence County, 
with the following statemenl as to its use: "That it was used fortap- 
ping the American maple (Acer saccharinum) there can be no reasonable 
doubt. A comparison of one of these implements with theiron and steel 
gouges usvd by the early settlers for fixing the spout confirms the view. 
A piece of pine, cedar, or other soft wood was selected of the width of 
the cutting part of the gouge. From this block spouts were split, the 



SUMMARY OF CORRESPONDENCE. 445 

gouge being the instrument of cleavage. In this manner the concavity 
of the spout corresponded with that of the gouge. When the tree was 
tapped a box was chipped in the trunk, the gouge was driven in two or 
three inches below, and the spout afterward placed in the cut thus made 
in order to conduct the oozing sap to a bucket below." 

Allen, A. W. — Describes an image and stone relies from Cayuga 
Comity. 

Beatjciiamf, W. M. — An extended and valuable correspondence upon 
the stone implements of Onondaga County. Describes, May 5, a visit to 
a large aboriginal manufactory of flint implements, on the Canada side, 
opposite Buffalo, N.- Y. ; also refers to ground arrow-points and copper 
implements, as well as ancient forts and palisades. 

Bkiggs, H. — Sends newspaper clippings, Ulster County. 

Byrns, E. A.— Reports Indian cemetery, near Belfast, Allegany 
County. 

Chapman, Rtjfus T. — Promises map and plan of works along the 
Cuyahoga River. 

Clarke, John S. — Is preparing a map of New York on which will 
appear every position where indications exist of an Indian resilience, 
town, or hamlet, the trails intersecting the State connecting the several 
towns, the Indian names of rivers, lakes, mountains, localities, &c. 

Cole, Norman. — Describes copper spear-head found near West 
Mountain, Warren County. Reports also collections of stone imple- 
ments. 

Kellogg, D. S. — Near Plattsburg, Clinton County, on the western 
shore of Cumberland Bay, Lake Champlain, near mouth of Dead Creek, 
arc mounds of sand which have been formed by the wind. Some years 
ago the pine trees were cut from these sand hills, and the wind entirely 
changed the face of these dunes. Pottery and stone implements in 
abundance mark this as an ancient camping ground. 

Lewis, W. EL — Sends description of a large rock in North Salem, 
Westchester County, supported on three cone-shaped stones, resembling 
a dolmen. 

Marvin, D. S. — Describes mound on Black River Bay, four miles 
above Sacket's Harbor. 

Tooker, W. W.— Mentions fort at Montauk, Suffolk County, described 
in Prime's "History of Long Island" and in the "Chronicles of East 
Hampton." 

W atkins, G. L. — Describes ancient fort located ten miles south of 
Auburn, two and a half miles from Scipioville. 

Wright, S. H. — In Yates County are four ancient works. No survey 
has ever been made. Map in preparation. 

NEW JERSEY AND PENNSYLVANIA. 

Andrews, F. D. — Found workshops near Vineland, N. J. 

Baker, S. C. — Finds no vestiges of ancient occupation at Altoona, Pa. 



446 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Brunner, D. B. — Workshops and burial grounds occur in Berks 
County, Pennsylvania. 

Hay, Charles A. — Describes aboriginal settlement near Gettysburg, 
Pa, 

Hazzard, T. L. — Mentions cemeteries, fort-fields, and pictured rocks 
near Monongahela City, Pa. 

Kervey, D. K. — Explored Indian graves near West Chester, Pa. 

MoElwain, R. — There are stone piles and an ancient trail near Harris- 
ville, Butler County, Pennsylvania. 

Meyer, Abraham. — Describes a quarry, or mine, and caches, Lycom- 
ing County, Pennsylvania. 

Philips, D. A. — Numerous circular forts and mounds occur near 
Linesville, Crawford County, Pennsylvania, mostly surrounding Pyma- 
turing Swamp. Human remains, mica, stone implements, and evidences 
of fire abound. 

Ruth, J. A. — Sends archaeological map of Durham, Bucks County, 
Pennsylvania, with letter of June 3, 1879. 

Shannon, S. G., and John Swartzell. — Describes a burial mound 
near the junction of Kishacoquillas Creek with Juniata River, near 
Lewiston, Mifflin County, Pennsylvania. 

Widemire, S. — The mound- builders appear not to have reached as 
far as Clearfield County, Pennsylvania. 

MARYLAND, VIRGINIA, AND NORTH CAROLINA. 

Coffman, J. J. — Mentions workshop near Sharpsburg, Md. 

Humphreys, John T. — Found a cone of baked earth in a mound 
near Morganton, In". C. Mounds at a mill eight miles from Morganton 
are ud explored. 

Kirk, C. R. — No mounds or works exist in Northeastern Maryland, 
but many stone implements. In the Susquehanna River, near Cono- 
wingo Bridge, at the mouth of the creek, is a sculptured rock. 

Kron, F. C. — There is an old zigzag stone ford across the Peedee 
River, just below the mouth of the Moharree, in Stanley and 31 out gomery 
Counties, North Carolina. 

Lbakin, George A. — The tribe of Susquehannocks occupied the 
land in the vicinity of Sassafras and Elk Rivers, and they had a fort on 
Spesutice Island, about 1660. Refers to a paper on the Susquehannocks 
prepared for the Historical Society of Baltimore. 

MoGuiRE, J. D. — Describes shell heaps in Howard and Anne Arundel 
Counties, Maryland, and alludes to polished arrow-heads. 

On a fine branch of spring-water one-fourth of a mile above Eleysville, 
and within 200 yards of the PatapscO River, Maryland, is a small cave, 
the floor of which is about 10 feet wide, and runs back 20 feet— an ex- 
cellent shelter for any one; and as proof of its having been occupied, the 
floor is covered with ashes in places as much as 18 inches deep. A 
white quartz cutting tool was found here, finely chipped from a pebble, 2£ 



SUMMARY OF CORRESPONDENCE. 447 

inches long by If wide, £ thick ; a small broken rose-quartz pebble, 
possibly a scraper; a large piece white quartz with one sharp edge; an 
implement, probably, but if found elsewhere, this would have been 
doubtful; six small pieces of pottery, very rude, with shell mixed in the 
clay. Pottery in this neighborhood only found in three other places. 
Several small pieces of bone were discovered. This cave is about 15 
feet from the branch and 5 or feet above it. On the opposite side of 
the branch, and distant from it about 40 feet and SO above it, is quite a 
shelter, perfectly dry, with surface earth to a depth of 4 or 5 inches, 
dusty and dark; under it is a reddish colored earth. On top of this red 
earth, and below the dark, a broken arrow found of the same material 
as the spear found opposite, a scraper 3 inches long by 1.} wide, and 
several pieces of bone. The stones appear to be of the character described 
as cave implements by Lubbock and Evans, but from their proximity 
to the surface they can hardly be more ancient than many of our surface 
finds, but they are distinctive in their features. 

Offutt, F. M. — Xear Cumberland, Md., there are several large stone 
mounds that have never been disturbed. 

Peyton, Miss Annie L. — Mentions an ancient Indian settlement, 
cemetery, and workshop near The Plains, Fauquier County, Virginia. 

TIIE NEW ENGLAND STATES AND CANADA. 

Crerry, X. — Is working up the stone age of the Connecticut Valley 
through the State of Massachusetts. 

Currier, J. M. — Gives an account of stone implements in Rutland 
County, Vermont. 

Cutting, II. A. — ISTo ancient remains occur in Eastern Vermont. 
There are rock sculptures near Braitleborough. 

Ellsworth, C. W. — Describes a cache of chipped implements from 
East Windsor Hill, Connecticut, and sends many engravings of relics. 

Frost, A. L. — No aboriginal remains are found in York County, Maine. 

Gorton, Charles. — Describes stone implements of Connecticut. No 
permanent remains mentioned. 

Gregory, James J. H. — In the town of Marblehead, Mass., are remains 
of shell-heaps, fortified villages, and a cemetery, also the vestiges of a 
palisaded fort, and the quarry from which most of the porphyry used in 
making arrow-heads, &c, was taken. 

McDaniel, B. F. — In the town of Salisbury, Mass., is a line of shell- 
heaps stretching from the Merrimac River, in a northeasterly direction, 
about one mile inland. 

Osgood, Albert. — Describes a stone structure on north bank of 
Merrimac River, near the bridge connecting Deer Island with Salisbury, 
Mass. Stones 4 to 8 inches in thickness are laid without any foundation. 

Richardson, E. P. — Mentions a cache of 40 chipped implements near 
Manchester, X. H. More information needed. 



448 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Richardson, W. S. — Draws attention to an extensive earthwork near 
Bridgeport, Conn. 

Slade, Elisha. — No antiquities occur in Bristol County, Massachu- 
setts, excepting the Dighton Rock. 

Springfield Republican (slips with no date). — Large aboriginal 
cemetery near Holyoke, Mass.; the dead buried in sitting posture; stone 
implements and even copper spear-points were found with the bones, as 
well as paint and strings of wampum. 

Temple, J. H. — Is making a complete survey of Indian remains in 
the town of Framingham, Mass. Reports a cache of a peck of chipped 
implements near that town. 

Thompson, Miss Mary F. — No mounds occur near Brattleborough, 
Vt. There is a rock inscription three-fourths of a mile from R., on a 
io:k near the mouth of West River, 100 yards southwest and 550 yards 
west of its junction with Connecticut River. The figures represent fish- 
hawks or eagles, and are hammered in depth one-eighth of an inch. 

iRisn, William. C. — Mounds and graves occur two miles east of 
Brighton, Northumberland County, Ontario, on Presque Isle Point. 
Similar mounds are on the lake shore near Redeck's farm, four miles 
west of the first. 

Jack, J. Allen. — Describes stone images from New Brunswick, and 
sculptured slabs from St. John's, New Bruswick. 

CENTRAL AMERICA. 

Flint, Earl. — Has discovered near Grenada, Nicaragua, a cave in 
which the author claims to have found inscriptions upon the walls made 
before the cave was filled by a tertiary deposit, which petrified after the 
inscriptions were made. The sandstone and sedimentary rock of the 
cave were formed subsequently to man's occupation, from which is 
argued man's existence in Nicaragua long before his advent in Europe, 
at least 180,000 years ago. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS DURING 1879. 449 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS DURING THE YEAR 18*9. 

By Otis T. Mason. 

The investigations of anthropologists may be divided into several 
classes. The first relates to the origin of the race, and this again deals 
with very different questions, such as, 1, the method by which the hu- 
man animal made his appearance upon this planet ; 2, his mental and 
social condition at that time ; 3, the geological epoch when this remark- 
able event took place ; 4, the locality or localities of his first appearance. 

Another class of inquiries, following closely upon the last named, re- 
lates to the oldest manifestations of culture in gravel-beds, caves, 
mounds, graves, and sepulchers, by means of which it is hoped to recon- 
struct the history of the past. 

A third class of investigations has reference to the human body as it 
now manifests itself. Beginning with the very first germ or embryo, 
the biologist traces the life history of man to maturity. The anatomist 
and the physiologist follow up the work of the biologist and study the 
resemblance between the human structure and that of the lower animals. 

Next comes the psychologist, comparing the mental manifestations of 
one race with another and of each race with those of animals. This 
branch of the subject has but just begun its scientific career, under the 
direction of such students as Galton, Bertillon, Lindsay, Maudsley, and 
a few others. 

The fifth class of studies relates to the various races of men. Though 
no broad spaces separate the human groups, yet all men recognize racial 
differences. If all the human beings that present marked character- 
istics were arranged in groups, and those that nearly resemble them were 
placed near those to whom they bear the greatest likeness, we should 
have a series of irregular masses merging into one another. These 
would be races. The form, the extent, and the number of the groups 
Mould vary somewhat with the characteristics selected as the basis of 
the classification. The progess of scientific observations bringing other 
portions of the body than the brain and skull into prominence as racial 
marks. Of the two words commonly used to designate this branch of 
the subject, I employ ethnology as the generic term, including ethno- 
graphy, or the description of races, and all discussions with reference 
to the best methods of classifying mankind. 

The next division of the subject is language, the basis of which is 
phonology ; the relation of sound to sense, or sematology , and the peculiar 
adjustment of the sentential elements, or morphology, at present occupy- 
ing a subordinate position. It cannot be denied that more is being ac- 
complished in the way of collecting material than at any time previous. 

The seventh class of anthropological phenomena embraces all of the 
S. Mis. 54 29 



450 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

occupations, crafts, and arts of man, without regard to race. Looking 
over the whole race as a propagating garden for the arts of life, we study 
each industry or aesthetic action in its historic development and in its 
correlation with other arts and industries. Mr. Spencer's Sociology, 
Mr. Tylor's Primitive Culture, and works of that class, have done a great 
deal toward explaining the orderly manner in which even those things 
which seem fortuitous are brought about. 

Very closely allied with the foregoing class is that which relates to 
sociology proper, or the evolution and regulation of the family, the tribe, 
the society, and the state. With this division of the subject are con- 
nected some of the gravest problems that we have to settle. 

The ninth and last class, for want of a better term, we call religion. 
It includes not only the philosophic inquiry into the cause of all phe- 
nomena, but beliefs with regard to morality and the future state, and 
all those acts and paraphernalia which are associated with worship, to- 
gether with the organization of society growing out of the same. 

In conclusion, a science so comprehensive and so popular must have 
its corporate agencies, its organs, and its schools. A knowledge of the 
locality and scope of these is highly important, especially to beginners. 
A list of the principal papers of the year, in the order indicated, will 
serve not only as a bibliographical list, but also to indicate the scope of 
investigation in each class of inquiries : 
Class I. Anthropogeny. 

II. Prehistoric Anthropology. 
III. Biological Anthropology. 
IY. Psychological Anthropology. 
V. Ethnology. 

VI. Linguistic Anthropology. 
VII. Industrial Anthropology. 
VIII. Sociology Proper. 
IX. The Science of Eeligion. 

I. — ANTHROrOGENY. 

Allen, Grant. A "hairless" problem in human evolution. (Fort- 
nightly.) The Century, May 24. See, also, Pop. Sc. Mouth. June. 

B., J. P. Spiritual evolution. Trubner. 

BEGOTTEN, *-. La creation evolutive. 8°. Toulouse. 

BUTLER, . Old and new evolution. Scribner & Welford." 

Cook, Joseph. Heredity, with preludes on current events. Hough- 
ton, Osgood & Co., Boston. 272 pp. 12°. 

Delanei . Martin R. The origin of race and color. Harper & Bros. 

De Quatrefages, A. The human species. Translated from the 
French, and forming No. 27 of "The International Scientific Se- 
ries." L\ Appleton & Co. 

Dumont, A. Haeckel and the theory of evolution in Germany. Paris, 
Germer-Bailliere. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS DURING 1879. 451 

Evolution, the fallacies of. Edinburgh Eeview,. July. (A review of 
Haeckel, Wallace, and de Quatrefages.) 

Fiske, John. Darwinism, and other essays. Macmillan & Co. 

Gomes, G. Da degeneracao das actuaes racas humanas. Correio nied. 
de Lisb., viii, 66. 

Geikie, Archibald. Geographical evolution. Proc. Eoy. Geog. Soc, 
July. 

Haecicel, Prof. Ernst. The evolution of man. A popular exposition 
of the principal points of human ontogeny and phylogeny. Trans- 
lated from the German. With numerous illustrations. 2 vols. 12°. 
Appletoii. 

. Popular conferences on evolution. 2 e fasc. 8°. Bonn. 

LTenslow, Eev. Georgke. The theory of evolution of living things. 
McMillan. 

Kinsley, W. W. When did the human race begin ? Penn. Month. 
Sept., Oct, 

Le Bon, Gustave. L'homme et les socieles : leur origine et leur his- 
toire. 8°. Paris, Eothschild. 

Mivart, St. George. On the genesis of species. Macmillan. 

Mudge, B. F. Another view of the antiquity of ,man. Kansas City 
Eev., Aug. 

Pagliani, L. Lo sviluppo umano per eta, sesso, condizione sociale ed 
etnica, studiato nel peso, statura, circonferenza toracica, capacita 
vitale e forza inuscolare. Gior. d. Soc. ital. d'ig., Milano, i, 357. 

Schmidt, Oscar. Une controverse transformiste. Eev. scientifique, 
Janvier 25. 

Topinard, Paul. De la notion de la race en anthropologic Eev. 
d'anthrop., octobre, 

Virchow, E., and Prof. Tyndall. Evolution. Eclectic, Jan. 

Ward, Lester F. HaeckePs genesis of man. E. Stern & Co., Phila- 
delphia. (From the Penn. Month., Ap., May, July, 1877.) 

Wilson, Daniel. Some American illustrations of the evolution of 
new varieties of man. J. Anthrop. Inst., May. 

. The ethnical influences of physical geography. Am. Assoc. 

Saratoga. 

II. — PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Abbott, C. C. Pliocene man. Kansas City Eev., Nov. 

Ameghino, Florentino. L'homme prehistorique dans La Plata. 

Eev. d'anthrop., avril. 
Assyria and Babylon, recent discoveries in. Builder, Aug. 2. 
Barber, Edwin A. Antiquity of the tobacco pipe, in Europe. Am. 

Antiquarian, i, 1. 
. Examination of Indian graves in Chester County, Pa. Am. 

Naturalist, May. 
. Native American architecture. Am. Antiquarian, Jan. 



452 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Barnabei, F. Excavations and discoveries of antiquities in the terri- 
tory of Sybaris. Academy, July 19. (Signor Barnabei is a regu- 
lar contributor to the Academy upon Italian archaeology.) 

Bastian, A. Die Culturliinder des alten Amerika. 2 vols. Berlin, 
1878. 

Baux, A. Note sur des antiquit^s sardes. Materiaux. 4 e livr. 

Berther, Elie. The prehistoric world. From the French, by Mary 
J. Safford. Porter and Coates. 

Bhandarkar, B. G. Antiquarian remains in a mound near Kolhapur. 
J. Bombay Branch Boy. As. Soc, No. 36. 

Binkley, S. H. Prehistoric manufacturing village in the Miami Val- 
ley, and mound-builders' relics. Am. Antiquarian, i, 4. 

Blackburn, Henry. Breton folk : an artistic tour in Brittany. 171 
ill. Scribner & Welford. 

Boscawen, W. St. C. Assyrian explorations. (Athena?um.) Century, 
Aug. 9. 

Boucher, Henri du. Materiaux pour un catalogue des stations pr<§- 
historiques landaises. Materiaux, 5 e livr. 

Broadhead, G. C. The walled lakes of Iowa. Kansas City Bev., Feb. 

Burnouf, E:\nLE. Memoires sur Pantiquite" (Page du bronze — Troy, 
Santorin, Delos, Mycene, etc.). Paris, Maisonneuve. 

Burton, B. F. The Carinthian barrows. Athen., Nov. 22. 

. Stones and bones from Egypt and Midian. J. Anthrop. Inst., 

Feb. 

Callard, Thomas Karr. The contemporaneity of man with the ex- 
tinct mammalia. J. Victoria Inst. 

Canariennes, les antiquites. 1 vol. 4°. Paris, Plon, noticed in La 
Bev. politique, novembre 8. 

Cartallhac, M. Beview of Evans's " Stone age." Bev. scientiflque, 
fevrier 15. 

Chantre, E. Les necropoles du premier age du fer des Alpes fran- 
caises. Lyon. 8°. Georg. 

Cities and cemeteries of Etrnria. The Builder, Dec. 28. 

Clarke, H. B. Shell-beds of Clatsop Beach. Am. Antiquarian, i, 
No. 4. 

Colorado, ancient remains in. Builder, July 26. 

Conant, A. J. Footprints of vanished races. C. B. Barns., St. Louis, 
Mo. 

CoNGREVE, H. Druidical and other antiquities between Metapolliam 
and Kurnool. Madras J. of Lit., Jan. 

Cooper, B. H. Fresh Assyrian finds. (Sunday Mag.) Meth. Piot. 
Mag., June. 

CusHiNO, Frank H. Manner of flint-chipping among aborigines. Eng. 
& Mining J., Aug. 9. 

Dawkins, W. Boyd. Our earliest ancestors in Britain. Science Lec- 
tures for the People, No. 6. John Haywood, London. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS DURING 1879. 453 

De Hart, J. N. The emblematic mouuds of Wisconsin. Am. Anti- 
quarian, i, No. 4. 

Derby, Orville A. The artificial mounds of the island of Marajo, 
Brazil. Am. Naturalist, April. 

. On the range of the mammoth in space and time. Quart. J. 

Geol. Soc, Feb. 

Elliott, E. T. The age of cave-dwellers in America. Pop. Sc. Month., 
Aug. 

Falies, Louis. Nouvelle nomenclature geologique du tertiaire. 8°. 
Montpellier, Barthez. 

Farquharson/B. J. The Eockford and Davenport tablets. Am. An- 
tiquarian, Jan. 

Fischer, H. Ueber die Herkunft'der sogenannten Amazonensteine, 
sowie fiber das fabelhafte Ainazonenvolk selbst. Archiv fur An- 
throp., xii, No. 1. 

Fligier, Dr. Ethnological discoveries in Ehodope Mountains. Mitth. 
d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, ix, 105-196. 

Fondouce, P. Cazalis de. Decouverte d'une sepulture prelristorique 
a Lisbonue. Materiaux, 5° livr. 

Force, M. F. Some early notices of the Indians of Ohio. 8°, paper. 
E. Clarke & Co. 

Forel, Dr. F.-A. Les tenevieres des lacs suisses. MatOiaux, 4 e livr. 

Forsyth, C. I. Alcune osservazioni sui cavalli quateruari. Arch, per 
l'antrop., Firenze, ix, 100. 

France, the archaeological treasures of. Builder, July 26. 

Frey, L. S. Yv T ere they mound-builders °? Am. Naturalist, Oct. 

Girardin, J. Translation of Schlicmann's Mycenae. Paris, Hachette. 

Godron, D. A. Les cavernes des environs de Toul et les mammiferes 
qui out disparu de la vallee de la Moselle. Nancy. 

Goss, . Arbor Low and other circles of stone. Beliquary, July. 

Gozzadini, Cte G. Di un antico sepolcro a Ceretolo nel Bolognese. 
Modena. Eeviewed in Materiaux, 4° livr. 

Gross, Dr. Une nouvelle palafitte de l'epoque de la pierre a Locras, 
lac de Bienne. Materiaux, 2 e livr. 

Haiin, Til The graves of Heitsi-Eibib : a chapter on the prehistoric 
Hottentot race. Cape Month., No. 97, 257. 

Haldeman, S. S. On uusymmetric arrow-heads and allied forms. Am. 
Naturalist, May. 

Hartt, Oh. Fred. Notes on the manufactory of pottery among sav- 
age races. Am. Naturalist, Feb. 

Heath, Dr. E. E. Peruvian antiquities. Quarterly Journ. of Science, 
Jan. 

Hoffman, W. J. Turtle-back celts in the District of Columbia. Am. 
Naturalist, Feb. 

Heger, F., Ueber eine seltene Urnenform. Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. 
in Wien, viii, 306. 



454 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Hochstetter, F. von, and Ch. Deschmann. Notes on prehistoric 
stations in Carniola. From the first report of the Prehistoric Com- 
mittee of the Vienna Academy. With 22 plates. (Proceedings of 
the Imper. Acad., July 3, 1879.) Nature, Dec. 25, 1879. 

Holmes, Wm. H. Notes on an extensive deposit of obsidian in the 
Yellowstone National Park. Am. Naturalist, April. 

Howard, J. E. The caves of South Devon and their teachings. J. 
Victoria Inst. 

Imer, F. La pierre a 6cuelles des Frises. Anzeig. f. schweiz. Alterth., 
No. 2. 

Jackson, Eev. S. The ancient cities of Cibola. Eocky Mt. News, Jan. 

Joly, M. N. L'autiquite du Nouveau-Monde. Rev. sc, juin 7. 

Joly, N. L'homme avant les inetaux. Paris, Bailliere et C ie . 

Jewitt, L. Pottery in prehistoric times. 111. Art. Journ., Nov. 

Kansas, prehistoric mounds in. Kansas City Eev., Jan. 

Keary, C. F. The dawn of history. Scribners. 

Kohn, Albin, and C. Mehlis. Die Vorgeschichte des Menschen in 
ostlichen Europa. Jena, Costenoble. 

Lake dwellers of Switzerland, the ancient. Boston Journ. of Chem- 
istry, Jan. 

Lemoine. Communications sur les ossements fossiles des terrains ter- 
tiaires inferienrs des environs de Reims. Union med. et scient. du 
nordest, Eeims, iii, 7; 54; 84, 2 pi.; 114. 

Lenormant, Franqois. Inscriptions ehaldeennes sur une hache mar- 
teau en silex. Materiaux, 5° livr. 

Littre, E. Les temps oublies. Phil. Positive Eev., decembre. 

Low, C. F. Appendix to Short's "North Americans of antiquity." 
Brochure. 

Lykins, "NY. H. E. Stone age in Kansas. Kansas City Eev., Oct. 

MacLean, J. P. The mound-builders. E. Clarke & Co., Cincinnati. 

Malafosse, G. de. Les pierres a bassin et les roches a 6cuelles 
dans la Lozere. Mat6riaux, 3 e livr. 

Mason, G. C, jr. The old stone mill at Newport. Mag. Am. Hist., 
Sept. 

Mastodon, the home of the. Kansas City Eev., Sept. 

Mazard, H. A. Ceramique; de la connaissance par les anciens des 
Liiacures plombiferes. Paris. (Extrait du Musde archeologique.) 

Mehlis, C, and Albin Kohn. Materialien zur Vorgeschichte des Men- 
schen im ostlichen Europa. Jena, Costenoble. 

. Studien zuraltesten Geschichte der Rheinlande. Leipzig. 

Mestorp, J. Die lironzefnnde in Bologna. Cor.-Bl. d. driitschen 
Gesellsch. f. Anthroj)., No. 7. 

Milne, James. Excavations at Carnac (Brittany). E. Worthing 
ton. 4°. 

Monumental inscriptions in all parts of the world. Calcutta Eev., 
July. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS DURING 1879. 455 

Morse, E. S. Traces of an early race in Japan. I). Appleton & Co. 

Moseley, H. N. Easter Islands. Nature, Nov. C, 13. 

Mortillet, Gabriel de. L'homme quaternaire et l'homme tertiaire a 

l'exposition. Rev. d'anthrop., Janvier. 

. Early traces of man. Pop. Sc. Month., April. 

. Early traces of man. Monthly Jonrn. Sc, June. 

Much, Dr. Baugen uud Ringen. Vienna. Eeviewed in Materiaux, 

5 e livr. 
Much, M. Kiinstliche Hohlen in Mederosterreich. Mitth. d. anthrop. 

Gesellsch. in Wien, ix, 18. 
. Upon the priority of iron or bronze in Eastern Asia. Mitth. d. 

anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, ix, 214. 
Murray, A. S. Cyprus and Mycense. Nineteenth Century, Jan., 20 pp. 
Nash, E. Pre-Adamite London. Builder, March 1. 
Nicholson, Sir Charles. On some rock-carvings found in the neigh- 
borhood of Sydney. J. Anthrop. Inst., Aug. 
Nehring, A. Die Baubvogel und die prahistorischen Knochenlager. 

Cor.-Bl. d. deutschen Gesellsch. fur Anthrop., No. 8. 
Noulet, J. B. L'age de la pierre polie et du bronze an Cambodge, 

d'apres les decouvertes de M. J. Moura. Published in Archives du 

Musee d'histoire naturelle de Toulouse, l re publication ; noticed in 

Revue scientifique, novembre 8, 1879. 
Noulet et Moura. L'age de la pierre polie au Cambodge. Rev. sc, 

novembre 8. 
Olympia, discoveries at. Edinburgh Review, Jan. 
Ossowski, Godefroy. Monuments prehistoriques de Pancienne Po- 

logne. Cracovie. 
Peet, S. D. A comparison between the archaeology of Europe and of 

America. Am. Antiquarian, i, No. 4. 
. The sources of information as to the prehistoric condition of 

America. Am. Antiquarian, ii, 1. 
Perkins, Geo. H. Archaeology of the Champlain Valley. Am. Natu- 
ralist, Dec 
Peru. Tres relaciones de antiguedades peruanas. 8°. Madrid. 
Phene, Dr. Ancient mounds simulating animal forms. Builder, Oct. 4. 
Preservation of ancient ruins and monuments. Chambers' Journ., 

Nov. 
Putnam, F. W. Archaeological explorations in Tennessee. Kansas 

City Review, May- Aug. 
. Chambered mounds in Missouri. Proc Boston Soc Nat. Hist., 

xx, Oct. 15. 
. On some large and remarkable stone implements of the South- 



ern mound-builders. Am. Association. 
. On the pottery of the Southern mound-builders. Am. Asso- 
ciation. 



456 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Rati, Charles. The Palenque tablet in the United States National 
Museum. Smithson. Contributions to Knowledge, No. 331. 

. The Dighton Rock inscription. Mag. Am. History, Apr. 

Rawlinson, H. C. Rough notes on prehistoric Cyprus. Month. Rec. 
of G-eog., Feb. 

Read, M. C. The inscribed stone of Grave Creek mound. Am. Anti- 
quarian, Jan. 

. Stone tubes used in smoking tobacco. Am. Antiquarian, ii, 1. 

Redding, B. B. How our ancestors in the stone age made their imple- 
ments. Am. Naturalist, Nov. 

Reynolds, Elmer R. Aboriginal soapstone quarries in the District of 
Columbia. Rep. Peabody Museum, xii. 

Riviere, Emile. Paleoethnologie, ou l'antiqmte* de l'homme dans les 
Alpes-Maritimes. 4°. Livr. i, ii, iii. Paris, Bailliere. 

Rudlek, F. W. On jade and kindred stones. Pop. Sc. Rev., Oct. 

Rzehak, Anton. Recent discovery of prehistoric cemeteries near 
Monitz, in Mahren. Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, ix, 202. 

^Sand, M. Notice sur un atelier de silex taill6s des temps prehistoriques 
aux environs de La Chatre (Indre). 8°. La Chatre. 

Saville, B. W. The study of cuneiform archaeology. Clergyman's 
Mag., Nov. 

Sayce, A. H. The origin of early art in Asia Minor. Academy, Aug. 16. 

Shipp, B. Ancient artificial mounds. Louisville Mag., Jan., 7 pp. 

. Monuments of Gaul and Britain. Id., October. 

Short, John T. The North Americans of antiquity : their origin, mi- 
grations, and types of civilization considered. Harper & Bros. 

Simpson, W. The ancient remains at Bournabashi. London Acad., 
Nov. 1. 

. Buddhist remains, Jelalabad Valley. Ind. Antiquary, Aug. 

Skertchly, S. B. J. Cliff-dwellers of the far west. Century, July 26. 

. Date of the neolithic age. Paper read before the Brit. Assoc. 

Slafter, Rev. E. F. Prehistoric copper implements. N. E. Hist, and 
Gen. Register, Jan. 9. 

Smith, Worthington G. On palaeolithic implements from the valley 
of the Lea. J. Anthrop. Inst., Feb. 

Southall, J. C. The lapse of time since the glacial epoch. J. Vic- 
toria Inst. 

Teplouchoff, A. F. Archaologische Beitriige aus dem Osten Europas. 
Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, viii, 360-361, 1 pi. 

TEMPLiN,Rev. L. J. Antiquity of man. Kansas City Rev., Jane. 7 pp. 

Verneah. Habitations et sculptures des anciens habitants des iles 
Canaries. Rev. d'anthrop., avril. 

Vivanlt. L'age du bronze en Sardaigne; ddcouvertes aupres du vil- 
lage de Teti. Materiaux, 2° livr. 

Viguier. Les ancetres du cheval: le cheval sauvagerterEuropeetses 
rapports avec le cheval domestique, d'apres M. Ecker. Rev. scien- 
tifiquc, avril 5. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS DURING 1879. 457 

Vogeles, A. W. Notes on a lost race of America. Am. Naturalist, 

Jan. 
Vogt, Carl. Les migrations des animaux dans leurs rapports avec 

la distribution geographique ancienne et moderne. Eev. scienti- 

fique, avril 5. 
Waddell, J. A. The failures and fallacies of prehistoric archaeology. 

So. Presbyterian Eev., Oct. 
Wankel, H. Prahistorische Eisenschmelz und Schmiedestiitten in 

Mahren. Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, viii, 289-324, 1 pi. 
Whitley, N. Is palaeolithic man a reality of the past or a myth of 

the present % Journ. Psych. Med., April. (The author takes the 

ground that he is a myth.) 
Woolley, Chas. F. Sand-fields and shell-heaps. Am. Antiquarian, 

i,4. 
Woldrich, J. N. Upon wrought animal bones from the drift. Mitth. 

d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, ix, 196-202. 
Zaborowski, Callamand, and Girard de Eialle. Eeview of works 

on prehistoric archaeology. Eev. d'anthrop., juillet, 15 pp. 
Zaborowski, M. The age of stone in China. Assoc, fr. av. sc, 1878, 

835. 

III. — BIOLOGICAL ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Anoutchine, M. Capacity of the cranium in man. Assoc, fr. av. 
sc, 1878, 803. 

. Sur la pterion chez cliverses races humaines et les primates. 

Bull. Soc. d'anthrop., Paris, 1878, i, 330. 

Anthropometry. Eeport of Anthropometric Committee, Brit. Associ- 
ation. Nature, Sept. 18. 

Atkinson, G. M. On a scale to find cranial indices. J. Anthrop. 
Inst., Feb. 

Beaunis. Presentation d'un crane et d'un cerveau d'idiot microce- 
phalique. Mem. Soc. de med. de Nancy, 99. 

Benedikt, Moriz. Anatomical studies upon the brains of criminals. 
Vienna. 

. Ueber die Wahl der kraniometrischen Ebenen. Mitth. d'an- 
throp. Gesellsch. in Wein, ix, 1-10. 

Berenger-Feraud. Notes sur la fecondit6 des mulatres du Senegal. 
Eev. d'anthrop., octobre. 

Blake, Dr. Carter, Prof. Owen, and Prof. Busk. Notes and obser- 
vations on skulls brought by Capt. E. F. Burton from the East. J. 
Anthrop. Inst., Feb. 

Bordier, H. Etude anthropologique sur une s6rie de cranes d'assas- 
sins. Eev. d' Anthrop., avril. 

Brabrook, E. W. On an Echelle de couleurs published by the So- 
ciete stenochromique of Paris. J. Anthrop. Inst., Aug. 

Broca, P. Instructions relatives a l'etude anthropologique du systeme 
dentaire. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 3. s. ? ii, 128. 



458 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Broca, P. Crane de fellah et usure des dents. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. 

de Paris, 342. 

. La deformation toulousaine. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris. 

. Instructions gendrales pour les recherches anthropologiques a 

faire sur le vivant. 2 e ed. Par. 16°. 
. Localisations cer6brales. Becherehes sur les centres olfactifs. 

Bev. d'anthrop., juillet. 
. Sur des cranes de diverses races que M. Hortus a recueillis a 

Cayenne. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Par., ii, 177. 
. Sur la determination de Page inoyen. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. 

de Paris, 298, 318. 

Sur la faussete des resultats cephalometriques obtenus a l'aide 



du conformateurs des chapeliers. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Par., 

3. s., ii, 101. 
Burnett, Swan M. A systematic method for the education of the 

color sense in children. Central Dispensary, Washington, D. C. 
Calori, L. Anuotazioni sopra un cranio fenicio antico trovato in Sar- 

degna. Bull. d. sc. med. di Bologna, G. s., hi, 431. 
Dally, B. Craniologie. Diet, encycl. d. sc. med., Par., 1. s., xxii, 042. 
Degeneracao das actuaes ra9as humanas. Correio med. de Lisb., 

viii, 06. 
Delaunay, . La differentiation suivant les sexes. Gaz. d'hop., 

Paris, 1878, li, j091. 
Del Yecchio, G. S. Besearches upon the marriage of consanguins. 

Medico di casa, Milano, vii, 117, 120. 
Ecker, A. Ueber gewisse Ueberbleibsel embryonaler Formen in der 

Steissbeingegend beim ungebornen, neugeborneu, uud erwach- 

senen Menschen. Arch. f. Anthrop., xi, 281. 
Fenomenova, IS". Girth of the chest in relation to health and disease. 

Voyenno-med. J., St. Petersburg, 1878, exxxi, 89. 
Fere, Ch. Note sur le developpement du cerveau consid6r£ dans ses 

rapports avec le crane. Bev. d'anthrop., octobre. 
Flower, William H. Catalogue of specimens illustrating the oste- 
ology and dentition of vertebrated animals, recent and extinct, 

contained in the Museum of the Boyal College of Surgeons of En- 
gland. Part I, Man. London, David Bogue. 
. Exhibition of cranium of a native of one of the Fiji Islands. 

J. Anthrop. Inst., August. 
Geoffroy, J. La connaissance et la denominations des couleurs. 

Bull. Soc. d'anthrop., Paris, 322. 
Hesse, W. Bestimmungen des Gewichtes und Messungen der Korper- 

lange bei einem Kinde in ersten und zweiten Lebensjahre. Arch. f. 

Gynaek., Berl., xiv, 491. 
LTigiene de las razas prehistoricas. Siglo meil., Madrid, xxvi, 33, 19. 
Hillary, M. Some observations on the peculiarities of the capillary 

circulation of the negro. Med. Press and Circ, Loud., xxvii, 400. 
Hamy, M. Du prognathisme artificiel. Bev. d'anthrop., Janvier. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS DURING 1879. 459 

Hoffman, W. J. The Chaco cranium. Gov. Print. Office, Washington. 
. The practice of medicine and surgery by the aboriginal races 

of the southwest. Phila. Eeporter, Feb. 22. 
Hoffmann, . Constanztheorie und Individualpotenz im Vergleiche 

zur Verwaudtschaftszucht. Eepert. d. Thierh., Stuttg., xl, 1-18. 
Hovelacque, Aeel. Le crane des Burgundes du moyen age. Eev. 

d'anthrop., avril. 
. Nouvelle recherches sur le crane Savoyard. Eev. d'anthrop., 

Janvier. 
Joly, M. N. Types craniens dits primitifs. Machoires prehistoriques. 

Eev. scientifique, Jan. 18. (An illustrated review of all noted prehis- 
toric crania.) 
Julien, Alexis. De l'homotypie des membres thoraciques et abdo- 

minaux. Eev. d'anthrop., Janvier. 
Lacassagne et Cliqtjet. De l'influence du travail intellectuel sur 

le volume et la forme de la tfite. Bull. Soc. de med. pub., Par., i, 398. 
Lagneatt, G. Des deformations cephaliques en France^ Gaz. hebd. 

de med., Paris. 
Lathrop, W. H. Consanguineous marriages. Boston Med. and Surg. 

J., c. 837. 
Le Bon, Gustave. Eecherches anatomiques et mathematiques sur les 

lois de variation du volume du cerveau et du crane. Eev. d'anthrop., 

Janvier. 
Le Conte, J. Scientific relation of sociology to biology. Pop. Sc. Month., 

Jan., Feb. 
Livon, Marius. De l'omoplate et de ses indices de largeur dans les 

races humaines. 4°. Par. 
Lombrosa, C. De l'influence de l'orographie sur la stature. Ann. de 

demog. internat., Paris, hi, 59. 
Luschan, M. Brachycephalism and civilization. Assoc, fr. av. sc, 

1878, 825. 
Ltjssana, Filippo. Delle funzioni dei lobi anteriori del cervello 

umano. Gaz. med. ital. lomb., Milano, July. 
Manuelli, A., and C. Lombroso. Studii su 10G crani piemontesi. 

Gior. d. r. Accad. di med. di Torino, xlii, 502. 
Martin, Ernest. Histoire des monstres, vii, 415. 8°. Paris, Eeinwald 

&C ie . 
Modigliant, Leone. Di alcune hnee faciali trasverse nel cranio di 

varie razze. 
Mygge, J. Consanguineous marriage and deaf-mutes. Christiania. 
Kajdillac, Marquis de. Les trepanations prehistoriques. 8°. 11 pp. 

Paris, Genais. 
Pansch, Ad. Die Furchen and Wiilste am Grpsshirn. 8°. Berlin. 
Parker, A. J. Simian characters in negro brains. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

Sc, Phila., 339. 
Pasteau, Emile. Eecherches sur les proportions de la clavicule dans 

les sexes et dans les races. 4°. 104 p. Paris. 



4G0 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Patrick, John J. R. Dental fallacies. Ruinbold, St. Louis. 
Petersson, O. V. On weight of the body in first year of life. Upsala 

Llikaref. Forh., xiv, 45. 
Pozzi, Samuel. Du crane. Anatomie descriptive et chirurgicale. 

Paris. (Extrait factice duDict. encycl. des sciences m£dicales.) 
Eapillac, . Mensurations de cranes au Medoc (Gironde). French 

Assoc, 1878, 827. 
Regalia, E. Sopra un oso forato raccolto in un Nuraghe. Archiv. per 

l'antrop., ix, 1. 
Reich, E. Pathology of populations : a study upon the infirmities of 

mankind. Berlin. 
. Beitriige zur Anthropologic und Psychologic 8°. Braun- 
schweig. 
Riccardi, Dott. Paolo. Saggio di studii intorno alia pesca presso al- 

cune razze umane. Archiv. per l'antrop., ix, 1. 

. Fisiologia e alia espressione dell'uomo. 

. Studio intorno ad alcuni crani arancani. Milano. 

. Gli organi genitali femminei esterni. Modena. 

Rolleston, George. Notes on a skeleton found at Cissbury. J. An- 

throp. Inst., May. 
Scherzer, Dr. Karl. Resultate auf dem Gebiete der Anthropometric 

Petermann's Mitth., No. iv. 
Schmidt, Dr. Emil. Kraniologische Untersuchungen. Archiv fiir 

Anthrop., xii, 1. 
Schneider, Anton. Beitriige sur vergleichenden Anatomie und Ent- 

wickelungsgeschichte der Wirbel-Thierc 4°. Berlin. 
Taruffi, C. Delia macrosomia. Ann. univ. di med. e chir., Milano. 

ccxlvii, 339, 1 pi. 
Topinard, Paul. Review of important works on cranial deformations. 

10 pp. Rev. d'anthrop., juillet. 
. Sur une collection de cheveux europeens exposee dans la Gal- 

lerie d'anthropologie du Trocadero. Bull. Soc d'anthrop. de Paris, 

3. s., ii, 39. 

Sur deux cranes de Biskra. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 335. 



Turner, J. Notes on the dissection of a negro. J. Anat. & Physiol., 

Lond., xiii, 382. 
Turner, William. Report on recent memoirs on the anatomy of the 

brain. J. Anat, & Physiol., Lond., xiii, 26G-289. 
Vincent, IT. M. L'homme et le singe a i'exposition universelle. Nimes. 
Vitali, Vitale. Sopra alcuni casi di articolazione dell'odontoide con 

l'occipitale nell'uomo. Archiv. per l'antrop., ix, 1. 

. Studio statistico sui fori parietali. Archiv. per l'antrop., ix, 1. 

Voprosu, K. On determining the mechanical power of man. Med. 

Pribavlen, St. Petersb., 1878, xviii, 492-500. 
Weisbach, A. Anthropometric Progres incd., Par., vii, 353. 
Witt, Hugo. Die Schiidelform der Esten. Schnackcnburg, Dorpat. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS DURING 1879. 461 

Wright, J. S. Some measurements of the heads of males and females, 
showing that the brain of the male has a comparatively greater vol- 
ume in the anterior part of the cranial cavity, that the brain of the 
female has a comparatively greater volume in the superior part of 
the cranial cavity, and that education in the male and the female 
tends to increase the volume of the brain in the anterior part of the 
cranial cavity. Arch, of Med., N. Y., 1879-'S0, ii, 113. 

Zabarowski. Eeview of Ohudzinski's " Comparative anatomy of the 
cerebral convolutions," in Eev. d'anthrop., octobre. 

iv. — psychological anthropology. 

Alford, Dr. L. A. Psychological science. St. Louis Eclec. Med. Jour. 
Bertrand de Saint-Germain. L'intelligence dans la serie animale. 

Eev. scientifique, Paris, juin 21. 
Besser, Leopold. Der Mensch und seine Ideale. 8°. Bonn, 1878. 
Delbceuf, M. J. Psychologic comparee. Eev. scientifique, mai 24; 

also, juin 21. 
Faure, L. Au point de vue philosophique, il n'existe pas, en anthro- 
pologic, de races superieures et de races iuferieures. Gaz. nied. de 

PAlgerie, xxiv, 4-G. 
Fowle, T. W. The place of the will in evolution. Nineteenth Century, 

March. 
Galton, F. Psychometric facts. Eclectic Mag., May, G pp. 
Graham, Dr. C. C. What is mind % Have brutes a mind % The Age, 

May 10. 
Herzen, A. Delia natura dell'attivita psichica. Archiv. per l'antrop., 

ix, 1. 
Intellect in brutes. Nature, Nov. 13. Saturday Magazine, April 2G. 
Keich, Edward. Beitriige zur Anthropologic und Psychologic. 8°. 

Braunschweig, Vieweg u. Sohn. 
Kinsley, W. W. Mental life below the human. Penn. Month, Jan., 

21 pp. 
Lindsay, W. Lauder. Mind in the lower animals in health and dis- 
ease. London, C. Kegan, Paul & Co. Eeviewed in Nature, Nov. 6. 
. The moral sense in the lower animals. Pop. Sc. Month., Jan., 

1880. 
" Progress " : the alleged distinction between man and brute. Month. 

J. Sc, Feb. 
Psychological science: American anthropology. St. Louis Eclec. 

Med. Journ., April, 3 pp. 
Eoyer, Mine. Clemence. De la nature de beau. Extr. from La Philos. 

positive, Versailles. 
TnE Spiritual in animals. Month. J. Sc, May. Saturday Mag., July 

19. 
Wilkinson, W. Is conscience primitive f Pop. Sc. Mouth, March. 



4G2 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

V. — ETHNOLOGY. 

Afghanistan and the Afghans. Calcutta Eev., July. 

Afrique exploree et civilisee. Journal mensuel, premiere ann^e, 1879, 

1880 (No. 1, juillet 1879), Geneve (Sandoz). 
American Indians, notes and queries on. Missionary Eev., Sept. 
Aryas, discussion sur l'origine des. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 

3. s., ii, 185, 219, 260. 
Australia, the aborigines of. (Spectator.) The Century, May 17. 
Australia, the colored man in. (Fortnightly.) Eclectic, Sept. 
Australian peculiarities. (Saturday Eev.) Saturday Mag., Oct. 18. 
Baldwin, C. C. Early Indian migrations in Ohio. Am. Antiquarian, 

i, No. 4. 
Barrett, H. J. Fifteen years among the Zulus and Boers. London, 

Stanford. 
Beddoe, John. On the Bulgarians. J. Anthrop. Inst., Feb. 
Beerdohm, Julius. Wanderings in Patagonia. 8°. London. 
Bellew, H. W. Afghanistan and the Afghans. London, Low. 
Berenger-Feraud, L. I. B. Les peuplades dela Senegambie. Paris, 

E. Leroux. 
Bickmore, Albert S. The ethnology of the islands of the Indian 

and the Pacific Oceans. Illustrated by a large colored map. Am. 

Associati3n. 
Blunt, Anne. Bedouin tribes of the Euphrates. 2 vols. 8°. London. 
Bohemians (The) and Slovaks. Westminster Eev., Oct. 
Brazza, Count S. de. The native races of the Gaboon and Ogowa. 

Brit. Assoc, Sheffield. 
Broca, Paul. Sur les pretendus enarees du Caucase. Bull. Soc. 

d'anthrop., 73-76. 
Brown, E. The Zulus and their country. Saturday Mag., May 10. 

. The same subject. Miss. Herald, June. 

Bruhmet, M. A. Japan and her people. Potter's Am. Month., Oct. 
Boeher, Ernst. Die llawaiischeu Inseln. Deutsche Rundschau, July. 
Burmese, among the. (Fraser's Mag.) Living Age, Jan.-Fob. 
Cabul and its people. Saturday Mag., Nov. 8. 
Caird, J. The land and the people of India. Nineteenth Century, 

Sept., Oct. 
Cameron, Commander. The manners and customs of the people of 

Urua, in Central Africa. British Assoc, Sheffield. 
Campbell, John. On the origin of some American Indian tribes. 

Canadian Naturalist, ix, No. 4. 
Clint, Wm. The aborigines of Ca'nada under the British crown : glances 

at their customs, characteristics, and history. Trans. Lit. & Hist. 

Soc. Quebec, 187 7- 7! ). 
Coffinbuey, W. L. An exhibition of Indian character. Am. Anti- 
quarian, i, No. 4. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS DUEING 1879. 463 

D'Albertis, L. M. Fly Eiver, New Guinea. Proc. Eoy. Geog. Soc, 

Jan. 
Dawson, George M. The past and present condition of the Indians 

of Canada. Canadian Naturalist, ix, 3. 
Druids, the. 111. Leslie's Sunday Mag., July. 
Edson, O. Brodhead's expedition against the Indians of the Upper 

Allegheny, 1779. Mag. Am. Hist., Nov. 
Farber, J. A. Zululand and the Zulus. London, Kerby & Endean. 
Feraud, L. J. B. Berenger. Les peuplades de la Senegainbie. Paris. 
Fligier. Ethnologische Entdeckungen iu Bhodope-Gebirge. Mitth. 

d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, ix, 105. 
. Die Ursitze der Gothen. Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in 

Wien, Marz. 
Fontbertuis, Ad. F. de. L'einigration chinoise : son caractere, son 

importance, et sa distribution. Bev. scientiflque, mars 1. 
Force, M. F. Some early notices of the Indians of Ohio: to what race 

did the mound- builders belong? B. Clarke & Co., Cincinnati. 
Gerland, G. Die Indianer Californiens. Petermann's Mitth., vii, 241. 
Giglili, Enrico H. Nuovc notizie sui popoh negroidi dell'Asia e spe- 

cialmente sui Negriti. Archiv. per l'antrop., ix, 1. 
Griffis, W. E. The Ainos of Northern Japan. Leslie's Sunday Mag., 

May. 
Hamy, E. T. Essai de coordination des matdriaux recemment recu- 

eillis sur l'etlmologie des negrilles on pygines de l'Afrique equato- 

riale. Bull. Soc d'anthrop., 79-100. 
Hartmann, Bobert. Die Nigritier: eine anthropologische-ethnolo- 

gische Monographic Supplement to Zeitschrift fiir Ethnologie, 

500 pp. 
. Les peuples de l'Afrique. In Bibliotheque scientiflque inter- 

nationale. 
Hau-Haus in New Zealand, the. (London Quart.) Saturday Mag., 

Oct. 25. 
Hess, J. S. The Teuton in civilization. Beformed Quart. Bev., July. 
Hubbe-Schleiden, W. Etliiopen : Studien iiber West- Afrika. Ham- 
burg. 
Iroquois and Delaware Indians, notes on the. Penn. Mag. of Hist., 

viii. 
Ejeane, A. H. Finnic ethnology. Nature, Dec. 25. (A review of 

Finska Kramer. Gustav Retaius, Stockholm, 1878. Which affirms 

that the Finns are amongst the most recent arrivals from Asia.) 
. Who was Prince Alumayu ? Nature, Nov. 20. (In this letter 

will be found a valuable table of Abyssinian races.) 
Ky, T. V. Institutions et rnoeurs annamites. Phil, positive rev., dCc. 
Lawes, W. G. Ethnological notes on the Motu, Koitapu, and Koiari 

tribes of New Guinea. J. Anthrop. Inst., May. 
Lechevallier, A. Les Indiens seminolcs. Naturaliste canadien, 

aout. 



464 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Lewis, A. L. On the evils arising from the use of historical names as 

scientific terms. J. Anthrop. Inst., Feb. 
Maclay, M. Ethnological excursions in the Malay Peninsula. Journ. 

Straits Branch Roy. As. Soc, No. 2. 

. On the Agomes Islands. Nature, Nov. 20. 

Marche, Alfred. Trois voyages dans l'Afrique occidentale. Paris. 
Martin, Henri. Les traditions irlaudaises. Rev. d'anthrop., avril. 
Maurel. Sur les Aracouyennis et les Galibis (Guyane). 8°. Paris. 
Mauritius. Fraser's Mag., April. 

Mayer, S. R. T., and John Paget. Afghanistan. London. 
Meeker, N. C. The Utes of Colorado. Am. Antiquarian, i, No. 4. 
Montegut, EhiiLE. Les colonies de l'Afrique australe. Rev. dcs deux 

inondes, avril 15. 
Muller, Frederick. On the migration of races. (Allg. Ethno- 
graphic.) Pop. Sc. Month., Jan., 1880. 
Mundt TjAUFF, Th. Die schwarze Urbevolkerung des Philippinen und 

Molukken-ArCkipels, so wieder Inseln Celebes und Formosa. Natur, 

No. 33-36. 
Natchez and Yuchi, notes on the. Am. Antiquarian, ii, 1, 76. 
Noble, Professor (editor). The Cape and its people, &c, by South 

African writers. Capetown. 
Palgraye, W. Coates. The Ovaherero, or Damaras. So. African 

Folk-Lore Journal, May. 
Parkman, F. La Salle and the discovery of the Great West. Little, 

Brown & Co. 
Pine, Sir B. The Boers and the Zulus. Contemp. Review, June. 
Pinto, Major. On the native races of the headwaters of the Zambesi 

Brit. Assoc, Sheffield. 
Reclus, Elise. The earth and its inhabitants. In numbers, by sub 

scription. D. Appleton & Co. 
Rhys, J. Greeks and Goths : a study of the Runes. Academy, Aug. 23 
Rialle, Gerard DE. Les An as priicitifs. Rev. sc, mai 24. 
Robion, F. Observations critiques sur l'archeologie, etc., en ce qui con 

cerne la race celtique. Rennes. 
Russell, J. C. A sketch of New Zealand with pen and pencil. Am 

Naturalist, Feb. 
Sachau, IT. Afghanistan. Deutsche Rundschau, April. 
Schaaffhausen, H. Zehn Lapplander in Deutschland. Archiv f. 

Anthrop., xii, 1. 
Smith, LT. IT. Brazil. 111. Scribner's Mo., May-July. 
Stone, Octayius C. A few months in New Guinea. Sampson & 

Low. Reviewed in Nature, with ill., Nov. 20. 
Taylor, I. Greeks and Goths : a study of the Runes. McMillan. 
Topinard, Paul. Review of Flower's " Lectures on the indigenous 

races of the Pacific Ocean." and oi'Beddoe's "Anthropology of the 

county of Gloucester," in Rev. d'anthrop., octobre. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS DURING 1879. 4G5 

. Observation de negres albinos a Madagascar. Assoc. Fr., 

1878, 850. 
Ujfalvy, Ch. E. de. Les Galtchas et les Tadjiks (Kohistan). Eev. 

d'anthrop., Janvier. 

. Atlas anthropologique des penples dn Ferghanak. 8°. Paris. 

. Les Kachgariens, les Tarantchis, et les Bounganes. Eev. d'an- 

throp.. juillet. 
Vambery, Hermann. Die primitive Cnltnr des turko-tartarischen 

Volkes. Leipzig, Brock haus. 
Victoria, aborigines of. (Spectator.) Littell's Living Age, April 20. 
Waeber, Otto. Beitrage zur Anthropologie der Letten. Schnacken- 

burg, Dorpat. 
Waldhauer, Ferdinand. Zur Anthropologie der Liven. Schnaek- 

enburg, Dorpat. 
AYallace, A. B. New Guinea and its inhabitants. (Contemp. Rev.) 

Living Age, March 29, 13 pp. ; Pop. Sc. Month., April, May. 
Williams, Moniee. Afghanistan and the Punjaub. Contemp. Rev., 

Jan. 
Whitmee, S. J. The ethnology of Polynesia. J. Anthrop. Inst., Feb. 
. A revised nomenclature of the inter-oceanic races of man. J. 

Anthrop. Inst., May. 
. The ethnology of the Pacific. J. Victoria Inst. 



WiSKER, John. The colored man in Australia. Fortnightly, July. 
Wylie, A. History of the southwestern barbarians and Chaou-Seen. 

J. Anthrop. Inst., Aug. 
Victoria, the intellectual status of the aborigines of. Living Age, 

April 2G, 3 pp. 
Zulu and other weapons. Saturday Mag., April 5. 
Zulus, home life of the. Chambers' Journal, Sept. 

VI. — LINGUISTIC ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Abel, C. Language, and the Egyptian language. N. Englander, Nov. 

Adam, L. Du parler des homines et du parler des femmes dans la langue 
caraibe. Rev. linguistique, juillet. 

Aston, W. G. A comparative study of the Japanese and Korean lan- 
guages. J. Roy. Asiatic Soc, Aug. 

Bell, A. G-. Vowel theories. Am. Journ. Otology, July. 

Beetoneo, P. Ludovico. Vocabulario de la lengua aymara. Repub- 
lished by Zulio Platzmann. Leipzig. 2 vols. 8°. 

Blake, C. J. The logographic value of consonant sounds in relation 
to their transmission by telephone. Am. Journ. Otology, July. 

Bruiil, Gustav. On the etymology of the word u chichimecatl." Am. 
Antiquarian, ii, 1. 

Cain, Rev. J. Customs and languages of the Kois. Ind. Autiq., Feb. 

Calderwood, H. Expressions of emotions on the human countenance. 
Internat. Rev., Feb. 
S. Mis. 54 30 



466 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Charency, H. de. Vocabulaire frangais-nagranda. Rev. linguis- 
tique, juillet. 

Courdioux, Ph. E. Dictionnaire abr^ge" de la langue fo-gbe on da- 
homeenne. Actes de la Soc. philologique, ix. 

Cust, Robert. Modern languages of the East Indies. Triibner. 

Dennys, N. B. Pidgin English. Journ. Straits Branch R. As. Soc,, 2. 

Dupont, Dr. Essai sur la langue des Indiens galibis. Rev. linguis- 
tique, avril, 15 pp. 

East Indian languages. Missionary Herald, April, 2 pp. 

Farquharson, J. A. Tbe phouetic elements in American languages. 
Am. Antiquarian, Jan. 

Fisk, John. Review of linguistic and sociological works. In No. Am. 
Review, Aug. 

Gatschet, Albert S. Linguistic notes. In the American Antiquarian. 

. La famille linguistique Maskoki, et son dialect Hitchiti. 

Congres des americanistes, 3d sess. 

. Localbenennungen aus dem Berner Oberlande und dem Ober- 

wallis. Arch. d. historische Ver. d. Kantons Bern. 

. Volk und Sprache der Maklaks in sudwestlichen Oregon. 

Globus, Braunschweig, ISTos. 11 und 12. 

— . Farbenbenennungen in nordamerikanischen Sprachen. Ztschr. 

f. Ethnologie, Berlin, 293-802. 

. Adjectives of color in seven Indian lauguages. Am. Natural- 
ist, 475-485. 

. On syllabic reduplication a*s observed in Indian languages, and 

in the Klamath language of Southwestern Oregon in particular. 
Proc. 11th session Am. Pbilol. Assoc, 35-37. 

. Mythologic text in the Klamath language of Southern Oregon. 

Am. Antiquarian, i, 101-101). 

. Perez's Maya-Spanish Dictionary. Review in Am. Antiqua- 



rian, ii, 30-32. 
< 1 1 les, II. A. The book language of China. Nineteenth Century, Nov. 
Glossary of Anglo Indian terms. Indian Antiquary, June. 
Geammaire samoane. Rev. linguistique, octobre. 
Henry, V. Esquisse (Tune grammaire raisonnGe de la langue aleoute. 

Paris, Maisonneuve. Rev. linguistique, Janvier. 
. Sur le parler des hommes et le parler des femmes dans la 

langue ehiquita. Rev. linguistique, juillet. 
Houghton, W. Hieroglyphic or picture origin of the characters of 

the Assyrian syllabary. Trans. Soc. Biblical Archeology, vi. 2. 
Hovelacque, Abel. Les langues de FAsie sud-orientale. Kev. d'an- 

throp., Janvier. 
Irving, C. J. Suggest ions regarding a new Malay dictionary. Journ. 

Straits Branch Roy. As. Soc, 2. 
Kittle, Rev. F. Relationship of the Aryan and Dravidian families of 

speech. Indian Antiquary, Feb., March. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS DURING 1879. 4C7 

Languages of Australia, New Zealand. Ref. to Triibner's Catalogue, 
109, 110. 

Living and dead languages. The Age, May 10, 17. 

Losker, Eduard. Ursprung, Zweck, und Entwickelung der Spraehe. 
Deutsche Rundschau, Nov. 

Malay proverbs. Journ. of Roy. As. Soc, Straits Branch, No. 1. 

Mallery, Garrick. The sign-lauguage of the North American In- 
dians. Am. Association. 

Maxwell, W. E. Malay proverbs, ii. Journ. Straits Branch Roy. As. 
Soc, 2. 

Notice sur plusieurs langues indiennes de la Nouvelle Grenade. Rev. 
linguistique, juillet. 

Oppert, Gustav. On the classification of languages. Triibner. 

. On the classification of languages. Madras Jour, of Lit., No. 1. 

Oppert Jules. Le peuple et la langue des Medes. Paris. 

Perez, Don Juan Pio. Diccionario de la lengua niaya. Completed 
by Dr. Berendt ; contains 22,000 words. 

Ravenstein, E. G. Celtic languages in the British Isles: a statistical 
study. Journ. Statist. Soc, Sept. 

Sibley, Dr. Caddoquis or Caddo language. Am. Naturalist, Dec. 

Smith, C. E. The beginning of speech. The Voice, April. 

Societe philologique, Actes de la. Paris, E. Leroux. 

Tchutshisk language. A vocabulary of 300 words collected by the 
party of the Vega. 

Van Eys, I. W. J. Grammairecompareedesdialectes basques. Paris, 
1879. 

Vinson, J. Esquisse grammaticale de la langue de Goa. Rev. lin- 
guistique, octobre. 

Williams, Monier. Modern India and the Indians. Triibner. 

Williston, S. W. Indian pictographs in Western Kansas. Kansas 
City Rev., May. 

Yokohama pidgin : a new dialect. (New Quart. Rev.) Living Age, 
Aug. 23. Saturday Mag., Sept, 27. 

Yule and Burnell. Anglo-Indian terms. Ind. Antiquary, Aug. 

Zaborowski. L'origine du langage. Vol. 1, Bibliotheque utile. 

Zulu orthography. Living Age, June 14. 

vii. — industrial anthropology. 

Artisan of Japan and his work. The Builder, May 17. 

Burmiam, G. Some features of ancient engineering. Builder, Aug. 2. 
Am. Architect, Aug 9. 

Curious discoveries in regard to the manner of making Hint imple- 
ments by the aborigines and prehistoric inhabitants of America. 
(Scientific American.) Engineering and Mining Journ., Aug. 9. 

Development of art. National Quarterly Review, Jan., 25 pp. 

Eells, M. Indian music Am. Antiquarian, i, 4. 



468 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Gabies in Upper India, native cavalry. Saturday Mag., July 26. 
Ghosha, B. S. P. The music of Hindustan. Calcutta Rev., July. 
Gun flints and neolithic art. (Eng. Mechanic.) Saturday Mag., Aug. 23. 
Howland, H. R. Primitive arts and modes of life. Buffalo Soc. of 

Nat. Sc, March 15. 
Loftie, W. J. The oldest art in the world. (Macmillan's.) Eclectic, 

Dec. 
Music among the Malagasy. Musical Record, Oct. 4. 
Tylor, E. B. A history of games. (Fortnightly.) Eclectic, July. 

Century, June 7-14. Living Age, May 31. Pop. Sc. Month., June. 
. Backgammon among the Aztecs. (Macmillan's.) Pop. Sc. 

Month., Feb. Eclectic Mag., Feb. 
. Remarks on the geographical distribution of games. J. An- 



throp. Inst., Aug. 
Wainwright, A. Tbe origin and practice of polo. Scribner's Month., 
June. 

Yin. — SOCIOLOGY. 

Ainslee, I. G. Marriage customs. Potter's Am. Month., Sept., Oct. 
Aryan Society. Westminster Rev., July, 38 pp. 

B., E. The Indian as a coming citizen. Lippincott's Mag., Jan., 2 pp. 
Brooks, W. K. The condition of women from a zoological point of 

view. Pop. Sc. Month., June, July. 
Buckland, Miss A. AY. Ethnological hints afforded by the stimulants 

in use among savages and among the ancients. J. Anthrop. Inst., 

Feb. 
Burial customs : Choctaw, H. F. Buckner; Miami, R. S. Robertson; 

Ohio Valley, T. AY. Kinney; Mississippi Valley, T. Thompson ; Mis- 
souri River Valley, H. Martin; Indiana, M. A. Gavitt; Michigan. 

H. Little ; Tennessee. Am. Antiquarian, Sept. 
De Baye, J. Les amulettes craniennes. 8°. Tours. 
Del Vecchio, G. S. Sulle ricerche statistiche intorno ai matrimonio 

fra consanguine! e di loro effetti. Medico di casa, Milano, vii, 

117, 129. 
Denis, H. Des origines et de revolution du droit economique. Phil. 

positive rev., decembre. 
Fakirs of India. 111. Missionary Herald, May. 
Farrer, J. A. Primitive manners and customs. Henry Holt. 
Flower, AY. II. Illustrations of the mode of preserving the dead in 

Darnley Island and South Australia. J. Anthrop. Inst., May. 
Fouillee, Alfred. L'histoire naturelle des soci6te"s huinaines on 

unimulcs. Rev. des deux mondes, juillet, aout. 
Forms of salutations. Eclectic Mag., Jan. 
Giles, H. G. Cremation in China. Eclectic Mag., May, 5 pp. Sec, 

also, Philad. Reporter, March 29. 
Hoffman, W. J. Curious aboriginal customs. Am. Naturalist, Jan. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS DURING 1879. 469 

Hoffman, W. J. Practice of medicine and surgery by the aboriginal 
races of the Southwest. Med. & Surg. Sep., xl, No. 8, 157. 

Joly, 1ST. Origine des animaux domestiques. Eev. Sc, fevrier 22. 

Keene, H. G. Rural life in Northern India. Calcutta Eev., Jan. 

Knox, T. W. Festivals in India. Leslie's Pop. Month., Oct. 

Lagneau, G. Des deformations cephaliques en France. Gaz. hebd. 
de med., Par., 2. s., xvi, 72-75. 

Maeda, Masana. Funeral ceremonies in Japan. Eev. scientifique, 
Janvier 18. 

Marriage, archaic forms of. Calcutta Eev., Jan. 

Mknon, P. S. On the castes of Malabar. Madras Jour, of Lit., i. 

Mitter, B. P. C. Social life of the Aryas. Calcutta Eev., Jan. 

Mortillet, G. de. The origin of domestic animals. Am. Naturalist, 
Dec. 

Much, Dr. M. Baugen und Binge: eine Studie iiber das Eiuggeld und 
seinen Gebrauch bei den Germanen. 41 pp., 8 figs. (Exhaustive and 
with copious references.) Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, 
Mai. 

Mudge, B. F. Are the Indians decreasing! If so, why? 

Newman, F. W. The barbarism of civilization. Contemp. Eev., June. 

Oppert, G. On the ancient commerce of India. Madras Jour, of Lit., 
No. 1. 

Pickering, Charles. Chronological history of plants. 4°. 1238 pp. 

Proctor, E. A. The origin of the week. Contemp. Review, June. 

Recent investigations into archaic forms of marriage. Calcutta Eev., 
Jan. 

Eeicti, Edward. Beitriige zur Anthropologie und Psychologie mit 
Anwendung auf das Leben der Gesellschaft. 2. Ausg. Braun- 
schweig, F. Vieweg u. Sohn. 

Eembaugh, Dr. A. C. Our present race deterioration. Penn. Month., 
April. 

Eialle, Girard de. Sociologie et anthropologie. Eev. d'anthrop., 
avril. (A series of reviews upon Espiuas, Herbert Spencer, Perez, 
and C. Staniland Wake.) 

Biggs, Eev. A. L. Indian education not an experiment. 

Sanderson, John. Polygamous marriage among Kaffirs of Natal and 
countries around. J. Anthrop. Inst., Feb. 

Shipp, B. Gallic mythology. Louisville Mag., Dec. 

Sibree, James. Relationships and the names used for them among 
the peoples of Madagascar, chiefly the Ilovas, together with obser- 
vations upon marriage, customs, and morals among the Malagasy. 
J. Anthrop. Inst., Aug. 

Sociology of ants. (Spectator.) Eclectic, Sept. 

Spencer, Herbert. Ceremonial institutions; being part iv of the 
Principles of Sociology. Williams & Norgate. 

Studder, Dr. Th. Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Iluudraccn in den Pfahl- 
bauten. Archiv fur Anthrop., xii, 1. 



470 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Sumner-Maine, H. De reorganisation juridique de la famille cnez les 
Slaves du sud et ckez les Rajpoutes. 8°. Paris, Thorin. 

Wake, C. Staniland. The primitive human family. J. Anthrop. lust., 
Aug. 

Williams, A. M. A grand council at Okmulgee. Lippincott's Mag., 
Sept. 

IX. — THE SCIENCE OF RELIGION. 

Boscawen, W. Notes on Assyrian religion and mythology. Trans. 

Soc. Biblical Archaeology, vi, 2. 
Brown, R., jr. Archaic solar-cult of Egypt, ii. Theolog. Rev., Jan. 
Budge, E. A. Assyrian incantations to lire and water. Trans. Soc 

Biblical Archaeology, vi, 2. 
Charency, M. de. Ages cosmiques, d'apres la mythologie mexicaine 

I. Annales de phil. chretienne, novembre. 
Conway, Moncure D. Deinonology and devil lore. Chatto & Win 

dres. 
Darmesteter, J. The Supreme God in the Indo-European mythol 

ogy. Contemporary Rev., Oct. 
De Baye, J. Les amulettes craniennes a Page de la pierre polie. 8° 

Tours. 
Dowson, John. A classical dictionary of Hindu mythology. Trubner 
Dyer, T. T. Roses and their folk-lore. Saturday Mag., Sept. 27. 
Eells, M. The religion of the Clallam and Twana Indians. Am. An 

tiquarian, ii, 1. 
Farrer, J. A. Fairy lore of savages. Saturday Mag., Jan. 4, 8 pp 

Pop. Sc. Month., suppl., Feb. 
Fetish, or rag-bushes in Madagascar. Saturday Mag., Nov. 
Folk-lore of the Magyars. See Triibner's Catalogue, 111. 
Foster, T. Nature myths in nursery rhymes. Gentleman's Mag., Jan. 
Gaidoz, Henri. Esquisse de la religion des Gaulois. Paris. 
Gatschet, A. S. Mytbologic text in the Klamath language. Am. An- 
tiquarian, Jan. 
Henderson, J. G. Superstitions among the ancient inhabitants of the 

Mississippi Valley relative to the owl. Am. Association. 
. Superstitions among the ancient inhabitants of the Mississippi 

Valley relative to thunder. Am. Association. 
Hoare, J. N. Religion of the ancient Egyptians. Living Age, Jan. 

4, 9 pp., from Nineteenth Century. 
Keary, C. F. Myths of the sea and the River of Death. Contemporary 

Rev., Oct. 
Lenormant, F. The deluge: its traditions in ancient nations. Con- 
temporary Rev., Nov. 
McClintock, Letitia. Beasts, birds, and insects in Irish folk-lore. 

Belgravia, Nov. 
. Cavau superstitions. Eclectic, Jan., 4 pp. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS DURING 1879. 471 

Minort, Prof. Pre-Homeric legends of the voyage of the Argonauts. 
Dublin Rev., Jan. 

Much, M. Ueber die Kosinogenie und Antliropogenie des germanischen 
Mythus. Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellseh. in Wien, viii, 324-3512. 

Muller, F. Max. Lectures on the origin and growth of religion, etc. 
8°. Scribner & Welford. 

Muller, F. Max (editor). The sacred books of the east. Vol. I. The 
Upanishads ; translated by F. Max Muller. Vol. II. The sacred laws 
of the Aryas ; translated by Georg Biibler. Vol. III. The sacred 
books of China ; translated by James Legge. Oxford, the Claren- 
don Press. 

Paley, T. A. The origin of the solar myth. Dublin Rev., July. 

Peet, Stephen D. Traces of Bible facts in the traditions of all na- 
tions. Am. Antiquarian, Jan. 

PnENE, J. S. Dragon worship. Builder, Aug. 30. 

Powell, J. W. My thologic philosophy. Pop. Sc. Month., Nov. (This 
paper was delivered before Section B of the American Associatino 
as a vice-president's address. It explains the author's theory that 
all mythology is an inquiry into the cause of phenomena from the 
stand-point of the inquirer.) 

Ralston, W. R. S. Cinderella. Nineteenth Century, Nov. 

Rialle, Girard de. La inythologie comparee. Rev. scientifique, 
Janvier 25. 

Rialle, Girard de. La mythologie comparee. Reviewed in Rev. d'an- 
throp., octobre, by Andre Lefevre. 

Riccardi, Dr. The worship of water. Revista Europea, Sept. 

Rogers, E. T. Amulets and mottoes. J. Roy. As. Soc, i. 

Spencer, Herbert. The data of ethics. D. Appleton & Co. 

Thompson, E. LI. Atlantis not a myth. Pop. Sc. Month.. Oct. 

Vizetelly, E. Blue Beard. (Gentleman's Mag.) Saturday Mag., 
April 5, 3 pp. 

Walhouse, M. J. Rag bushes and kindred observances. J. Anthrop. 
lust., Aug. 

West of Scotland folk lore. Chambers' Journ., Sept. 

Westward spread of some Indian metaphors and myths. Indian An- 
tiquary, June. 

Williams, Monier. Indian folk lore. Indian Antiquary, Aug. 

. Indian mother worship. Atheu., Dec. (>. 

Wilson, J. Folk-lore notes. Ind. Antiquary, Aug. 

X. — THE INSTRUMENTALITIES OF RESEARCH. 

Allgemeine Versa mmlung der deutschen anthropologischen Gesel?- 

schaft zu Strassburg, Aug. 11-13. 
Anales del museo nacional de Mexico. 
Antananarivo and Madagascar Magazine. Published by the mission 

aries of the London Missionary Society since 1875. 



472 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. Journ., vol. 
viii, 3 and 4 ; ix, 1 and 2. 

Anthropologische Gesellschaft at Vienna. Mittheilungen, i, 187G. 

Archaeological Institute of America. Edward H. Greenleaf, sec. 
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Mass. (An association for promot- 
ing and directing archaeological investigation and research.) 

Archiv fiir Anthropologic, i, 1806. Organ der deutschen Gesellschaft 
fur Anthropologic, Ethnologie und Urgeschichte. 

Aueiiivio per l'antropologia e la etnologia, i, 1871. Organ of the 
Societa italiana di antropologia e di etnologia. 

Association fraugaise pour Favancement des sciences. Comptes- 
rendus. 
1-G, 1871-'7G. 

Bandelier, Ad. F. The National Museum of Mexico and the sacrificial 
stones. Am. Antiquarian, ii, 1. 

Barber, E. A. Anthropological news in the American Antiquarian. 

. Archaeology and ethnology of the Permanent Exhibition, Phila- 
delphia. 

Barenbach, Friedrich von. Principles of a critical philosophy: 
prolegomena to an anthropological philosophy. Leipzig, J. A. 
Barth. 

Beauvois, E. Les nouvelles publications d'archeologie septentrionale. 
Materiaux, 4 C livr. 

Berliner Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologic, Ethnologie und Urgeschichte. 
Verhaudluugeu, 1871. 

Bertillon, Jacques. Review of Jourdanet's " Histoire veridique de la 
conquete de la Nouvelle-Espagne, par le oapitaine Bernal Diaz del 
Castillo" (Paris, G. Masson). In Rev. d'anthrop., avril. 

BiBLiOGRAPniE paleoethnologique italienne pour l'annee 1878. Mate- 
riaux, 3° livr. 

British Association for the Advancement of Science. Eeports 1-45, 
1831 -'75. 

British Association, Sheffield. (Papers on Africa and Afghanistan 
were read before the geographical subsection.) 

Calcutta Review. 

Callamand, E. Review of the most important papers of the Bull. Soc. 
d'anthrop. de Paris for 1877. In Bev. d'anthrop., avril. 

Cape Monthly Magazine. 

Catalog dcrantliropologischen Sainmlungcn der Universitiit Freiburg. 
Arch. f. Anthrop., xi, suppl., 86 pp. 

ChANTEB, E. Inauguration du Musre anthropologique de Lyon. Bull. 
Soc. d'anthrop. <!<■ Par., is7«>, ii, 122. 

Comite d'archeologie americaine. a. Actes publics sous la direction 
de la commission do redaction par les secretaires, tome I, i-iii, 
1805. b. Annua ire, 18G3-18G7. 1 v, 8°. Continued in the Societe 
americaine de France. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS DURING 1879. 473 

Congres des anthropologistes allemands en 1878. Mat6riaux, 2 e livr. 
Congres international des arnericanistes. Comptes-rendus, 1875. 2 v. 

8°. 
Congres international des arnericanistes. Troisieme session. Bru- 

xelles, du 23 au 2G septeiubre. 
Congres international des orientalistes. Coinptes-rendus, sess. 1-2, 

1873-'71. 
Congres internationaux d'anthropologie, etc. Rev. sc, lev. 1. 
First congress at Neuchatel, 18GG. E. Desor, president. 
Second congress at Paris, 1867. Edonard Lartel, president. 
Third congress at Norwich, 18(58. John Lubbock, president. 
Fourth congress at Copenhagen, 1869. Professor Worsaae, president. 
Fifth congress at Bologue, 1871. Count Gozzadiui, president. 
Sixth congress at Bruxelles, 1873. Omalius d'Halloy, president. 
Seventh congress at Stockholm, 1871. M. Hamilton, president. 
Eighth congress at Budapest, 1876. M. Pulszky, president. 
Congress of Orientalists at St. Petersburg, third international. Pro- 
ceedings published in June. 
Cust, Robert. Report on anthropological proceedings at the Oriental 

Congress at Florence, Sept. 12-18, 1878. J. Anthrop. Inst., Feb. 
Deutsche Gesellschaftfiir Anthropologic, Ethuologie, and Urgeschichte. 

(General meetings are migratory.) Allgemeine Versammlung, 1873. 
Deutsche morgenlandische Gesellschaft, Leipzig. Abhandlungen, i, 

1859; Jahresbericht, 1815; Zeitschrift, i, 1817. 
Dorsey, J. Owen. Suggestion to collectors of ethnological material. 

Am. Antiquarian, Jan. 
Dutrieux and Cambier. Association internationale africaine. 8°. 

61 pp. Bruxelles, Etterbeik. 
Evans, John. Presidential address before the Anthropological Institute 

of Great Britain and Ireland. J. Anthrop. Inst., May. (This is an 

admirable resume of the work of the institute for one year.) 
Fondouce, P. Cazalis de. La Societe royale des architects et arcke- 

ologues portugais. 
Folk -Lore Society's Record. (Mr. Tlromas Satchell has a bibliography 

of folk-lore in preparation.) 
French Association for the Advancement of Science, at Montpellier. 

Account in Rev. d'anthrop., octobre. 
Ueger, Franz. Aus dem Sammlungen des Hofmuseums in Wien. 

Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellseh. in Wien, Mai. 
Issaurat. Review of the principal Italian works on anthropology for 

1878. In Rev. d'anthrop., avril. 
Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. 
Kaltbrunner, D. Manuel du voyageur. 8°. 762 pp. Zurich, Wurster. 
Lagneau, Gustav. Carte ethnologique de France. Rev. d'anthrop., 

juillet, 
Lenhossek, J. Study of anthropology essential to modern education. 

Orvosi hetil., Budapest, xxiii, 489. 



474 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Leypoldt. American Catalogue. 

Madras (The) Journal of Literature and Science. 

Mason, O. T. Anthropological notes. Am. Naturalist, Jan.-Dec. 

. Translation of Paul Broca's discourse at the opening of the 

International Congress of Anthropological Sciences. Am. An- 
tiquarian, i, No. 4. 

Materiaux pour l'histoire de l'homme, i, 1864. Toulouse, France. See 
Scudder's Catalogue, 1440. 

Moreau, Emile. Notice sur la carte prehistorique du departement de 
la Mayenne. Materiaux, 4 e livr. 

Mortillet, G. de. Le Congres anthropologique de Moscou. Eev. 
sc, novembre 22. 

. L'Exposition anthropologique de Moscou. Eev. sc, novembre 1. 

Munchener Gesellschaft fur Anthropologic, Ethnologie uud Urge- 
schichte. Beitriige zur Anthropologic und Urgeschichte Bayerns, 
i, 1876. 

Nature. London, vol. 1-15, 18G9-80. 

New Zealand Institute. Transactions and proceedings. Wellington, 
i, 1868. 

Ohlenschlager, Prof. F. Prahistorische Karte von Bayern, im An- 
schluss an die von deutschen anthropologischen Gesellschaft vor- 
bereitete prahistorische Gesammtkarte Deutchslands. Beitriige zur 
Anthrop. Bayerns, Bd. iii, Heft 1, Munich. 

Philosophical Society of Victoria, Philosophical Institute of Victoria, 
and Royal Society of Victoria, Australia. (All publish transactions.) 
Scudder, 3846-3848. 

Pommerol, F. Nouvclles publications d'anthropologie de langue alle- 
mande. Materiaux, 5 e livr. 

Eambaud, Alfred. Le Congres de Kazan. Eev. scientifique, avril. 

Eevue d'anthropologie, i, 1872. Paris, France. 

Eevue orientale et americaine, Paris. See Scudder, No. 1528. 

Eialle, Girard de. Eeview of the eighth congress of German an- 
thropologists at Constance (1877). Eev. d'anthrop., avril. 

. Eeview upon the ninth congress of anthropologists at Kiel, 

1878. 

Eosny, Leon de. Le Congres international des americanistes a Bru- 
xcllcs. Eev. sc, oct. 11. 

Eoyal Asiatic Society of London, Auxiliaries. Scudder's numbers: 
Bengal, 3780; Calcutta", 379Q*; Ceylon, 3793 ; Hong Kong, 3795; 
Madias, 3799; Shanghai, 3811; Yokohama, 3825. 

Eoyal Society of London. (For a resume' of publications, see Scudder's 
Catalogue.) 

Eoyal Society of Northern Antiquaries, Copenhagen. Aunales, M - 
moires, Eevue arch^ologique, and Bulletin. See Scudder's Cata- 
logue. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS DURING 1879. 475 

Sabin (Joseph) & Sons. A dictionary of books relating to America 

from its discovery to the present time. Parts lxvii and lxviii. 8°. 

(An indispensable work of reference to students, which should be 

in every public library.) 
Saint Louis Loan Exhibition of Archaeology, 1879. No date. 
Schaaffhausen, H. Notes upon various anthropological meetings in 

France and Germany, well worked up. Archiv f. Authrop., xii, 1, 

pp. 105-128. 
Societe americaine de France, Paris. See Scudder's No. 1553. 
Societe d'anthropologie de Paris. Bulletins and M^moires. Scudder, 

1550. 
Societe asiatique de Paris. Journal and Rapports. Scudder, 1561. 
Society of Biblical Archaeology. Transactions, 1872, i. 
Society of the Friends of Natural Sciences at Moscow. Account in 

Rev. d'anthrop., octobre. 
Spingel, J. YY. Die von Blnmenbach gegriindete anthropologische 

Saminlung der TJniversitiit Gottingen. Arch. f. Authrop., xi, Suppl., 

93 pp. 
Stieda, L. P. Die anthropologische Ausstellung in Moscou, I, i, 1879. 

12°. Dorpat. 
Transactions and proceedings of the New Zealand Institute. 
Tylor, E. B. Recent anthropology. Pop. Sc. Month., Dec. (British 

Association address.) 
Yaux, W. S. W. Works on oriental learning, published in 1878. An- 
nual Rep. Roy. As. Soc. 
Versammlung (Gesellschaft der) der deutschen Naturforscher und 

Aerzte. (Corresponds to the American Association.) See Scudder, 

2220. 
Yersammlung osterreichischer Anthropologen und TJrgeschichtefor- 

scher in Laibach, 28, 29 Juli, 1879. Mittheilungen, Mai. 
Victoria Institute, or Philosophical Society of Great Britain, a. An- 
nual address and report, i, 1807. b. Journal of the transactions, 

i, 1807. 
Weisbaoh, A. Anthropometric Progres m&L, Par., 1879, vii, 353. 
Zaborowski. Section d'authropologie de 1' Association francaise pour 

l'avancement des sciences, Paris, 1878. Rev. d'anthrop., Janvier. 
Zeitschrift fur Ethuologie und ihre HUlfswissenschaften. Berlin, i, 

18G9. 



476 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



INDEX TO PAPERS OX ANTHROPOLOGY PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION, 1841 TO 1818. 

By George H. Boehmer. 

The letters and dates in the margin indicate whether the paper was 
published in the Contributions to Knowledge, quarto, and in which volume 
(S. C, i to xxii) ; in the Miscellaneous Collections, octavo (M. C, i to xvii) ; 
or in the Annual Reports, octavo (R., 1847 to 1878, &c.) ; while the figures 
in the last column refer to the number assigned to the communication in 
the List of Publications of the Smithsonian Institution. 



Authors, localities, and subjects. 



Abbott, Dr. C. C, stone ago in New Jersey 

Aboriginal inhabitants of the California Peninsula, as given by Jacob Baegert, ) 

translated by Charles Rau 5 

Aboriginal monuments of New York, by E. G. Squier ii.. 

Aboriginal ruins at Savannah, Tenn., by J. Parish Stelle 

Aboriginal ruins on the Williams farm, Hardin County, Tennessee, by J. Parish 



St, ■lie 



Aboriginal structnres in Georgia, by Charles C Jones, jr 

Africa, stono celts in, by George J. Gibbs 

Agnew, Samuel A., mounds in Mississippi 

Agricultural flint implements, deposit of, in Southern Illinois, byCharles Ran 

Agricultural implements of North American stone period, by Charles Rau 

Alabama, Mobile River, shell-heaps on, by A. S. Gaines und K. M. Cunningham . . . 

Aleutian Islands, remains of later prehistoric man, by W. U. Dall xxii.. 

America, ancient history of, by Dr. M. Much 

Ancient monuments in the Mississippi Valley, byE. G. Squier and Dr. E. H. Davis, i. . 

Anderson, W., antiquities of Perry County, Ohio 

Anthropological inquiry, by Charles Darwin 

Antiquities. See under the States and countries. 

Archaeological collections in the V. S. National Museum, by Charles Rau . . . .xxii. . 

Archaeological Congress, International ... . 

Archaeological investigations in the United States, instructions for, prepared by 

George Gibbs .. 

Archaeology and ethnology, circular for viii. . 

Archaeology, general views on, by A. Morlot 

Archaeology, Mexican, and history, by Brantz Mayer ix. . 

Archaeology, North American, by John Lubbock 

Archaeology of the United states, by S. F. Haven viii. . 

Archaeology, prehistoric, international code of symbols for charts of 

Arizona, ancient ruin in, b\ J.C.Y, Lee 

Arizona, Pimo Indians of, by Capt. P. E. Grossman 

Arizona, Tonto Apaches, by Capt. Charles Smart 

Arkansas, earl hworks in, by Mrs. Gilbert Knapp 

Arkansas, Phillip County, ancient pottery from, byJ. H.Devereux 

Arrow-heads, deposit of, mar Fishkill, \. V., by Bdw. M. She paid 

Atlas, physical, of North America, by G. Gibbs 

LJaegert, Jacob, aboriginal inhabitants of California Peninsula J 

Bailey, W. B. P., antiquities of Georgia 

Barrandt, Dr. A., ancient earthworks on the Upper Missouri 

Barrandt, Dr. A., on Haj Btack Mound. Dakota 

Bartram, John, antiquities of Florida 

Read, colored, from a mound at Black Hammock, Florida, by A. M. Harrison 

Bead, polychrome, from Florida, Prof. s. s. Baldeman, by... 

Berendt, Dr. ( '. II., historical documents in Guatemala 

Berendt, Dr. C. II., on the < iarib language 

Bertboud, E. L., ancient remains in Colorado 

Berthoad, 1". I,., antiquities of Colorado 

Blondel, s., on Jade 

Rl\ den, Ed. I>.. mixed races of Liberia 

Do wen, T. J., Yoruba grammar and dictionary X.. 

Boweis, Rev. Stephen, Santa Rosa Island, California 



R 
E. 
K. 
S.C. 
E. 

E. 
R 
R. 

E. 

It. 

R. 

E. 
S.C. 

R. 
S.C. 

R. 

E. 

S.C. 
E. 

R, 
M.C. 

R. 
S.C. 

E. 
S.C. 

E. 

Ii. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

E. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

E. 

K. 

R. 

K. 

E. 

II. 

R. 

E. 

E. 

R. 

R. 

E. 

R. 
S.C. 

R. 



1875 
1863 
1864 
1850 

lh70 

1870 
1877 
1877 
1867 
1868 
1863 
1S77 
1878 
1871 
1848 
1874 
1867 

1876 

1866 

1861 
1867 
I860 
1 856 
1 B62 
1856 
1875 
1872 
1871 
1807 
1877 
1872 
1873 
1866 
1863 
1864 
I8T7 
1870 
L872 
1874 
1.-77 
1877 
1 B76 
1873 
L867 
ls-71 
1876 
1870 
1858 
1877 I 



187 

188 

15 

244 

244 
323 

323 
215 

224 
187 
323 
318 
249 
1 
286 
215 

287 
214 

149 
205 
147 

86 
150 

71 
298 
271 
249 
215 
323 
271 
323 
214 
187 
188 
323 
244 
271 
286 
323 
323 
299 
275 
215 
J49 
299 
244 

98 
323 



INDEX TO PAPERS ON ANTHROPOLOGY. 



477 



Authors, localities, and subjects. 



Bracket, Col. A. G., on the Sioux or Dakota Indians 

Brain and marrow of animals, uses of, amoug the Indians of North America, by 
T. R. Peale 

Breed, E. F., earthworks in Wisconsin 

Breed, E. E., pits at Embarrass, Wis 

Bridgemnn, Laura, vocal sounds of, by Francis Lieber ii.. 

Brinton, I). G., artificial shell deposit's in the United States 

British America. Tinneh Indians of , 

Broca, Paul, troglodytes in the valley of the Vezere 

Brown. D., on shell-heaps in Georgia 

Bruff, J. (r., Indian engravings along Green River Valley 

Bryan, Oliver N., antiquitiesd' Chailes County, Maryland 

Burial "round and ancient fort in Tompkins County, New York, by David Trow- 
bridge . .. 

Burial mound in Indiana, by William Pidgeon 

Burial of an Indian squaw, account of, by W. M. King 

California, aboriginal inhabitants of < 

California, cave in Calaveras County, by J. D. Whitney 

California, graves and shell-heaps, by Paul Schumacher 

California, Indians of, by Stephen Powers 

( 'alii'oriiia. Santa Posa Island, by Rev. Stephen Bowers 

Canada West, Prescott, remains near, by W. E. Guest 

Cannon. George L., antiquities of Colorado 

Cape Flattery, Indians of, by James < ;. Swan .xv 

Cara Gigantesca. of Yzamal, Yucatan, remarks on, by Dr. Arthur Schott . . - 

Carib language, by Dr. C. H. Berendt 

Carleton, Major, excursion to Ab6, Quarrd, and Gran Quivira, N. M 

Cave-dwellers. See Troglodytes. 

Cave in Calaveras County, California, by J. D. Whitney 

Chase, 11. P>., flint implements in Holmes County, Ohio 

Chepewyan Indians. See Tinneh. 

Chinook jargon, dictionary of, by G. Gibbs vii.. 

Clark, \V. M., antiquities of Tennessee 

Cochrane, J., antiquities of Mason County, Illinois 

Colorado, ancient remains in, by E. L. Berlhoud 

Colorado, antiquities of Clear Creek and Jefferson Counties, by George L. Cannon.. 
Colorado, Weld County, antiquities on the Cache la Poudre River, by E. L. Berthoud 

Comfort, Dr. A. J., mounds near Port Wadsworth, Dakota 

Connecticut, ancient implement of wood, E. W. Ellsworth 

Consanguinity and affinity, systems of, by L. II. Morgan xvii.. 

Coptic km miage, introduction to the study of the, by M. Kabia 

Coronado's march in search of tho "seven cities of Cibola," &c, by General J. W. 

Simpson, U. S. A 

Crania Helvetica, by Fred. Troyon 

Crook. General George, arrow and fire making 

Culbertson, Thadd. A., Sioux of the Upper Missouri 

Cunningham, K. M., shell-heaps on Mobile 1 liver 

Cushing, Frank II., antiquities of Orleans County, Now York 

Cults, J. B., ancient relics in Northwestern Iowa 

Dakota, Fort Wadsworth, mounds near, by Dr. A.J. Comfort 

Dakota grammar and dictionary, by S. K. Uiggs iv.. 

Dakota Indians. See Sioux. 

Dakota, Lincoln County, mound in, by A. Barrandt 

Dall, W. II., on later prehistoric man in Alaska xxii.. 

Danilson A. F., mound in Fast Tennessee 

Darwin, Charles, anthropological inquiry . ... 

Davis, A. ('.. antiquities of Isle Royalc, Lake Superior 

Davis, Dr. E. II., on ethnological research 

Davis. See E. ( !. Squier. 

Dayton, E. A., explorations in Tennessee 

Dean, C. K., on mound in Wisconsin 

Deposit of arrow-heads near Fish kill, X. Y., by Edw. M. Shepard 

1>. posits of Hint implements in the United States, bj J. I. Snyder 

Desor, E., palafittes of Lake Neuch&tel ' '. 

Devereux, J. II.. ancient pottery from Arkansas , 

Devereux, J. H., relics presented to the Smit bsonian Institution 

Dille, I., sketch of ancient earl awork in Ohio 

District of Columbia, Washington, pn historic remains in the vicinity of 

Doyle, Dr. W. F., on Indian toils and dwellings .' '. 

Drilling in stone without metal, by Chailes Kail 

Dunning, E. 0., antiquities in T< nnessec . 

Earthwork, double-walled, in Ashtabula County, Ohio, by Stephen D. Peet 

Earthworks, ancient, of Ashland County, Ohio,' by George W. Hill 

Earthworks, ancient, on tho Upper .Missouri, by A. Barrandt 

Earthworks in Wisconsin, by E. E. Breed .' 

Earl h works on the Arkansas River, Arkansas, by Mrs. Gilbert Knapp 

Earthworks, ancient, sketch of, by I. Dillc 



R. 


1876 


R. 


1870 


R. 


1872 


R. 


1877 


S.C. 


1850 


R. 


18GG 


R. 


1806 


R. 


1872 


P. 


1871 


R. 


1872 


R. 


1874 


R. 


1863 


R. 


1867 


R. 


1874 


R. 


1863 


R. 


1864 


R. 


1867 


It. 


1K74 


R. 


1876 


R. 


1877 


R. 


1856 


R. 


1877 


S.C. 


1870 


R. 


1869 


R. 


1873 


R. 


1854 


R. 


1867 


R. 


1877 


M.C. 


1863 


R. 


1877 


R. 


1877 


R. 


1867 


R. 


1*77 


P. 


1871 


R. 


1871 


R. 


1876 


S.C. 


I860 


R. 


1867 


R. 


I860 


R. 


1864 


R. 


1871 


R. 


1 850 


R. 


1867 


R. 


1874 


R. 


1872 


R. 


1871 


S.C. 


1852 


R. 


1872 


S.C. 


1878 


R. 


1863 


R. 


1867 


P. 


1874 


R. 


1866 


R. 


1870 


R. 


1872 


P, 


1877 


R. 


1876 


P. 


1865 


P. 


1872 


P. 


1872 


P. 


I860 


It. 


1872 


P. 


1876 


K. 


1 868 


i;. 


1870 


i;. 


1876 


i;. 


1877 


R. 


1870 


R. 


1872 


P. 


1877 


R. 


1866 



244 
271 
323 
12 
214 
214 
271 
249 
271 
286 

187 
215 

286 
187 
188 
215 
286 
299 
323 
91 
323 
220 
228 
275 



215 
323 

161 
323 

323 
215 
323 
249 
249 
299 
218 
215 

228 
188 
249 

28 
322 
286 
271 
24g 

40 

271 
318 
187 
215 
286 
214 

244 
271 
323 
299 

209 
271 
271 
214 
271 
299 
224 
214 
299 
323 
244 
271 
323 
214 



478 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Authors, localities, and subjects. 



Elephant mound in Grant. Count.v, "Wisconsin, bv Jared Warner 

Engravings on the face of rocks tlong Green River Valley, in the Sierra Xevada, 

by J. G. Bruff 

Estes, Dr. L. C, antiquities of Minnesota 

Ethnological research, a communication lrom Dr. E. H. Davis 

Ethnology and philology, instructions for, by G. Gibbs vr . 

Ethnology, from the London Athoneum 

Etnnology, present state of, in relation to the form of the human skull b,' Prof. 

Anders Retzius 

Ethnology, physical, lecture on, by Dr. Daniel Wilson 

Europe, high antiquity in, by A. Morlot 

Europe, Middle, fauna, &c..oyDr. L. Riitimcyer 

Farquharson, Dr. R. J., skull and long bones lrom mound in Illinois 

Fauna of Middle Europe during the stone ago, by Dr. L. Riitimeyer 

Finck, Hugo, antiquities in the state of Vera Cruz, Mexico 

Eire, Indian mode of obtaining, and of making arrow -heads, by General George 

Crook 

Flint implements in Holmes County, Ohio, by H. B. Chase 

Florida, antiquities of, by Dr. Augustus Mitchell 

Florida, antiquities of, by John Bart ram 

Florida, bead from mound in, by A. M. Harrison 

Florida, gold ornament lrom mound in, Charles Ran on 

Florida, polychrome bead from, by I'rof. S. S. Haldeman 

Fort, ancient, and burial ground, in Tompkins County, X. T., by D. Trowbridge 

Forts, Indian, and dwellings, by Dr. W. E. Doyle 

Foster, J. H., ancient relic found in Missouri 

French Exposition of 18G7, ethnological department of the 

Friel, Joseph, antiquities of Kentucky 

(Raines. A. S.j shell-heaps on Mobile River, Alabama » 

Gait, Dr. F. L., Indians of Peru 

Gardner, I >r. W. H., Indians of the Red River of the North 

Georgia, aboriginal structures in, by Charles C. Jones, jr 

Georgia;, Bartow County, mounds in, by M. F. Stephenson 

Georgia, Early County," mounds in, by 'William McKinley 

Georgia, Mcintosh County, mounds in, by William McKinley 

Georgia, mounds in, by M. F. Stephenson 

Georgia, shell-heaps in, by D. Brown 

Georgia, Spalding County, antiquities of, by W. B. F. Bailey 

Gibbs, George, archaeology in the United States . _- 

Gibbs, G., dictionary of Chinook jargon vii. . 

Gibbs, George, intermixture of races 

Gibbs, G., instructions for ethnology and philology vii. 

Gibbs, G., language of the Indians of America. ." 

Gibbs, ( Seorge, on the Tinnoh Indians 

Gibbs, G., physical alius of North America 

Gibbs, George J., celts in Atricn and the West Indies 

Gillman, Henry, ancient man in Michigan 

Gillman, Henry, platycnemism in Michigan 

Gliddon mummy ease, by Charles Pickering xvi. . 

Gold ornament from a mound in Florida, by Charles Rau 

< rrammar and dictionary of tin- Carib or Km if language, by Dr. C. H. Berendt 

Grammar and dictionary of tin- Dakota, by S. 11. Biggs iv. . 

Grammar and dictionary of the. Voruba language, by T. J. Bowen x.. 

Grant, Edw. M., stono image in Tennessee 

Graves, ancient, and shell-heaps of i Salifomia, by Paul Schumacher 

Green River Valley, engravings, Ac, by J". G. IVuff 

Grossman, Capt. F. E., Pimo Indians of Arizona 

( luatemala, antiquities in, by Hon. < reorge Williamson 

Guatemala, historical documents in, by Dr. C. E. Berendt 

( '. uatemala, sculptures of Santa Lucia, by S. I label xxii.. 

Guest, W. E., Indian remains near Prescott, * lanada West 

Gunn, D., remains in Red River settlement 

I label, Dr. S., sculptures of Santa Lucia, Guatemala xxii. . 

Haidah Indians ot Queen Charlotte Islands. by .1. G. Swan xxi.. 

11a ile, Rev. Joshua, on antiquities of Jackson County, Tennessee 

Haldeman, Prof. S. S., on a polychrome bead from Florida 

Ilardisty, William L., the Loucheux Indians 

Harrison, A. M., colored bead from mound in Florida 

Hart, de, J, N '. . osteology of the mound-builders of Wisconsin 

Harwood, Bear-Admiral A. A., U. S. X.,on a sarcophagus from Syria 

Haven, S. P. archaeology of the United States viii.. 

Bayden, Dr. F. V., notes on Indian history 

ELollwald, Frederick von. American migration 

High antiquity, introductory to the study of, by A. Morlot 

High antiquity in Europe, fust steps in the study of, by A. Morlot 

II ill. Dr. George W.,an< ten! works in Ashland County, Ohio 

Hill. Dr. George W., antiquities of Northern Ohio 

Historical documents, collection of, in Guatemala, by Dr. C. H. Berendt 



R. 

R. 
R. 
t> 

M.C. 
R. 

R. 
R. 
R. 

R. 
R. 

R. 
R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 
M.C 

R. 
M.C 

R, 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 
S. C. 

R. 

R. 
S.C. 
S.C. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 
S.C. 

R. 

R. 
S.C. 

K. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
S.C. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 




INDEX TO PAPERS ON ANTHROPOLOGY. 



479 



Authors, localities, and subjects. 



History and archaeology, Mexican, by Brantz Mayer ix. 

Hotchkiss, T. P., remains in Caddo Parish, Louisiana 

Hudson's Bay Territory, Red River settlement, Indian remains in, by D. Gunn 

Human remains from Patagonia, by Dr. A. Ried 

Hungary, antiquities of, by F. F. Romer 

Illinois, Albany, mounds near, by Br. R.J. Farquharson 

Illinois, Lawrence County, antiquities of, by Dr. A. Patton 

Illinois, Mason County, antiquities of, by J. Cochrane 

Illinois, Mercer County, mound in, by Tyler McW'orter 

Illinois, Rock Bluff, human skull from, by Dr. J. A.Meigs 

Illinois, Rock River Valley mounds, by dames Shaw 

Illinois, Rock Island, shell-bed skull from, by AS. Tiffany 

Illinois, Southern, deposit, &c, by Charles Rau 

Illinois, Union County, antiquities of, by Thomas M. Perrine 

Illinois, Whiteside County, antiquities of, by W. H. Pratt 

Implement of wood, ancient, found in Connecticut, by E. W. Ellsworth 

Indiana, Allen County, antiquities of, by R. S. Robertson '. 

Indiana, burial-mound in, b.\ William Pidgeon 

Indiana, De Kalb County, antiquities of, by R. S. Robertson 

Indiana, Knox County, antiquities of, by Dr. A. Patton 

Indiana, La Porte County, antiquities of, by R. S. Robertson 

Indian history, notes on, by Dr. F. V. Hay den 

Indians. See California, "Cape Flattery, Carib, Dakota, llaidah, Kutchin, Lon- 

eheux, Mandau, Maya, Navajo, Nevada, Peru, Portraits, Red River of the .North, 

Sioux, Tinneh. Tonto. 

Intel in ixi ure of races, by George Gibbs 

low a, Delaware County, mounds 141, by M. W. Moulton 

Iowa, ancient relics in, by J. B. Cutis 

Isle Royale, Michigan, antiquities of, by A. C. Davis 

Jade, study of the miner:. 1 called "yu" by the Chinese, by S. Blondel 

Jones, C. C., jr., aboriginal structures in Georgia - - 

Jones, Dr. Joseph, antiquities-of Tennessee xxii. 

Jones, J. M, Kjoekken-Moeddings in Nova Scotia 

Jones, St radian, the Kutchin Indians 

Kilns, M., study of the Cop! ic language 

Keller, (>. II., account of ancient town in Minnesota 

Keller, Dr., report on lacustrian settlements in Switzerland 

Kentucky, ancient mound in, by Dr. Robert Peter 

Kentucky, antiquities from, by S. S. Lyon , 

Kentucky, Breckinridge County, age of stone, &c, by R S. Robertson 

Kentucky, Hancock County, antiquities of, 1>,\ Joseph Fricl 

Kentucky, Lexington, mound near, by Dr. Robert Peter 

Kentucky, Union County, ancient lie mud in, by S. S. Lyon 

King, W. M, account of Indian burial 

Kipp, .fames, on Catlin's account of the Mandans 

Kjoekken-.M Idings in X ova Scotia, by J. M. Jones 

Kjoekken-Moeddings on the northwest coast of America, by Paul Schumacher ... 
Kjoekken-Moedding. See shell-heaps. 

Knapp, Mrs. ( rilbert, earthworks on Arkansas River 

K ii in, F. J., antiquities of North Carolina 

Kushkushkee, Indian village mar Newcastle, Pa., by E. M. McConnell. 

Kutchin Indians, by Strachan Jones 

Laeusi rian cities of Switzerland - ■ 

Lacustrian constructions, or palafittes, of the lake of Neuckatel, by E. Desor 

Lacustrian settlements in Switzerland, Dr. Keller and A. Morlot 

Language of the aboriginal Indians of America, by G. Gibbs 

Lapham, I., antiquities of Wisconsin vii. 

Latimer collections of antiquil Les from Porto Pico, by Otis T. Mason 

Lee, J. ( '. Y., ancient ruins in Arizona .... 

Leipzig Museum of Ethnology, l>\ A. Schott and Otis T. Mason 

Let her ma 11, J., M. 1).. sketch of the Navajo Indians 

Liberia, mixed races of, by Ed. D. Blyden 

Lieber, Francis, v-a- d sounds ol I/. una Bridgeman ii. 

Lo 1 tt, L'rof. Samuel li,. mounds in Louisiana 

Loucheux Indian.-, by William L. Hardisty 

Louisiana, Caddo Parish, remains in, bj T. P. I lot eh kiss 

Louisiana, mounds in, by Prof. Samuel H. Lockett 

Lubbock, Sir John, North American archaeology 

Lubbock, Sir John, on the lower races of man 

Lyon, S. S., antiquities from Kentuek'i 

L> on, S. S., mound in Union County, Kentucky 

Lyon, W. B., antiquities in New Mexico 

L\ kins, \V. II. 11., antiquities of Kansas City, Mo 

Maps, ethnological, of North America, by L. II. Morgan 

Maryland, Charles County, antiquities of, by < >. N. Bryan •- 

Mason, Otis T., Latimer collection from Porto Rico 

Mason, OtisT., Leipzig Museum of Ethnology 

Maya sculpture, ancient relic of, by Dr. Arthur Schott 

Mayer, Btautz, Mexican history, &c ix. 




480 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Authors, localities, and subjects. 



IX.. 



McConnell, E. M., Indian village Kushkushkee 

McHenry, James W., antiquities of Jackson County, Tennessee 

Mc Kin Icy, William, mounds in Georgia 

McWhorter, Tyler, mound in Mercer County, Illinois 

Mexican history and ai chasology, by Brantz Mayer 

Mexico, state of Vera Cruz, antiquities in, by Hugo Finck 

Mica mines, ancient, in North Carolina, by Ur. C. D. Smith 

Michigan, ancient man in, by Henry Gillman . 

Michigan, mound-builders, &c, by Henry Gillman 

Michigan, Isle Roy ale, antiquities of, by A. C. Davis 

Migration, American, by Frederick von Hellwald 

Miller, F., mound in Trumbull County, Ohio .. 

Mining, ancient, on Lake Superior, by Charles Whittlesey xiii.. 

Minnesota, ancient town in, account of, by O. H. Keller 

Minnesota, Lake Pepin, antiquities on, by Dr. L. C. Estes 

Minnesota, Mississippi Liver, antiquities on, by Dr. L. C. Estes 

Minnesota, Led Liver of the North, Indians of, by Dr. W. H. Gardner 

Mississippi, mounds in, by Samuel A. Agnew 

Mississippi, stock in trade, &c, byCharlesliau 

Mississippi Valley, ancient monuments in, by Squier and Davis i.. 

Mississippi, Yazoo County, antiquities of, by J. \V". C. Smith 

Missouri, ancient relic found in, by J. W. Foster 

Missouri, Kansas City, antiquities of, by W. II. R. Lykins 

Missouri Liver, ancient earthworks on the, by A. Barrandt 

Missouri, Saint Louis, ancient mound at, by T. L. Peale 

Missouri, Upper, Sioux of the, by Tbadd. A. Culbertson 

Mitchell, Dr. Augustus antiquities of Florida , 

Mitchol, B. L., and W. W. Turner, .jargon of Oregon 

Morgan, L. 11., circular respecting degrees of relationship ii.. 

Morgan, L. II., ethnological map of North A meriea 

Morgan, L. II., systems of consanguinity and affinity xvii.. 

Morlot, A., lacustrian settlements in Switzerland 

Morlot, A., general views on archaeology 

Morlot, A ., t lie study of high antiquity 

Morl.it, A., the study of high antiquity in Europe 

Moulton, M. W., mounds in Delaware County, Iowa 

Mound, ancient, at Saint Louis, Mo., by T. L. Peale 

Mound, ancient, in Union County, Kentucky, exploration of, by S. S. Lyon 

Mound, ancient, in Western Pennsylvania, by William M. Taylor 

Mound, ancient, mar Chattanooga, Tenn., by M. C. Reed 

Mound, Big Elephant, in Grant County, Wisconsin, by .fared Warner 

Mound-builders and platycnemism in Michigan, by Henry Gillman 

Mound-builders in the Lock River Valley, Illinois, by James Shaw 

Mound-builders of Wisconsin, mounds and osteology of the, by J. N. de Hart 

Mound (Haystack) in Lincoln County, Dakota, by A. Barrandt 

Mound in East Tennessee, by A. F. Danilson 

Mound in Florida, Charles Ran on gold ornament from 

Mound in Kentucky, by Dr. Robert Peter 

AIou ml in Mercer County, Illinois, by Tyler McWhorter 

Mound in Trumbull County, Ohio, by F. Miller 

Mound in Wisconsin, by ('. K. Dean 

Mound near Albany, 111., skull and long bones from, by Dr. L. J. Farqubarson 

Mound near Lexington, K\ ., by Dr. Robert Peter 

Mounds and osteology id' the mound -builders of Wisconsin, by J. X. de Hart 

Mounds in Bartow County, Georgia, by M. F. Stephenson 

Mini uds in Delaware County, Iowa, by M. W. Moulton 

Mounds in Georgia, by M. F. Stephenson 

Mounds in Louisiana, by Prof. Samuel 11. Lockett 

Mounds in Mississippi, by Samuel A. Agnew 

Mounds near Anna, Union County, Illinois, by T. M. IVrrin 

Mounds near Fort W ads wort h, Dakota, by Dr. A. J. Comfort 

Mounds, prehistoric, of Grant < lounty, Wisconsin, by Moses Strong 

Much, Dr. M., ancient .history id America '. ... 

Museum of Ethnology, Leipzig, by A. Schott and Otis T. Mason 

Mummy case, Gliddon, by Charles Pickering x\ i. . 

Navajo Indians, sketch of, l>\ J. Letherman 

Nevada, Western, Indians of, bj Stephen powers 

New Jersey, shell deposit in, by Charles Rau 

New Jerse; , stone age in, by Dr. C. C. Abbott 

New Mexico, antiquities in, bj W. B. Lyon 

New Mexico, excursion to, Major .lames Hem \ Carlton 

New Fork, aboriginal monuments of, h< E G. Squier ii. . 

New York, Fiahkill, deposit, &o., near, by Edw. M. Shepard 

New STork, Orleans County, antiquities of, by F. H. dishing 

New York, Tompkins County, ancient fort, &c.,bj David Trowbridge 

Nicaragua, antiquities from, by E, < '•. Squier 

North Carolina, ancient mica mines in. Iiy Dr. C. D. Smith 

North Carolina, Lenoir County, antiquities in, by J. M. Spainhour 



K 
R. 
R. 

K. 
S.C. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

L. 
S.C. 

R. 

R. 

11. 

R. 

L. 

R. 
S.C. 

R. 

II. 

K. 

L. 

L. 

R. 

R. 



M.C. 

R. 
S.C. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

L. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

L. 

L. 

R. 

R. 

L. 

R. 

L. 

R. 

L. 

L. 

L. 

L. 

R. 

L. 

R. 

L. 

L. 

L. 

R. 

R. 

R. 
S.C. 

K. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

K. 

R. 
S.C. 

R. 

K. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 



INDEX TO PAPERS ON ANTHROPOLOGY. 



481 



Authors, localities, und subjects. 



North Carolina, Montgomery County, antiquities of, by F. J. Kron 

North Carolina, Stanly County, antiquities of, by F. .J. Kron 

Northwest coast of America, Kjoekken-Moeddings on, by Paul Schumacher 

Nova Scotia. Kjoekken-Moedclings on, by J. M. -I ones 

Ohio, ancient earthwork in, sketch of, by I. Dille - - - • 

Ohio, ancient works in, by Charles Whittlesey iii- ■ 

Ohio, Ashland County, earthworks in, by George W. Hill 

Ohio, Ashtabula Count v, earth work in, by Stephen D. Peet 

Ohio, Holmes County, flint implements in, by H. B. Chase 

Ohio, Northern, antiquities of, by Dr. George W. Hill. 

Ohio, Perry County, antiquities of, by W. Anderson 

Ohio. Trumbull < Jounty, mound in, by F. Miller 

Olmutz, pile-work antiquities of 

Oregon, jargon of, by B. R Mitchell and W. W. Turner 

Osteology, &c, of the mound-builders of "Wisconsin, by J. N. de Hart 

Palenque tablet in the United States National Museum, by Charles Ilau xxii . 

Patagonia, human remains from, by Dr. A. Ilied 

Patton, Dr. A., antiquities of Knox County, Indiana 

Patton, Dr. A., antiquities of Lawrence County, Illinois 

Peale, T. R., ancient mound at Saint Louis, Mo 

Peale, T. P., the uses of the brain and marrow, &.c 

Peale, T. P., antiquities of the District of Columbia 

Peet, Stephen D. , earthwork in Ashtabula County, Ohio 

Pennsylvania, Western, ancient mound in, by William M. Taylor 

Perrine, Thomas M., antiquities of Union County, Illinois 

Perriue, T. M., mounds in Union County, Illinois 

Peru, Indians of, by F. L. Gait 

Peter, Dr. Robert, ancient mound in Kentucky 

Peter, Dr. Robert, mound near Lexington, Ky 

Philology, instructions for ethnology and, by G. Gibbs vii. . 

Pickering, ( 'harles, Gliddon mummy case xvi. . 

Pidgeon, William, burial mound in Indiana 

P ile work antiquities of Olmutz 

Pimo Indians of Arizona, by Capt. F. E. Grossman 

Pits at Embarrass, Wis., by E. E. Breed 

Platycnemism, mound-builders and, in Michigan, by Henry Gillman 

Porto Pico, Latimer collection, &c, by Otis T. Mason 

Portraits of North American Indians, by J. M. Stanley ii - 

Portraits, list of photographic, of North American Indians 

Pottery, ancient, from Phillips County, Arkansas, by J. H. Devereux 

Pottery, Indian, by Charles Ran .... 

Powers, Stephen, the Indians of Western Nevada and California 

Pratt, W. II., antiquities of Whiteside County, Illinois 

Races, mixed, of Liberia, by Ed. D. Blyden . .' 

Ilau, Charles, aboriginal trade 

Rau, Charles, agricultural flint implements in Southern Illinois 

Rau, Charles, agricultural implements of the North American stone period ... 
Rau, Charles, archaeological collection, &c xxii 

Rau, Charles, Baegert's account of the Indians of Southern California I 

Rau, Charles, drilling in stone without metal 

Pan, Charles, gold 01 nameut from a mound in Florida 

Rau, Charles, Indian pottery 

Rau, Charles, North American stone implements 

Pan, ( 'li.n les, Palenque tablet in the United States National Museum xxii. 

Pan, Charles, shell deposit in New Jersey 

Rau, Charles, stock in trade of an aboriginal lapidary 

Reed, M. C, ancient mound near Chattanooga, l enri 

Relationship, circular respecting degrees of, by L. H. Morgan . . . ii. 

Retzius, Anders, present state of ethnologj iii relation to the form of the skull. .. 

fiied, Dr. A., human remains from Patagonia 

Riggs, S. it., 1 ia Lota ".ram mar and dictionary iv. 

ltoiiei tson, it. s ., age of stone in Breckinridge County, Kentucky 

RohertSOn, It. S., antiquities Of Allen and De Kalb Counties, Indiana 

Robertson, R. S., antiquities of La Porto County, Indiana 

ltoehrig, !•'. L. O., language of the Dakota Indians 

Bomer, F. !■'.. prehistoric antiquities of Hungary 

ltoss, Bernard It., the Eastern Tinneh Indians.. 

Rain, ancient, in Arizona, by J. C. Y. Lee 

Ruins of Abo, Qnarra, Gran Quioira, New Mexico, diary of an excursion under the 

com ma ml of Maj. James Henry Carlton, 0". S. A ' 

Riitimeyer, Dr. J,., fauna of Middle Europe, &c 

Sarcophagus from Beirut, Syria, in the National Museum, by A. A. Harwood 

Schott, A., Leipzig Museum of Ethnology '. 

Schott, Dr. Arthur, the Cara Gigantcsca in STucatan 

Schott, Dr. Arthur, ancient relic of Mas a sculpture 

Schumacher, Paul, graves and shell-heaps in California , 

Schumacher, Paul, Kjoekken-Moeddings on the northwest coast of America 



1854 
18G1 

1S70 
1873 
18G0 
lh71 
1871 
1870 



S. Mis. 54- 



■31 



482 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



Authors, localities, and subjects. 



Sculpture, M lya, ancient relic of, by Dr. Arthur Schott 

Sculptures of Santa Lucia CosumaTwhuapa, Guatemala, by S. Habel xxii. 

Sh.i \v , .James, mound-builtlera 

Shell-deposits in New Jersey, by Charles Rau 

Shell deposits, artificial, of the United states, by D. G. Brinton 

Shell-heaps, ancient graves and, in California, by Paul Schumacher 

Shell-heaps in Georgia, by D. Brown ... 

Shell-heaps on Mobile River, Alabama, by A. S. Gaines and K. M. Cunningham... 
Shell-leaps. See Kjoekken-Moedding. 

Shepard, Edw. M.. depositor arrow-heads, Fishkill, N. T 

Simpson, General J. W., U. S. A., Coronado's march 

Sioux or Dakota Indians, by Col. A. G. Bracket 

Sioux Indians, language of the, by F. L. 0. Roehrig 

Sioux Nation of the Upper Missouri, by Ihadd. A. Culbei-tson 

Skull and long bones from mounds near Albany, 111., by Dr. It. J. Farquharson .... 

Skull, human, from Ruck Bluff, 111., by Dr. J. A. Meigs 

Skull, human, form of the, present state of ethnology in relation to the, by Prof. 

Anders Retains - 

Skull, shell-bed, from Eock Island, III., by A. S. Tiffany 

Smart, < 'apt. ('Ua lies, notes on the Tonto Apaches 

Smith, Dr. C. D., ancient mica mini's in North Carolina 

Smith, J. W, C, antiquities of Yazoo County, Mississippi 

Snyder, J. F., deposits of stone implements in the United States 

Social and religions condition of the lower races of man, by Sir John Lubbock. ... 

Southern States, antiquities in, by II. C. Williams 

Spainhour, J. Mason, antiquities in North Carolina 

Squier, E. G., aboriginal monuments of New York . ii. 

Squier, E. G., antiquities from Nicaragua 

Squier, E. G., ancient monuments, &c . i. 

Stanley, J. M., portraits of North American Indians ii. 

St elle, J. Parish, aboriginal ruins at Savannah, Tenn 

Stelle, J. Parish, aboriginal ruins in Hardin County, Tennessee 

Stephenson, M. F., mounds in Bartow County, Georgia 

Stephenson, M. !'., mounds in Georgia 

.Stock in trade of an aboriginal lapidary, by Charles Rau 

Stone age and the troglodytes of Breckinridge County, Kentucky, by R. S. Robertson 

Stone age in New Jersey, by Dr. C. C. Abbott -. ". 

Stone celts in the West Indies and Africa, extract from letter of George J. Gibbs.. 

Stone image in Tennessee, by Edw. M. ( irant 

Stone implements, North American, by Charles Rati 

Stone period, North American, agricultural implements of the, by Charles Rau... 

Strong, Moses, antiquities in Wisconsin 

Strong, Moses, mounds of Grant County, Wisconsin 

Swan, James G., Ilaidah Indians of Queen Charlotte Islands xxi. 

Swan, .lames ( ;., Indians of Cape Flattery xvi, 

Switzerland, Concise, researches made at, by Fred. Troy on 

S\\ itzerland, < Irania Helvetica, by Fred. Troyou * 

Switzerland, lacustriau cities of 

Switzerland, lacustriau settlements in, by A. Morlot - 

S wit Zetland, Lake of Neucbatcl, palalittes, or lacustrian constructions of the, by E 

Desor 

Switzerland, Lausanne, cantonal museum at, antiquarian and ethnological eollec 

tious of the, by Fred. Troyou 

S\ mhols for charts of prehistoric archaeology, international code of 

Syria. Beirut, sarcophagus from 

Taj h>r, William ,M., ancient mound in Western Pennsylvania 

Tennessee, antiquities in, by K. (). Dunning , 

Tennessee, antiquities of, by Dr. Joseph Jones xxii 

Tennessee, antiquities of, by Dr. Daniel 1<\ Wright. 

Tennessee, antiquities of, by W. M (.'lark , 

Tennessee, Blounl County, antiquities of, by Miss Annie E, Law 

Tennessee, Chattanooga, ancient mound near, by M.c. Reed 

Tennessee, East, mound in. by A. F. 1 'anil son 

Tennessee, explorations in, by E. A. Dayton 

Tennessee, Hal din ( 'ouiity, aboriginal ruins in, by J. Parish Stelle 

Tennessee, image of stone in, by Edw. M Grant. 

Tennessee, Jackson County, ant in, ml ies of, bj Rev. Joshua Haile 

Tennessee, Savannah, ahoi i> in..] i u ins at, by J. Pat ish Stelle 

Tiffany, A. S., shell-bed skull from Illinois ' 

Tinnek, or Chepewyan Indians of British America, bj B. R. Ross 

Tonto Apaches, notes on, bj Capt. Chai ies Smart . . .'. 

Trade, am ii ni aboriginal, bj Cbarles Ran 

Troglodytes, 01 cave-dwellers of the valley of the Vezere, by Raul Broca 

Troy on, Fred., collections of t he museum at Lausanne, Switzerland 

Troyou, Fred., Crania Helvetica 

Troj on, Fred., lacustrian citii s of Switzerland 

Troy on, Fred., report of researches made at < 'oncise 

Trow bridge, Da\ id, ancient fort and burial ground in New York , 



R. 

S.C. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 

R. 

R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 
S.C. 

R. 

s. C. 
M.C. 

R. 

R. 

E. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 
S.C. 
S.C. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 

R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
S.C. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 



INDEX TO PAPERS ON ANTHROPOLOGY. 



483 



Authors, localities, and subjects. 



Turner, W. W. , B. R. Mitchell and, jargon of Oregon 

Warner, Jared, bigmound in Grant County, Wisconsin 

"Washington. See District of Columbia. 

West Indies, stone celts in Africa and in the, by George J. Gibbs 

Whitney, J. 1)., cave in Calaveras County, California 

Whittlesey, Charles, ancient mining on Lake Superior -' X J!J- 

Whittlesey, Charles, ancient works in Ohio iii. 

Williams, II. ('., antiquities in some of the Southern States 

Williamson, Hon. George, antiquities in Guatemala 

Wilson, Dr. Daniel, lecture on physical ethnology 

Wisconsin, antiquities in, by Moses Strong 

Wisconsin, antiquities of, by I. Lapham vii. 

Wisconsin, earthworks in, by E. E. Breed 

Wisconsin, Embarrass, pits at, by E. E. Breed 

Wisconsin, Grant County, elephant mound in, by Jared Warner 

Wisconsin, Grant County, prehistoric mounds of, by Moses Strong 

Wisconsin, mound-builders of mounds, and osteology of, by J. N. do Hart 

Wisconsin, mound in, by C. K. Dean 

Wright, Dr. Daniel 1\, antiquities of Tennessee 

Yoruba grammar aud dictionary, by T. J. Bo wen x. 

Yucatan, Yzamal, Cara Gigantesca in, remarks on, by Dr. Arthur Schott 



<» 



R. 

R. 

R. 

S.C. 

s.c. 

R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 

s.c. 

R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
R. 
S.C. 
R. 



1872 

1877 
18G7 
1803 
1851 
1870 
1876 
1862 
1877 
1855 
1872 
1877 
1872 
1876 
1S77 
1872 
1874 
1858 
1809 



68 
271 

323 

215 
155 

37 
244 
299 
150 
323 

70 
271 
323 
271 
299 
323 
271 
286 

98 
228 



ON THE PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 

(TWO LECTURES DELIVERED IN VIENNA ON THE IOtii AND 17th OF 

DECEMBER, 1879.) 



By Prof. Dr. Franz Joseph Pisko. 



[Translated from the German by L. Stoerzer.] 

Lecture I. 

He who compares the fundamental principles of physics accepted 
at present with those prevalent several decades ago must necessarily 
be astonished at the changes which have occurred within the domain of 
these branches of science. The " Imponderables" have fallen to the 
ground and have made way for the various motions and forms of motion 
of a hypothetical universal aether and the ultimate atoms of matter. 
One single natural force, or rather one single original universal motion 
is recognized, which manifests itself in various forms, such as cohesion, 
adhesion, chemical affinity, gravitation, heat, light, electricity, and mag- 
netism.* This changed fundamental principle lends to modern physics 
a coherent and attractive form, which essentially distinguishes it from 
the incomplete and unsatisfactory system of the older physics. The new 
system has a very simple basis, and the modern structure of natural 
philosophy appears accordingly much more connected, comprehensive, 
and translucent than the old defective and disjointed edifice. 

The physics of to-day is shaped into a logically-constructed theory of 
motion or kinematics (dynamics). It is however not merely the outward 
form of the science which is altered, but the comprehension of natural 
phenomena and laws has also undergone a far-reaching and radical 
change. For instance, if formerly the falling of a stone was observed, 
it was believed that on the stone's reaching the ground all its motion 
had ceased ; it was, according to this, considered possible that motion 

* [The hypothesis advanced by many popular expounders of science, that all the 
forces and properties of matter are to be ultimately resolved into molecular or atomic 
motion, is a remarkable instance of premature and over generalization. In the Smith- 
sonian Report for 187G (pages 275-27'J) reasons were given for believing that gravitation 
cannot be resolved into any form of motion; and further, that without an inscrutable 
"force" underlying all motion and antecedent to it, no rational conception of dynamics 
is possible. Without the ultimate (irresolvable) fact of "elasticity" in material ele- 
ments (for example), neither transformation of motion nor conservation of energy could 

have auy conceivable basis. — Ed.~\ 

485 



486 PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 

might be destroyed ; now it is known that the visible motion of the 
fallen stone transforms itself into the invisible one of its molecules by 
which its temperature is somewhat increased. Light falling on a 
black cloth, being, so to speak, swallowed up or absorbed by it, was for- 
merly considered as absolutely extinguished or completely annihilated 
by it; now it is known that the rays of light are not destroyed thereby 
but they are transformed into heat. 

Such examples might be indefinitely multiplied, tending to show that 
an apparently destroyed force can never be lost in reality, but that the 
effects of these forces are only changes or transformations. By ingenious 
tests in measurements, these hidden and reappearing actions of natural 
forces (that is the motions of bodies and their ultimate particles) can be 
traced ; it can be proved that in nature no part of the action of force — 
(or of the motion of bodies and their ultimate particles) can ever be 
lost; and at the same time that no force — no action of force or motion — 
can ever be created anew ; but that all natural phenomena are the various 
effects of the original force or existing motion, present in the universe in 
an invariable quantity. 

If we search for the beginnings of this reformation in the fundamental 
conceptions of natural science we must, in order to understand them, 
turn to the theory of heat. It is familiar, that the peculiar condition of 
bodies by which they produce in us the sensation of warmth and cold, 
and in other bodies a change of volume, is called their thermal state. 
We distinguish by our sense of feeling the different degrees of heat of 
bodies and designate them thereby as hot, warm, tepid, cool, or cold. 
There are then degrees or grades in the heat of bodies. The definite 
degree of heat of.a body is called its temperature. To ascertain the 
temperature of different bodies thermometers are used. These however 
indicate only the different degrees of heat in a body, but cannot indicate 
directly the amount of heat contained in it. To do this a particular 
apparatus is needed which is called a calorimeter. In this, thermo- 
metrical measurements, of course, are also included, but there are in 
addition certain calculations necessary to elucidate the amount of heat 
in question. 

The following is a very simple example of a calorimetrical test, and the 
calculation referring to it is also annexed ; we thereby arrive at a correct 
idea of a heat-unit and consequently the possible numerical expression 
of amounts of heat. On mixing one kilogram (leg.) of water at 0° C. with 
one leg. of quicksilver at 34° C, the mixture will show 1° C, the water 
taking 33° C. from the quicksilver, and these raise its own temperature 
by only 1° C. One leg. of water, then, should have 33 times as much 
heat supplied to it as one leg. of quicksilver if the temperature of the 
water is to rise 1° C. This example shows that a thermometer cannot 
directly indicate what amount of heat is needed to raise the temperature 



PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 487 

of a weight unit of a body by 1° C. ; 011 the contrary there are needed, 
to this end, tests by mixture like the above, or other similar methods. 

In order to be able to give amounts of heat iu numbers a heat-unit 
must be selected. For the heat-unit (or calorie) that amount of heat is 
chosen which has to be imparted to the weight-unit, that is, the 1 leg. of 
water, in order to raise its temperature 1° C* If 1 leg. of water needs 
1 heat-unit to raise its temperature from 0° C. to 1° C, then 2, 3, 4, &c. 
7.y/.s\ of water will need for the same temperature 2, 3, 4, &c. heat-units. 
If, for instance, a body contains 100 such heat-units, we say its amount 
of heat is 100. Any apparatus which permits an accurate measurement 
of such amounts of heat is called a calorimeter. In the example herein 
quoted, the vessel containing the mixture, carefully guarded against 
cooling and provided with accurate thermometers, would be the calori- 
meter. 

If similar calorimetric mixture-tests as the one above cited are made 
with different substances and water it will be found that equal weights 
of different substances require different amounts of heat in order to raise 
their temperature by 1° C. Iron and nickel require only ^ ; tin, silver, 
and antimony only £- ; bismuth, lead, gold, platinum, and quicksilver, 
only 3^ part of the amount of heat which the same weight of water 
requires to raise its temperature 1° C. The quantity of heat which is 
required to raise the temperature of a weight-unit (/'. c. 1 leg.), of a body 
is called its specific heat or heat capacity. The specific heat of water is 
taken as the unit in quoting the specific heat of various substances. 
According to the preceding examples, the specific heat of water is 1 ; 
that of iron and nickel ^ ; that of tin, silver, and antimony .}- ; that of 
bismuth, lead, gold, platinum, and quicksilver 3^. From this it will be 
seen that water possesses the greatest specific heat, and that metals 
possess only a small amount of it. A small amount of heat can conse- 
quently raise their temperature perceptibly. Iu receiving equal amounts 
of heat the temperature of that body will rise most rapidly which has 
the least specific heat. 

The knowledge of the specific heat of bodies is of high importance, 
theoretically and practically. In regard to the latter, the following ex- 
ample will illustrate what has been said: Supposing there were equal 
weight amounts of water and quicksilver in separate vessels which, hav- 
ing the same temperature from the beginning, were to be warmed in the 
same space of time by small flames which produce an equal amount of 
heat iu a time-unit, 33 such flames would have to be placed under the 

* [More generally stated, a " heat-unit" is the amount of heat necessary to raise a 
weight-unit of pure water at maximum density — a unit of temperature. The heat- 
unit ahove given is that employed by French physicists. The British heat-unit is only 
about one-fourth as large; being expressed by one pound of water raised in temperature 
one degree Fahrenheit. The reason for the limitation to the temperature of maximum 
density of water (about 39° F. or about 1 ; C.) is that the heat-capacity (specific heat) 
of liquids increases slightly with their temperature. — Ed.'] 



488 PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 

water vessel, and but 1 under that containing the quicksilver. For the 
same reason 33 times the quantity of coal would have to be burned under 
the water that the quicksilver would require, if the temperature of these 
fluids were to be increased to the same degrees of heat. 

Because quicksilver requires only 3^ of the quantity of heat which is 
required by water to raise its temperature one centigrade degree, the 
quicksilver will, if equal quantities of these fluids are placed on a 
heated stove in separate vessels, acquire a higher temperature in a much 
shorter time than the water. If however equal quantities of water and 
quicksilver, the temperature of which has been raised in this manner, 
are both allowed to cool and are put in a place having a constant tem- 
perature the temperature of the quicksilver will fall much more rapidly 
than that of the water, for the reason that the latter, on account of its 
33 times greater specific heat, has to give back again this 33 times 
greater amount of heat for every degree of falling temperature, which 
had previously been absorbed by it for each 1° C. of heat. Under other- 
wise similar circumstances the temperature of a body possessing but a 
small degree of specific heat rises or falls more rapidly than that of a 
body possessing a higher degree of the same. The difference in the 
amount of the specific heat of different bodies is not directly apparent; 
the existence even of specific heat has to be determined, as was pre- 
viously observed, by peculiar mixture tests or other processes. Though, 
from other considerations than the above, the varying heat-conducting 
capacity of bodies (causing their more or less rapid heating and cooling) 
was known, the existence of specific heat was for a long time unknown 
to natural philosophers. Indeed, it was only discovered as late as 
17G0-17G.") by Hie Scottish professor of chemistry, Joseph Black. The 
discovery was made during his researches concerning another important 
law of heat discovered by him, of which more hereafter. Black discov- 
ered the fact which is now accepted as specific heat. The designation 
of this fact as "specific heat," however, originated with Wilke (1772). 
Crawford (1779) used the expression "comparative heat" or heat 
capacity. The latter word refers figuratively to the varying capacity of 
different bodies, by virtue of which they absorb different amounts of heat 
for each 1° of increased temperature. 

1 1 had not escaped the notice of the discoverer of specific heat that an 
equal quantity of heat absorbed by a body tor each degree of increased 
temperature, and (so to speak) concealed in it, is given back at exactly 
the same rate when the temperature of a body decreases oue degree. 
What becomes of the heat absorbed by bodies in the increase of their 
temperature, and which is given back so precisely in the process of cool- 
ing! This is about the question Black asked, and in order to arrive at 
a correct answer he examined the two principal theories in regard to 
the ultimate cause of heat which at all times had been more or less 
obscurely expressed. 

The ancient philosophers, in explanation of heat phenomena, had as 



PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 489 

sained the existence either of an excessively rare elastic heat substance 
(the element " fire"), which, by penetrating into the body according to 
its amount, heated it more or less, or they tried to explain heat phenom- 
ena by the assumption of a continuous motion of greater or smaller 
amount of the ultimate corpuscles of bodies. Their idea was however 
too general, too indefinite, and confused in both directions. Black and 
his adherents in principle shared the first-named opinion, and believed 
that the important fact of specific heat (discovered by Black) could only 
be explained by the hypothesis of an extremely rare, elastic, all-pene- 
trating, and imponderable " caloric." It was supposed that this caloric 
repelled its own molecules while it attracted those of foreign bodies. If 
this caloric, by virtue of the attraction exercised by it and the mole- 
cules of these bodies, penetrated the pores of substances, it expanded 
the molecules by means of its elasticity, thus increasing the volume of 
bodies by the supply of heat, and in this manner the expansion of a 
body by heat was explained. Black and his scientific friends thus de- 
fined specific heat: Caloric is present in smaller quantities in cold 
bodies than in warm ones ; it possesses a certain degree of elasticity 
dependent on its accumulation and the degree of attraction existing 
between it and the molecules of matter. The greater the latter the 
feebler the elasticity of the caloric between the molecules will appear, 
consequently the thermometrical degree of the body will prove the 
smaller, although the same amount of heat be present, and will there- 
fore require the more heat to raise its temperature one degree; in other 
words, its specific heat or heat capacity will be the more considerable. 

The fact that with the condensation of a body its specific heat dimin- 
ishes, harmonized with this explanation. The caloric hypothesis made 
the following assumption : If a body is condensed the elasticity of the 
caloric is thereby increased ; a part of this becomes free and raises the 
temperature of the body. In the same measure as the heat capacity of 
a body is diminished or increased the heat will become free or latent. 

The opinion in regard to the existence of a caloric was confirmed, in 
addition, by the fact of radiation of heat, as far as it was known at the 
time; the caloric rays (like the rays of light) being regarded as exceed- 
ingly rare material emanations from heated bodies, moving with infinite 
rapidity, penetrating the bodies with which they came in contact, in 
part combining with their substance (as previously indicated) and 
remaining latent, or in part free and acting as thermometrical heat in 
the bodies. 

In Black's time all the then known heat phenomena harmonized with 
this heat hypothesis, or at least they were not in opposition to it; there- 
fore at that time the caloric theory was almost universally accepted, 
and this all the more as the terrestrial sources of heat, formerly so dif- 
ficult to explain (including the development of heat by percussion or 
compression or by chemical processes) after Black's discovery of specific 
heat, might be appropriately reduced to a diminution of the heat capac- 



490 PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 

ity. It was even thought justifiable to suppose that in the case of heat, 
produced by the friction of two bodies, these might suffer a diminution 
of their heat capacity in consequence of the pressure. 

The physicists of that time were generally satisfied by the assumption 
of a distinct heat substance, "caloric." There were always however 
some few skeptics whose mind could not be set at rest by the sup- 
position of an imponderable substance ; such as is the caloric. Among 
their number was Count Rumford (Benjamin Thompson), clear-headed 
and acute thinker, unprejudiced investigator, eminent observer and dis- 
tinguished experimentalist, as he was. In the first place he tried by 
delicate weighings (1798) whether in fact very hot, non-oxidizing bodies 
(for instance a ball of gold, or a quantity of water hermetically inclosed 
in a glass ball), compared with their weight in the cold state, might per- 
haps show a slight increase of weight; the tests resulted in the nega- 
tive. Though the defenders of the caloric matter could have raised the 
objection that this substance was so rare that it would not act even on 
the most sensitive scales, they however seized upon another one ; they 
declared weight to be a non-essential quality of matter, and they called 
substances without gravity " imponderables." Among these they counted 
hypothetically caloric and light, and also the electric and magnetic 
fluids. Weight could not be supposed to be an attribute of these im- 
ponderables for the very reason that they were observed to proceed 
with equal force in all directions and not, like ponderable bodies, only 
toward the earth. 

Rumford was particularly confirmed in his disbelief of the existence 
of the caloric by the manifestation of great quantities of heat conse- 
quent upon the friction of bodies. It had long been known that augers, 
saws, files, brakes, ungreased axles, pivots, &c. became heated to a 
considerable degree by the friction they undergo in use. Every turner 
was aware of this fact, and by simply using the heat produced by the 
severe^friction for making black or brown stripes on his productions by 
charring, he thereby bestowed a permanent ornament. Tlu> emission 
of sparks in grinding knives, the fire kindling by friction among un- 
civilized nations, friction matches, as also the needle-guns of civilized 
nations, belong to their number. The adherents of the material 
theory of heat, as indicated above, had recourse to the supposition 
that in friction bodies were condensed and their heat capacity was 
therefore diminished; the consequence of this would be that a part of 
the heat would become free and escape. One problem remained how- 
ever unsolved, namely, how this should be possible, considering the 
inexhaustible product and the comparatively small amount of pressure. 
This question presented itself very forcibly to Rumford when he (1798) 
observed the enormous amounts of heat becoming free in the chilling of 
cannons, where the metal-shavings which fell off became particularly 
heated. As he did not find the heat capacity of the shavings dimin- 
ished any more than that of the solid metal of the cannons, the heating 



PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PIIYSICS. 491 

of the tube and shavings could not with propriety be attributed to the 
diminution of the heat capacity; the less so, as Rumford, by his own 
tests in drilling-, succeeded in bringing nearly 10 pounds of water to the 
boiling-point after a continuous friction of two and a half hours. To 
what extent would the heat capacity of the metal subjected to the fric- 
tional test have had to be diminished to explain this heating of the water! 
At the same time it had been demonstrated, as previously mentioned, 
that the heat capacity of the substances subjected to the friction had not 
perceptibly diminished. Whence then came these enormous quantities 
of heat? How is it that they show themselves incessantly as long as 
friction continues? Can it be that bodies contain caloric, accumulations 
in inexhaustible quantities, or could these be called forth by friction 
simply? Could a substance be created by friction, or rather by the 
cause of it, that is, by a moving force"? That would mean that the im- 
material effect of force was transformed into caloric! Is this conceiv- 
able? Because it is inconceivable, Rumford supposed that heat was in 
essence a motion of the constituent particles of bodies, which had been 
increased by friction in such a manner that the visible motion of the 
body subjected to friction had been transformed into the invisible motion 
of their ultimate particles — that is, of their molecules, and thus mani- 
fested itself as an increased temperature. It is very clear from this, 
that as long as friction, i. e. the visible motion of the body subjected 
to it, continues, so long there can and must appear free heat, which 
means increased molecular motion in the bodies iu question. 

Only one year later (1799) Davy took sides with Rumford. Davy, by 
means of a clockwork, had two pieces of ice rubbed on each other ; they 
were placed under a nearly air-tight glass globe which was constantly 
kept at a temperature below zero; they melted at the frictional planes. 
As they melted only at these, and since any influx of heat to the 
ice was carefully guarded against, the cause of the melting could only 
be the heat called forth by the friction. It was known even at that 
time that the specific heat of water was double that of ice, so it 
could not be presumed that this was a case of diminution of the heat 
capacity by friction. There was, on the contrary, the proof of its being 
doubled. In addition, it was known from previous calori metrical re- 
searches, which had also originated with Black (1700-17G5), that in 
order to melt one kilogram of ice, greater quantities of heat would be 
required (79 heat-units). The question then arose, whence originated the 
quantities of heat required to melt those frictional surfaces of ice? 
"Caloric" could not introduce itself either from within or without, 
owing to the excellent arrangement, and yet there was heat present. 
It could only originate in the transformation of the visible exterior 
frictional motion of the muss, into the invisible, interior molecular one. 
After these experiments of Davy the idea of the existence of an inde- 
pendent caloric could no longer be entertained. 



492 PEESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 

It was now but natural to examine whether there were not a definite, 
calculable relation between the conversion of the entire visible motion 
of the frictional mass into that invisible motion of the ultimate mole- 
cules, *. e. its transformation into heat. Rurnford himself had made the 
experiment of such an estimate of the mechanical value of the increase 
of the temperature of a given quantity for each therinometrical degree. 
At that time, however, the scientific conception of " work " had not as 
yet found a place in mechanics; therefore an exact definition was only 
X>ossible at a later period. It came almost simultaneously from Dr. 
Julius Robert Mayer (May 1842-1851) and James Prescott Joule (August 
1843-1819). The former was a practicing physician in Heilbronn, the 
latter a physicist in Manchester, thoroughly conversant with practical 
mechanics. Mayer took up this subject mainly from a theoretical 
point of view, and verified his ingenious conclusions by experiments. 
Joule took the opposite direction. Both happily arrived, in a strik- 
ing manner, at the great object; the former more powerful in fertile, 
logical ideas, the latter stronger in the province of experiment, and 
for this reason, more accurate in the final determination of numerical 
results. We will attach ourselves to Joule, as far as the experi- 
mental part of this subject is concerned, well aware that the honor 
of originating this highly important matter is almost generally con- 
ceded to Dr. Mayer, who has now passed away. We say " almost 
generally," because recently the priority of Mayer in this important 
matter has been disputed on several sides, particularly by some Eng- 
lish physicists. Attention was called to the fact that Mohr, in his 
"Ideas on the nature of heat" (1837), that is five years earlier tban 
Mayer, had advanced as far as the latter, that also Seguin (1839), Fara- 
day (1839), and Liebig (1841) had approached earlier than Mayer the 
theory of the transformation of heat into mechanical power. Atten- 
tion was especially directed to " Essays on Force," by Colding, which 
appeared in the Danish language in the year 1843, in which the author 
asserted, a priori the imperishability of natural forces and their trans- 
formation into equivalents of the other forces ; and (by his own state- 
ment) he had conceived these ideas four years before on the ground of 
dAlembert's theorem, of " The active and inert forces." 

Finally Joule was put in opposition to Mayer. The relation of the 
labors of the two last named has been indicated above. In whichever 
way the question of priority may be decided, it is certain that only 
Mayer and Joule have successfully grappled with this problem, and that 
Mayer is by almost general consent celebrated as the first discoverer of 
the calculable transformation of mechanical work into heat. Indeed, 
according to existing records, no one before him recognized and pro- 
claimed this great truth so plainly and clearly, and no one before him 
made such far-reaching application of the consequences as he did. 

For reasons above referred to, we have decided on the discussion of 
Joule's experiments, which have their appropriate place here, and of the 



PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PIIYSICS. 



493 



conclusions to be drawn from them. The short space of time allotted 
us obliges us to use economy, and therefore we limit ourselves to the 
indispensable in this direction. First, however, it will be necessary to 
define what (according to Poncelet and Coriolis) is termed " work " in 
scientific language, how it is measured and calculated. Whatever effect 
of any power we may subject to analysis, we shall always arrive at the 
result that the " work" performed by a force consists in the overcoming 
of a resistance within a given distance. For instance, if a force has to 
overcome a ten times greater resistance over the same space, its work 
will be ten times greater, and so the labor of a force is three times greater 
if it overcomes a uniform resistance over a three times greater space. 
The amount 01 work by a force, therefore, increases in proportion to the 
resistance which is overcome and to the length of way over which the 
resistance has been overcome. If the work of forces is to be expressed by 
numbers, it is necessary to name a work unit. The work required to lift 
1 leg. through 1 meter is called a kilogram-meter or meter-kilogram (kgm), 
ami is regarded as the work-unit. If then there is a resistance of 10 
Tegs, to be overcome through the space of one meter, the work is 10 
Jcgms. ; but if this resistance is to be overcome over three meters, the 
work will be three times 10 kilogram-meters, that is, 30 legms. We see 
from this that the amount of any work is calculated by multiplying the 
distance by the force. We are now enabled to include within our ex- 
aminations the most easily comprehensible of Joule's experiments. A 
perpendicular axis of ro- 
tation, A A, (see figure,) 
^provided with brass pad- 
dles F F, — having their 
planes F in an upright 
position, was placed in a 
weighed quantity of water, 
W ; this shaft Joule caused 
to rotate by means of a 
weight, P, drawing a cord, 
S S, wound on the drum, 
A ; the circulating current 
of the liquid W being pre- 
vented by rigidly fixed 
brass frames, m m. The 
friction of the water W 
against the planes F of the 
paddles, the frames m m and its own parts caused a rise of temperature 
in the liquid, which was measured by means of excellent and very sen- 
sitive thermometers, T T. The multiplication of the amount of the 
fallen weight P by the distance it had travelled n v gave the measure 
of the mechanical labor used for the friction. If, then, the friction of 
all the movable parts outside the water-tank of the apparatus, and all 




494 PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 

other losses were taken into consideration, Joule was able to calculate 
bow many work-units would have to be employed in the friction in order 
to produce one heat-unit. 

Joule then modified this experiment in various ways by having the 
friction produced in other liquids and under different circumstances. 
He changed the size of the descending weight, and then the height to 
be traversed ; the result was that in friction the same amount of work 
is always employed in the production of a heat-unit, the mean being 
425 kilogram-meters. This important figure is called the work equiva- 
lent of the heat-unit, or the mechanical equivalent of heat.* 

If 425 kilogram-meters are equal to one heat-unit, one kilogram-meter 
(that is, the work-unit) will amount to -^- s of the heat-unit. This numeri- 
cal expression of T i- of the heat-unit, which is the equivalent of the 
work-unit, is called the heat equivalent of the work-unit. 

Joule has furthermore determined the mechanical equivalent of heat 
which shows itself in the compression of air. Him did similar work in 
relation to the heat produced by the collision of two bodies ; other in- 
vestigators at a later period ascertained the equivalent of other sources 
of heat. The results of all these experiments are in such accord that 
we may consider the above value of the mechanical equivalent of heat 
a settled question. 

We have arrived at the knowledge that heat is a state of motion of 
the ultimate molecules. The system adopting this proposition is called 
the mechanical theory of heat (thermo-dynamics, thermo-mechanics). 

Various opinions may be held in regard to the nature of this state 
of motion of molecules called heat: indeed, up to the present time, dif- 
ferent views have been expressed in regard to this question. For the 
mathematical basis and treatment of the mechanical theory of heat the 
verification of the fact that heat is a state of motion is sufficient: while 
for the purpose of explaining and calculating the relation of gases in 
regard to heat, as well as to render the conception and comprehension 
of the corresponding mathematical deductions of the mechanical theory 
of heat, or thermo-dynamics, generally more easy, the leaders in this 
branch of science have attempted to set up a certain hypothesis relative 
to the inner structure of substances, as also to the manner of motion of 
their ultimate molecules. 

Let us first turn our attention to the conception of the inner structure 
of matter. Even Leucippus, as early as 510 years B. 0., and after him 
Democritus (470 P>. C.) were of opinion that matter was composed of the 
minute indivisible particles which they called atoms (an indivisible thing). 
Their atomic theory was only developed further when physics com- 
menced to be subjected to mathematical treatment, as material points or 

"[Joule's unit of the mechanical equivalent of heat is more popularly expressed 
in Great Britain and in this country in foot-pownda: being 772 pounds lifted one foot,— 
tho equivalent of one pound of water heated one degree Fahrenheit. — Ed.] 



PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 495 

atoms adapted themselves easily to mathematical treatment. Dalton 
(ill 1803) introduced his atomic hypothesis into modern physics, which 
siuce then has been subject to different views on the constitution of 
matter, and therefore has had to undergo various modifications. On 
the basis of certain physical and chemical manifestations, it is a gener- 
ally accepted proposition that matter consists of unchangeable particles, 
or atoms separated by spaces, which, compared to their own size, are 
very considerable. We must assume as many kinds of atoms as there 
are of chemically indivisible substances. A group of similar or dissimi- 
lar atoms considered as connected by chemical affinity, according to 
certain laws, constitutes a molecule. Molecules are chemically divisible, 
mechauically, however, indivisible. Atoms then are the components of 
molecules ; an atom is neither mechanically nor chemically divisible. 
Certain phenomena lead to the conclusion that an atom cannot exist in 
an isolated condition, so that even in the chemical elements at least 
two atoms are combined in a molecule. Chemical processes extend to 
the separation of the atoms constituting a molecule, and to the uuion 
of materially different atoms in the molecules of compound substances. 
In the chemical separation the stronger chemical elective attraction of 
one substance mostly takes from the molecules of the other the chemi- 
cally affinitive atoms, whereby the molecules of the bodies in question 
are decomposed. Under favorable conditions the separated dissimilar 
atoms combine, by virtue of their chemical affinity for each other, to 
form molecules of a chemically new compound body. 

While ehemical affinity dominates in the atoms of molecules, physical 
forces of attraction (cohesion, adhesion) are in action between the mole- 
cules of bodies and of the earth, just as that force called the force of 
gravity or gravitation prevails between the celestial bodies. 

Matter then consists of mechauically indivisible molecules; the latter 
again can only be divided into their own atoms. The comparatively 
large spaces intervening between the atoms we assume to be filled with 
an excessively fine and highty elastic substance, called aether, which 
surrounds atoms and molecules alike in the manner of an atmosphere. 
This aether exercises an attraction on the atoms and molecules of bodies, 
while it repels its own particles in such wise that the density of the 
aether surrounding each atom and molecule increases from without 
towards the interior. A further assumption is that this aether is not 
only distributed through the interstices or pores of bodies, but extends 
throughout the entire universe. From the oscillations of the atoms of 
this aether, transverse in direction to that of the propagation of the rays 
of heat and light, the diffusion of the waves of heat and light is deduced, 
and it has been proved by well-established experiments and irresistible 
conclusions that the rays of heat and light are identical, and that they 
only differ in the number of their oscillations and their effects. 

We will now examine in what way the permeability of certain sub- 
stances by heat rays is explained on the one side, and the increase of 



496 PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 

temperature of others in consequence of the absorption of heat rays, by 
the hypothesis of an oscillating aether and atoms, on the other. 

If heat rays strike a body, a part of them penetrate into the sub- 
stance and transfer the oscillatory motion of the heat waves of aether 
either to the atoms of the aether within the body or to the atoms of the 
body's substance. In the former case the body (for instance, rock salt) 
permits the greater part of the heat rays to pass through it, and its 
temperature is increased in a scarcely perceptible degree ; in the latter 
case the body refuses almost entirely to let the heat rays pass, but its 
temperature is noticeably heightened. It is then said that the body has 
absorbed the heat rays. We conceive that in this absorption of the 
heat rays the oscillating atoms of the aether waves or the rays strike the 
atoms of the body, and in transmitting their own motion impart to them 
an oscillating motion about their center of equilibrium, or they intensify 
the existing vibration of the corporeal atoms. 

If, on the contrary, the oscillating material atoms of a body transmit 
a part of their motion to the aether, we say that such a body radiates 
heat. As with the aid of the law of radiatiou and absorption in regard 
to radiating heat the propagation of heat by transmission may be re- 
duced to a stratified radiation and absorption of heat, the increase of 
temperature of bodies by transmission is based finally on an increased 
motion of the particles of the warmer bodies. 

In order to be able to speak more precisely of that molecular motion which 
is called heat, we must borrow from mathematical mechanics the following 
important proposition : When bodies or their particles are in motion, 
half the product of the mass so moved by the square of its velocity is 
called the kinetic (dynamic or actual) energy or half of the vis viva. 
This expression "living force" first used by Leibnitz (1(58(5), grew 
into general use in mechanics and physics, while now it is more and 
more replaced by the term " kinetic energy." The word " energy" was 
applied in physics by Thomas Young (1807); but it was only recently 
that Rankine fixed the definite conception of this word in the sense in- 
dicated above. Energy is now understood to mean the capability of 
doing work or of overcoming a resistance ; the kinetic energy is mathe- 
matically equal to half the vis viva. In theoretical mechanics it is mathe- 
matically demonstrated that work done by a body moved by a force is 
equal to the increase of the kinetic energy experienced by the body 
during the action of the force. 

We will first apply this proposition relative to kinetic energy, — to heat 
as a molecular motion. It is conceived that the more kinetic energy 
increases by means of the increased velocity of the oscillating particles, 
the higher the temperature of the body will prove to be. In the devel- 
opment of heat by friction, the kinet ic energy of the visible motion of the 
bodies is turned into that invisible kinetic energy of the molecular mo- 
tion which manifests itself as a powerful increase of temperature of the 
bodies experiencing friction. In the increase of temperature of bodies 



PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 497 

by absorption of heat rays, the kinetic energy of the oscillating aether 
atoms is transformed into the kinetic energy of the oscillating particles: 
in the radiation of heat by bodies, it is an inverted exchange of their 
kinetic energies. 

A body whose atoms should tend to perfect repose would manifest the 
absolute zero point of temperature. It has been calculated that the abso- 
lute zero point, if it existed in nature, would be 273° C. below zero of the 
thermometer. Although the absolute zero point of temperature does 
not exist in reality, it is of value in the theoretical examination of the 
heat theory. From the degrees of heat, calculated from the absolute 
zero point, the absolute temperature is deduced. No gas is so perfect 
that it could preserve its aeriform quality to near the absolute zero 
point, but the most permanent gases even, would finally take a solid form 
before the cooling process had reached 273° C. below zero of the ther- 
mometer, notwithstanding that any degree of cold observed until now 
in nature, or which could be produced artificially, lies very much above 
the absolute zero point of temperature. 

As in reality there exists no absolute zero point of temperature, the 
particles of all bodies in the universe as well as those of the universal 
aether are constantly in a state of that peculiar motion called heat. In 
solid bodies the molecules oscillate about certain centers of equilibrium. 
If a solid body is heated, the oscillations of its molecules become more 
rapid and extended, whereby its temperature and volume are increased. 
The force of heat acts in opposition to the force of cohesion. By contin- 
uous heating the force of cohesion may be rendered so feeble that the 
molecules no longer oscillate about a certain point, but they move freely 
among each other; it is then said that a solid body has become fluid, — it 
has melted. 

By still increased heating of a fluid its cohesion may be so overcome 
that the molecules with an accelerated motion scatter apart and disperse. 
Freed from cohesion the vaporous or gaseous condition of substances is 
attained. The gas molecules move always independently of each other 
in a rectilineal direction until they strike other gas molecules or a wall 
by which latter they are thrown back like elastic balls. The pressure 
of a gas upon the surrounding walls is caused by the great number of 
violently striking molecules. This theory of gases originated principally 
with Daniel Bernoulli (1738), and was only recently applied very success- 
fully to the mechanical theory of heat by Kronig, Clausius, and Joule. 

According to the preceding, the pressure of a gas if it be compressed 
(supposing the temperature to be constant) and hence the corresponding 
decrease of the volume of the same quantity of gas, must be proportional, 
as it is evident that the shocks of the gas molecules on the walls will be- 
come more frequent during each time-unit the more confined the space 
is becoming in which the same number of gas molecules are moving. 
(Boyle's Law 1GG0, or Mariotte's Law 1G83.) 

It will be easy to judge what process will take place in a body when 
S. Mis. 54 32 



498 PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 

heat is furnished to it from outside. In the first instance the velocity 
of the oscillating molecules will be increased, consequently the kinetic 
energy of the latter is intensified; this fact manifests itself by the rising 
of the temperature of the body. We will call the work employed in this, 
measured in work-units, (according to Zeuner,) the oscillation-work. 
There is besides a work process going on in the interior. This produces 
a change, as a rule the extension of the mean intervals, i. e., the medium 
distances of the oscillating, corporeal atoms, whereby in the expansion 
of bodies by heat the particles of bodies recede from each other, or they 
even entirely change their places, as is the case in the processes of melting, 
boiling, and evaporating. There is, lastly, an exterior work connected 
with the expansion or aggregation change of bodies by heat in general, 
as usually the pressure of the atmosphere, or some other pressure on the 
surface of the body from without, has to be overcome. This exterior 
work produces the useful effect of caloric and steam engines. 

The eutire work done by a certain amount of heat is equal to the sum 
obtained by the addition of the exterior and interior amount of the 
oscillation work. In assuming an infinitely small change of the body 
by the increase or decrease of an infinitely small amount of heat we 
assume its changeableness, and so succeed in subjecting those quantities 
to mathematical calculation, and in deducing thereby those truths of 
the mechanical theory of heat which are of such high importance, theo- 
retically and technically ; in regard to this subject we would refer to 
the works of Clausius, Zeuner, and Hirn. 

According to the mechanical theory of heat the true nature of specific 
heat will be easily understood. In specific heat, the variable assumes 
smaller values with reference to oscillation-work (temperature) for the 
addition of a certain amount of heat, as the specific heat of the body is 
greater; that is, if the body requires more heat both as to exterior and 
interior work, for the variable. In melting, boiling, and evaporating the 
further change of oscillation-work under uniform pressure from without 
is zero, that is, no increase in the thermometrical indication is obtained, 
beeause all the work employed is expended in the dispersion or segre- 
gation of the substance. 

In regard to the latter point it is necessary to be more explicit in 
order to be understood. If a mercurial thermometer is placed in melt- 
ing ice or snow the quicksilver of the thermometer will soon reach 0° 
C. (32° ¥.), where it will stand until all the ice is melted ; it will be the 
same with other melting bodies. The melting temperature of every 
substance remains constant while it melts. 

The same will be the case in boiling fluids. The temperature at which 
a fluid begins to boil, and continues to do so, is called its boiling tem- 
perature or its boiling point. This varies with the material quality 
of the fluid, and also lias relation to a fixed pressure of the air. As long 
its a fluid boils with the pressure unchanged, its boiling point remains 
constant; no matter how much the fire is enlarged, there will only be 



PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 499 

produced a more rapid evaporation of the fluid, but no increase of its 
temperature above the boiling point. What becomes of the great 
amount of heat which is supplied to the melting and boiling substances? 
We shall answer this question by a historical digression; this will guide 
us to the solution of the present problem. 

A century and a halt ago Reaumur and Celsius were acquainted with 
the fact of the constancy of the molting and boiling points of ice and 
water. Obtrusively as these phenomena courted notice, they were yet 
only used by the manufacturers of thermometers as very desirable for 
their purpose, but were not further heeded. Black, whom we previously 
eulogized as the discoverer of specific heat, comprehended the impor- 
tance of this natural phenomenon, and endeavored to solve it (1759-'G4). 
It was he who put forward the following proposition generally known 
to-day, and which he verified by many experiments. As often and as 
long as any substance melts or boils (evaporates) so long all heat sup- 
plied to it disappears, for the latter then no longer acts on the thermo- 
meters which may be immersed in these melting or boiling (evapo- 
rating) substances. As soon however as the vapors of any substance 
become again fluid, or as soon as a fluid substance congeals, the heat 
which, as Black proved, apparently disappeared during the boiling or 
melting of these substances reappears; it then acts again on the ther- 
mometers which are immersed in either of the substances which are 
transforming themselves from vapor into fluid or which are again con- 
gealing. This returning heat amounts, as shown by Black, to exactly 
as much as that which was apparently lost during the melting or 
boiling. What becomes of that heat concealed during the melting or 
boiling of a substance, up to that time, when by a reversion of the 
process it reappears ? 

We know that Black assumed a highly elastic caloric without weight, 
which penetrated a substance and heated it. For the melting and boil- 
ing (evaporating) of substances was required, according to Black, much 
more of the caloric which, by means of its elasticity, expands the mole- 
cules, and which, by virtue of a dominating attraction between the ponder- 
able substances and the caloric, combines with the molecules of the pon- 
derable matter. Black, for this reason, called the heat used in melting 
and boiling (evaporating), — " latent" heat. By reversing the process the 
previously " latent" heat became again sensible ; the latter had the prop- 
erty of acting on the sense of feeling as well as on the thermometer. 

The discovery by Black of "latent" heat (as well as of specific heat) 
is most wonderful, because something hidden was brought to light by 
ingenuity and genius, and the indestructibility of heat was actually 
proved ; in consequence the way for our modern heat theory was pre- 
pared.* We know that Black's theory in relation to the material 

* [This is not quite an accurate expression of the fact, and therefore deserves com- 
ment. Were there such a thing as " caloric," it would certainly be " indestructible," 
and it was precisely this fallacious conception which led the illustrious Black, in his 



500 PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 

nature of heat was not correct. Even at that time his hypothesis only 
spoke of the concealing' and reappearing of a caloric, but was unable 
to throw any light on the cause of this disappearing and returning 
of heat, and here the mechanical theory of heat shows itself in all its 
glory. If the latent and specific heat quantities are nothing else but 
the quantities of kinetic molecular energy applied to the disengaging 
of the molecules which mutually attract each other, then it is plain 
that, as long as heated bodies do not begin to melt or boil (which means 
evaporation inside), a part only of the supplied heat suffices for the 
loosening of the cohesion of the molecules (specific heat), and that in 
connection with it an increase of the oscillation- work, i. e. an increase 
of temperature, takes place. As soon however as all the newly sup- 
plied quantity of heat is used entirely and exclusively in the separation 
of the molecules during the process of melting and boiling (interior 
evaporation) then no increase of the oscillation- work of the molecules, 
i. e. no rising of temperature, can take place. 

In conclusion let us review the acquisitions made by this lecture. 
We shall find that it resulted in the certain knowledge that heat is not 
a substance, but the internal motion of the molecules of bodies. The 
molecules of all bodies of the universe, as well as that of the universal 
aether, are constantly in that peculiar state of motion which is termed 
heat. Mechanical work is convertible into heat according to a defi- 
nite equivalent. We shall endeavor to prove in the next lecture that 
under certain restrictions heat may, by a reversal of the process, be 
turned into mechanical work (thermodynamic machines); we shall 
moreover demonstrate that the kinetic energy of the molecules of bodies 
and the aether, termed heat, may be converted and again reduced to 
other energies, called light, electricity, magnetism, and chemical action, 
in such a manner that all these energies appear only as the transforma- 
tions of one single indestructible energy. The doctrine of the inde- 
structibility and increatibility of energy forms the basis of the modern 
'fundamental principle in physics ; it has transformed the latter as thor- 
oughly and perspicuously as had been done in a similar manner in re- 
gard to chemistry toward the close of the last century, by the proposi- 

invaluablo researches, to designate the heat which (by every available test) he ob- 
served to have disappeared — "latent calorie." The modern conception of the fact is 
however entirely different. Heat, as a very special "mode of motion,*' is just as de- 
structible as any other special form of motion, audit is no more irrational to designato 
sound or light as indestructible than to so designate heat In the latter portion of the 
succeeding lecture the transformation of heat into work which isnot heat, is substan- 
tially recognized. As Prof. J. Clerk Maxwell has correctly stated in his excellent 
Treatise on Heat, — "heat may he generated or destroyed by certain processes, and this 
shows that heat is not a substance." (Theory of Heat, chap, iii, p. 57.) And again: 
"The hypothesis of caloric, or the theory that heat is a kind of matter, is rendered 
untenable — first, by the proof given by Rumford, that heal can he generated at the 
expense of mechanical work; and secondly, by the measurements of Him, which 
show that when heat does work in au engine, a portion of the heat disappears." (Same 
work, chap, viii, p. 147.) — Ed.~\ 



PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 501 

tion established at that time with reference to the indestructibility and 
increatibility of matter. These two great acquisitions, namely, the 
propositions relative to the permanence of matter and energy, give to 
modern physics a solid foundation. 



Lecture II. 



In the former lecture we have learned how, by transformation of me- 
chanical work into heat, their equivalence has been demonstrated ; we 
will now show how this equivalence has been ascertained by reversing 
the process, i. e. by turning heat into work. A transmutation of heat 
into work is observed in the expansion of bodies by heat, also in the 
melting and evaporation of substances, external as well as internal work 
being performed in these cases. However, it cannot be proved directly 
and plainly, with bodies expanded by heating, that in the transformation 
of heat into work a quantity of heat in proportion to the latter is used, 
because no decrease of temperature, but, on the contrary, an increase of 
it, takes place. We shall therefore be obliged to look for examples in 
which for the work performed by a body a corresponding quantity of 
the heat contained in it is consumed, and is thus diminished. 

This was the case in the following experiments by Gay-Lussac, and 
at a later period by Joule. They introduced a current of compressed air 
within an exhausted chamber; no loss of heat was perceptible, because 
no work had been performed. There was however a loss of heat upon 
the compressed air flowing into a chamber filled with air, because now 
the pressure of the air had to be overcome ; consequently labor had to 
be performed. Joule deduced from the amount of heat lost in this meas- 
ured work the heat equivalent (1845). 

In steam-engines the steam is the transmitter of the heat, which per- 
forms work indirectly. If the law of the mechanical equivalent of heat is 
to stand, it has to be proved that the quantity of heat produced in the 
steam of the boiler is greater than the amount of heat contained in 
the condenser after the work has been done. Him, in Colmar, has 
given this most difficult proof by highly ingenious experiments with 
a steam-engine (1855), and Clausius deduced the heat equivalent from 
these experiments (1855). 

We have now learned the possibility of the transformation of heat 
into mechanical work; it can further be demonstrated that heat may be 
transformed and again reduced into other actual or possible forms of 
motion, which arc called light, electricity, magnetism, or chemical action. 
For instance, by means of steam electric machines and thermopiles heat 
is transformed into electricity. By means of the heat in a steam-engine,) 
magneto-electrical machines may be made to rotate, and to produce 
powerful electric currents; the latter again may produce mechanical, 
chemical, magnetic, thermal, and optical effects ; electricity then no 



502 PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 

longer exists as such, but is transformed into mechanical or visible mo- 
tion, chemical and magnetic power, as also into heat and light. The 
electric current of a galvanic element originates, as will be shown here- 
after, in the slow oxidation of the dissolving zinc; that is, in the corre- 
sponding heat of combustion, which, by means of the transmutation into 
the form of the electric current, produces all the effects above referred 
to. These reciprocal changes and transformations of natural forces are 
treated in Grove's " Correlation of the Natural Forces." 

As shown by the preceding examples, which might be multiplied at 
pleasure, it may be affirmed: All natural forces are closely connected ; 
any one of these forces may be transformed into another, but none of 
them can be destroyed. This fundamental principle of modern physical 
research has its origin as regards the experimental part of it in the heat 
equivalent first demonstrated by J. E. Mayer and J. P. Joule; its sub- 
stance is now generally termed the "conservation of energy." Until a 
few years ago this proposition was generally expressed by "conserva- 
tion of force"; since however the conceptions of force, its work and 
energy, have become clearer, recently the former term has generally 
been used in preference to the latter. The proposition relative to the 
"conservation of energy" asserts that the sum total of active energies 
in the universe is unchangeable in whatever degree the constituents of 
this sum might change in their relation to each other. If, for instance, 
a stone is thrown up perpendicularly it possesses a certain kinetic en- 
ergy in consequence of the velocity imparted at the start; as soon as it 
has reached a certain height this energy for an instant appears lost; at 
the turning point the velocity of the stone and its kinetic energy are 
zero. But at its arrival at the point from which it had been thrown up 
it again possesses the previously imparted velocity and consequently its 
original kinetic energy: a fact which can readily be mathematically 
demonstrated. We ask, then: Was the energy at the point of return 
really momentarily destroyed ? 

In order to answer this query let us suppose that the stone at the mo- 
ment of turning rests on a fiat roof; its kinetic energy as to motion is 
without a doubt zero; but it is not absolutely lost, it simply takes 
another form of energy. This will be plain to us if we remember that 
if afterward that stone falls to the ground, the original kinetic energy 
is again obtained. As long then as that stone remains lying up there 
the apparently lost energy is preserved in a different form for future use. 

Let us take another example : If the spring of a bow is stretched a 
certain energy is imparted to it by the labor necessary lor the stretch- 
ing, which afterward in shooting off the arrow is returned in its en- 
tirety, — not considering the losses from the impediments to motion. Is 
the energy employed lost as long as the bow spring remains stretched .' 
Or is it only laid up .' It is plain that the latter is the ease. 

If, on throwing a body up perpendicularly, we call the energy with 
which it begins and on returning completes its motion — "kinetic energy" 



PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 503 

(also actual or dynamic energy) ; if furthermore we call the stored up or 
preserved energy of a lifted weight or of a stretched spring, &c, "po- 
tential energy" (also energy of position, statical or quiescent energy, or 
elasticity) ; we observe that in throwing up a stone, as also in the stretch- 
ing of a spring, the original kinetic energy is by degrees transformed 
into potential energy, until finally the kinetic energy is equal to zero, 
while the potential energy has become a maximum quantity. In the 
ict urn of the stone, or the resilience of the spring, the relation is the 
reverse; i.e. the potential energy is by degrees turned into kinetic 
energy, untjl finally the latter has attained its maximum, while the for- 
mer on the other hand has become zero. 

A swinging pendulum, at the moment when it reaches the middle point 
with the greatest velocity, possesses only kinetic energy ; at the highest 
points of its excursion it possesses only potential energy. On all inter- 
mediate points the sum of its kinetic and potential energy is a constant 
quantity. In a similar way the kinetic and potential energy form in 
their sum a constant quantity in a stone that is thrown and falls back 
vertically. 

This is the real import of the proposition of the " conservation of 
energy." Applied to the energy of the universe — as a whole, the propo- 
sition is: The sum total of the kinetic and potential energy in tue uni- 
verse remains ever constant, however much the values of the several 
items may change. It is consequently impossible to destroy either 
energy or work, or the forces producing them, but it is equally impossi- 
ble to originate them. The mutual play of the natural forces consists 
then only in their transformation, in their absorption and reappearance, 
without the least loss of the effects, i. c. without any loss of energy or 
work, or without their re-creation. 

Having grasped the meaning of the highly important theory of the 
"conservation of energy," we will test its sufficiency by a few r examples. 
If a stone has had kinetic energy given it in being thrown upward, and 
at the turning point has passed through a state of potential energy, 
and on returning to the starting point possesses again its full, original 
kinetic, energy, does it not lose it all the same when it is suddenly 
brought to rest on reaching the ground '.' Apparently it does! In reality 
it does not, for the kinetic energy regained through the fall of the stone 
has, by its striking the ground, been turned into oscillation energy, in 
internal and external work of the stone molecules; it has been trans- 
formed into heat and expansion by heat, as was demonstrated by Joule's 
experiment. 

The descending water of the Rhine-fall, of mountain torrents, iK:c. in 
dashing against the foot of rooks, in reality does not lose any of its 
motive energy, but for the seeming loss in external motion the internal 
motion of the molecules becomes more intense than previously; i. c. it 
possesses at the foot of the height as much more of heat as it has lost in 



504 PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 

moving energy. The sudden heating of a moving body when arrested 
is fully explained by this. 

Where did the moving energy originate which was imparted to the 
body when thrown upward ? If we ourselves threw up the weight then 
the energy came from our muscular power, which again drew it from the 
vital power, that is, from a combination of physical and chemical forces; 
the latter were again taken from that great total of nature's energy 
which exists in unalterable quantity; this would be the case with any 
other force which had been instrumental in throwing up the stone. The 
masses of water of the cataract had at some previous time T>een carried 
aloft; this was done through the agency of the energy of heat, by which 
the water was raised in the form of vapor, and the latter by cooling off 
reached that spot in the form of rain, from which, after numerous trans- 
migrations and changes of locality, it Anally precipitates itself into the 
deep. These processes resemble very much the changes through which 
material substances pass in their innumerable physical and chemical 
actions. However great the differences, it is certain that no substance 
is ever lost in the universe : the transformation is simply like the build- 
ing of a new edifice with old building stone; in this process the old 
energies also contribute, but in new forms. 

The conservation of energy has its analogue, its precursory, necessary, 
and supplementary correlative in the conservation of matter. As mat- 
ter without force and force without matter are inconceivable, the great 
discovery of Lavoisier (1772-'80) of the indestructibility of matter in 
reality involved that of the indestructibility of force; nevertheless, half 
a century passed away before this was recognized. The conservation 
of energy, an acquisition of the present, and the permanence of matter, 
an acquisition of the last century, together form the fundamental law 
and the "center of gravity" of our modern natural science. 

On reaching this point, it may be interesting to search in the annals 
of science whether in earlier times the truth of the persistence of mat- 
ter and energy had not been discovered and lost again, or whether its 
high importance and bearings were not comprehended. Researches in 
this direction result in finding that indeed the ancient Greek philoso- 
phers (Leucippus, 510 IJ. 0., Democritus, 470 U. 0. ; Aristotle, 350 
B. C, and others), and more than two thousand years later, thinkers 
and investigators like Descartes, Newton, lluyghens. Bacon, and others, 
had an idea of the indestructibility of the atoms of matter, of the perpet- 
ual activity and motion of the same ; that the former at times had a dim 
perception of the indestructibility of matter and energy, and the latter 
passed closely by tins fundamental proposition; that however only 
within the last quarter of the last century has the theory of the inde- 
structibility of matter, and within our own time the theory of the inde- 
structibility of energy, been fully apprehended, and efforts made to 
prove the same by means of induction. 

Against these proofs the objection has been raised that the constancy of 



PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 505 

matter and energy was not rigorously established by experiment, as the 
respective measurements could never attain perfect accuracy ; that this 
theory, unconsciously impressed on us from the beginning, might there- 
fore have been conjectured by the ancient philosophers without con- 
firmation from experiment. We would, however, point out that the 
measurements relative to those propositions possess that degree of ac- 
curacy which is indispensable in the determination of a law in natural 
science; that in the latter, only laws thus proved are admissible, and 
that the theories of the persistence of matter and energy had never 
been definitely expressed with mathematical precision before the above 
named epochs. At any rate, the really scientific and highly fruitful 
application of these two fundamental laws falls in the last decades 
of the past century and in our time. It was only after the perma- 
nence of matter had been experimentally demonstrated with the aid 
of delicate precision-scales by Lavoisier (1772-'S0), Wenzel (1772 to 
1777), and Iiichter (1792), and on these grounds definite statements 
had been made, that chemistry really became truly scientific in form 
and character by reason of the development of the doctrine of definite 
proportions. 

If on the one hand the theory of the persistence of matter created 
chemistry as a science proper, on the other the theory of the persistence of 
energy threw a full light on physics, chemistry, physiology, and in fact 
on the whole philosophy of the investigation of nature. The last step 
in the establishment of the theory of the conservation of energy was 
produced by the theory of heat. The premises of this theory existed 
however already in mechanics, it having been observed in the latter at 
an early date that by machines no power was ever gained, but that by 
the use of machines power could only be employed more easily and to 
better advantage. 

The ancients knew that in the lever the greater weight moves just as 
many times more slowly as it exceeds the smaller weight in quantity. 
Galileo observed more generally (1592) that in lifting a weight by 
means of a simple machine as much is lost in space and consequently 
in time as is gained in power. Johann Bernoulli (1717) in an ingenious 
manner transformed this proposition as the " principle of virtual veloc- 
ities" into the first principle of the theory of equilibrium, from which 
emanates the solution of every statical problem. Subsequently 
d 'Alembert embodied this principle in its widest analytical form (1743). 
We find then that in simple and consequently in complicated machines 
(these being composed of the former) absolutely no power and therefore 
no energy can be gained. Machines cannot produce powers; they can 
onl,\ apply them more advantageously to a useful purpose. 

Since by means of a machine the work performed by the first motor 
could at the utmost but reappear in undiminished quantity at the last, 
(and this could be only if there were no losses by impediments to motion 
from friction and resistance of the air,) it is evident that a jperpetuum 



506 PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 

mobile is an impossibility. In such, the first portion of the machine, if 
once set in motion, is to move the second, this the third, &c. the last 
again the first, without ceasing. The action of the first part of the ma- 
chine however arrives at the last part greatly diminished by resistances 
to motion, and from this returns again diminished to the first part, and 
so on ; the machine, therefore, will soon stop. If then this kind of ma- 
chine, which only performs its own continuous motion, is impossible, how 
could any mechanism be found which once moved, would in addition per- 
form outside work without renewal of power '? That is what the wise 
searchers for a " perpetual motion" are striving for! A machine in con- 
tinuous motion itself would be too insignificant for them ; it must be an 
apparatus that would work incessantly and gratuitously, which need bo 
set in motiou but once, when motion and work would continue forever. 

As in the foregoing, it has been demonstrated from theoretical me- 
chanics that a "perpetual motion" is impossible, and as this has also 
been confirmed by experience, Helmholtz, (1847 — he was not then as yet 
acquainted with the pertinent works of Mayer and Colding, and only 
obtained knowledge of that of Joule towards the close of his researches) — 
deduced from this the theory of the "conservation of energy" by pre- 
senting the question : " If a perpetuum mobile is necessarily impossible, 
what are then the relations of the natural forces to one another ? " Helm- 
holtz points out that if the assumption of the impossibility of a perpetuum 
mobile is combined with the law set forth by Newton (lGSG), "In every 
action of a force a similar and opposite reaction is always present," the 
doctrine of the mechanical equivalence of heat results therefrom. Cold- 
ing had previously (1813) expressed himself by reversing the above in 
this wise, that if the proposition maintained by him as to the indestructi- 
bility and convertibility of natural forces were false, a perpetuum mobile 
would be possible. Newton's proposition of the equality of action and 
reaction of a force has become so general that it includes Bernoulli's be- 
fore-meutioned principle of virtual velocities. We may therefore con- 
clude that Newton had approached the discovery of the theory of the 
conservation of energy even earlier, and from a more general standpoint 
than Bernoulli. 

It has been observed that the term "conservation of force" has in the 
course of time been replaced by "conservation of energy." Why had 
the term "force" to give place to "energy" 'I The answer will follow if 
the meaning of the term "force" is precisely defined, and if the effect 
or the capability of action of a force — i. e. its "energy" — is not con- 
founded with the "force" itself, which is considered as the cause of the 
effect or capability of action. Force is the appellation for every cause 
which overcomes the property of persistence or the inertness of it body, 
or endeavors to overcome it; that is, every cause which actually prevails 
upon a resting body to move, or upon a moving body to rest, or en- 
deavors to do so. Every force which acts upon a body emanates from 
some other body. Force is never one-sided in its action, but in the 
same force with which the first body acts upon the second one this will 



PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 507 

react on the first. This is the previously mentioned principle of Newton 
on the equality of action and reaction; so, for instance, a stone and the 
earth attract each other with equal force; both fall towards each other; 
the stone being a small mass does so visibly; the earth being - of greai 
magnitude, (therefore moved in the most minute degree,) does so invisi- 
bly; that is, the motion of the earth toward the stone is not sensible, 
as it is of a non-measurable amount. The weight on a table exercises 
the same pressure from above as the table from below. A spring pressed 
by the hand exercises a counter-pressure in an equal degree, &c. Forces 
then arc not self existing, but they are confined to matter, and manifest 
themselves only by their actions. 

As forces are never observed as such, but can only be measured by their 
actions, recently the question has repeatedly arisen whether the term 
"force" ought not to be entirely banished from natural science. By 
degrees an agreement has been arrived at in regard to this matter, so 
that the actions of forces, which manifest themselves either as pressure 
(tension) or as motion, are adequately termed potential or kinetic energy; 
the latter term is susceptible of a mathematical expression. What form- 
erly was called pressure or elasticity is now termed potential energy, 
while the moving forces of old are now counted among the kinetic ener- 
gies. The term "force" ought to be avoided in every case where its 
action (work, capability of action, energy) is referred to; it may how- 
ever h:- used in all those cases (and preserving the former usage of lan- 
guage) where the cause of an effect, e. g. of a pressure or motion, is to 
be indicated. 

On reviewing what has been said we find that although the older theo- 
retical mechanics had certainly approached very near the proposition of 
the conservation of energy, only by the discovery of the heat equiva- 
lent and of the transformation of energy did it gain a precise definition, 
as also a highly important general significance and a universal applica- 
tion. At present, analytical mechanics has deduced this theorem mathe- 
matically and made its application general. 

By the discovery of the heat equivalent, the theory of heat had to re- 
linquish the hypothesis of a "caloric," transmitted by warmer bodies to 
colder ones, which the latter absorbed for the purpose of raising their 
temperature, and it had to turn to the hypothesis, according to which 
radiant heat had its cause in oscillating aether atoms, and absorbed heat 
in the effect of the oscillation of the molecules of bodies. The theories 
of heat and of optics thereby obtained a common basis, namely that of 
the oscillating aether atoms. In optics the theory of emission, accord- 
ing to which exceedingly tine elastic and imponderable light-atoms were 
radiated by luminous bodies with an enormous velocity, was discarded 
earlier than the theory of caloric emission in the case of heat ; the cause of 
this was a series of phenomena which could no longer be explained by 
the emission hypothesis, but only by the transverse oscillations of that 
extremely rare and highly elastic medium which we have termed a;ther. 

Let us examine in what manner the wave or undulatory theory ex- 



508 PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 

plains the fundamental phenomena of the radiation of light and heat. 
The ultimate particles of an incandescent metal or the flame of a lamp 
or any similar source of heat and light execute extremely rapid oscilla- 
tions, whose kinetic energy is imparted to the atoms of the surrounding 
aether in a similar manner to that effected by resounding bodies on 
the surrounding air. Just as the latter vibrates and transmits tones, 
so also does the oscillating aether transmit light. While however in 
the transmission of sound through the air the particles of the latter 
vibrate in the direction of the sound rays, it is most probable, in 
accordance with certain phenomena, that in the transmission of light the 
oscillations of the sether atoms take place in a direction perpendicular 
to the rays of light. The hypothesis is that the elasticity of the aether 
permits the displacement in a lateral direction to the rays much more 
easily than in their direction, or longitudinally. 

Colorless light, as we know, may be reduced to the primary colors of 
the rainbow by means of a glass prism. These variously colored compo- 
nents of the colorless light are virtually the same in regard to it, that the 
different low and high tones are with reference to sound, and they are 
transmitted by the aether in a manner similar to that of the propagation 
of the several tones of sound by the air. Mathematical optics teaches 
that the difference in optical tones — i. e. the difference in the spectral 
tints — like tbe difference in acoustic tones, is owing to the unequal length 
of the oscillating aether waves, or to the unequal number of oscillations 
of the constituent atoms. In the different length of the waves of the 
various spectral colors we see why the variously colored component rays 
of the colorless light are, by refraction, diverted from each other and 
scattered in a spectrum in a fan -like shape. 

The more rapidly the aether atoms oscillate, or the shorter the wave, 
the nearer to the violet-colored limit of the spectrum will the correspond- 
ing tint be located. The longest aether waves are on the red, the short- 
est on the violet-colored end of the spectrum ; between the two occur the 
aether waves of medium length. The rays of the spectrum produce three 
kinds of effects, by means of their kinetic energy, accordingly as they 
fall on different bodies. In the region of the red rays and in the invisi- 
ble space beyond them a heating of bodies placed there predominates; 
therefore an increase of the molecular energy takes place ; the rays from 
red to violet (among them the yellow ones, particularly) act principally 
on the nerve ends of the retina of the eye and excite the optic sensibility; 
the blue ones — the violet ones, particularly, and the invisible rays beyond 
the violet — produce chemical changes as the shorter waves of the oscil- 
lating aether pass over to the sether between the atoms of a molecule, 
and thereby cause separations as well as a different grouping of the 
atoms into new molecules, dissimilar to those previously existing.* 

* [The researches oi' the <'1<1<t Draper tend to discredit entirely the generally 
received view lure stated, that the calorific, optical, and aclinic effects of the solar 
radiation occupy different positions in the spectrum, or have different refrangihilities. 



PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 509 

Although the different rays of the spectrum, according to their posi- 
tion in the latter, produce predominantly thermal, optical, or chemical 
effects, it can be shown that the difference in the effects is not caused 
by an essential difference of the rays, but rather by the different mate- 
rial condition of the bodies on which the rays act. There is only one 
kind of radiation, which however according to the number of oscilla- 
tions of the SBther-atoms and the difference of the irradiated matter, 
manifests itself in various ways in the effect. Heat, light, and chem- 
ically acting rays are in essence identical, and they become only distin- 
guishable when the kinetic energy of their aether oscillatious is transmit- 
ted to the material particles of a suitably disposed body. For instance, 
every ray of light is also a ray of heat ; but the so-called obscure rays 
of heat and rays of light differ only in the number of their oscillations ; 
otherwise they are quite the same. The rays of light alone are able to 
excite the ends of the optical nerves to optical action, while the visible 
as well as the invisible (so-called obscure) heat rays cause an increase 
of temperature in those substances by which they are absorbed. 

In order that rays may act upon a body which they strike, it is indis- 
pensable that they should be absorbed, The absorption of heat, light, 
or chemical rays is a transmission of kinetic energy from the oscillating 
rether atoms to the molecules, and, in chemical effects, to the atoms of 
master. Although the equivalent of a given quantity of light has not 
yet been determined, it is certain that through the absorption of light 
rays, substances become heated, and the chemical action of the light 
rays augments precisely as the absorption of the latter ; the law of the 
conservation of energy finds its application in this, though the quanti- 
tive proof is wanting as yet. 

The wave, or undulatory theory of light, explains the phenomena in 
a very simple manuer, as we demonstrated in the example of the spec- 
trum ; it reduces the radiation of light and heat to a common principle. 
The theory of the emission of luminous matter had to assume as many 
variously colored luminous atoms as the innumerable colored rays in 

This eminent physicist has certainly proved that the accepted generalization is at 
least fallacious, and hased on insufficient data. From the enormous distortion 
necessarily incident to every refraction spectrum, (as shown by reference to an 
arithmetical scale of wave-lengths, or by the simpler expedient of comparison with 
a diffraction spectrum,) Dr. Draper has pointed out that computing from the arith- 
metical center of the spectrum, — the point of maximum illumination in the yellow 
band — (near the sodium line I)), the lower side of the scale is compressed into about 
half its just extent, while the upper side is expanded to about double its proper range. 
(Am. Jour. Sci. Sept. 1872, vol. iv, pp. 161-175.) And as this distortion goes on rap- 
idly increasing from the mean portion, the extra optical rays are many times condensed 
beyond the red extremity, and many times dilated beyond the violet extremity. Ac- 
cordingly the ''heat-curve," familiarly exhibited by popular writers and lecturers, is 
simply an egregious "anamorphosis." Secondly, Dr. Draper has shown that the 
actinic or chemical euergies of the solar ray are distributed throughout the spectrum 
(visible and invisible), provided that the observer's attention is not coutincd (as usual) 
to the decompositions of silver salts. (Am. Jour. £>ci. Jan. and Feb., 1873, vol. v. pp. 
25-38; and pp. 91-98.)— Ed.] 



510 PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 

existence, which were believed to combine in the colorless ray to a col- 
orless substance. Besides this, a peculiar caloric had to be assumed. 
The absorption of light could be considered only as a union of the ca- 
loric with substances by which the former lost its essential property, 
namely, its illuminating power. Thus many phenomena of light could 
not be explained by the theory of the emission of light, even with the 
assistance of new auxiliary hypotheses. How clearly does the undula- 
tory theory explain, not only all the light phenomena, but also those of 
heat and chemically acting radiation ! By the application of the prop- 
osition relative to the conservation of energy, the transformation of one 
kind of ray into another, as well as the absorption of rays, is easily 
comprehended. 

By applying the undulatory theory to both heat and light, a common 
basis has been gained for them ; the rays of heat and light are even iden- 
tical. The undulatory theory of the aether being formed according to 
the demonstrated undulatory theory of acoustics, it shows by analogy, 
as indicated above, what the conception of the transmission of kinetic 
energy in acoustics is. First, in relation to the calling forth of tones, 
the mechanical work of bowing or striking the resounding instru- 
ment is changed into the kinetic energy of the vibrating motion of 
molecules. From the resounding body the kinetic energy passes over 
to the sound transmitter in form of progressing longitudinal waves, and 
from the sound transmitter by means of the vibratory parts of the ear 
to the extreme ends of the auditory nerves, whereby finally the per- 
ception of sound is produced. If the sound waves however strike 
accordant bodies, the latter get into resonance in consequence of the 
transmission of kinetic energy. In optics a similar calling forth of 
tones or colors in suitably constituted bodies by colored rays falling 
upon them is known ; these phenomena are called fluorescence and phos- 
phorescence. 

We have observed that the theories of heat light and sound have been 
reduced to one of undulation. And since the latter is deduced from 
mathematical mechanics, these theories have theoretical mechanics as 
their basis, and, above all, the fundamental principle of the conservation 
of energy. The many relations existing between electrical, optical, and 
thermal phenomena, continually more and more discovered and displayed 
since the wider development Of the mechanical theory of heat, are natur- 
ally calculated to arouse the efforts of natural philosophers to explain the 
fundamental phenomena of electricity also from some motion of material 
molecules or aether atoms, the many counter actions between the ther- 
mal, optical, and electrical phenomena having rendered untenable the 
hypothesis of electric fluids, or electric substances. 

Up to the present time there have been two leading hypotheses by which 
the theory of electric phenomena was to be connected with the sether 
theory of optics and heat. One of these hypotheses maintains that there 
are opposite rotatory motions of the material molecules or aether atoms 



PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 511 

imparted to tliem in the production of the two kinds of electricity. The 
other assumes that the electric condition of a body is caused by a dis- 
turbed accumulation of freely acting aether. In accordance with the 
latter view every nonelectric body would contain aether to a certain 
amount. By the exciting of electricity (through friction, for example), 
the equilibrium of the aether atoms and the ultimate particles of bodies 
would be disturbed, and by reason of this a flowing over of the disen- 
gaged aether from one body to another would take place; accordingly one 
body would have uplus, the other a corresponding minus of the disen- 
gaged cether ; one body then shows positive, the other negative elec- 
tricity. Endeavors have been made to explain the electric current on 
this ground. As yet neither the one nor the other representation has 
succeeded in explaining all the fundamental phenomena in electricity, 
although those observed up to the present time generally accord better 
with the latter than the former. 

Although the hypotheses which aim at the ultimate attainment of a 
common basis for the theories of light, heat, and electricity have not 
satisfied the test in their detailed application, still the principle of the 
conservation of energy in its application to the theory of electricity has 
been found true. As every magnet may be considered the aggregate of 
all its molecules, surrounded by electric currents, if the general electric 
phenomena have been reduced to the theory of the conservation of en- 
ergy, this reduction is, in principle, valid as to the primary magnetic phe- 
nomena. 

As to Motional electricity an expenditure of work by friction is re- 
quired in the separation of positive and negative electricity. The ex- 
pended kinetic energy manifests itself on the rubbed bodies as the 
potential energy of the separated electricities in this wise, the two 
bodies which received the separated electricities strive to approach each 
other. If this approach really takes place in easily moved bodies, as for 
example in the motion of swinging electroscopes of opposite electricities, 
it finally reappears as kinetic energy as manifested in the visible approach 
of the easily moved electric carriers. The electric discharge in shape of a 
spark, as also of heat, to which the electricity has been changed, shows 
the passage and conversion from potential to kinetic energy. 

By means of electric machines mechanical energy is transformed to 
the potential energies of positive and negative electricity. If the elec- 
trically charged positive and negative conductors of an electric machine 
are connected by a wire, the result is an electric current with which 
mechanical, thermal, magnetic, chemical, and physiological effects may 
be produced, with which therefore a transformation of energies may be 
effected. 

The electric current also which emanates from galvanic batteries pro- 
duces such transformations, in most cases to a higher degree than the 
frictional electric current. If a given quantity of zinc is dissolved in 
diluted sulphuric acid, which chemically is equivalent to its oxidation 



512 PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 

or slow combustion, a definite amount of beat is generated in tbe fluid 
by this combustion. But if an equal quantity of zinc is dissolved in 
tbe diluted sulphuric acid of a galvanic element, which, is closed by an 
iron wire (wbicb offers considerable resistance to electric conduction,) 
the amount of beat in tbe galvanic element decreases as compared to 
that of the same quantity of oxidized zinc, and is manifested instead 
in the resisting connecting wire, so that this thin wire appears as tbe 
bearer of a certain amount of beat or of the corresponding kinetic en- 
ergy. The beat generated throughout the current conductor and aug- 
mented by the internal work is equal to that wbicb disappears from 
the galvanic cell wben tbe latter is closed with tbe resisting iron wire. 
If this experiment is modified so as to put the poles of tbe galvanic 
battery in metallic connection with copper wires (which latter offer a 
comparatively small conducting resistance), and if then the ends of 
these wires are united by a thin iron wire or charcoal points, a great 
part of the heat of oxidation produced in the battery may be con- 
veyed to long distances in the form of the electric glow and light. In 
this process chemical energy is transformed into that of heat, electricity, 
and again of heat in accordance with the law of the correlation of energy. 

If we analyze water by means of the electric current of a voltaic 
battery, the quantities of hydrogen and oxygen thereby obtained possess 
through their chemical attraction (chemical relation or affinity) that 
potential energy, which disappeared as the kinetic energy of heat from 
the battery and manifested itself in the closing wire as the kinetic 
energy of the electric current. Through the electrolysis of the water 
the electric current must be weakened by the amount required in the 
work performed in the separation of the atoms of the water molecules. 
If the mixture of inflammable gas obtained in the electrolysis of the 
water is set on fire, there arises from tbe explosion, light, heat, and 
sound; that is three kinds of kinetic energy. If all the losses in these 
processes could be taken into account, the total of all these energies 
would be equal to that heat energy which, during the electrolysis, was 
produced in the battery in the dissolution of tbe zinc. 

In the generation of magnetism in an electro-magnet some of tbe 
kinetic energy of the electric current is expended, hence a periodical 
weakening of the current takes place at the moment of the magnetiza- 
tion; no energy is however required for the retention of tbe previously 
developed magnetism, because no work is required for the existing state 
of equilibrium in the electro-magnet, for where no mechanical work is 
performed no loss of the current can take place. In electro-magnetic 
motors, where the electro-magnet has to be constantly reproduced, 
there is then a constantly renewed expenditure of the energy of the 
electric current taking place. In this case there is an indirect trans- 
formation of the heat which is produced by the zinc consumed in the 
battery. This heat is transformed into the electric current, magnetism, 



PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 513 

and lastly into mechanical motion, which may be employed in the per- 
forming of mechanical work. 

For every amount of work done by the electric current an equivalent 
of the energy of the current, or of the combustion heat of the oxidizing 
zinc in the battery, is consumed or rather transformed. We have seen 
that in the steam-engine a part of the heat of the steam is turned into 
mechanical work, and that after the work is accomplished this amount 
of heat is wanting in the steam that has been at work. In steam- 
engines, and in fact in all caloric or thermo-dynamic machines, a pro- 
portionate quantity of the heat, stored up in the form of vapors and 
gases, must seemingly disappear for every mechanical work done by 
such machine. Heat is only then turned into work if it passes from a 
warmer to a colder body; in this respect it resembles the flow of water 
(as Sadi Carnot ingeniously remarked as early as 1824), which only then 
can move mills and perforin other work when it is able to descend from a 
higher to a lower level. This figurative conception, however, led Carnot 
to the false conclusion that in this sinking of heat from the higher to 
the lower tempered body no heat was lost. Ultimately Clausius cor- 
rected Carnot's proposition of the performance of work by the falling 
of temperature (18,50), by changing the closing part of Carnot's propo- 
sition of the retention of heat to the exact opposite, that is, he concluded 
that there is an apparent loss of a proportionate amount of heat as such 
for every unit of work done, on account of its transformation into 
work. Clausius demonstrated furthermore, in agreement with Carnot 
that in any thermodynamic machine it was to be presumed that the 
work performed depended in each case on the amount of transmitted 
heat, and not on the material composition of the vehicle of heat, as for 
example, whether from steam or heated gas. 

A steam or gas machine can only then perform work when the heat- 
bearing medium is cooled off on one side of the piston and a part of the 
heat is converted into work.* 

In every thermo-dynamic machine a warmer body (the fire) transmits 
a certain amount of heat to the heat bearer (vapors or gases). The lat- 
ter effects the transformation of the smaller portion of the received heat 
into mechanical work", while the supplementary, larger portion, is carried 
over to the colder body. Thermodynamic machines unavoidably, and 

* [This passage correctly recognizes the well-established fact that heat is lust (or de- 
stroyed) in being 1 ransformed into " work."' Whenever a permanent molecular change 
is effected either by heat or by impact, less heat remains than when no such work is 
effected. The falling stone (to use the lecturer's early illustration) is less heated by 
collision if broken than if not broken by the shock, — a, portion of the kinetic energy 
in this case being expended in overcoming tin- tenacity of cohesion. Any hypothesis 
of the conservat ion of motion (as such) would necessarily lead us to the incongruity of 
conceiving the rolled iron or the crushed ore as having an extra amount of ••latent'' 
heat stored up within its molecules ; or conversely of conceiving light as "latent" in 
the gas-holder, the oil-can, or the Inciter match ; or sound as "latent" in the orgau- 
bellows, the violinist's elbow, or the grain of guupowder. — Ed.~\ 

S. Mis. ot ;;a 



514 PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 

contrary to the design of their inventors, heat their surroundings, and 
it is only by making a virtue of necessity that this can be turned to the 
best advantage. The heat expended in this involuntary heating pro- 
cess, added to that expended in useful mechanical work, gives the total of 
heat which the medium (vapors or gases) had received from the higher tem- 
perature of the heat source. If the work performed be measured and a 
careful calculation of all the losses of heat made, it follows that the 
work done by the machine is the exact equivalent of the apparently [or 
rather actually] lost amount of heat.* 

It is not only in thermo-dynamic machines, but in all conversion of 
heat into work (as both practice and theory teach us), that it may be 
said that but a small part of the "descending " heat, that is heat pass- 
ing from the warmer to the colder body, can be transformed into useful 
work, for the greater portion of the heat passes directly as such to the 
colder body. Clausius has however demonstrated (1850) that heat 
can only pass over or " ascend" from a colder to a warmer body when 
for the raising of the temperature, work is expended. This proposition 
has the result that the last hope of the enthusiasts for a "perpetual 
motion " is entombed. Their hope was based on the possibility that 
the heat, which is produced in machines by impediments of motion — fric- 
tion, shocks, resistance of the medium — might be reconverted into work, 
and at least a mechanism might be constructed which would be perma- 
nently automatic. In this, one thing was forgotten, that heat can never 
be entirely converted into work, but that on the contrary only the 
smaller portion of the higher temperature from the source of heat can 
be thus transformed, and that the greater part of it in passing to bodies 
of lower temperature must ever remain as heat. The perpetuum mobile 
therefore remains impossible. 

By means of the theory of the conservation of energy the impossi- 
bility of a perpetual motion has been finally proved : for what is the 
result of that theory ? Work can only be performed by an energy em- 
ployed for the purpose ; if the latter is exhausted or transformed it can 
perform no further work. It can no longer be assumed that perhaps 
by means of the thermal, electrical, or magnetic forces the construction 

* Clausius has suggested the employment of the term ergon to express the numerical 
value of the work-unit when measured by the heat-unit. And he further proposes an 
adjective form of this word (crgonized) as a substitute for the manifestly inaccurate 
term " latent" when applied to heat. As he well remarks: "This name originated 
when it Avas thought that the heat which can no longer be detected by our senses 
(when a body fuses or evaporates) still exists in the body in a peculiar concealed con- 
dition. According to the mechanical theory of heat, this notion is no longer tenable. 
All heat actually present iu a body is sensible heat : the heat which disappears dur- 
ing fusion or evaporation is converted into xvork, and consequently exists no longer as 
heat. I propose, therefore, in place of latent heat to substitute the term crgonized heat." 
{The Mechanical Theory of Heat. Edited by Prof. T. A. Hirst. 8vo. London. 18G7. 
Sixth Memoir. Appendix A. pp. 253,255.) This collection of memoirs, by Prof. R. 
Clausius, originally appeared in Poggendorll's Annalen, and they were translated from 
the German for the L. E. D. Philosophical Magazine, by Prof. J. Tyndall and others. 



PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 515 

of a perpetual motion might be possible, because it is known that all 
energies, be their names what they may, can only be converted into 
work in equivalent amounts and that the reconversion of heat into work 
is only partially possible. 

Through resistances to motion a portion of the kinetic energy is al- 
ways transformed into heat ; if such resistance should exist in free space 
the energy resulting from gravitation would in part be converted into 
heat. Laplace (1799-1825) assumed an absolutely void universe for the 
endless duration of the planetary system ; according to the present 
condition of science, we are obliged to assume (on account of the radia- 
tion of light and heat) that the universe is tilled with an imponderable, 
exceedingly rare, and extraordinarily elastic substance, termed tether. 

The tenuity of this assumed rather is so great that as yet the result 
of its resistance as manifested in retardation has been perceptible only 
in the course of Encke's comet, but in no other celestial body. What 
would be the effects of a medium which would retard the motion of the 
celestial bodies ! First, instead of the lost kinetic energy there would 
be heat ; then, the attraction of the central body being supposed to be 
unimpaired, the tangential motion of the planetary bodies would be 
diminished through the resistance of the medium ; the effect of the at- 
tractive force of the sun would be manifested in a greater degree, i. e., 
these celestial bodies would disclose the existence of a resisting medium 
by their contracting orbits and an increased velocity. This seems to 
be really so in the case of Encke's comet, according to recent observa- 
tions ; and the final fate of this comet may be its precipitation into the 
sun.* 

J. R. Mayer (1848) assumed such a precipitation of innumerable bodies 
(asteroids), in order to explain whence the sun obtained the supply 
of heat which it is constantly radiating. In such a precipitation of 
asteroids into the sun the energy of the mechanical motion would be 
transformed into the energy of heat of sufficient intensity to account for 
the unimpaired conservation of the sun's heat. Helmholtz explains the 
supply of the sun's radiation differently, in calculating that a continu- 
ous condensation of the sun, whose origin was a cosmic nebula, would 
preserve its heat for an incalculable period of time. 

As with the heat of the sun, so the internal heat of the earth is ex- 
plained by J. Ii. Mayer, by the precipitating of smaller bodies upon 
each other; by Eelmholtz, by the condensation of the earth from an 
originally cosmic nebula, both basing their respective calculations upon 
the mechanical equivalent of heat. The result of such calculations 
teaches that on the basis of the above hypotheses incomparably higher 
degrees and greater amounts of heat come into action than from any 
known combustion or chemical combination, and that consequently in 
regard to the sun, on the assumption of the above hypotheses, the heat 

"[That the observed acceleration of bincke's cornel is really due to an atherial resist- 
ance (as is so commonly assumed), appears to be extremely improbable. — Ed. ] 



515 PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 

and light phenomena must have a much more intense character than 
could be derived from any assumed combustions and chemical pro- 
cesses, so that the spectral phenomena of the sun are in nowise contra- 
dictory, but rather in accordance with the above suppositions. 

Although the heat produced by combustion and chemical combina- 
tions is by no means sufficient to explain the retention of the sun's heat 
(at least not according to terrestrial data and knowledge), these sources 
are yet sufficiently striking and important to us, so that we are induced 
to search for their primary cause ; and this all the more, as the heat 
from combustion is to us in many cases indispensable. If a body falls by 
reason of gravity, and its course downward is suddenly arrested, the 
visible kinetic energy is changed to molecular motion or heat; in a sim- 
ilar manner we suppose that the atoms of substances, acting upon each 
other in non-measurable proximity and under favorable conditions, pre- 
cipitate themselves with violence upon each other, by virtue of their 
chemical attraction or relation, and so form the molecules of a new com- 
position, wherein, by the violent shock, the suddenly arrested motion 
is converted into the molecular motion termed heat. Just as the lifting 
of a stone for the purpose of separating it from the giound requires work, 
which it returns in an equal measure in its downfall, and which finally 
turns into molecular motion or heat, so we require also energy, or in 
many cases even heat itself, in the dissolution of chemical combinations. 
Chemically separated substances may be compared to lifted weights or 
tightened springs ; in short, they possess potential energy, which in the 
chemical combination is again converted into kinetic energy, mostly heat. 
This appears most strikingly in the chemical combination of substances 
with oxygen, from which result the phenomena of light and heat, and 
which is called combustion ; and from the heat thereby generated heat 
was first measured. In all oxidations and, speaking more generally, in 
every chemical combination, whether produced directly or indirectly, at 
one time or at different periods, an equally large amount of heat is al- 
ways produced for this combination. If, for instance, a weight -unit of 
coal were first converted into carbonic oxide and this into carbonic acid, 
just as much heat will have been developed in the end as if the coal had 
been converted into carbonic acid directly. 

The oxidizable components of the blood in human and animal bodies 
suffer a slow and gradual oxidation, whereby the human and animal 
vital heat is produced. As the products of oxidation of the living 
animal body are thrown off by respiration (carbonic acid, water, and 
nitrogen), by perspiration (water, carbonic acid, and various combina- 
tions), and in other ways, a compensation for these oxidized substances 
becomes necessary. This compensation is secured by means of food, 
which is always taken from either the animal or vegetable kingdom, 
and must, on the whole, be oxidizable, because its components eventually 
are oxidized in the animal blood; that is, they combine chemically with 
the oxygen of the inhaled air. In animals a part of their heat is 



PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 517 

converted into mechanical work, as in tbe case of tbe steam engine, and 
as demonstrated by calculations, to more advantage than in tbe latter, 
since tbe animal body provides in addition for its involuntary motions. 
According to tbe theory of tbe conservation of energy, a man, when 
working, must, under otherwise unchanged conditions, expend more heat 
than when resting, consequently a more considerable oxidation or a 
greater consumption of oxygen must ensue. 

Through the continuous process of oxidation tbe products thereof, 
namely, carbonic acid and ammonia, would accumulate in a threatening 
manner if plants did not put them to use in their construction, partly 
directly and partly absorbed in water. Tbe carbonic acid consumed by 
plants is decomposed under the influence of the sun's light, the carbon 
is retained as material in their construction, tbe oxygen is exhaled by 
tbe leaves and again consumed by the animal creation. Thus plants 
prepare for man and beast the oxygen required by them, and these in 
return give back their requisite carbonic acid. This circuit, which con- 
ditions the life of plants and animals, extends not only to oxygen, 
but is a general one, as first shown by Liebig (18-fO-'4G), as plants sup- 
ply to animals the required combustible matter, in the shape of food, 
wbile tbe animals contribute to plants the products of combustion. But 
as in this circular course the heat of animals passes off externally, and 
the mechanical work performed is not employed in the needful decoru- 
po«ition of those products of oxidation, we must seek the source of 
energy which again resolves them into their chemical components. We 
find this in the sun, which, by means of its rays, can, according to cir- 
cumstances, either produce or dissolve chemical combinations. We have 
previously indicated that the sun's rays decompose the components of 
the carbonic acid consumed by plants, and in this wise produce oxygen 
for the inhalation of animals. 

The energy of radiation emanating from the sun is in part laid up in the 
plaids as potential, and partly it is changed to the kinetic energy re- 
quired in meteorological events. The latter transformation serves again 
for the benefit of plants through the meteorological circulation of water. 
As plants serve animals and men for food (directly, or, in the subsistence 
on meat, indirectly), and tbe animal excretions are in due course made 
use of by vegetation, it is apparent that ultimately the sun is the pre- 
serving principle of tbe organic creation. On tbe existence of the sun 
depends (lie constant preservation of tbe circular course of the terres- 
trial organisms ; and as tbe beat supply of tbe sun is assured for at least 
millions of years, tbe constant renewal of terrestrial organisms is guar- 
anteed for a very long period. 

The theory of lieat lias thus led us to the discovery of the mechanical 
equivalent of beat, and this again to the theory of the conservation 
of energy. Guided by Ibis theory we have passed over several of the 
principal departments in physics; we have nowhere come upon a contra- 
diction; everywhere previously isolated phenomena have been united in 



518 PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PnYSICS. 

one. In the theorem of the conservation of matter we have an analogue to 
that of the conservation of energy ; the similarity of the two theorems 
extends, however, only to the indestructibility and increatibility of mat- 
ter and energy. In the following points some dissimilarities appear, to 
wit : The doctrine of the conservation of matter may in all cases be es- 
tablished with more ease and accuracy than that of the conservation of 
energy, by direct qualitative measurement ; but as yet no transformation 
of a simple substance into another has become known, while the mani- 
fold transformations of energy have beeu learned. The possibility of 
the transformation of the latter permits the assumption that there exists 
but one single original energy, from which the individual energies 
(gravitation, affinity, radiation, electricity, and magnetism) are the par- 
ticular manifestations. It has been supposed, nevertheless, that possi- 
bly one single, indivisible, elementary matter may exist, of which the 
known elements might be variations or allotropes, in the same manner 
as carbon, which appears as graphite and diamond; or as phosphorus, 
which exists in the ordinary and the red forms; or as sulphur, in the 
ordinary and the amorphous forms ; but as yet success has not been had 
in the reduction of chemical elements to one single fundamental one of 
which the hypothetical aether might even be a variation. 

In the same way as within the last quarter of the past century, the 
emphasizing of the indestructibility and increatibility of matter caused a 
complete revision and reform of the theories of chemistry, so in this cen- 
tury, since the discovery of the indestructibility, transformability, and 
increatibility of energy, a regeneration of the fundamental theories of 
physics and of the exposition of natural science in general has taken 
place; natural science thereby has regained its connection with philoso- 
phy. On a secure basis, the fundamental theories of natural science may 
now be deduced, and the bond of unity is now entwined around the for- 
merly disjoined branches. Natural science gains thereby daily in sim- 
plicity and depth, and the theory of the conservation of matter and 
energy is the safely guiding compass on the sea of perplexing, individual 
phenomena. And though the apothegm "Into the inmost heart of na- 
ture enters no created mind " still remains true, the veil is at least lifted 
which envelops that inner part of it. 



A UNIVERSAL METEOROGRAPH, 

DESIGNED FOR DETACHED OBSERVATORIES.* 



By E. H. von Baumiiauer, 
Permanent Secretary of the Society of Sciences of Holland, Haarlem. 



[Translated from the French, hy Clarence B. Young.] 

Among the prize questions proposed by the Netherland Society of 
Sciences in 1870 were the two following': 

"The society offers its gold medal and an additional premium of 300 
florins for a satisfactory plan of raising meteorological instruments to 
a considerable elevation in the atmosphere, by me^ns of kites or cap- 
tive balloons, and of maintaining tbein there for at least twenty-four 
hours. 

kk The society offers its gold medal for a self- registering meteorological 
instrument — thermometer, barometer, or hygrometer — capable of being 
attached to a kite or balloon, and of giving, for at least twenty four-hours, 
satisfactory records of the condition of the atmosphere at great eleva- 
tions." 

No reply having been made within the assigned limit of time to the 
questions as thus stated, they were repeated in 1872, modified in form 
and reduced to one, as follows: 

"Devise a satisfactory plan of determining the temperature, humidity, 
and density of the atmosphere at a considerable elevation above the 
terrestrial surface; the method to allow of the automatic registration 
of observations, or at least their frequent repetition." 

By these otters the Netherhmd Society showed how important they 
considered it to supply meteorological science with self-registering in- 
struments — thermometers, barometers, and hygrometers — capable of in- 
dicating the temperature, pressure, and hygrometric condition of the 
atmosphere at considerable elevations above the surface of the earth, or 
at localities which are not ;it all times accessible. 

The desired result might readily be obtained if in these places could 
be placed special meteorological observatories, which we shall designate 
detached observatories, containing instruments so constructed as only 
to require the occasional services of an attendant, and transmit constant 
records to a principal establishment situated in an inhabited locality. 

'Translated and condensed for the Smithsonian Institution from a Memoir entitled 
Sur un Meteorograph e univcr8el destine' aux ohservaioirea solitaires, par E. II. von Baum- 
hauer. Extrait des Archives JN'oerlaudaises. T. IX. Harlem, 1674. [29 pp. Svo.] 

519 



520 A UNIVEKSAL METEOROGRAPII, 

Such an observatory, if it occupied but little space and were suffi- 
ciently light, might easily be attached to a captive balloon, the cable of 
which would serve to maintain the required communication between 
the instruments and the ground. 

The problem proposed by the society is a little vague in its terms, so 
that it is necessary to repeat it in a more definite form, specifying differ- 
ent conditions which would materially affect the solution. 

1. A primary and very important point is whether by "considerable 
elevation" is meant a fixed accessible point, such as the summit of a 
mountain or a rock in the ocean, furnishing a solid base fur the instru- 
ments, or an elevated point in the atmosphere to which the instruments 
are borne by means of a kite or a captive balloon. In the latter case, 
in fact, a mercurial barometer could not be used, even if hung on gim- 
bals, since excessively great oscillations would be produced by the 
slightest breeze. Besides, barometrical observations will be of little 
value in determining variations of atmospheric pressure unless it be 
positively certain that the instrument has constantly remained at the 
same height above the level of the sea, or it be definitely known how 
many feet the balloon carrying it has ascended or descended. 

It is true the height of a captive balloon may be deduced from the 
length of cable unrolled and the angle made by it with the vertical; 
but on account of possible oscillations, ami of the curve which the cable 
assumes, this determination will always be very difficult and uncertain, 
and an error of ten or twenty feet in the height of the balloon will cor- 
respond to a difference of one one-hundredth of an inch in the height of 
the barometric column. 

2. It is not a matter of indifference, either, in the solution of the prob- 
lem, whether the observations are to be recorded where the instruments 
are placed, and therefore be known only at the end of a long series, 
or whether it be required that the instruments of the detached observ- 
atory should transmit their indications regularly to the main observa- 
tory for comparison with the observations made there. The latter sys- 
tem, which most meteorologists would doubtless prefer, will naturally 
require telegraphic communication, which the former could dispense 
with. 

3. Finally, an essential point is to know for what time the automatic 
registry should be made without the necessity of visiting the detached 
observatory to wind the clock or make any other change. The difficulty 
would evidently not be the same if the apparatus be required to run 
twenty-four hours, a month, or a year. 

In discussing the question proposed by the Netherland Society we 
will endeavor to keep in view the conditions we have just named, and 
we will consequently distinguish two different kinds of detached ob- 
servatories, namely : 

1. Those intended simply to collect observations for ten days at most, 
the records of which need not be known before the expiration of that 
period. 



FOR DETACHED OBSERVATORIES. 521 

2. Those which, placed at a A T ery elevated point, can only be visited 
occasionally, and which must transmit their observations immediately 
and regularly to the main observatory. 

Finally, we will speak of observatories suspended to captive balloons, 
and which belong - to one or the other of the preceding categories accord- 
ing to whether their observations require to be transmitted or not. 

Whatever arrangement be adopted, in order that it render service to 
meteorology it should satisfy a great many strict conditions, the principal 
of which are the following : 

1. The instruments should give exact indications. We do not speak 
here, however, of excessive refinement, for meteorologists are agreed in 
acknowledging that a difference of -^ or i of a degree Fahrenheit for 
thermometric observations, or of gig or ^o °f an * neu in the height of 
the barometric column, is not worth regarding. Readings to i degree 
Fahrenheit for thermometric observations, andj^ or T l^ of an inch for 
barometric height, are sufficiently accurate, the essential point being 
that the records be always correct. 

2. The instruments should be as simple as possible, in order that the 
chances of derangement be reduced to a minimum. 

3. The first cost should not be too great. 

4. It is important that human aid be dispensed with as much as pos- 
sible ; the instruments should work and the records be made without 
the assistance of the meteorologist. 

5. The registering apparatus should be so arranged that all the obser- 
vations be collected in one table and recorded in the form of curves, so 
that the movements of the instruments maybe seen at a glance. 

0. In the case of electrical connection between the detached and the 
main observatory the number of electric conductors should be as small 
as possible. This condition applies particularly in the case of a captive 
balloon, since it is necessary to avoid increasing too far the weight of the 
cable to be carried by the balloon. 

7. When a galvanic current is employed, the instruments themselves 
should not form part of the circuit, because the working of the instru- 
ments would be affected thereby, especially under the influence of the 
sparks which pass at the instant of opening or closing the current; these 
sparks, too, passing between metallic surfaces, would produce oxidation, 
and consequently deterioration, of the instruments. For this reason the 
use of mercurial barometers and thermometers furnished with platinum 
wires hermetically sealed in the glass appears to me absolutely out of 
the question. 

We do not need to decide on the form of barometer to be used, whether 
the siphon or the cistern barometer, the balanced barometer employed 
in Secchi's meteorograph, or an aneroid barometer. The method of re- 
cording-observations which I have adopted allows of the use of all forms, 
since even in the siphon barometer motion may be communicated to a 
lever by means of a float, as in the dial barometer. 



522 



A UNIVERSAL METEOROGRAPH, 



As regards temperature, any of the instruments may be used which 
depend upon the expansion of solid bodies, so as to afford the means of 
moving a lever. Such are Breguet's thermometer, Secchi's thermo- 
graph — founded on the linear expansion of a copper rod, and Dr. Krecke's 
metallic thermometer — founded on the different rates of expansion of zinc 
and glass.* The air thermometer may also be employed, the lever being 
actuated by a float on the surface of the mercury in the manometer. 
The ordinary mercurial thermometer alone is inadmissible here.t 

* As, to my knowledge, Krecke's metallic thermometer has never heen descrihed, 
and as it deserves a more general use in meteor- 
ological observatories, on account of its simplic- 
ity, accuracy, and ready adaptation to automatic 
registry, I give here the principle of its construc- 
tion. 

Two glass tubes, o o (Fig. I), about 5 feet long 
and 1 inch in diameter, have their ends closed 
with two iron plates, A and B, the lower one, B, 
being fastened firmly to a wall, while the other is 
so attached to the wall as to permit a slight dis- 
placement. To the piece A is connected a zinc 
bar, C C, and to the piece B a similar bar, D D'. 
These bars are otherwise entirely free throughout 
the rest of their length, but, in order to prevent 
them from bending, a ring is placed near the free 
end of each, so as to slip without sensible friction 
on the glass tubes o o. In order that the zinc 
bars may quickly assume the temperature of the 
air they must not be too thick, and yet they 
must have sufficient rigidity, which is secured by 
making them trough-shaped. At the free end of 
the bar D D' a steel support, p, is fixed, against 
which rests the brass lever R M, somewhat like 
the arm of a balance. The arms D' M and D' R 
of this lever are unequal, and there is a movable 
counterpoise, R, on the shorter arm, the distance 
of which from D' is so regulated that the weight 
of the arm D' M is slightly in excess. In the lever 
there is also a screw, s, the point of which is 
turned upward and rests against the lower and 
free end of the zinc bar C C. By means of this 
screw the position of the lever may be altered so 
as to raise or lower the pencil attached to its 
extremity M. 

The operation of this apparatus is easily under- 
stood. When the temperature rises the zinc bars 
Lengthen about 4 times as much as the glass 
tubes, I)' rises while C falls, and the lever then 
turns around a point situated between C and D' and the pencil M is moved upwards. 
When the temperature falls the opposite effect is produced. 

tl have been informed that at the Brussels observatory a mercurial thermometer is 
employed, the horizontal tube of which is balanced on a knife-edge, so that the mer- 
curial column, in expanding, causes the extremity of the tube to incline more and 
more, thus allowing the indications of the instrument to be registered as a dial in- 
strument. 




Fig. I. 



FOR DETACHED OBSERVATORIES. 523 

For the determination of the hygrometric condition of the air those 
instruments alone can be used which depend on the expansion and con- 
traction of certain animal substances, and on the communication of these 
movements to an index. There will still remain to be provided for, the 
registration of the direction of the wind by means of the wind-vane, the 
velocity of the wind by means of Robinson's anemometer, and finally the 
amount of rainfall. All of these may be simultaneously recorded by the 
arrangement I am about to describe. 

I. 

DETACHED OBSERVATORIES WITHOUT TRANSMISSION OF RECORDS. 

The slight interest which meteorologists feel in observations the re- 
sults of which they do not see before the end of a certain period is, with- 
out doubt, the reason why observatories of this kind have not been long 
in use. Their erection would, in fact, present no difficulty, and they 
would have the advantage that a number could be kept up with a small 
force of assistants — at least if they were not too widely separated. Each 
would require to be visited but about once in every ten or fifteen days, 
in order to wind the clock, change the blanks, and inspect the instru- 
ments. They could be located anywhere, but, preferably, away from 
habitations ; the first cost of erection would be very slight, and the only 
precautions necessary would be to protect the instruments from injury by 
rain and wind or malicious persons. The observations — automatically 
and continuously recorded according to an established system — would 
offer to the meteorologist a guarantee of accuracy which no human 
records possess, since to the latter may always be objected u humanum 
est err a re.'''' 

The following arrangement appears to me completely to satisfy the 
proposed conditions : 

An aneroid barometer, a metallic thermometer, and a hair hygrometer 
are placed side by side on a board so that the pivots of their indexes 
are in a straight line. These indexes are of equal length and move in the 
same plane, but so that the greatest sweep of each will not describe an 
arc of over 120° at most. A little way above these indexes is placed a 
sheet of paper — kept in uniform motion by clockwork — on which there 
have been previously drawn lines marking out spaces corresponding to 
the arc described by the tip of each index. A pencil attached to this 
tip will trace a curve on the paper which will indicate at the same time 
the successive readings of the instruments and the corresponding time. 
But the friction of a pencil on the paper would be too great for such 
delicate instruments, and would necessarily falsify the indications. It 
would be infinitely better to have recourse to the method generally 
adopted at present in physical laboratories for the registration of delicate 
motions, which consists in the use of glazed white paper previously black- 
ened above a resinous flame, on which a feather, attached to the tip of 



524 A UNIVERSAL METEOROGRAPH, 

the index, rubs without sensible friction, tracing a white line upon it. 
These lines may subsequently be fixed by dipping the paper in gum watei 
or thin varnish. 

It would be better, instead of the blackened paper, to use a plate 01 
glass blackened in the same way. When the observations are recoiled, 
the plate may be laid on a piece of paper impregnated with silver-salt 
and both exposed to the light ; the lines where the lampblack has been 
rubbed off will then print black on the paper. If scales, in degrees or 
hundredths of an inch, as well as time divisions, have been engraved on 
the plate by means of a diamond, we will readily obtain on the sensitive 
paper all the data required. The first exposure to light gives, as we 
have said, the reproduction in black lines of the curves traced by the 
feather points; then if, leaving the sensitive paper firmly fixed under 
the glass plate, we clean the latter with a cloth so as to remove all the 
lampblack, except what is left in the grooves made by the diamond, and 
the plate be again exposed a short time to the light, the whole surface of 
the paper will assume a gray tint, on which the curves previously ob- 
tained will stand out in black, while the diamond rulings will be in white. 
After being treated with hyposulphite of soda and washed in water this 
will give a permanent table of observations which may be reproduced 
by photography if, instead of sensitive paper, we use a collodion film, to 
be afterwards employed as a negative. 

We will see presently that the direction and velocity of the wind and 
the amount of rain-fall may be recorded by straight lines, so that these 
indications may also be made on the blackened glass plate by means of 
a feather point. 

There is, therefore, no difficulty in fitting up a detached observatory, 
which may be visited, for example, twice a month, and in which an 
ordinary clock, running 15 days without being rewound, registers obser- 
vations which the meteorologist does not care to examine before the ex- 
piration of that period. The difficulty commences only when the meteor- 
ologist from his station at the principal observatory wishes to know 
at each instant the indications of the instruments at the more or less 
distant observatory, in order to compare the phenomena observed at 
the two stations. 

II. 

DETACHED OBSERVATORIES TRANSMITTING RECORDS. 

Let us take an aneroid barometer having, as is usually the case, on the 
glass cover a second index for the purpose of comparing the state of the 
barometer at any given instant with that of a subsequent time, llemove 
the glass plate, maintaining the second index, however, in its position 
above the index of the barometer, and give to the latter a uniform motion 
of rotation around its axis. In other words, let us imagine an aneroid 
barometer without glass cover, and opposite to it a clock so placed that 



FOR DETACHED OBSERVATORIES. 525 

the arbor on which the minute hand turns is in the prolongation of the 
axis on which the index of the barometer turns. Now, designating the 
index by A and the minute hand by B, it is clear that B will at some 
point of each revolution be directly over A. 

The planes in which the two hands move being supposed to lie a few 
hundrcthsof an inch apart, let us attach a "point"* to tiie extremity of B, 
which, passing over the extremity of A, will establish metallic connection 
between the two without however producing sufficient friction to move 
A out of its position. Let us also connect A by a conducting wire with 
tin' positive pole of a battery placed at the central station, and B with 
the negative pole of the battery ; then, at each revolution of B there 
will be an instant when the circuit will be closed. 

At some point on the positive wire, near the battery, let us place an 
apparatus consisting of a vertical metallic cylinder moved by clockwork, 
so as to make one revolution in the same time as the minute hand B, 
and also descend a little at each revolution. Let this metallic cylinder 
be covered with a sheet of dampened paper impregnated with some salt 
which will be changed in color under the action of a galvanic current 
(tor instance, iodide of potassium and starch). If then a "point" con- 
nected with the negative pole rest on the dampened paper, it is evident 
that at each revolution of the cylinder a colored spot will be made on 
the paper at the instant when the tw r o hands A and B come in contact. 
As the hand B and the cylinder have an isochronous movement, it will 
now only be necessary to have divisions on the paper corresponding to 
those on the aneroid barometer in order that the indications of the lat- 
ter be recorded on the paper. 

Since, however, the index of the aneroid barometer in its greatest 
oscillations describes at most an arc of but 120° it will be evident that 
this apparatus may serve to record more than barometric indications 
alone. For instance, let us place opposite the aneroid and at a short 
distance from it a circular metallic thermometer, the index of which C 
shall have the same length as that of the aneroid, and have its axis in the 
prolongation of the axis of the aneroid. Let this thermometer be so 
placed that the middle point on its graduated arc (00°) will be diametri- 
cally opposite to the middle position of the index A of the aneroid ba- 
rometer (30 ins.). Let the clock be as before described, except that the 
minute hand P> revolves between the planes of the two indexes A and 
C. Nov.-. if an S-shaped "point" be attached to the extremity of the index 
B, instead of the single point before described, then, if the instruments 
are properly adjusted, at each revolution of B it will come once into con- 
tact with A and once with 0. The latter being connected like A with 
the wire from the positive pole, two records will be produced on the 
sensitive paper at each revolution, which will never be confounded on 
account of their different positions. 

'[This is the technical term for a metallic .strip or spring, serving t<> make and 
break the electrical connection according as it rests on a conducting or an insulating 
substance. — Tr. ] 



526 A UNIVERSAL METEOROGRAPH, 

Such was my first idea, and, iu spite of the modifications which I have 
successively made, it still forms the basis of the mechanism which I am 
about to describe, and which seems to solve, in a simple way, the prob- 
lem of a complete meteorograph for detached observatories. 

In this description, as well as in the figures designed to make it more 
readily understood, I neglect entirely the meteorological instruments 
themselves, because, as I have already said, any instrument may be em- 
ployed winch is capable of transmitting its movements to a lever. The 
figures, then, show only the levers terminating in toothed segments 
which gear into the toothed wheels to which the indexes are attached. 

In all these instruments the motions of the levers should be so regu- 
lated that the indexes in their widest excursions may only describe a 
determined arc, the number of degrees in which should depend on the 
number of instruments desired to be combined in the meteorograph. In 
the example which I have chosen the indexes need not be separated 
more than 90° in order to avoid coining in contact with each other, and 
in order that the indications of any instrument may never encroach on 
the zone of the cylinder intended for another. The system I have 
adopted depends, in fact, on the successive observation of the different 
instruments. 

For records of wind and rain a different arrangement is required. 
The determination of the direction of the wind requires an entire revo- 
lution, and so also does the measurement of its velocity by Robinson's 
anemometer ; in the case of the latter I have provided that the record- 
ing wheel shall make but one revolution while the current of air passes 
over a space of 20 kilometres (12 miles), which is seldom less than an 
hour. 

For the rain-gauge I propose an arrangement which I have recom- 
mended for many years for the measurement of liquids in general and 
of granular solids or powders, which figure II will render intelligible 
without detailed explanation. 

Let A be a reservoir of known sectional area, serving to collect the 
rain, the quantity of which is to be measured. The water falls through 
the tube a (at the bottom of which is a watering-pot rose, represented 
in M, in order that the fall of water may not produce a shock) into a 
bucket, b b />, which has the form of a sector of a cylinder and can oscillate 
on the axis <l. As the figure shows, there are two buckets of equal size- 
coupled together, one of which is always under the rain-tube while the 
other is discharging the water it has collected. The transverse section 
of the buckets is a scalene triangle, so that the vertical plane passing 
through the axis divides the bucket into two parts of unequal capacities. 
The excess of weight in the outer part tips the bucket, and, in order that 
the amount of water necessary to produce this motion (for example, a 
litre or a fraction of a litre) may be regulated with precision, the lips m m 
of the buckets fall on India rubber cushions o o, the position of which 
is regulated by the screws E R. The figure shows how the movement 



FOR DETACHED OBSERVATORIES. 



527 



is afterwards transmitted to a wheel, every revolution of which corre- 
sponds to 100 litres (or determined parts of a litre) of water which has 
pissed through the apparatus. 

We have, then, three pieces of apparatus, the motions of which are 




Fig. II. 



finally resolved into one of rotation, which, for simplicity of registration, 
should be transformed into a rectilinear movement. The simplest means 



528 A UNIVERSAL METEOROGRAPH. 

of making this transformation appears to me to be what I am about to 
describe. It should not be forgotten that the construction of my meteor- 
ograph rests on the hypothesis that the indications of each meteorologi- 
cal instrument be registered once an hour. The instruments for recording 
the velocity of the wind and the quantity of rain should therefore be so 
arranged that the wheel which makes the records shall never make more 
than one entire revolution in an hour; otherwise it would be doubtful 
whether the current of air had traversed, for instance, 2 or 22 kilo- 
metres during the hour elapsed, or whether the rain-gauge had dis- 
charged 5 or 105 litres of water. 
Suppose two wheels, A and B (Fig. Ill), of the same diameter, lying in 

the same plane and placed so 
\f> that the distance between their 

centers shall be exactly equal to 
the circumference of each. An 
endless baud or chain, passing 
around the wheels, connects 




them together. To this chain 

^ TTT are attached three pins, b b b, at 

Fig. III. L ' 

equal distances and consequently 

the length of the circumference of the wheels apart. If, now, the wheel 
A is put in motion by one of the instruments, this motion will be trans- 
mitted to the endless chain and to the wheel B. At every stage of the 
movement one of the pins will be traversing the scale p p, placed 
underneath one of the straight portions of the chain; in a complete rev- 
olution of A the pin will travel the entire length of the scale, and 
when it leaves the scale near B the following pin will immediately re- 
place it at A. 

We will now pass to the description of the registering apparatus, and 
take up, at first, that part which is placed in the detached observatory. 

The lever A (Fig. IV) is put in motion by a barometer, B by a metal- 
lic thermometer, and C by a hygrometer. Each of these communicates 
its motions to a special wheel, A' B' C, to which is attached the index 
of the instrument, as shown in the section Fig IV &. These levers and 
wheels are not situated in the same plane, but placed one above another, 
so that the wheels turn on a common axis, but perfectly independently 
of each other. The extremities of the indexes, however, should move 
in one and the same plane, very near to, but entirely clear of, the divided 
arc M M INT M, and for this reason two of them are bent. The indexes 
themselves or at least their extremities, which terminate in a thin fine 
tip, are of ebonite — a substance which does not conduct electricity. 
Finally, each of these indexes, even in its widest excursions, moves over 
but a quarter of the circle, so as not to come into contact with the others. 
Three of the quadrants being allotted to the barometer, the thermometer, 
and the hygrometer, I use the fourth for the indications — transformed, 
as before mentioned — of the wind vane X, the anemometer Y, and the 



FOR DETACHED OBSERVATORIES. 



529 



rain guage Z. The pins for registering these indications are also of 
ebonite, and may run with considerable friction over their scales, since 
there is in these instruments a superabundance of motive force. 

In the case of the wind vane, which, by its sudden and extended oscil- 
lations, may often endanger the gold "point" of which we are about to 

Fig. IV. 




Fig. IV h. 

speak, I propose to use a strained rubber band around the two wheels, 
instead of a chain or leather band, in order to lessen the intensity of 
tin' si locks. 

The divided limb MMMM may be made of metal or any other ma- 
terial, but its outer edge should be of platinum or of brass, heavily gold- 
plated, because through it the galvanic current is made and broken, and 
consequently it is necessary to preserve it from oxidation. In front of 
the graduated limb is a clock, of which Fig IV & shows only the minute 
hand R R, the arbor of which is in the prolongation of the axis around 
which the several indexes turn. This minute hand is of metal, and car- 
ries at its extremity a metal "point" ,r, which glides over the platinum 
or gilt rim of the divided circle. The rim being connected by a conduct- 
13. Mis. 54 34 



530 



A UNIVERSAL METEOROGRAPH, 



ing wire to the positive pole of a battery, the negative pole'of which is 
connected in the same way with the minute hand, the current will then 
pass so long as the gold point rests in contact with the divided circle, 
but when the point meets one of the indexes the current will be inter- 
rupted for an instant by the interposition of the ebouite tip, but will be 
restored so soon as the point is freed from that obstacle. 

When the minute hand has traversed the entire circle — that is to say, 
nfter an hour's time — the current will have been momentarily interrupted 
(in the example we have chosen) six times. These interruptions may 
now be made use of at the central observatory, which communicates by 
means of a telegraph wire with the outlying observatory, to record the 
indications of the instruments on a cylinder covered with a sheet of pa- 
per, rotated by clock work once an hour, 
the rotation of which is therefore isochro- 
nous with that of the minute hand at the 
outlying station. 

The isochronism of the two movements 
is the condition on which the accuracy 
of the meteorograph depends ; in order 
to judge if it is fulfilled, little ebonite 
plates cec are fixed on the divided circle. 
We will see, later, how these plates give 
the desired in formation in regard to the 
working of the clock at the detached ob- 
servatory. 

On the spindle of the registering cylin- 
der (Fig. V) is cut a screw-thread which 
runs in the nut p, so that at each revolu- 
tion the cylinder descends a little — for 
example, a millimetre (Jg- inch.) 

Beside the cylinder an electro-magnet, 
A, is placed, which attracts a piece of 
soft iron, b b, hinged at d, to which is 
attached a pencil, steel point, or diamond, 
pressed against the cylinder by a spring. 
While the current is closed the pencil is 
kept away from the cylinder, but at each 
interruption of the current in the de- 
tached observatory it is pressed against 
the surface of the cylinder and makes a 
dot or a line upon it. When the current 
is again closed, the pencil is again with- 
drawn by the action of the magnet. 
A glance at Fig. V will suffice for the perfect understanding of this 
■svsteni. The straight lines o o which Bftrve to regulate the isochronic 




Fig. V. 



FOR DETACHED OBSERVATORIES. 531 

movement of the two clocks, are formed by a number of points or 
dashes made by the interruption of the current by little ebonite plates 
in the divided arc of the apparatus at the detached ooservatoiy. It 
the clock at that station has a faster or slower rate than that at the 
principal station, these lines will not be parallel to the axis of the cylin- 
der, but oblique, and in case of an irregular rate will even exhibit 
sinuosities. We are thus kept informed of the state of things, and, if it 
be impossible to go to the detached observatory, the main clock may be 
made to keep time with the defective inaccessible clock, taking note, 
of course, of the corrections which this alteration renders necessary. 
The construction of a clock to run a year without winding is declared 
by skillful clock-makers to present no difficulty, so that an observatory, 
the essential details of which I have briefly sketched, may then operate 
even on those steep peaks the ascension of which can only be made dur- 
ing two summer months. A telegraph wire connecting the isolated post 
with the main station is all that is necessary in order that the distant 
observations be regularly registered. 

We have so far spoken of two independent clocks, but who that is 
familiar with the improvements in telegraphs and electric clocks can- 
not understand that the minute hand at the detached observatory may 
be kept in motion by the same clock that turns the cylinder at the prin- 
cipal station? For this purpose, however, a second telegraphic wire 
would be necessary, which would uselessly increase the expense of es- 
tablishing the outlying station. 

But, adopting another arrangement, I believe that the same wire may 
serve both to move the hand — which we will still call the minute hand, 
though it does not now deserve the name — and to transmit the indica- 
tions of the instruments. We have before considered that the minute 
hand will make one revolution in an hour, so that, according to the 
state of the instruments, the record of the barometer is made, for example, 
at ten minutes past twelve, that of the thermometer at twenty-eight 
minutes past twelve, the hygrometer a quarter of an hour later, and 
those of the direction and velocity of the wind and the rain-fall in the 
fourth quarter of the hour. But such a difference would not satisfy 
meteorologists who prefer the simultaneous observation of all the instru- 
ments so as to have a complete view of the state of the atmosphere at 
any given moment. Consequently, instead of having the minute hand 
at the detached observatory and the cylinder at the central station make 
one revolution during the space of an hour, I propose to have them make 
the entire revolution in a very short space of time — a few minutes at 
most— the hand and the cylinder remaining at rest during the remainder 
of the hour. Once an hour the clock of the principal station would raise 
a catch at the other station, and the apparatus would then be set in 
motion by means of a weight or spring so regulated by a, pendulum as 
to make a complete revolution in two or three minutes — the cylinder at 
at the main station being put at the same time into isochronous motion. 



532 A UNIVERSAL METEOROGRAPH, 

During this revolution the galvanic current is employed only in trans- 
mitting the indications of the instruments in the way before described; 
but, as soon as the revolution is finished, the minute hand is caught again 
and the current is made to set in motion a train of clockwork to raise 
the weight or wind up the spring, until the hour is ended and the minute 
hand begins another revolution. 

In some preliminary trials with the apparatus I have encountered a 
difficulty which has obliged me to make a slight addition to it. The in- 
dex of the auoroid barometer can overcome but a feeble resistance, even 
a slight touch being sufficient to move it from its position, and the same 
is the case with the hair hygrometer; the metallic thermometer, however, 
is much less sensitive in this respect, particularly that of Dr. Krecke. 
The indexes of these instruments, as has been said before, should not 
touch the surface of the divided arc, but should move freely a slight 
distance above it; since however on the other hand, the point attached 
to I he minute hand should not be too fine if we wish to maintain electrical 
connection with the metallic rim for several months without cleaning the 
surfaces, it would be apt while passing over the tips of the barometer and 
hygrometer indexes to carry them with it and thus give a false record of 
the indications of these instruments. To avoid this source of trouble the 
same mechanism which produces the escape of the minute hand presses 
down a finely grooved ring, s s s, Figs. IV and IV &, so as to hold the in- 
dexes against the divided circle during the short period of the revolution 
of the hand that the gold point may run over their ebonite tips without 
risk of displacing them. While the minute hand is at rest the ring will 
be raised and the indexes again left free to move. The stoppage of the 
motion of the indexes for a minute or two would be of no consequence, 
since in so short a time the variations in the instruments would be 
extremely slight. In the case of the indexes which mark the direction 
of the wind and the amount of rainfall such an arrangement would be 
unnecessary, as the motive force is very great and the ebonite points, as 
said before, may press on the plate. 

The problem of registering the indications of meteorological instru- 
ments placed at a considerable distance from the observer or at a great 
height above him is then completely solved. As regards, however, the 
hygrometric condition of the air I believe that while August's, Daniel's. 
and the hair or catgut hygrometers furnish close approximations to the 
truth, a determination of the weight of water contained in a known 
quantity of air is the only way to obtain exact results. My hygrometric 
areometer* will make this determination in a very simple way and also 
permit of automat ic registry. There is nothing to prevent our obtaining 
tile air from a distant point by means of an aspirator and a rubber tube 
and passing it through the areometer at the principal station. As the 
detached observatory is connected with this station by a telegraph wire 
the latter may be placed inside the rubber tube, which will then serve as 

"Archives Neerlandaises T vi, p. 419. Poggendorff'a .inn. Bd. xcm, p. 34:3. 



FOR DETACHED OBSERVATORIES. 533 

ail insulator. The observation would only be incorrect in case the air of 
the distant point has a higher temperature than that of some point in 
the course of the rubber tube, as in this ease a part of the vapor would 
be condensed in the tube, and consequently would not reach the areom- 
eter. But, in general, this would not be likely to occur, because, since 
the temperature of the air usually decreases as we ascend, the existence 
of a warm and moist stratum above a colder one will be of but excep- 
tional occurrence. 

Before concluding, I must add a word in regard to the case where it is 
desired to make use of a captive balloon for carrying the observatory to 
the elevated regions of the atmosphere and supporting it there for a 
considerable time. The apparatus I propose is perfectly adapted to this 
purpose, and requires but two conducting wires in the cable which holds 
the balloon captive. 

It will, of course, be objected that the balloon, losing gas rapidly, could 
not be kept up for more than two days; but this difficulty appears to me 
capable of being overcome in a very simple way. The two conducting 
wires in the cable should be insulated from each other, which might be 
simply done by inclosing each in an India-rubber tube. Xow, one of these 
tubes may be made use of to carry a continuous current of gas into the 
balloon to supply its losses, while through the other the air of the elevated 
region may be drawn down by an aspirator to the hygrometric areometer. 
Thus supplied, the balloon would float in the air until the approach of 
a tempest — foretold by the observations — would render it necessary to 
draw it down again. 

But there is still another objection, to which so far I can make no 
satisfactory answer, namely, the impossibility of maintaining the cap- 
tive balloon at the same height, especially in a region where strong 
winds prevail. In such a case the record of the barometer is of no 
service except to give an approximate idea of the elevation of the 
instruments, and it will be impossible to tell whether the observed 
barometric variations are due to differences in the height of the balloon 
or to differences in the atmospheric pressure at the same height. 

The use of captive balloons is always attended with a serious defect, 
namely, the limited height (3,000 feet at most) to which they can be 
raised, since, without mentioning other difficulties, the weight of the. 
cable will soon become so great that the balloon must be very large to 
support it. But we can obtain meteorological observations from much 
greater elevations (from 15,000 to 30,000 feet, for example) by means of 
the detached observatorj' without transmission of records. By its rel- 
atively moderate price and its light weight this apparatus would, in fact, 
be well adapted to be suspended from a small balloon allowed to float 
freely in the atmosphere. Supposing that of ten balloons left to them- 
selves one or two should fall into the sea or in uninhabited places and 
rhus be totally lost, the expense of the experiment would still be much 
less than the ascension of a balloon large enough to carry the observers. 



534 A UNIVERSAL METEOROGRAPH. 

The registering barometer would then give the elevations corresponding 
to the several records of the temperature, moisture, &c, while an auto- 
matically registering compass would show the directions taken by the bal- 
loon in the different strata of the atmosphere traversed by it. In this case, 
the apparatus should, of course, be protected by an elastic covering capa- 
ble of preventing shocks when the balloon strikes the earth. There should 
be placed on the apparatus a notice in several languages that it is not to 
be opened, but forwarded to a specified address; while by means of 
articles in the newspapers of even the most distant nations we should 
endeavor to inform every one of the nature and object of these aerial 
visitors. This double precaution would doubtless dispel the notion of 
the unpractical nature of the plan which might at first be entertained. 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 



In the latter part of August, 1879, the following circular was sent to 
all known public and private observatories in America: 

[circular.] 

Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, D. C. 

My Bear Sir : It is desired, to present in the annual report of this in- 
stitution a yearly summary of the state and progress of astronomy in the 
United States and elsewhere. To this end it is requested that the di- 
rectors of observatories, public and private, will return this circular, with 
the blanks filled out and with such additional information as they may 
deem suitable for publication. 

It is intended that one such circular shall reach every observatory, 
public or private, in the United States; if any have been omitted it has 
been by inadvertence, and notice of such ommissions is desired by the 
editor (Prof. Edward S. Holden, U. S. Naval Observatory, Washing- 
mgton, D. C). 

It is proposed to continue the summaries in the future, and it is hoped 
that the directors of the various institutions will desire to furnish from 
year to year brief sketches of the activity of the observatories under their 
charge. In this way a record of current astronomical work will be kept 
up, which otherwise it is difficult to maintain in the absence of any Amer- 
ican periodical specially devoted to astronomy. 

Very truly yours, 

SPENCER F. BAIRB, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
To . 

Replies to this circular have been received as below up to September 
15, 1879. They are here arranged in the alphabetic order by towns. 



Location of observatory: (City) Allegheny; (County) Allegheny; 
(State) Pennsylvania. 
Name of observatory : Allegheny Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, ll m 50 3 .81 W. 
Latitude, 40° 37' 47".G N. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, S. P. Langley; Assistant, F. W. Very. 



536 EEPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 

II. Instruments: 

(b) Meridian transit instruments : Makers, Troughton & Simms ; 
aperture, 4 inches ; magnifying power, 150 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instruments: Makers, Fitz, reworked by Clark; 
aperture of objective, 13 inebes ; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 50 to 
1,200 ; equatorial carries a 12-incb flat mirror by Clark at south end of 
its polar axis : also, position filar micrometer, polarizing solar eye-piece ; 
apparatus for projecting solar image ; eigbt otber subsidiary pieces. 

(d) Spectroscopes : One employing large Eutherfurd grating ; one 
with small grating; one 2-prism spectroscope ; apparatus for using large 
equatorial as collimator, etc. 

(e) Photometers and other subsidiary apparatus ; A variety of ther- 
mopiles, used in connection with a Thompson reflecting galvanometer ; 
large Bunsen pbotometer ; small portable heliostat, etc. 

(/) Chronographs: One of Bond's pattern, built by LIamblet. 

(g) Clocks : Mean time ; two by Howard, both break-circuit : sidereal ; 
one by Frodsham, break-circuit. 

(h) Chronometers : Meantime; one by Frodsham : sidereal; one Frod- 
sham, break-circuit. 

(i) 2liscellaneous : One reflecting telescope of 6^-inch aperture, spe- 
cially used for obtaining an image projected any size without the em- 
ployment of any enlarging lenses, and a number of subsidiary pieces for 
investigations in heat and light. 

Electric appliances for the distribution of ej^ct time, automatically 
and continuously to points outside the observatory. 

III. Observations during the past year: 
From September, 1878, to September, 1879. 

(b) Nightly observations of from 3 to 6 stars for time determinations; 
observations to determine the longitude of Ebensburg, Pa. 

(c) Daily map of solar surface, drawn by projection on a scale of 8 inches 
to diameter ; enlarged drawings of any spots ; measurements by thermo- 
piles of heat of solar image; study of protuberances, and other work 
with attached spectroscopes. 

(d) Studies of the lower end of the spectrum ; mapping of lines in the 
extreme red, etc. 

(i) Comparison of solar heat with that of the Bessemer converter; 
the distribution of exact time to cities, railroads, corporations, or indi- 
viduals. 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year, 1879-80: 
Systematic observation of sun as heretofore; continuance of researches 

now in progress, chiefly in solar physics; measurement of heat of diffrac- 
tipn spectrum by tasimeter, etc. ; the continuance and extension of the 
" time-service." 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 557 

V. Principal publications of the Observatory during 
the year 1879: 

1. S. P. Langley, on certain remarkable groups in lower spectrum, 
in Proceedings of American Academy. 

2. S. P. Langley, on comparison of sun, in Proceedings of American 
Academy. 

3. S. P. Langley, on Bessemer converter, in Proceedings of Ameri- 
can Academy. 

4. S. P. Langley, on electric time service, in Journal of Electrical 
Society. 



Location of observatory : (City) Annapolis; (County) Anne Arundel ; 
(State) Maryland. 
Xame of observatory : U. S. Naval Academy Observatory. 
Longitude from Washington, E. h 2 m 15 3 .91. 
Latitude X. 3S° 58' 53".5 

Authority for latitude and longitude: latitude, Professor Chauve- 
net ; longitude, United States Coast Survey. 

I. Personnel: 

Lieutenant Commander Allan D. Brown, U. S. N., head of Depart- 
ment Astronomy, Navigation, etc. 
Assistants: 1. Lieutenant Commander Chas. J. Train, Instructor 
Astronomy, Navigation, etc. 

2. Lieut. Eaymond P. Eodgees, Instructor Astronomy, 
Navigation, etc. 

3. Lieut. Wi. J. Barnette, Instructor Astronomy, Navi- 
gation, etc. 

IT. Instruments: 

(a) Meridian circles: 1; maker, Repsold; diameter of circles, 28.7 
inches; divided to L"; read by four microscropes to 2". Aperture of 
objective, 4 inches; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 4 
inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, about 200 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Makers, Alvan Clark &Sons; aperture 
of objective, 7.75 inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 40, 106, 553, 
966; micrometer eye-pieces 89, 220, 073. 

(/) Chronographs; One Morse fillet ; one Transit of Venus Commis- 
sion. 

(y) Clocks: One sidereal; makers, Arnold, Chas. Frodsham, 84 
Strand, London. 

(h) Chronometers: Meantime; makers, Negus, Nos. 1030,1088,1260; 
Dent 2099; EATTON, 262. Sidereal; maker, Negus, Nos. L520, 1527. 

(i) Miscellaneous: One Talcott's zenith telescope (Wurdemann) ; one 
Transit of Venus telescope (Stackpole) ; portable transit (Wiede- 
mann). 



538 REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 

III. Observations during the past year: 
From October 1, 1878, to October 1, 1879. 

(a) Stars and sun (for time). * 

(?) Stackpole zenith telescope for latitude (for purposes of instruc- 
tion) ; portable transit for time (for same purposes). 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year: (1879-'80). 
Same as during past year. 



Location of Observatory: (City) Battle Creek; (County) Calhoun; 
(State) Michigan. 
Name oj Observatory : High School Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington not determined. 

Latitude, not determined. 

I. Personnel: 

Arthur K. Bartlett (private observer). 

II. Instruments: 
(a) Meridian circles, 1. 

Aperture of objective, 4 inches; for observations of the sun, aperture 
employed, 2 to 4 inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 75 di- 
ameters. 

(i) Miscellaneous: The only instrument at present used in the "Ob- 
servatory" is a 4-inch achromatic telescope, which was purchased by the 
board of education, about nine years ago, for the use of students and 
teachers in the high school. It was manufactured by Pike, the New 
York optician, and is mounted upon a portable tripod stand, provided 
with all the necessary adjustments. For the general observations of 
astronomy, it is regarded as one of the best telescopes in this State. 
The two celestial eye-pieces belonging to the instrument disappeared 
mysteriously about three years ago, having been stolen from the case 
in which they were kept; and as they have not since been replaced, the 
telescope has remained in a crippled condition without them. But some 
new eye-pieces are to be ordered soon, with powers varying from 45 to 
275, together with colored eye-screens for observing the sun, and a comet 
eye-piece, with large field and low power. A terrestrial eye-piece is at 
present being employed, with a power of about 75 diameters; but the 
telescope has been used to good advantage for observations of the moon, 
Jupiter's satellites, and star-clusters. 

III. Observations during the past year: 

A continual watch for meteors was made throughout the night of 
August 10, and a large number were observed between the hours often 
and eleven o'clock in the evening, but about midnight the moon made 
its appearance, and being near the " radiant" in Perseus, pre vented any 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 539 

successful observations being made towards morning. More than one 
hundred shooting-stars were seen in the space of one hour before the 
moon interfered, and several bright meteors flashed across the sky, 
leaving luminous trains behind them, and presenting a fine appearance, 
notwithstanding the close proximity and brightness of the moon. Ob- 
servations of the aurora were made on various occasions, although no 
extraordinary displays were seen; and on many successive evenings in 
March, the unusual and remarkable brightness of the zodiacal light was 
particularly noted. 

The only systematic observations with the telescope since it was placed 
in the high-school building have been made by Arthur K. Bartlett, 
of Battle Creek, who has used the instrument for practical purposes, 
and given private instructions to the students and others who are fre- 
quently entertained on pleasant evenings. This telescope has been used 
for various observations of the heavens. It was employed with success 
during the last transit of Mercury, on May G, 1878, and the first external 
and internal contacts of the planet were well observed, but the last two 
were prevented by clouds. During the past year the instrument has 
been chiefly directed to observations of the various nebulae, star-clus- 
ters, and the interesting phenomena of Jupiter's satellites. An occupa- 
tion of the star Antares by the moon was observed, and several draw- 
ings of celestial scenery were made by the aid of the telescope. 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year (1879-'S0): 

It is expected that the telescope will be provided with new eyepieces 
of high power some time this fall, and when they are secured the instru- 
ment will be in much better working order, so that it can be used in 
many other practical observations, for which it is not adapted at pres- 
ent. During the coming year I propose to study the sun at frequent 
intervals, when the weather is favorable, and shall employ the high 
powers mostly for observations of the planets, various nebulae, and 
close double-stars. I shall also devote much time to literary work, and 
intend to lecture some during the winter. Meteoric astronomy, which 
has been a subject of special interest to me for some time past, will re- 
ceive a good share of my attention in the future. The charming system 
of Jupiter will be studied with much pleasure, as in the past, and I also 
intend to continue my sketches and drawings of interesting objects in 
the heavens. 

V. Principal publications of the observatory during 

THE YEAR: 

My publications have consisted mostly of newspaper articles on various 
astronomical subjects, which have been prepared with the objectof pre- 
senting to general readers the principles and wonders of the science, 
and also to keep them informed concerning many interesting phenomena 
of the heavens. Among the articles contributed by me to the press dur- 



540 EEPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 

ing tlie past five years, were the following: "Double Stars"; "The 
King of Sims"; "Shooting-Stars"; "The Zodiacal Light"; "A Look 
along the Zodiac"; "The Study of Astronomy"; "The Prince of Plan- 
ets"; "The Kinged Planet"; "A Celestial Panorama"; " The Moons of 
Jupiter"; "The Harvest Moon"; "Venus in the Daytime"; "Prof. 
Eichard A. Proctor"; "The Lunar Eclipse"; "Celestial Fireworks"; 
"Frost and Dew"; "The Planetary System"; "Motions of the Stars.' 
In 1877, 1 published a pamphlet of 36 pages, containing a lecture of 
mine on "The Science of Astronomy," embracing its sublimity, history' 
progress, wonders, and utility. The lecture was prepared for the pur- 
pose of popularizing astronomy and rendering it a subject of more gen- 
eral interest. 

VI. Additional information : 
There is no regular observatory in connection with the high school, 
but it consists of an apartment located on the third and upper floor of 
the building, in which the telescope is kept and the observations are 
usually conducted. Astronomy is taught only during the spring term, 
and but little interest is manifested in the study by the students, al- 
though they are permitted to use the telescope at any time. When the 
instrument is provided with higher powers it will be equal to any of 
its size in the State of Michigan and can be made to do some good 
service. I have already observed five new comets with it since 187.3, 
two having been seen in one night — May 8, 1877. Among the comets 
observed were two discovered by Professor Savtft, of Eochester, N. Y. 
The great work which I have had at heart has been to arouse an interest 
in the study of astronomy, as a means of culture, especially among the 
young, and to increase the small number of votaries in this science. To 
this end I intend to continue my lectures and articles ;n the press, and 
also to exhibit celestial objects of popular interest, on favorable occa- 
sions. I will doubtless be able to send you more valuable reports in the 
future. 



Location of observatory : (City) Brooklyn; (County) Kings; (State) 
New York. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, W. T. Gregg. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Maker, William T. Gregg ; aperture of 
objective, G£ inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 50 to GUI). 

VI. Additional information: 
As I said last year, my observatory was built to facilitate corrections 
of objectives, primarily, but I have been prevented from using it at all 
thus far by reason of illness. I hope to be able to do something in the 
future worthy of reporting. 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 541 

Location of observatory : (City) Brooklyn j (County) King's; (State) 
New York. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, G. P. Serviss. 

II. Instruments : 

(c) Equatorial instrument* : One telescope; maker, John Byrne, of 
New York; aperture of objective, 3| inches; magnifying powers of eye- 
pieces, 50, 10G, 1G0, 250, and 320. 

(i) Miscellaneous : My telescope is mounted equatorially on a tripod 
stand. The objective is of excellent quality. I can see the companion 
of a Lyra 1 and both the debilissima in Epsilon Lyrce with ease. It also 
easily separates double stars only l."5 apart. Under favorable circum- 
stances I have seen five of Saturn's moons. I have no observatory, and 
my observations are made from lofty windows having a southerly and 
westerly exposure, and occasionally from the roof of my residence on 
Brooklyn Heights. In observing Jupiter and Saturn I ordinarily employ 
powers of 1G0 and 250, and occasionally 320. For special purposes I 
have used a power of 480 with good effect. 

III. Observations during the past year: 
From June, 1878, to September, 1879. 

I have devoted most of the time spent with my telescope to viewing 
the moon and the planets, especially Jupiter and Saturn. I have made 
drawings of the surface of Jupiter at different times, noting every 
change in the belts and spots as accurately as possible. In August of 
this year (1879) and thus far in September I have made careful draw- 
ings of the disk of Jupiter and have colored them, seeking to give as 
near the exact tint as possible to the spots, belts, and shaded regions. 
The general result of my recent work shows that the northern dark belt 
is of a coppery hue, verging on a reddish-purple, while the southern 
belt is gray. The contrast in the color of these two belts has often 
appeared to me very strikingly. Their outlines are at times broken, and 
the copper belt is frequently seen split lengthwise. White and dark 
spots on the central light zone I have observed frequently. 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year (1879-80) : 

I intend to continue my observations and drawings of Jupiter and 
other planets. I am especially interested in watching a remarkable 
elongated spot of a light maroon color (with a trace of rose tint) that 
lies south of the gray belt, and is about one-fourth of the planet's diam- 
eter in length, one-eighth of its own length broad, and somewhat 
rounded at the ends. The gray bell opposite this spot seems to grow 
narrower and bend away from, the spot toward the center of the disk. 
All of my drawings show light and dark markings on the central white 
zone about in the longitude of this great spot. 



542 reports of american observatories. 

173 Gates Avenue, Brooklyn. 

I have been trying in vain nearly a year to obtain the Harvard Vol. IX, 

to aid me in photometric work. Hope to get it soon. For that reason, 

and from other business, my observatory has remained idle this year 

and does not deserve a place in your notices. I hope to resume work 

next year ; but my eyes need rest, and do not seem to improve in this 

long astronomical recess. 

Yours, truly, 

Henry M. Parkhurst. 



Location of observatory: (City) Buffalo; (County) Erie; (State) Xew 
York. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 78° 53' 2G".5. 
Latitude, 42° 54' 9".5. 

Authority for latitude and longitude : Regents of University of State 
of New York. Report for 1862. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, Henry Mills. 

II. Instruments: 

(c) Telescope not equatorial ; maker, Bardon ; aperture of objective, 3 
inches ; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 50 to 250. 

III. Observations during the past year: 
Observations on sun spots and such other celestial phenomena as come 

within range of my instrument. 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year (1879-'80) : 

I propose to make systematic observations on sun spots and to record 
the same for future reference. 



Location of observatory : (City) Cambridge ; (County) Middlesex ; 
(State) Massachusetts. 

Name of observatory : The Astronomical Observatory of Harvard Col- 
lege. 

Longitude from Washington, — h 22 m 41M1. 
Latitude + 42° 22' 48".l. 
Authority for latitude and longitude : American Ephemeris for 1881. 

I. Personnel: 

Director, Edward C. Pickering. 

Assistants, William A. Rogers, A. M. ; Arthur Searle, A. M. ; 
Leonard Waldo, S. D. ; Frank Waldo, S. B. ; Miss R. G. Saun- 
ders ; Walter Hoxie ; J. F. McCormack ; Winslow Upton, A. M. ; 
Oliver C. Wendell. About halfa dozen other persons are employed 
in computations. 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 543 

II. Instruments: 

(a) Meridian citric : Makers, Troughton & Simms (glasses by Alyan 
Clark & Sons); diameter of circles, 36 inches; divided to 5'; each cir- 
cle read by 4 microscopes to 0.1". Aperture of objective, 8£ inches; 
for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 8^ inches; magnifying 
power ordinarily employed, 300 to 350 diameters. 

(a') East transit circle, by Troughton & Simms ; diameter of circles, 
48 inches; divided to 5'; each circle read by 4 microscopes to 0".2. 
Aperture of objective, 4^ inches. 

(b) Meridian transit instruments : Maker, Herbst, of Pulkowa; aper- 
ture, 2| inches; magnifying power, up to 200 diameters. 

(b') Large photometer, mounted in the meridian, for comparing im- 
ages of stars during transit. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Maker, Merz ; aperture of objective, 15 
inches ; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 100 to 2000. 

(c') West equatorial, by Alvan Clark & Sons ; aperture, 5J inches. 

(d) Spectroscopes : Three, described iu Vol. VIII of the Annals of the 
Observatory. 

(e) Photometers and other subsidiary apparatus : One Zollner photo- 
meter, and several photometers of other kinds. 

(/) Chronographs: Two spring governors, by W. Bond & Son; one 
small barrel chronograph. 

(g) Clocks : Mean time ; maker, Bond, 394 : sidereal ; makers, Fkod- 
sham, 1327 ; Bond, 312. 

(h) Chronometers: Sidereal; makers, Frodsham, 3451; Bond, 23G; 
thermometric chronometer, Frodsham, 3424. 

(/) Miscellaneous ; Comet-seeker and other small telescopes and appa- 
ratus. 

III. Observations during the past year: 
From September 1, 1878, to September 1, 1879. 

(a) Completion of observation of stars to the ninth magnitude, inclu- 
sive, in zone 50° to 55°; completion of observations of bright stars not 
recently well determined; commencement of observations of absolute 
places of important stars; observations for clock error, for use of time 
service (signals sent every two seconds to many points in and near 
Boston). 

(b) Observations for clock error, as above. 

(b') Photometric comparisons of stars visible to the naked eye ; the 
observing list includes about 4,000 stars. 

(c) («') Photometric observations of satellites of superior planets; pho- 
tometric observations of the eclipses of Jupiter's satellites; commence- 
ment of spectroscopic and photometric observations of selected nebulae; 
observations of comets and asteroids. 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year (1879-'80) : 
Continuation of observations now in progress. 



544 REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 

Y. Principal publications of the observatory during 

THE YEAR: 

1. E. C. Pickering, annual report, 1878; published in 1879, vol. 1, 
page 14. 

VI. Additional information: 

Two volumes of the annals of the observatory are in course of publi- 
cation. 

The financial condition of the observatory has been greatly improved 
by the completion of a subscription to provide for its current expenses. 
This will be of important service in the reduction of a large accumula- 
tion of observations, the publication of which must otherwise have been 
long delayed. 

A room lias been fitted up for the purpose of making accurate meas- 
ures of distance and comparisons of scales. 



Location of observatory : (City) Chicago; (County) Cook ; (State) Illi- 
nois. 
Name of observatory : Dearborn University Observatory. 
Longitude from Washington, + h 42 m 14 8 .26. 
Latitude, + 41° 50' 01".0. 
Authority for latitude and longitude : American Ephem. and Naut. 
Almanac. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, G. W. HOUGH. 

II. Instruments : 

(a) Meridian circles: Makers, Eepsold & Son; diameter of circle, 
40 inches; divided to 2'; read by 4 microscopes to 0".l ; aperture of 
objective, inches; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 3 
inches. 

(c) Equatorial instruments: Makers, Alvan Clark & Sons; aper- 
ture of objective, 18£ inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, positive, 
120, 190, 287, 385, 900 ; negative, 135^ 225, 450, 900. 

(/) Chronographs: G-. W. Hough; cylinder recording. 

(g) Clods: Mean time; Makers, Howard & Co.; Graham escape- 
ment, mercury pendulum. Sidereal ; Makers, Charles Gortner & 
Co., London; Graham escapement, mercury pendulum, 

(//) Chronometers: Sidereal; Makers, Bond & Son. 

(i) Miscellaneous : Signal mean time clock for transmitting time sig- 
nals. 

III. Observations during the past year: 

From May 18 to . 

(a) The Dearborn Observatory is not at present in active operation for 
waul of funds. Observations are, however, made by the director as far 
as his time will permit. 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 545 

(e) (c') Equatorial: Observations on Tempel's comet j observations on 
Swift's comet; micrometrical measurements of the disk of Jupiter for 
figure now in progress. Mr. S. W. Burnham has the use of the equa- 
torial for double star work when it is not otherwise employed. Merid- 
ian circle used for time and the observation of stars for extra-meridian 
observations. 



Location of observatory: (Village) Clinton; (County) Oneida; (State) 
]SIew York. 

Name of observatory: Litchfield Observatory, of Hamilton Col- 
lege. 

Longitude from Washington h G m 34 s .05 east. 
Latitude + 43° 3' 16".5 
Authority for latitude and longitude: reports to the regents of the 
university of the State of New York. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, C. H. F. Peters. 
No assistants. 

II. Instruments : 

(b) Meridian transit instruments : Maker, WtiRDEMANN; aperture 2£ 
inches. " 

(c) Equatorial instruments: Makers, Spencer & Eaton; aperture of 
objective, 13.} inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 80 to 1,000. 

(&) Ditto, Steinheil, aperture 4 inches; altitude azimuth, Schro- 
der, 5 inches aperture. 

(/) Chronographs : Wm. Bond & Son. 

{(/) Clocks: Mean time; makers, Wm. Bond & Son. 

(h) Chronometers: Sidereal; makers, Wm. Bond & Son. 

(i) Miscellaneous : For further details see catalogue of Hamilton Col- 
lege. 

III. Observations during the past year: 

(b) Time determination. 

(c) (&) Minor planets, comets, and zones of stars. 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year (1880): 
Continuation of that of preceding year. 

VI. Additional information: 
[From January 1, 1879 to October 1, 1879, Dr. Peters lias discovered 
7 asteroids, though he has omitted any notice of them from his report. 
This makes in all 38 asteroids discovered by him.— e. s. ir.l 



Location of observatory : (City) Columbia; (County) Boone; (State) 
Missouri. 

Name of observatory: Observatory of the University of the 
State of Missouri. 

Longitude from Washington, l h l m 6 s west. 
Latitude 38° 56' north. 
S. Mis. 54 35 



546 EEPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 

Authority for latitude and longitude: Joseph Ficklin and Thomas 
J. Lowry. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, Joseph Ficklin. 
Assistant, Thomas J. Lowry. 

II. Instruments: 

(a) Meridian circles : One; maker, Brunner, of Paris; diameter of 
circle, 10£ inches ; divided to 5' ; read by two microscopes to 3" ; aper- 
ture, of objective, 2-^-g inches; for observations of the sun, aperture em- 
ployed, 2^ inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 50 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instrument; Maker, Henry Fitz, of New York; aper- 
ture of objective, 4^ inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 30 to 240. 

(g) Clocks : Mean time ; maker, Eiggs, of Philadelphia ; sidereal ; 
makers, Gregg & Rupp, of New York. 

(i) Miscellaneous : The instrumental equipment includes also a sextant, 
made by E. & G. TV. Blunt, of New York. The arc is graduated on 
silver, and reads by a vernier and microscope to 10 seconds. An altitude 
azimuth instrument, made by E. & G. TV. Blunt, of New York. It has 
an aperture of 2£ inches. The circles are 12 inches in diameter, and 
graduated to 10 minutes. The horizontal circle has four verniers with 
microscopes, and the vertical circle two ; and each reads to 10 seconds. 
A transit theodolite, made by Gregg & Eupp, of New York. 

III. Observations during the past year: 

(a) Our observatory is used chiefly for instructional purposes. My 
time is so completely occupied by work in the class-room that I have very 
little time for original work. 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year (1S79-'S0): 
The ordinary work of instruction to classes in astronomy, and a re- 
determination of our latitude and longitude. 



Location of observatory : (City) Columbus ; (County) Franklin ; (State) 
Ohio. 

Name of observatory : Ohio State University. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, R. W. McFARLAND. 

VI. Additional information : 
1 have no regular observatory yet, but have the private use of two 
telescopes, with which, in a small way, I am trying to gel the authori- 
ties moved to do something worth reporting, which I cannot now do. 



Location of observatory : (City) Elizabeth; (County) Union; (State) 
New Jersey. 

Name of observatory : None. 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 547 

Longitude from Washington, 2° 50' 33" oast. 
Latitude, 40° 40' 19" north. 
Authority for latitude and longitude : United States Coast Survey. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, Charles W. Plyer. 

II. Instruments : 

(/>) Meridian transit instruments : Makers, .ToriN Bliss & Sons, New 
York; aperture, 1 inch; magnifying power, 10 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Maker, Henry G. Fitz; aperture of objec- 
tive, GJ inches. 

(c') Nine eye-pieces, from 50 to 630. 

III. Observations during the past yeah: 

(e) (c') None, owing to ill-health, except an occasional search for 
comets. 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year (1879-'80): 
Drawings of the surface of Mars, which will be a continuation of my 

work in 1877. 



Location of observatory : (City) Fordkain ; (County) New York; (State) 
New York. 

Private observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, h 12 m 40 s .47 east. 
Latitude, 40° 52' 31".3. 
Latitude and longitude deduced from Coast Survey map of 18G3 and 
American Ephemeris 1879, assuming the latitude and longitude of New 
York, given in the Ephemeris, to be the latitude and longitude of the 
City Hall. 

I. Personnel: 

Director, William Meikleham. 
No assistants. 

II. Instruments: 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Maker, John Byrne, of New York; ap- 
erture of objective, If';, inches; focal distance, 05 inches; magnifying 
powers of eye-pieces, 20, 30, 45, GO, 80, 150, 250, 300, 350, and 450; also 
an amplifier which doubles each of these powers when used. Attached to 
the telescope is a finder of 1£ inches aperture, magnifying 20 diameters. 
Bight ascension circle divided to read to 4 seconds of time; declination 
circle divided to read to 1' of arc. Both circles divided on silver and 
read by microscopes attached thereto. Driving-clock. 

(d) tipeciroscopes : One. 

(()) Clocks: Mean time; Maker, Setii THOMAS, Sons & Co. 

(■/) Miscellaneous ; Pilar micrometer; divided on silver to measure &" 
of arc in distance, and G' in positiou, with suitable eyepieces and illu- 
minating apparatus. 



548 REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 

III. Observations during the past year: 
From September 1, 1878, to September 1, 1879. 

(c) Observations of the magnitudes and colors of double stars, 
lunar peaks and craters, solar spots and faculee, belts of Jupiter, rings 
of Saturn. In solar observations I find it advantageous generally to 
reduce the aperature of my telescope to 3£- Q inches, and use an eyepiece 
magnifying 80 diameters, with a right-angle prism instead of a colored 
glass screen. 

(?') Measurements of position and distances of components of double 
stars; heights of lunar peaks by the lengths of their shadows; width of 
lunar craters; sizes of solar spots. 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year (1879-'S0): 
A continuation of the above. 



Location of observatory: (City) near Fort Dodge; (County) Webster; 
(State) Iowa. 

Longitude from Washington, l h . 8 m .5 west. 

Latitude, 42° 30' north. 
Authority for latitude and longitude, F. Hess. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, F. Hess. 
Assistant, Mrs. P. B. Hess. 

II. Instruments: 

(a.) Aperture of objective, 2§ inches ; for observations of the sun, 
aperture employed, 2| inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 
50 diameters. 

(b) Meridian transit instruments : Makers, J. Brown & Son, New York ; 
aperture, 1 inch ; magnifying power, lOi diameters, with horizontal and 
vertical circle, each reading to 1. 

(g) Clocks : Mean time ; maker, G. M. Wheeler, Elgin, III. 

(i) Miscellaneous : One Troughton sextant and artificial horizon. 

III. Observations during the past year: 
From September 15, 1878, to September 15, 1879. 

(a) Observations of sun-spots, occupations, eclipses of Jupiter's sat- 
ellites, and searching for intra-Mercnrial planets. 

(b) (b') Observing the variations of the magnetic needle, altitudes and 
azimuths, time, latitude and longitude, and approximately locating sun- 
spots. 

(i) Observing altitudes, time, latitude and longitude of various places. 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year (1880): 
Continuation of previous work and the establishment of an observa- 
tory on Mount Zapato, Colorado, located 5.9 miles S. 76£ E. (M. B.) from 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 549 

N. G. Adee's house at Zapato, and rising to an altitude of 6,120 feet 
above said house, the approximate elevation of which above sea-level 
is 8,009 feet, provided a valid title can be obtained by purchase or oth- 
erwise to sections 13 and 14, township 28 north, of range 73 west, of the 
sixth principal meridian, as yet unsurveyed and unoccupied public land 
comprising this mountain, the most accessible of the higher peaks of the 
Sierra Blanco. 

V". Additional information: 

April 25, 1870, I found Brorsen's comet in the vicinity of a star sup- 
posed to be B. A. C. 1504, coming' within the same held of view of in- 
strument (a), in which the comet was seen with a magnifying power of 
.">(>. The comet was observed each following night until April 30, when 
a star, supposed to be B. A. C. 1849, was within the same held of view 
with the comet. It was looked for again all night of May 5, but could 
not be found again. 

During a few hours in the nights of July 18 and August 10, on the 
San Juan, below Pagosa Springs, Colorado, I saw many very brilliant 
meteors. Monthly reports of sun-spots and other miscellaneous observa- 
tions have been made to the Chief Signal Officer of the Army. 



Location of observatory : (City) Glasgow; (County) Howard; (State) 
Missouri. 
Name of observatory : Morrison Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, l h 3"' 6 S .8 W. 
Latitude, 39° 10' 16".75 K. 
Authority for latitude and longitude: Longitude by time .signals from 
the Naval < >bservatory on five successive days; latitude from a series of 
observations on circumpolar stars made on meridian circle. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, Carr W. Pritchett. 
Assistant, C. W. Pritchett, Jr. 

II. Instruments: 

(a) Meridian circles: makers, Trougiiton & Simms, Loudon; diam- 
eter of circles, 24 inches; divided too'; read by 8 microscopes to 1"; 
aperture of objective, 6 inches; for observations of the Sun, aperture em- 
ployed, 4 inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 200 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instruments: Makers, Al van Clark&Sons; aperture 

of objective, ll'j inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 50 to 1,000. 
(/) Chronographs: by Ai.vw CLARK Ov Sons, conical pendulum. 
(()) Clocks: Sidereal, maker, CHARLES FRODSHAM, No. 1369. 

(/<) Chronometers: Sidereal, makers, T. S. & J.D. Negus, break circuit 
No. 1590. 

(i) Miscellaneous : Small altazimuth, CASELLA, London; barometer ami 
thermometer. 

2 



550 REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 

III. Observations during the past year: 

(From September 1, 1878, to September 1, 1879.) 

(a) Meridian circle lias only been used for time observations. 

1. Third series of observations on satellites of Saturn. 

2. Observations of satellites of Jupiter. 

3. Measures of position, angle, and distance of double and multiple 
stars. 

4. In progress, an extensive series of observations on the Eed Spot on 
Jupiter, first seeu July 9, 1878. Transit of center, for redetermination 
of axial rotation. 

5. A few occupations of stars by the Moon. 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year: (1880.) 

(a) It is expected that the meridian circle will be put to systematic 
use during the ensuing year. 

(e) The observations on the equatorial will be divided between the 
fixed stars and planets as the relative importance of the work, for the 
time being, may demand. 

VI. Additional information: 
We have no fund for defraying expenses of publications. A few 
papers have been published in the "AstronoinischelSachrichten" and the 
" Observatory," London. There exists here quite a large number of ob- 
servations which might be of use if published. 



Location of observatory : (City) Hanover; (County) Grafton; (State) 
New Hampshire. 
Name of observatory : Shattuck Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 19 m 3 8 .56 east. 
Latitude, 43° 42' 15".2 north. 
Authority for latitude and longitude: Prof. C. A. Young. 

I. Personnel: 

Director, Charles F. Emerson. 

Assistants: 1. Charles D. Lamb, \ Boom in the observatory, and 

> have charge of i lie nieterologi- 

2. David P. Peed, ) cal observations. 

3. Georoe O. Mitchell. 

II. Instruments: 

(a) Meridian circles: makers, Troughton & Simms; diameter of 
circle. ."»() inches; divided to .V; read by reading microscopes to 1', and 
micrometers to single seconds ; aperture of objective, 4 inches; mag- 
nifying power ordinarily employed, 120 diameters. 

(c) 'Equatorial instruments; .Makers, Alvan Clark & Sons ; aperture 
of objective, 9.25 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 100 to 1,200, 
20 in number. 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 551 

(d) Spectroscopes : Large 9 prism Clark spectroscope; seven prism, 
double acting (equivalent to 13 prisms), fitting equatorial mentioned 
above. 

(/') Chronographs: Bond's Spring Governor. 

(</) Clocks: Meantime; makers, Utzsciineider & Frauenhofer, 
connected with chronograph; Sidereal, makers, Utzschneider & 
Mahler, of Munich, connected with chronograph. 

(?) Miscellaneous ; Comet seeker, aperture 3.0 inches, mounted on large 
tripod ; small portable telescope, aperture 3 inches; zenith sector, loaned 
by Coast Survey, aperture 4 inches ; full set of common meteorological 
apparatus, including a recording barometer; sextant by Hardy, of 
London. 

III. Observations during the past year. 
(a) For time and latitude. 

(d) Class illustration on reversal of lines, and for prominences. 
(?) Meteorological observations 3 times per day ; sun spot observations 
sinee September 1, 1879. 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year: (1880.) 
Similar work, with special attention to sun spots, prominence, &c, 

and spectroscopic observations. 



Location of observatory : Hastings; (County) Westchester; (State) New 
York. 

Name of observatory : Henry Draper's Observatory, 

Longitude from Greenwich, 73° 52' 25" west. 
Latitude, 40° 59' 25". 
Authority for latitude and longitude : United States Coast Survey. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, Dr. H. Draper. 
Assistant, Mrs. DRAPER. 

II. Instruments: 

(b) Meridian transit instruments ; Makers, Stackpole Bros. ; aperture, 
2 inches; magnifying power, 25 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instruments: 28-inch silvered glass reflector by H. 
DRAPER; L2-inch achromatic by Alvan Clark. 

(?/) Spectroscopes: Crating spectroscope for solar work- by Alvan 
Clark;; stellar spectroscope by Browning; stellar photographic spec- 
troscope by H. Draper; largo spectroscope for research on oxygen in 
l he Sun. 

(/) Chronograph : by n. Draper. 

(/?) Chronometers: Mean time, makers, Negus Brothers; sidereal, 
makers, Negus BROTHERS, break circuit. 

(i) Miscellaneous: Silvered glass altazimuth 15^ inches aperture; 



552 REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 

petroleum engine; gramme machine; 17-inch induction coil; photo- 
graphic apparatus. 

III. Observations during the past year: 

(a) The main work has been photography of the spectra of stars and 
the planets especially, and a Lyrae, Arcturus, Jupiter, and the Moon. 
The research on the presence of oxygen in the Sun has been continued. 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year : (1879-'80.) 
Continuation of the above. 

VI. Additional information: 
The results of the researches in this observatory have been printed in 
the American Journal of Science, in the monthly notices of the Royal 
Astronomical Society, the Comptes Iiendus of the French Academy of 
Science, and the Journal of the Italian Spectroscopists. 



Location of observatory : (City) Haverford ; (County) Montgomery; 
(State) Pennsylvania. 
Name of observatory : Haverford College. 

Longitude from Washington, . 

Latitude, 40° 0' 3G".5. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, Isaac Siiarpless. 
Assistants : 1. William F. Perry, 

2. Josiah P. Edwards. 

II. Instruments: 

(a) Meridian circles : 2; diameter of circles, 2G inches; divided to — '; 
read by 4 microscopes to 2"; aperture of objective, 4 inches. 

(b) Meridian transit instruments : Aperture, 1.} inches. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Maker, Fitz ; aperture of objective, 8£ 
inches ; magnifying powers of eyepieces, (50 to 900. 

(/) Chronographs : Bond's magnetic. 

{(j) Clocks: Meantime; maker, William E. Harper, Philadelphia; 
1 sidereal; makers, no name. 

Prof. Samuel Alsop, the previous director of the observatory, has been 
absent from duty during the past year on account of ill health. 



Location of observatory : (City) Iowa City ; (County) Johnson ; (State) 
Iowa. 
Name of observatory : C. W. Irish's Private Observatory. 
Longitude from Washington, 57'" 52". 
Latitude. 41° 39'^. 
Authority for latitude aud longitude: Observations by self during 
the past eleven years. 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 553 

I. Personnel: 

Director^ C. W. Irish. 
Assistants: 1. Mrs. C. W. Irish, 

2. Miss Lizzie Irish, 

3. Miss Ruth Irish, 

4. Dr. C. M. Hobby. 

II. Instruments : 

(b) Meridian transit instruments: Makers, made by self ; aperture, 1 
inch ; magnifying power, 11 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instruments: Makers, Chevalier, Paris; aperture of 
objective, 4 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 25 to 300. 

(/) Chronographs : A Morse register. 

(y) Clods : Mean time ; makers, German make, beats £ seconds. 

III. Observations during the past year: 

(a) Have done nothing since the transit of Mercury, May, 1878. 



(Former) location of observatory : (City) Jackson; (County) Jackson; 
(State) Michigan. 

Longitude from Washington, west 29 ra 29 8 . 74. 

Latitude, 42° 14' 25".21. 
Authority for latitude and longitude: Monument set by Lake Survey. 

I. Personnel : 
Director, O. Mulvey. 

II. Instruments: 

(c) Equatorial instruments: Makers, S. & B. Solomons, London; aper- 
ture of objective, 3 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 30 to 205. 
(h) Chronometers: Mean time; makers, Finer & jSTowland, London. 

III. Observations during the past year: 

(a.) Telescope dismounted for past year. Will remount at Wichita, 
Kans. 

VI. Additional information: 

I hiving removed to Wichita, Kans., please address meat this place 
in future. 



Location of observatory : (City) Lawrence; (County) Douglas $ (State) 
Kansas. 

X nine of observatory : Connected with Kansas State University. 
Longitude from Washington, l h 12 ,u 47 s . 9. 
Latitude 38° 57' 15". 
Authority for latitude and longitude: Fred. W. Pardwell, late 
Professor of Astronomy, K. S. U. 



554 REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, H. S. S. Smith. 

II. Instruments: 

(b) Meridian transit instruments : Makers, Stackpole Bros.; aper- 
ture, 2^ inches ; 

(g) Clocks : Mean time ; makers, E. Howard & Co., Boston (medium) ; 
Sidereal ; makers, Brockbanks, London (old). 

(h) Chronometers: Sidereal; makers, T. S. & J. D. Negus, New- 
York (good). 

(i) Miscellaneous : Sextant, Gambet. 

III. Observations during the past year: 
(6) {b') Time. 

IV". Work proposed for the coming tear (1880) : 
Not settled. 

VI. Additional information : 
Observatory torn down in April. Small temporary observatory in 
process of construction. 

Location of observatory : (City) Madison; (County) Jefferson; (State) 
Indiana. 
Name of observatory : Fairmount Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, b 33 m 34" +. 

I. Personnel : 
Director, Israel Fowler. 
Assistant, My son. 

II. Instruments: 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Maker, I. Fowler ; aperture of objective, 
G inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 90, 120, 300. 

{()) Clocks : Mean time ; maker, I. Fowler. 

(i) Miscellaneous ; My yard is my observatory ; location, Fairmount, 
near the City of Madison, Jefferson County, State of Indiana. I and 
my son are the observers. Instruments: 1. A 6-inch metal reflector, 
focal length 90 inches, mounted equatorially with hour and declination 
circles, also tangent screw for slow motion. 2. A portable silvered glass 
reflector 50 inches focal length, with eyepieces varying from 40 to 300 
diameters. 3. A mean-time clock beats seconds, used as a regulator in 
my watch shop, all made by myself. I commenced my observations in 
1809; scarcely a favorable night has passed without finding meat the 
telescope, but I have kept no record, so it can be of no service to science. 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year (1880): 

I propose the coming year to keep a record of all observations made ; 
so if I should awkwardly stumble upon something of interest I will com- 
municate the same. My observations will be confined to sun spots, a 
search for Vulcan, and observing Jupiter and Saturn. 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 555 



Location of observatory : Mount Lookout; (County) Hamilton; (State) 
Ohio. 
Name of observatory : Cincinnati Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 29 m 29.42 8 W. 
Latitude, 39° 8' 35".5. 
Authority for latitude and longitude : American Ephemeris for 1880. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, Ormond Stone. 
Assistant, Herbert A. Howe. 
Student, H. V. Egbert. 

II. Instruments: 

(b) Meridian transit instruments : Makers 4 Buff and Berger ; aper- 
ture, 3 inches; magnifying power, 100 diameters. 

(c') Equatorial instruments; Makers, Utzschneider and Frauen- 
hofer ; finished by Merz & Mahler ; object-glass refigured by Al- 
VAN Clark & Sons; aperture of objective, 11| inches; magnifying 
powers of eyepieces, 90 to 1,400. 

(c 1 ) Alvan Clark & Sons ; aperture, 4 inches ; magnifying powers, 
15 to 250. 

(/) Chronographs: Bond. 

(;j) Clods: 2 mean time; makers, Robert Molyneux, Jas. Ritchie 
& Son. 

(h) Chronometers, Sidereal, 1 ; makers, Wm. Bond & Son. 

(i) Miscellaneous: Magnetic theodolite; maker, Gambey. Sextant; 
makers, Stackpole & Brother. Inclinometer, time-ball, telegraphic 
apparatus, etc. 

III. Observations during the past year: 
From September 1, 1878, to September 1, 1879. 

(b) Determination of time and latitude. 

(e) 2033 sets of double-star measurements. 

(c and c') Examination of surface of Sun on ISO days. Spots seen on 
40. (c 1 ) was used with one inch aperture until the middle of February, 
1879. Since that {<■) most of the time with an aperture of 5 inches. 

IV. Work Proposed for the coming year (1879-80): 
Continuation of observations of double stars and observations of sun 

spots with (r) ; Durchffiusterung south of 23° south declination with(c); 
determination of time with [b). 

VI. Additional information: 
Telegraphic time signals are sent to the city and a ball dropped from 
a staff at the observatory each day at noon. 



Location of observatory : (City) Nashville; (County) Davidson; (State) 
Tennessee. 



55G REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 

Longitude from Washington, 38 ,n , 5G 8 . 
Latitude, + 36° 10' 01". 
Authority for latitude and longitude : Mr. George Dean, United 
States Coast Survey. 

I. Director, E. E. BARNARD. 

II. Instruments : 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Maker, John Byrne, New York ; aper- 
ture of objective, 5 inches ; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 52, 78, 85, 104, 
173, 200, 330, 520. This instrument has simple equatorial mounting 
moved by hasp joint and handle (on tripod stand). 

(i) Miscellaneous : Have also a small achromatic telescope with object- 
ive 2\ inches in diameter, simple vertical and horizontal mounting. I use 
a good silver watch and get my time from Western Union Telegraph 
office by noon signal from Washington. 

(c) (e 1 ) Jupiter, changes in belts, etc. 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year (18S0) : 
I propose to use what time I can spare observing further the changes 
on Jupiter; and particularly the lunar crater Plato. Also other objects 
which come under my notice and time. 

VI. Additional information: 
The spare time from my work has been very little, and most of that 
has been occupied in the study of mathematics. What little time I have 
had for observing has been employed in the observation of the lunar 
crater Plato and the changes on the surface of the planet Jupiter ; mak- 
ing drawings of his belts, etc. Since last season a large oblong red spot 
or short belt, rather,has appeared. I have been watching this to detect 
any changes that may occur in it. I have made drawings at every favor- 
able opportunity of this remarkable spot, but I have so far been un- 
able to detect any positive change in it, but there seems to be change 
going on in some of the belts, especially in the belt immediately above 
the red spot and nearer the equator of the planet. This seems to be 
changing in form and color. When I first noticed this belt it was of a 
dusky grayish tint; then, afterwards, of a beautiful bluish color; this 
bluish tint was quite marked. The northern of the equatorial belts is 
very ruddy, but heretofore has been not near so red as the large red spot, 
but on the night of the 14th of September it seemed to be fully as ruddy 
as the spot. My lack of proper instrumental equipment has kept me 
from making any very accurate observations. I would further state in 
regard to the changes of Jupiter that on the above-mentioned night, at 
fl h 30 m , there were one or two little round spots on the disc near the South 
Pole; tliey appeared about the size of one of the satellites (the 3rd) 
which had come on the disc half hour or so before; they were faint and 
not seen readily. I had not noticed these spots before. 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 557 



Location of observatory : (City) New Haven; (County) New Haven; 
(State) Connecticut. 

Name of observatory : The Sheffield Scientific School of Yale 
College. 

„„ , . , i Longitude from Washington, h 10 m 30 8 .0 E. 

Ot equatorial J ^.^ 410 m 36 „ 5 K 

Authority for latitude and longitude : Latitude from observations with 
zenith telescope by C. S. L. Longitude, Coast Survey. The Coast 
Survey latitude is 41° 18' 40".67. 

I. Personnel: 

Director, C. S. Lyman. 
Assistant, WlLLTAM Beebe. 

II. Instruments: 

(a) Meridian circles : Makers, Ertel & Sons, 1845. Altered by Wm. 
J. Young, 1855, and regraduated 1870; diameter of circles, 40 inches; 
divided to 2'; read by six microscopes to 1"; aperture of objective, 3.8 
inches ; for observations of the Sun, aperture employed, 1.7 inches; mag- 
nifying power ordinarily employed, 190 diameters; focal length, 58.2 
inches. 

(b) Meridian transit instruments : Makers, one by C. S. L., of 30-inch 
focal length; aperture, 2.0 inches; magnifying power, 185 diameters. 
Circle, 12 inches, reading to 10" by verniers. It has declination microm- 
eter and fine level, for use as zenith telescope, made in 1852-53. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Makers, Alvan Clark & Sons ; aperture 
of objective, 9 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 40, 80, 140, 200, 
280, 450, G20. 

{&) Portable 4g-inch refractor by Messrs. CLARK & Sons. 

(d) Spectroscopes : By A. Clark & Sons, of 7 prisms twice traversed. 
(/) Chronographs : One just finished by A. Clark & Sons. 

(g) Cloclcs : Sidereal; makers, 1 by Appleton, London, and 1 by E. 
Howard & Sons, Boston. 

(h) Chronometers: Sidereal; maker, Poole, improved by Negus. 

(i) Miscellaneous: 1 bi-filar position micrometer by Dollond ; 1 mul- 
tiple ring micrometer (8 rings); 1 patent sextant by Pistor & Mar- 
tins; 1 patent reflecting circle by Pistor & Martins. Yale College 
has also a 10-foot refractor of 5-inch aperture by Dollond, and a 5-foot 
transit instrument of 4-inch aperture by Troughton & Simms. The 
former is in charge of Professor Loomis, the latter not mounted. 

III. Observations during tiie past year (from September, 
1878, to September, 1 879) : 

(b) (b') Time observations for city and chronometers of the port. Prac- 
tice of students for time, latitude, longitude, etc. 

(c) (c') Observations of Bkorsen's and Swift's comets, etc. 



558 REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 

IV. Work proposed tor the coming year (September, 
1S79, to September, 1880) : 
Of Mars at opposition for parallax, comets, and occultations, &c.; 
meridian circle, for redetermination of latitude, &c. ; the work of in- 
struction leaves but limited opportunity for other work. 



Location of observatory: (City) Newington; (County) Hartford; (State) 
.Connecticut. 

Name of observatory: Private observatory of D. W. Edgecomb. 
Longitude from Washington, 5° 21' 30" E. 
Latitude, 41° 44' 0". 
Authority for latitude and longitude : Difference from Hartford State- 
house, Coast Survey. 

I. Personnel : 
Director, D. W. Edgecomb. 
Assistants, None. 

II. Instruments : 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Makers, A. Clark & Sons ; aperture of 
objective, 0.4 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, various up to 
2,000. (See general description.) 

(g) Clocks: Meantime; Swiss regulator, seconds. 

VI. Additional information: 
This observatory consists of a small frame budding, with dome 12 
feet inches diameter, upon the grounds of the owner, covering an equa- 
torial telescope. The latter rests upon a granite pedestal, weighing 
about 1,500 pounds. The mounting is by Young, of Philadelphia, and 
is of the best workmanship. The declination circle is 13 inches in diame- 
ter, reading by verniers to 10 seconds of arc. The hour circle is 10 inches 
diameter, reading by verniers to 4 seconds of time. The graduations 
are upon silver. The obiect-glass, tube, and finder are by A. Clark & 
Sons. The aperture of the object-glass is 9.4 inches, with a focal length 
of 121 inches, and is without doubt the finest specimen of the skill of 
Mr. Alvan Clark. Under the most rigid tests, its figure is found to 
approach very closely to absolute perfection. It is shown also by the 
vision it gives of the closest double stars and the faintest companions 
to bright stars hitherto discovered. Among the former, y 2 Andromeda}, 
X Cassiopeaj, and -q Coronas in its present position (September, 1879) 
may be mentioned, and of the latter class, the companions to y Lyrse, 
C Aquiline, e and p Hydrae, the star closely following the attendant to 
Eegulus, and under very favorable circumstances the 2" companion to 
e Coronse. The instrument has been used for general observations of 
the stars, moon, and planets, other occupations preventing the owner 
from carrying on at present any more regular work. 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 559 

Location of observatory: (City) New York; (County) New York; 
(State) New York. 
Name of observatory: Mr. Eutherfurd's private observatory. 
Longitude from Washington, east 3° 3' 52".05. 
Latitude north, 40° 43' 48".53 ± 31. 
Authority for latitude and longitude: United States coast surveying 
party (1859), with zenith telescope upon 24 pairs of stars, and tele- 
graphic communication with Washington aud Cambridge. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, L. M. Eutherfurd. 
Assistant, D. C. Chapman. 

II. Instruments : 

(b) Meridian transit instruments: Maker, Stackpole; aperture, 3 
inches. 

Only used for time. 

(c) Equatorial instruments: Makers, Messrs. Eutherfurd & Fitz, 
aperture of objective, 13 inches. 

(c') The telescope has been employed mostly in photographing the 
sun, moon, and groups of stars. 
(/■') Chronographs: Morse. 
{(j) Clocks : Sidereal ; Maker, Dent. 



Location of observatory: (City) Northfleld; (County) Eice; (State) 
Minnesota. 

JS 'a me of observatory : Observatory of Carleton College. 
Longitude from Washington, 93° 9' 14" approximately. 
Latitude 44° 27' 41" approximately. 

Longitude: Occupation of Jupiter's satellites. We hope soon to be 
determ i ned tel egraphical ly. 

Authority for latitude and longitude: Observations with telescope 
taking a great number of measures of pahs of stars with micrometer ac- 
cording to Coast Survey practice. 

I. Personnel: 

Acting Director, William W. Payne. 
Assistants: 1. A. C. WILSON. 
2. W. T. Bill. 

II. Instruments: 

(/>) Meridian transit instruments: Makers, Fauth & Co., Washing- 
ton; aperture, 3 inches; magnifying power, GO, 70, and SO diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Makers, A. Clark & Sons, Cambridge- 
port, Mass.; aperture of objective, Sj inches; magnifying powers of eye- 
pieces, 50, 100, 200, 400, 800, besides a series of micrometer powers. 

(c 1 ) Portable equatorial: Makers, John Byrne, New York ; object- 
ive, 4.3 inches clear aperture. 



560 REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 

(/) Chronograph : An electro-magnetic instrument by A. Clark & 
Sons. 

{(j) Clods: 1 mean time; makers, E. Howard & Co., Boston ; 1 side- 
real; makers, E. Howard & Co., Boston. 

(h) Chronometers : 1 sidereal; makers, W. Bond & Son, Boston. 

(i) Miscellaneous : A partial outfit of metereological instruments. 

III. Observations for the past year: 

Instruments just received. No regular work in observatory yet under- 
taken, except the completion of a trial orbit for comet I of 1879. 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year (1879-80): 

1. A series of double-star measures, to determine personal equation. 

2. Observations on comets II and III, for 1879. 

3. Observations of the planet Jupiter, respecting the color of disc. 

4. Miscellaneous work, to aid State Astronomical Society; there being 
no other instrument equal to our equatorial in the State. 

VI. Additional information: 
One year ago our clocks were set and regulated ; since that time we 
have had control of the time in this entire State, and parts also of Iowa, 
Nebraska, Kansas, Dakota, and Missouri. When full* connections are 
made, our noonday signal is directly distributed over 1,285 miles of wire, 
thereby supplying each telegraphic station in all this wide area with the 
daily time of our meridian. All the railroads (I believe) and the princi- 
pal cities adopt our time. 

[Extracts from previously-published, information.] 

" CARLETON COLLEGE. — PLAN OF INSTRUCTION AND ORIGINAL WORK 

The main building of the new observatory is now completed, and is 20 
feet square and 32 feet high. There are two wings, each 12 by 15 feet and 
9 feet high, with flat roof. The east wing is for the astronomical library 
and the observer's study. The west wing is used for the transit room 
only. On the first floor of the main building is the instrument case, 
table for chronograph, pier for astronomical clocks, and circular stair- 
way loading to the equatorial room in the dome. 

The central equatorial pier starts 9£ feet below the ground, has a foot- 
ing of large flat stone, is" built circular, with a diameter 8 feet, and is 
laid of solid masonry in cement to a height of 5 feet above the ground. 
Prom the footing it is curbed with dry stone way to the surface of the 
ground, that it may stand independent. Above it is built of brick in 
circular form to the upper surface of the second floor, and capped with 
a stone 3i feet in diameter and 8 inches thick. The entire height of the 
pier is 20 feet. The pier for the transit instrument is made in a similar 
manner, except that it is rectangular in shape. 

The second story of the building is devoted to the equatorial room, 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 561 

s 
which is circular, and 1G feet in diameter inside. It is also a little more 
than 16 feet from the floor to the highest point of the dome. The dome 
is a hemisphere, and rests on twelve sheaved rollers, and is revolved by 
machinery at the pleasure of the observer. 

The transit is already received. It was made by Messrs. Fauth & Co., 
of Washington, at a catalogue price of $900. Its telescope has 3 inches 
dear aperture and 3i feet focal length. It has a striding level reading 
to seconds of are, a G-inch setting circle with level alidade on axis di- 
vided on silver and reading to thirty seconds, glass micrometer instead 
of spider lines, illumination on the new plan through the axis with side 
reflector, so as not to interfere with the object rays. The clamp is of 
the improved Davidson form. One of the Y's can be moved in azimuth 
and the other in altitude. The transit is also provided with a neat and 
convenient reviewing apparatus that will add much to facility in work. 
Before the instrument was shipped from Washington it was tested by 
Professor Hilgard, one of the leading officers of the Coast Survey, who 
acted as chairman of the committee of judges on astronomical instru- 
ments at tie late Centennial Exposition. He pronounces the transit 
excellent in design and finish. 

The observatory will be provided with two clocks, a sidereal and a mean 
time, costing about $500 each. The former is already in place and nearly 
regulated. The latter is expected daily. 

A 4-inch equatorial portable instrument has been ordered, at a cost of 
about $400. Correspondence is now being had respecting the purchase 
and making of a large 8J-inch equatorial instrument. It is to be mounted 
in the best style, and to be provided with a driving clock. It cannot be 
completed in less than six months, and therefore may not be received 
until late this fall. It is, however, hoped that it may be secured and set 
ready for use this coming winter. Its cost will not vary much from 
$3,000. 

CARLETON COLLEGE TLME SIGNALS. 

Few of those who have visited the observatory of Carleton College, 
in our city, have definite knowledge of the system of daily time signals 
which are given from it. Very little has been written or published re- 
specting the details of regulating the time by astronomical observa- 
tions, or of the noon-day distribution of it over the vast area of portions 
of six different contiguous States. 

It is not our purpose now to describe either branch of this practical 
or useful work to which the instruments of the observatory have been 
mainly devoted for the five months since it was erected, but rather to 
mention a few facts respecting the time signals that have been noticed 
by friends of the institution who have asked for a brief statement of 
them for publication. 

The observatory is connected with the main line of the Northwestern 
Telegraph Company, and hence may use. at pleasure, either the commer- 
cial or the railroad line for communication with any distant points. By 
S. Mis. 54 3G 



5G2 REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 

courtesy of the officers of the telegraph company our branch line was 
erected and a complete set of instruments supplied for the observatory 
office. 

The meau-time regulator of the observatory, by great care, is kept 
accurately in true time. To be assured of this frequent time star-obser- 
vations are taken by which the error and rate of the sidereal regulator 
are known. The mean-time is deduced from this, and any needed cor- 
rection of the mean-time clock is made by an ingenious magnetic attach- 
ment which is controlled by an electric current at the pleasure of the 
person in charge. 

Daily, at three minutes before noon, the mean-time clock, which is 
provided with an electrical attachment, is connected with the telegraph 
lines of the Chicago, Milwaukee and Saint Paul Eailroad, and from this 
line to the Saint Paul and Sioux City Eailroad, and nearly all others in 
the State and some out of it. The clock is so constructed that it will 
give its own signal so as to be understood at the most distant points 
where line-connections are made. As an example of the facility and 
extent of the daily time signals which the observatory regulator fin- 
ishes, we will quote from a letter recently received from our friend, W. 
H. Drake, of Saint Paul, train-dispatcher of the Saint Paul and Sioux 
Eailroad : 

Monday, 17th, your clock beat time for 1,285 miles of line wire through, (near as I 
can count it) 157 instruments. Where the Milwaukee and Saint Paul line via Mason 
City crosses our hue at Sheldon, Iowa, our instruments arc on the same table. The 
stroke of the clock comes to each of them alike. Monday, Kansas City was the ter- 
minus. The stroke sounded in Minnesota, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, and Mis- 
souri. "When I can arrange with the Union Pacific for some lair day we will try to 
compare time with the Pacific coast. They have been ready twice, but did not give 
sufficient time to arrange with you. 

This single incident will serve to show the wide sphere of usefulness 
and of influence which the college has and may hold if it can carry out 
plans of work already well begun.' 7 — [Rice County Journal.) 



Location of observatory : (Near) Oxford; (County) Lafayette; (State) 
Mississippi. 
Name of observatory: University of Mississippi. 

Longitude from Washington, AY. h 49 m 55 s .03. 
Latitude N. 34° 22' 12".G4. 
Authority for latitude and longitude: E. B. Fulton. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, E. B. Fulton. 

II. Instalments: 

(a) Altitude-azimuth : Makers, LEREBOURS & SECRETAN ; diameter of 
circles, 10 inches; divided to 10' ; read by 4 microscopes to 10"; aperture 
of objective, 1£ inches. 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 5G3 

(b) Meridian transit instruments: Maters, B. Tike & Sons; aperture, 
2\ inches. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Maker, Merz, of Munich : aperture of 
objective, 4 A inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 96 to 312 diameters. 

(d) Spectroscopes : 1 Kirciihoff's 4-prism table spectroscope. 
(g) Clocks : 1 mean time ; makers, Ritchie & Sons, Boston. 

(h) Chronometers : 1 sidereal; makers, Wm. Bond & Son, Boston. 

III. Observations during the past year : 
From January 1, 1878 to July 1, 1879. 

(a) Determination of latitude. 

(b) Determination of local time. 

(c) Transit of Mercury, May, 187S. 

(h) Local time and transit of Mercury. 

VI. Additional information: 
Transit of Mercury duly observed and report transmitted to Naval 
Observatory and published in Appendix II to Washington Observations 
for 1876. 



Location of observatory : (City) Phelps ; (County) Ontario; (State) New 
York. 

Name of observatory : Bed House Observatory. (Private.) 
Longitude from Washington : Eecent surveys make it very close to the 

Washington meridian. 
Latitude, 42° 58'. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, Wm. Bobt. Brooks. 
Assistant, Mrs. Mary E. Brooks. 

II. Instruments: 

(i) Miscellaneous: Instruments used are a 2-inch refractor, ,36 inches 
focal length, mounted as altitude-azimuth; magnifying powers 30, 45, 
100 diameters; objective imported ; mounted by the observer. A 5-inch 
aperture silver- on-glass Newtonian reflector, 50 inches focal length, al- 
titude-azimuth mounting; magnifying powers, 40, 60, 140 diameters; 
made by the observer. 

III. Observations during: the past year: 
From September 1, 1878, to September 1, 1879. 

My observations have been mainly of sun-spots, planetary phenome- 
na, and comet-seeking, using both instruments, but chiefly the reflector 
for sun-spots and comet-seeking'. Have made several observations of 
Swift's comet (No. 1 of 1879); Palisa's (No. 2); and Uartwig's (No. 
3) has been seen by glimpses. 



5G4 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 



IV. Work proposed for the coming- year (1879-80) : 
A continuation of the work of the past year is intended for the comiug 
year, especially that of sun-spots with the 5-inch reflector, and watching 
for the transits of inter-inercurial planets, and also comet-seeking and 
locating new nebulae. To the better fitting of myself for comet-seeking 
I propose to construct, the coming winter, a new reflector of 10 or 1U 
inches aperture and short focal length. 
VI. Additional information: 
Several descriptive articles of the new comets of Swift and Palisa, 
planetary phenomena, and sun-spots, in the daily press (principally Eoch- 
ester, N. Y., Democrat and Chronicle), the Phelps Citizen (weekly), and 
the Scientific American. 
Last September, while observing Mercury one morning at the time 
of its conjunction with Venus, I observed a dark 
semicircular notch out of the illuminated portion of 
Mercury, near the middle of the terminator, report 
of which was sent to the STaval Observatory. It 
occurred to me as having a connection with the 
bright spot seen on Mercury at the time of its last 
transit (seen independently by myself as well as 
many others), and as confirming Proctor's notion of a hole through 
Mercury. 




Location of observatory: (City) Providence; (County) Providence; 
(State) Ehode Island. 
Name of observatory : Seagrave Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, E. h 22 m 34 8 .51. 
Latitude, 41° 49' 46".4. 
Authority for latitude and longitude: United States Coast Survey and 
ourselves. 

I. Observers: 

F. E. Seagrave and Leonard Waldo. 

II. Instruments: 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Makers, Al van Clark & Sons; aper- 
ture of objective, 8 inches ; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 1, 122 ; 2, 
245; 3, 307; 4, 489; 5,011. 

(d) Spectroscopes: 1 spectroscope having a system of four whole and 
two half prisms of 00° flint glass, which gives a dispersive power of ten 
prisms, by reflection. 

(//) Clocks : 1 sidereal. 

(h) Chronometers: 1 sidereal; maker, Victor Kullberg, Loudon. 

III. Observations during tiie past year : 
Erom August 1, 1878, to August 1, 1879. 

(a) Observations of Cassiopeoe to investigate its large proper motion, 
and if possible to determine its parallax. 

(c) {&) Observations of the satellites of Saturn. 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 5G5 

(d) Observations of a few double stars discovered by S. W. Burn- 
ham, Esq., of Chicago. 



Locution of observatory : (City) Rochester ; (County) Monroe ; (State) 

New Voile. 
Name of observatory : "Warner Observatory." 
Longitude from Greenwich, 77° 51/. 

Latitude, 43° 8' 17". 
Authority for latitude and longitude: Signal Service officer. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, Lewis Swift. 

II. Instruments : 

{^Equatorial instruments : Makers, AlvAN Clark & Sons (construct- 
ing) aperture of objective, 1G inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 
from 45 to 2,000. 

(c') Altitude azimuth 4 J inches, by Friz; powers from 25 to 432. 

III. Observations during the past year: 

(&) Almost exclusively in charting nebulae and searching for comets. 
Comets I (Swift's), II (Palisa's), and III (Hartwig's) were severally 
observed. Several nebulae heretofore overlooked have been found and 
recorded. The " brick-red" spot on Jupiter and changes in the color of 
his belts have been observed. 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year (1880) : 

With 16-inch equatorial, when mounted (about July 1), discovering, 
observing, and cataloguing nebula) on moonless nights, and on double- 
star work when moon interferes with nebular work. The solar disk will 
receive a share of my attention with a view to detect the transits of intra - 
mercurial planets. With 4.^-inch, comet-seeking as heretofore. 

VT. Additional information: 
During the year I have discovered one new comet (Comet 1, 1870), viz : 
on the morning of -June 17, civil time, with elements unlike any hereto- 
fore recorded. At the time of discovery I suspected its coraetary char- 
acter, bul soon clouding up I was unable to decide it until the morning of 
the 21st. Immediate notification was given to Professor Laird, who 
caused its discovery and its position to be cabled to Europe. The cus- 
tomary notifications were also given to astronomers in (his country. It 
was a faint cornel during the whole period of its visibility. I several 
times lost and recovered it, and bydetermined effort was able to observe 
it as late as September 17-PS, after which 1 was unable to follow it. 



Location of observatory : (City) Saint-Louis; (County) Saint Louis; 
(State) Missouri. 
3 



5G6 REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 



Xame of observatory : Washington University Observatory. 
Longitude from Washington, W. h 52 m 37 8 .02. 
Latitude, K 38° 38' 3".04. 
Authority for latitude and longitude : A pier about 150 feet away from 
the observatory pier was located by Harkness and Eimbeok (1870). A 
survey was made by ine from that pier to the new one. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, J. K. Rees. 
Assistant, E. A. Engler. 

II. Instruments: 

(b) Meridian transit instruments : Maker, Wurdemann ; aperture, 2.65 
inches; magnifying power, 90 diameters, with micrometer attachment. 

(c) Equatorial instruments: Maker, H. Fitz, of New York City; ap- 
erture of objective, 6| inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 76, 125, 
190, 305, and 456 diameters. 

(&) Finder: 2^ inches aperture; magnifying power, 23 diameters. 

(d) Spectroscopes : One single prism Browning spectroscope. 

(e) Photometers and other subsidiary apparatus: Filar position, microm- 
eter attached; clock work for moving telescope. 

(g) Clocks: Meantime; common tower clock. 

(A) Chronometers : Mean time; makers, (1) Dent No. 2749, (2) Blackie 
No. 789. 

(i) Miscellaneous : Sextant, by Blunt, of New York City. 

III. Observations during the past year : 

(b) Observations of time stars. We furnish the time to 30 different 
points in the city. These points arc connected by wire with our tower 
clock. Senior class study appearance of planets, Sun, and Moon. Some 
double stars measured. 

(*) Used in class instruction and when the transit cannot be employed. 

IV. Work proposed tor the coming year (1879-80): 

(1) To continue the time service and to extend it. 

(2) Measurements of double stars. 

VI. Additional information : 
The only papers which we have published are: 

(1) Outlines of work done by the Fort Worth solar eclipse party. 
(Proceedings A. A. A. S., 1879.) 

(2) Report of personal work at Fort Worth in vol. "Report of the ob- 
servations of the total solar eclipse July 29, 1878, made at Fort Worth, 
Texas, 1879." 



Location of obsqppatory : (City) San Francisco; (County) San Francisco; 
state) California. 

Xame of observatory: Lick Astronomical Department of the 
University of California. 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 5G7 

VI. Additional information: * 

The "additional information" comprises the whole of what T am able to 
report concerning the "Lick Astronomical Observatory." 

During this summer temporary accommodations have been erected at 
Mount Hamilton (observatory site), Santa Clara County, California, in- 
cluding a snug little house with revolving dome and masonry pier, upon 
which Prof. S. W. Burnham has a 0-inch equatorial mounted and at 
work with clock, micrometer, etc. 

Professor BURNHAM is making various experiments to test the capa- 
bilities of the position as a place of observation, and his report will no 
doubt be received with eager interest. 

The preliminary steps above indicated comprise the work of practical 
advancement so far as accomplished during the past year, being, it is 
hoped, a commencement of more effective progress. 



Location of observatory : (City) South Bethlehem ; (County) North- 
ampton; (State) Pennsylvania. 
Name of observatory : Sayre Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 0" 1 40M9 east. 
Latitude, 40° 36' 23".89 ± .036. 
Authority for latitude and longitude: For longitude, Appendix I, 
Washington Observations 1875. Latitude, Ast. Nach., No. 2200. 

I. Personnel: 
Director, C. L. Doolittle. 

II. Instruments: 

(a) Meridian circles : None. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Makers, Clark & Sons; aperture of ob- 
jective, inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 12 to 225. 

(g) Clocks : Sidereal ; makers, Bond & Son. 

(■/) Miscellaneous: A portable transit instrument by Stackpole, a 
zenith telescope by Blunt, and a prismatic sextant by Pistor & 
Martin. 

III. Observations during the past year: 

[a) The field instruments are designed for the use of students iu astron- 
omy of the university, and have been employed to good purpose by them 

(c) [c') With the equatorial a series of measurements of Jupiter's sat. 
ellites has been made ; also a considerable number of eclipses and other 
phenomena of those satellites. A few observations of Brorson's comet 
were also made. 

IV. Work proposed for the COMING year (1879-80): 

The observations of Jupiter will be continued, and such attention 
given to comets, eclipses, or other special appearances as circumstances 
will permit. 



5G8 REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 

V. Principal publications of tue observatory during 

THE YEAR 1879: 

1. C. L. Doolittle, Observations of Jupiter's Satellites, published in 
Ast. Nach. 

2. C. L. Doolittle, Mean declinations and proper motions of 58 stars, 
and the latitude of the Sayre Observatory, in Ast.]Sach., vol. 95, page 49. 



Location : Tarrytown, Westchester County, New York. 

Position : Latitude, 41° 04' 21" north ; longitude, 73° 51' 14" west, 
Greenwich. 

Authority : United States Coast Survey. 

The instrumental outfit under my control is so meager and unimpor- 
tant as not to warrant an entry under the headings given above. 

The principal work done during the past year has been in connection 

with the observations taken at Central City, Colo., at the time of 

the solar eclipse of 28th July, 1878. As a member of the party in charge 

of Prof. E. S. Holden, I determined the residuals between the times of 

observed contact and the instants obtained by computation from the 

lunar tables. 

Chas. H. Eockwell. 



Location oj observatory: (City) Pougkkeepsie ; (County) Dutchess; 
(State) New York. 
Name of observatory : Vassar College. 

Longitude from Washington, 12 m , 38 8 .5. 

Latitude 41° 41' 18". 

I. Personnel : 
Director, Maria Mitchell. 

II. Instruments : 

(a) Meridian circles : 1 ; maker, Young, of Philadelphia ; aperture of 
objective, 3| inches. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Makers, object glass byCLARK; aperture 
of objective, 12J inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 200 to 000+ . 

(/) Chronographs : One. 

(g) Gloclcs : One clock sidereal ; makers, Bond & Son. 

(h) One chronometer : Meantime; makers. Bliss & Creighton. 

(?) Miscellaneous : Small telescopes ; one by Clark & Sons ; aper- 
ture, 3 inches. 

III. Observations during tiie past year: 

(a) Observations for time. 

(&) Observations on planets, especially Saturn. 

(i ) Observations on Sun spots. 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 5G9 

IT. Work proposed for the coming year (IS—): 
The work proposed for the coming year is the same as given above. 
T. Principal publications of the observatory during 

TEE YEAR : 

1. Maria Mitchell : Observations on the Satellites of Saturn ; pub- 
lished in American Journal of Arts and Sciences, vol. xvii, June, 1879. 



Location of Observatory : (City) Troy; (County) Bensselaer; (State) 
New York. 
Name of Observatory : Williams Proudfit Observatory. 
Longitude from Washington 13 m 27 s .5 east (nearly). 
Latitude 42° 43' 52". 
Authority for latitude and longitude : Latitude determined by observa- 
tions with the zenith telescope ; longitude by signals from United States 
Naval Observatory. 

I. Personnel: 

Director, Professor Dascom Greene. 
Assistant, Palmer C. Kicketts. 

II. Instruments: 

(b) Meridian transit instruments: Makers, E. Kubel, Washington; 
aperture, 2.5 inches; magnifying power, 60 diameters. 

(//) Makers, Phelps & Gurley, Troy; aperture, 2 inches; magnify- 
ing power, 30 diameters. 

{<■) Equatorial instruments: Maker, Henry Fitz, New York; aper- 
ture of objective, 3.5 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 45 to 200 
diameters. 

({/) Clods: Mean time; maker, Stokell, New York; Howard, Boston. 

(h) Chronometers: Sidereal; maker, J. Fletcher, London. 

(i) Miscellaneous: Sextant; Troughton & Simms, London. 

III. Observations during the past year: 
From September, 1878, to September, 1879. 

(a) Besides regular transit observations for time, by the director and as- 
sistant, the instruments have been used by the senior class of the Rens- 
selaer Polytechnic Institute, for practice in astronomical observation. 

IT. Work proposed for the coming year (1879-'80). 
This is expected to be similar to the work of the past year. 



Location of observatory : (City) Washington, District of Columbia. 
Name of observatory : United States Naval Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich 5 h 8 m 12 B .09. 

Latitude +38° 53' 38.8". 



Professors TJ. S. Navy. 



570 REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 

I. Personnel: 
Director : Bear- Admiral John Bodgers, U. S. N. 
Assistants : 1. Prof. A. Hall. 1 

2. Prof. W. Harkness, 

3. Prof. J. B. Eastman, > 

4. Prof. E. S. Holden, 

5. Prof. E. Frisby, ^ 

6. Mr. A. E. Skinner, ") _ . + . » * 

_ TTT I Permanent Assistant Astron- 

7. Mr. H. W. Paul, > 

o T»r xx ci -r» omers. 

8. Mr. H. S. Pritchett, ) 

9. Mr. J. A. Bogers, 

Temporarily employed in photographic experiments. 
10. Mr. W. F. Gardner, 

Instrument-maker. 

II. Instruments : 

(a) Meridian circles : 1 ; makers, Pistor & Martins ; diameter of 
circles, 43.40 inches ; divided to 2' ; read by 4 microscopes to 0".l ; 
aperture of objective, 8.52 inches ; for observations of the sun, aperture 
employed, 3 inches ; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 180 diam- 
eters. 

(b) Meridian transit instruments : Makers, Ertel & Son, aperture 
5.33 inches ; magnifying powers 85, 80, 100, 118, 102. 

(6') Eight portable transits and zenith telescopes combined, used on 
Transit of Venus Expeditions. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Makers, Alvan Clark & Sons ; aperture 
of objective, 20 inches ; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 120 to 1000. 

(&) Made by Merz : 9.02 inches aperture ; powers, 90-900. 

(c") Eight 5-inch equatorials by Alvan Clark & Sons, used on 
Transit of Venus Expeditions. 

(e) Photometers : One nebula-photometer (Hastings' pattern) for use 
with the 20-inch equatorial. 

(/) Chronographs : Some 10 or 12 in all, of various kinds. 

(g) Clocks : Mean time, 2 ; sidereal, 0. 

(h) Chronometers: Mean time, all the chronometers of the United 
States Navy are kept here. Sidereal, eight, by Negus. 

III. Observations during the past year : 

(a) American ephemeris and miscellaneous stars ; south stars of the 
B. A. C, many asteroids, and the Sun, Moon, and planets. 

(b) The transit and mural and prime vertical transit are now out of 
use. 

(c) Double stars, satellites of Mars, Saturn, Neptune, and Uranus, 
and nebulae. 

((■') Occupations; and the finding of asteroids preparatory to their ob- 
servation by the transit circle. 

(i) A series of daily photographs of the sun and photographic experi- 
ments looking to eclipse-photography. 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 571 

IY. Work proposed for the coming year (1879-80) : 
The same as in former years. 

V. Principal publications of the Observatory: 
Report on the Transit of Mercury, 1878. 

EASTMAN, Meteorological Observations, 187(i. 
Eastman, Meteorological Observations, 1877. 

VI. Additional information: 

[The following is a short abstract of the annual report of the Superin- 
tendent of the Observatory to the Chief of the Bureau of Navigation, 
and in it will be found details additional to the information presented 
above.— E. S. II.] 

United States Naval Observatory, 

Washington, October 20, 1879. 

" I strongly recommend the removal of the institution to a better site. 
The present grounds are malarious, the river fogs obscure the vision, 
rendering it less clear than in a position more removed from the water. 
When the contemplated improvements are made on the river front, 
which seem only the question of a short time, when the marsh, partly 
encircling the observatory, is filled in, and the hill on which the build- 
ings rest is used as a top-dressing to the land thus acquired, this part 
of the city will be the center of its water commerce, and its value to the 
government will be greater than the cost of a new situation for the ob- 
servatory. It thus seems that when the hill is cut down the selection of 
a new site will be imperative. It will be better to select this new site 
now, for the cost will be greater in the future."* 

THE 2G-INCH EQUATORIAL. 

The observers on this instrument have been the same as in the pre- 
ceding year, namely, Prof. Asaph IIall, in charge, and Prof. Edavard 
S. HOLDEN, assistant. This instrument is now in good order, and is in 
constant use. The principal work done; with it by the astronomers dining 
the year is as follows : 

The satellites of Saturn were observed until December 24, 1878. We 
have now accumulated a large number of observations of the threeouter 
satellites of Saturn; and these observations ought to be completely re- 
duced and discussed lor the purpose of determining more accurately the 
orbits of these, satellites and the mass of the planet. 

The principal series of observations with this instrument are the ob- 
servations of double stars by Professor Hall. The thirty stars selected 
by Struvi; for the comparison of micrometrical measurements by various 
observers have each been observed eight nights on an average. This 
work may now he considered as finished. 

*Notk. — An appropriation of §75,000 has been made I" purchase a n>-\\ site. 



572 REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 

Iii August last the Kara] Observatory was honored by a visit from 
the distinguished director of the Pulkowa Observatory, Mr. Otto Von 
Struve, aud his son Mr. Hermann Struve, who came for the purpose 
of examining our large telescope, with the view of purchasing a still 
larger one for the Imperial Observatory at Pulkowa. I am happy to say 
that the performance of our telescope was found satisfactory by so com- 
petent and experienced a judge, and that Mr. Struve has ordered a 
30-inch objective from Messrs. Alvan Clark & Sons, the makers of 
our instrument. 

THE TRANSIT CIRCLE. 

This instrument, under the direction of Prof. J. E. Eastman, assisted 
by Prof. Edgar Frisby, and assistant astronomers A. IN". Skinner, H. 
M. Paul, and H. S. Pritchett, has been employed in observations of — 

(1.) Stars of the American ephemeris, for clock and instrumental cor- 
rections. 

(2.) Sun, moon, major and minor planets. 

(.3.) Stars whose occultations were observed in connection with obser- 
vations of the Transit of Venus in 1874. 

(1.) Standard stars for a catalogue of zone observations. 

(5.) Stars of the British Association Catalogue between 120° 0' and 
131° 10' N. P. D. 

(G.) Stars used in observations of comets with the 26-inch and D.G-inch 
equatorials. 

(7.) Stars used in the determination of latitude by the United States 
Coast and Geodetic Survey, the La Ice Survey, Capt. G. M. Wheeler's 
survey, and by Lieut. Commander F. M. Green in surveys in the West 
Indies. 

(8.) Stars used by Mr. David Gill, of the Royal Astronomical Soci- 
ety of London, in determining the solar parallax from observations of 
Mars with the heliometer. 

The whole number of observations made with the transit circle siuce 
the last annual report is 4,100. Of these observations, SI wen 1 , of the 
sun; Gl of the moon ; 130 of the major planets, and 14G of the minor 
planets. 

The meteorological department is under the direction of Professor 
Eastman, and the usual observations, at intervals of three hours, have 
been made throughout the year. 

The Observatory is responsible for the control, by means of the motor 
clock, of clocks in the State, War, Xavy, and Treasury Departments ; 
for furnishing accurate time-signals to the Western Union Telegraph 
Company, and for dropping the time ball on the Western Union Tele- 
graph Office in New York. 

The facilities for controlling the clocks in the departments are now 
wholly inadequate; and a complete change will soon be made, which, 
it is hoped, will insure thorough aud continuous control. 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 573 

A change also in the method of transmitting time-signals and of 
dropping the Washington and New York time-balls is nearly completed, 
and will probably be in operation by the end of October. 

PUOTO-HELIOGRAPHIC AND MISCELLANEOUS WORK. 

Prof. William Harkness reports as follows : 

The photographs of the late Transit of Mercury were examined, and 
out of the whole number it was found that twenty -five of the Cambridge 
pictures, twenty-three of the Washington pictures, and sixty -four of the 
Ann Arbor pictures were sufficiently well defined for measurement. 
Accordingly, these one hundred and twelve plates have been read off, 
all but twelve being done in duplicate; and the computations, also in 
duplicate, have been nearly completed. About three months' work is 
yet required to determine from the photographs the final corrections to 
the right ascension and declination of Mercury. 

The drawings of Mars, made by Professor Harkness during the op- 
position of 1877, have been transformed from the orthographic to Mer- 
cator'e projection, and a map of the planet has been constructed. Gen- 
eral tables have also been computed, which give directly the areographic 
latitude and longitude of the center of the disc of Mars, and the posi- 
tion angle of its axis as seen from the earth; the arguments being the 
geocentric right-asceusion and north polar distance of the planet. 

Mr. Jos. A. Rogers has been employed under a special appropriation 
for experiments in astronomical photography, and has spent most of his 
time in endeavoring to overcome the uncertainties of the emulsion pro- 
cess. Here it may be well to remark that our success in photograph- 
ing the total eclipse of the Sun of July, 1878, was largely due to the 
excellence of the emulsion which he furnished; and the future of astro- 
nomical photography seems to a great extent dependent upon the 
emulsion process. Hence the importance of the experiments in which 
Mr. Rogers is engaged. He has also photographed the Sun on every 
clear day, and has made numerous copies of the negatives of the corona 
taken during the eclipse mentioned above. 

tiie library. 

The library is in charge of Prof. Edward S. Holden, in addition to 
his other duties. It is now in a satisfactory condition. 

A card catalogue has been begun, and over 0,000 cards made. Part 
I of the catalogue of the Library ''Astronomical Bibliography" will be 
printed in 1870. 

A complete index to the publications of the observatory, from 1845 
to 1875, has been made. It will be printed as Appendix I to the Ob- 
servations for 1870. At intervals often years similar indexes should 
be made. 

The usual annual appropriation of 81,000 for the purchase and care 
of astronomical works should be continued. 



•574 EEPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 

In this connection it may be said that our library is now the best as- 
tronomical library in the United States, and is constantly appealed to 
by persons not connected with the observatory. It is highly desirable 
that it should be still further increased, and that this valuable collec- 
tion, which, if destroyed, could hardly be replaced, should be safely 
lodged in a fire-proof room. 

CIIEONOMETEES. 

There are at the present time in the chronometer room one hundred 
and ten (110) mean-time chronometers. 

A time-ball on the tower of the Western Union Telegraph Company's 
main building in New York City is dropped daily at New York, noon 
(except Sunday), from the chronometer-room. During the year this ball 
has failed to drop eight times ; three, because wires were out of order 
at New York ; once, on account of the wire insulation here having been 
destroyed by lightning; three times, here, because of the mean-time 
clock having stopped, and the changing of wires while putting in in- 
struments and telephones; and once, for which no cause could be found. 

At Washington, noon, a time-ball is dropped from the staff on the 
dome of the observatory, and time-signals are transmitted to all parts 
of the United States. 

The following paper by Prof. Simon Newcomb, secretary of the 
Transit of Venus Commission, and charged with the preparation of the 
report, is herewith appended. 

"The reductions of the Transit of Venus work are in the following 
state : 

"Part I, containing a general discussion of the observations so far as 
to deduce equations of condition from them, is ready for the press. 

"Part II, containing the reports of the observers and the observations 
made at the several stations, is also nearly ready. 

"Part III, containing the discussion of the longitudes of the stations, 
from occultations, and other sources, is still incomplete and requires 
some examination from me, which I shall be unable to give it for two or 
three months to come. 

"Part IV, which should contain the photographic plate-measures, is in 
the hands of Professor Bareness." 



Location of observatory : Whitestone; (County) Queens; (State) New 
York. 
Name of observatory : Willets Point Field Observatoey. 
Longitude from Washington, east 13 m 04 8 .57 ± 0.14. 
Latitude, north 40° 47' 20". 
Authority for latitude and longitude: Observations with zenith tele- 
scope ; telegraphic time signals from Washington. 



REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 575* 

I. Personnel: 

Director, General II. L. Abbot, Corps of Engineers. 
Assistants : Capt. A. M. Miller, Corps of Engineers, and officers on 
duty with the battalion of engineers. 

II. Instruments : 

(b) Meridian transit instruments : Maker, Troughton; focal length , 
30 inches; aperture, 2 inches; Russian transit, Stackpole & Bro.; 
focal length, 31 inches ; aperture, 2} inches ; combined transit, and zenith 
teloscope, Wurdemann; focal length, 30 inches; aperture, 2.1 inches. 

(c) Equatorial instruments: Maker, Tulley; portable; focal length, 
65 inches ; aperture of objective, 3.8 inches; magnifying powers of eye- 
pieces, 50 to 200 ; mounted on tripod with Smeato^ ? s block. 

(el) Spcctroscojyes : 1 ; Chemical. 

(/) Chronographs: Field pattern, made by Negus. 

'(//) Chronometers : Meantime; makers, Arnold & Dent (1). Side- 
real ; makers, Bond & Son (2); both with Negus break-circuit arrange- 
ment. 

(i) Miscellaneous : 1. Zenith telescope, made by Wurdemann, of latest 
pattern; magnifying power, 80 diameters; 2 Stackpole & Bro. sex- 
tants: 1 portable field transit, by Stackpole & Bro.; focal length, 24 
inches ; aperture, 2 inches. 

III. Observations during the past year : 

The object of the observatory is the instruction of junior officers of 
engineers on duty at the engineer school of application in practical fieM 
astronomy, such as they may be called upon to practice on boundary 
geodetic surveys. The work has been directed accordingly. 

IV. Work proposed for the coming year : 
As above. 



Location of observatory : (City) Ypsilanti; (County) Washtenaw; 
(State) Michigan. 
Name of observatory : Michigan State Normal School. 

Longitude from Washington, 0° 32' 30" west. 
Latitude 42° i;;/. 
Authority for latitude and longitude: J. C. Watson. 

I. Personnel: 

Director, Lewis McLouth, M. A. 

II. Instruments : 

(b) Meridian transit instruments: Maker, GURLEY, Albany ; aperture, 
IS inches; magnifying power, 30 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instruments ; Maker, A. CLARK, Cambridgeport, Mass; 
aperture of objective, 4 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 45,90, 
144, 210. 



57G EEPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 

(d) Spectroscopes : Browning, London, 2 prism. 

(Ji) Chronometers : 1 Sidereal ; maker, Negus. 

(i) miscellaneous: Our observatory building will be completed tliis 
fall. No systematic work has been done. Our building is small, aud its 
equipment is for instruction rather than investigation. I expect, how- 
ever, to have a larger and better outfit in the course of this school year. 
As my time id largely taken up with the work of instruction in physics 
and in chemistry as well as in astronomy, I caunot expect at present to 
do much. I hope within the year to get a much better transit instrument. 
My equatorial is quite good — the one with which Professor Watson made 
his observations on the supposed planet Vulcan, 



ABSTRACTS OF REPORTS OF EUROPEAN OBSERVATORIES. 



[Translated and condensed from tln> Vierteljahrsschrift of the German Astronomical 
Society by Geo. H. Boehmer, Smithsonian Institution.] 



BASEL. 
(Ed. Hagenbacii, Director of the Physical Institute.) 

The principal instruments are : The equatorial, made by the ; 'Soci6te 
Genevoise pour la construction d'instruments de physique" mounted on 
an isolated pillar, under a movable dome of 5 metres diameter. The 
instrument is provided with a centrifugal regulator, constructed accord- 
ing to Prof. M. Thury's directions, with position micrometer, spectro- 
scope, and camera obscura. 

The meridian circle, constructed by the Societe Genevoise, with 2h 
objective, by C. A. Steinheil. 

The astronomical clock was constructed by Theodor Knoblich, in Ham- 
burg. 

The mean time is given by means of an electric pendulum, by M. Hipp, 
iu Xeueuburg. 

Both clocks connect with a number of dials in various rooms, and also 
with the chronograph. 

BERLIN. 

(Prof. H. Foerster, Director of the Observatory ; Dr. Tietjex, Director of the Com- 
puting Bureau. 

The small meridian circle was used by Dr. Steinbrink, a volunteer 
observer, in comparison star determinations for planetary observations. 

The large meridian circle was used to continue t lie observations of the 
521 fundamental stars of the V. J. S. Catalogue and those of Mayer's 
catalogue. In connection with this a series of observations were made 
which served partly to determine star positions for the examination of 
the heliometers of the German transit of Venus ami Mr. Gill's expedi- 
tions, and partly to examine certain systematic errors in observing. 

For time determinations and position <>!' instrument 858 stars were ob- 
served on 108 nights. 

Observations were made lor examination of the influence of the posi- 
tion of the head (north or south) in observations of stars near the zenith. 
For the same purpose 155 observations of right ascension were made at 
the request of Mr. Gill on 1L' stars designated by him. 

S. Mis. 54 37 577 



578 REPORTS OF EUROPEAN OBSERVATORIES. 

The spare time was principally employed in determining the definite 
position of the (521) Bradley stars, and their mean positions turned 
over to Professor Anwers. The catalogue containing the (2,100) obser- 
vations is to be published by the observatory. 

Dr. Knorre observed with the 9-inch equatorial on determination of po- 
sitions. 

The new micrometer for the measurement and registration of differ- 
ences of declination, described by Dr. Knorre in vol. 93 (p. 3G3) of the 
Astronomische Nachrichten, was brought into service in determination 
of 572 stars. 

The time-service has been continued. The results of the service car- 
ried on jointly by the Berlin, Konigsberg, and Hamburg observatories 
will probably be published shortly. 

The principal work of the computing bureau has been, as in former 
years, the publication of the Astronomisches Jahrbuch. 

Of the ephemerides of the 529 stars of the Astronomical Society the 
volume for 1879 was published ; 22 circulars (83-104) were issued, and 
in them will be found 43 computations of new elements and G2 ephemer- 
ides. Of the former 33, and of the latter 47, were computed in Berlin. 
Of the " Correspondeuzen liber Planetenbeobachtungen," Nos. 4G-08 
were issued. 

UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, BONN. 
(Professor E. Sciionfeld, Director.) 

The progress of the work has been greatly retarded by the unfavora- 
ble state of the weather and by a change in the personnel. Dr. Seeliger 
resigned, and his place was occupied by Dr. Deichimiller, who again was 
succeeded by Mr. Emil Kaiser. 

The meridian circle was used in observing 53 zones and adding some 
important fragments, containing 3S0 stars of comparison and 1,707 zone 
stars. Six hundred and twenty-seven zones have been observed. 

The southern review with the Schroder telescope, Mr. Kerper assist- 
ing, resulted in the determination of 44,204 star positions, which were 
partly reduced to 1855. 

One hundred and two special catalogues were commenced and 46 
completed. 

A catalogue of doubtful observations has been commenced, contain- 
ing now 780 numbers. 

State of icorlc December 31, 1878. 

1. Zones : 395, G hours, containing 189,G0G star observations. 

2. Computation of reduction tables: no arrears. 

3. Computed star positions: 3,000 in arrears. 

4. Special catalogues of l h and 1° extension : Commenced, 439 ; arrears, 
65; mostly finished, 1<><>: complete, 100; without any doubt, 22. 

5. Distribution of the observations. 



REPORTS OF EUROPEAN OBSERVATORIES. 



579 



Quadrant. 


I. 


n. 


III. 


IV. 


Total. 






Hours. 
:J7. 9 

19.2 
27. 5 


Hours. 
41.8 
11.8 
29.7 


Hours. 
46.7 
24.0 
38.0 


Hours. 
47.9 
26.1 
45.0 


Hours. 
174.3 


Middlr 


81.1 




140.2 








Total 


84. G 


83.3 


108.7 


119.0 


395.6 



Observations on the light of variable stars were made, and the transit 
of Mercury observed on the 0th of May. 

UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, BRESLAU. 
(J. G. Galle, Director.) 

Owing to a number of circumstances which prevented the, purchase 
of new and improved instruments, the activity of the observatory, in an 
astronomical point of view, has been mainly confined to the instruction 
of the students of mathematics. 

Regular observations, however, were made in meteorology, embracing 
a series of eighty-eight years (since 1701), to which were added, nine 
years ago, the daily records of the variation in the magnetic declination. 

The works in progress are : A compilation and reduction of all the 
meteorological observations made at the observatory since 1791. This 
work also contains a compilation of geographical constants, topograph- 
ical communications, and determinations of heights, and notes respect- 
ing the progress in astronomy in Silesia and elsewhere. 

ROYAL OBSERVATORY, BRUSSELS. 
(J. C. Houzeau, Director.) 

The death of Mr. Ernest Quetelet has materially changed the pro- 
gramme of work of the observatory. Mr. Quetelet had, at the time of his 
death, commenced the last series of his work on stars with proper mo- 
tion, an account of which work, commenced in 1848, was given by him- 
self. Of the unfinished portion of the work the observations for 1870 
are in the hands of the printer; the calculations of those for 1877 are 
well advanced, and the computation of those for 1878 will soon com- 
mence. 

Meridian instruments were employed as follows : The mural circle to 
observe a and 8 Ursa} minoris for the purpose of determining the lati- 
tude; the G-ambey meridian transit to observe fundamental stars for 
time. Moon-culminating stars were observed for the determination of 
geographic longitudes. Telegraphic comparisons are being made with 
Greenwich. 

The solar spectrum has been observed, and micrometric measurements 
made of certain doable stars. The satellites of Jupiter were observed 
wlienever the state of the sky permitted. 

All the observations were made as accurate as the old instruments of 



580 REPORTS OF EUROPEAN OBSERVATORIES. 

the observatory permit, but it would be desirable to have them replaced 
by the new and improved ones now in course of construction. 

Publications. — The "Annales de 1' Observatoire " have been divided 
into 2 sections, the "Annales Astronomiques" and the "Annales Met6- 
orologiques." The first volume of "Annales Astronomiques" contains 
"Uranometrie Generale" and a compilation under the title, "Eeper- 
toire des Constants de l'Astronomie." The second volume contains the 
observations with the meridian instrument and with the mural circle, dur- 
ing the years 1873, 1874, 1875 ; physical observations of Mars during the 
opposition of 1877, accompanied by chromo-lithographed plates. 

The first volume of the "Annales Meteorologiques," about to appear, 
contains meteorological and magnetic observations made in 187G and 
1877. 

"L'Annuaire" for 1879, and the catalogue of astronomical and mete- 
orological books in the principal libraries of Belgium, have been pub- 
lished. 

A law was passed on the 29th of March, 1877, directing the publica- 
tion of a magnetic chart of the country. Observations for this purpose 
were taken on inclination, declination, and intensity, and the computa- 
tions of the same are now in a well-advanced state. 

DUSSELDORF OBSERVATORY. 
(Dr. Robert Luther, Director.) 

The isolation and strength of the old brick pillar carrying the 7-foot 
instrument, weighing 975 pounds, having become doubtful, a new pillar 
of basalt lava, resting on a foundation of brick, laid in cement, was 
erected. A satisfactory proof of the stability of this new pillar has been 
offered in the recent severe shocks of earthquake, which did not change 
its isolation. 

The fruitless searching for (118) Peitho and other not much observed 
planets, and the alarming increase (now about 38) in the number of 
minor planets observed in only one opposition, induces me to make the 
request that the observers maybe assisted in future to -overcome the 
difficulties of finding them again by more exact opposition-ephemerides 
and by the publication of several hundred special charts on the scale of 
the Paris charts. 

In addition to the observations made for correction of instruments and 
time, 41 observations were made on 23 planets. Since 1847, 897 observa- 
tions were made on 112 planets. 

PRIVATE OBSERVATORY OF DR. EPSTEIN, FRANKFORT-ON-THE-MAIN. 

The work of continuing ITerschel's sweeps, undertaken in September, 
1877, and reported upon last year, has been continued. In addition to 
the 219 fields, 2G4 fields were swept and 5,831 stars counted. The pres- 
ent state of the work is 483 fields and 13,500 stars. Observations were 



REPORTS OF EUROPEAN OBSERVATORIES. 581 

made on double stars and red stars. Saturn's satellites were observed 
ou 24 nights from the 30th of August. 

GOTHA OBSERVATORY. 
(Dr. A. KRUGER, Director.) 

Since the last report the observations of the zone stars between 55° and 
05° X. declination have been continued. Mr. A. Donner resigned his 
position as assistant, and was succeeded by Dr. L. de Ball. The num- 
ber of zones has been increased to 043, and the observations now number 
32,500. One or two nights will be sufficient to close the series. The 
computation of the observations was continued. The deduction of the 
transits and of the apparent declinations is nearly completed, as also 
tables of reductions to the mean positions for 1875. A copy was made 
for publication of the original observations. The original observations 
will be published at the earliest possible moment. 

HAMBURG OBSERVATORY. 
(Dr. GEOiiGRuEMKER, Director.) 

Owing to prevailing unfavorable weather — only 181 nights during the 
entire year could be utilized, and in most cases oidy in part, for observ- 
ing — the work of cataloguing stars and nebulae progressed but very 
little. The meridian circle was employed in observations on time and 
on positions of fixed stars and planets. Positions of nebulas were de- 
termined with the equatorial. 

The usefulness of the IV Division of the "Seewarte" (chronometer- 
testing institute), which was placed under the observatory, has satisfac- 
torily increased. On occasion of the second competitive chronometer 
test, instituted by the imperial navy department, 51 chronometers were 
exhibited by 1_J German manufacturers, 7 of whom reside in Ilamburg- 
Altona. 

The time signals had to be discontinued for some time on account of 
the damage done to the apparatus during the severe storm of March 8. 
The time-ball stations at Cuxhavenand Bremerhaven have worked very 
satisfactorily. 

Dr. (I. Koch resigned his position, and was succeeded by Dr. Karl 
Schrader, of O'Gyalla, Hungary. 

KREMSMUNSTER OBSERVATOR V. 
(G. STRASSER, Director.) 

The meridian circle was furnished with new microscope and new hor- 
izontal level. 

Observations on the Moon and moon-culminating stars were continued. 

Planetary observations were made partly with the meridian instru- 
ment and partly with the refractor. 
4 



582 REPORTS OF EUROPEAN OBSERVATORIES. 

lianas, Jupiter, and Neptune, were observed with the meridian cir- 
cle. 

Observations were made on 12 minor planets. 

Fifty comparison stars of planets were determined with the meridian 
circle, for which purpose 160 positions had to be taken. A large num- 
ber of positions of fixed stars were observed, but have not yet been 
reduced. 

The transit of Mercury was invisible on account of clouds, and the 
same occurred on occasion of the eclipse of the Pleiades. 

UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, LEIPZIG. 
(Prof. C. BftUHNS, Director.) 

Xo change has taken place in the personnel. The following gentle- 
men are volunteer observers: Messrs. (Jautier, Dr. Hiltiker, von Dan- 
kelnian, Keiser, Meier, Regler, Schneider, and Schnauder. 

The following instruments were procured: A Moyerstein universal 
instrument, used by Dr. Borger in his expedition to East Greenland; a 
new registering apparatus by Fness, including a polarizing relay. Tel- 
ephonic connection has been established. 

Mr. Weinek, who is still engaged in the discussion of the photographic 
views of Yenus, observed with the meridian circle, and Dr. Peter, with 
the equatorial: 23 stars in RA and Deck were observed, and 12 stars in 
1 1 A for a discussion by Mr. Gill. Minor planets were observed with the 
meridian circle. 

Preparations and experiments were made for zone-observations. Mr. 
Weinek observed the transit of Mercury with the 6-foot refractor, and 
took 44 photographic views of the planet by means of the photohelio- 
graph, which was used, in 1S74. in Kergnelen Island. 

Dr. Peter, with the equatorial, made in 99 nights, 1S1 observations 
on 51 minor planets and L2 observations on comparison stars. 

Tempel's comet was invisible, and observations on Swift's comet 
failed on account of an error in the dispatch announcing the discovery. 

The lirst contact in the transit of Mercury, an eclipse of the Moon, 
and eclipses of the satellites of Jupiter, were observed. 

The changes supposed by Dr. Klein to have taken place in Hyginus 
in the Moon, failed to be detected in drawings made by Dr. Peter for 
the purpose. 

Mr. Leppig, with a small Frauenhofer refractor, observed on sun- 
spots; he also observed the transit of Mercury, the eclipse of the 
Moon. etc. 

Mr. Schneider practiced with the 0-foot retractor and made drawings 
of nebiila-. Mr. Dietrich examined the photometer, but did not com- 
plete a series of observations. 

The lirst volume of the "Leipzig Beobachtungen* will be published 
shortly. 

Meteorological wokk. — The greater part of the observations with 



EEPORTS OF EUROPEAN OBSERVATORIES. 583 

self-registering instruments were reduced by Mr. Leppig. The results of 
the tri-daily observations were published in the annual report of the 
Leipzig Geographical Society. The volume containing the tri-daily ob- 
servations of all stations m ill be published shortly. Telegraphic obser- 
vations were sent to General Myer, in Washington. Mr. von Dankel- 
niiin is in charge of the Bureau for Weather Prognostics. 

Miscellaneous. — Mr. Wei nek, assisted by Mr. Regler, and Dr. Hil- 
fiker, has continued the reductions of the transit of Venus. 

Mr. Harzer's time and geographical determinations of the Venus ex- 
pedition, were revised by Mr. Schneider, and are nearly ready for pub- 
lication. 

UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, LUND. 
(Professor Axel Moller, Director. ) 

The refractor was used by Dr. Duner on making observations on 
double stars; U. Geminorum and V. Coronae were observed by him sys- 
tematically and over 1,500 spectroscopic observations made. 

Dr. Lindstedt determined comparison stars for the refractor observa- 
tions. 

Observations for the zone + 35° to + 40° were commenced and con- 
tinued during the second half of the year. The programme contains 
11,200 stars, of which, owing to unfavorable weather, only 1,183 could be 
observed. 

UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, MANNHEEM. 

(Dr. W. Vaeentiner, Director.) 

The observations on the cluster G. C. 4110, of which the densest por- 
tion had been previously observed, were extended farther to the north. 
Seventy-one stars were determined by observation of the diiferences of 
31G8 right-ascensions and of 1507 declinations. The second group G. C. 
11(50 contains 36 stars with observations of differences tor lf>70 right- 
ascensions and 594 declinations. The results of the observations on the 
above groups are in the hands of the printer, and expected soon to be 
ready for distribution. 

Of group (l.C. 1454, only a few measurements were obtained. Of this 
group L* stars were noted as double stars (A. O." 5045 and — 10 s , — l'.T). 

Measurements in G. 0. 1119 will be commenced shortly. 

The reduction of the meridian observations of Barry has been printed 
in the "Jahresbericht des Mannheimer Yereins fur Naturkunde" and 
distributed. 

Money has been appropriated Cor the purchase of a. transit instru- 
ment. The Reichenbach Repeating Circle is to bo changed into a merid- 
ian circle. 

UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, MILAN. 

(Frof. M. SrniAi'AKr.u.i, Director.) 

During the year ill health prevented the usual activity in the use of 
the refractor, and only 102 double stars were measured. No comet was 



584 EEPORTS OF EUROPEAN OBSERVATORIES. 

observed. Advantage was taken of this inactivity to examine the 
periodic errors in the micrometer screw, which was done twice: the 
micrometer, meanwhile, being taken apart and cleaned. The errors dis- 
covered were very small, less than 0". 04. 

The northern hemisphere of Mars being somewhat free of snow daring 
first four months of 1878, I was able, in some measure to complete the 
topographical map of that planet made during the previous year. 
During the same period we observed the aspects of Venus, and made 
many sketches before and after the inferior conjunction. The results 
were not satisfactory, but we will continue observations for two other 
inferior conjunctions to have the aspect under all geocentric longitudes. 

Professor Celoria has reduced the meridian circle observations made 
during 1871-'2. In the first six months of 1878 he made with this in- 
strument 1,200 observations on stars of rapid movement and on the prin- 
cipal ones of the new doubles of Mr. Burnham. In the last six months 
the construction of the adjoining tower of the registering anemograph 
has prevented observations with the circle. In the mean time Professor 
Celoria devoted himself to preparing for publication his calculations of 
longitudes made in 1875, and continued his studies of ancient eclipses. 

The determination of time for the use of the observatory and the city 
has been made by Dr. Frisiani — who also has charge of the meteorologi- 
cal observations — and assistant, Dr. Rajna. 

A new equatorial refractor of 18 French inches aperture is being made 
for the observatory by A. licpsold, of Hamburg. 

UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, MOSCOW, 
(Dr. Tu. Brediciiin, Director.) 

Professor Bredichin continued his spectroscopic observations of the 
Sun, observed on Jupiter, and made microscopic measurements of the 
star Algol and of some star-groups. 

The tails of the following comets were computed by him: 1577, 1618 
(3), 1665, 1807, 1811, 1823, 1835, 184-3 (1), 1845 (3), is.-):; (2), IS.-).", (3), 
1853 (1), 1854 (2), 1854 (3), 1S57 (3), 1858, 1860 (3), 1862 (2), 1803 (4), 
1877 (2), and a memoir published on comets. ■ 

Mr. Ceraski continued his photometric observations of stars. 

Messrs. Belopolski and Socoloft observed the August meteors, and 
made a series of meridian observations of stars with independent mo- 
tion, and examined the errors of the microscope and of the meridian 
circle. 

Mr. Belopolski continued his photographic observations of the Sun. 

ASTRO-PHYSICAL INSTITUTE, POTSDAM. 

The buildings are progressing and some of them are being occupied, 
temporarily, by the laboratory and the library. A temporary structure 
was erected in 1874, for heliographic experiments. 



REPORTS OF EUROPEAN OBSERVATORIES. 585 

The erection of the large refractor has to be delayed until next spring-. 
The optical parts of the heliograph were purchased. Of smaller instru- 
ments were purchased : 

A telescope by Schroeder m .078 aperture and m .84 focal distance ; a 
comet-seeker of O ra .07O aperture; a 12-inch universal instrument by 
Repsold ; a 5-inch reflector by Pistor and Martins ; a ^ s clock by Tiede; 
a small star-spectroscope and an astatic mirror-galvanometer by Siemens 
and Halske. 

For time-determinations a small transit was borrowed of the Berlin- 
Observatory. 

Dr. P. Kempf, of r>erlin, has been employed as assistant. 

The observations on sun-spots and protuberances were continued by 
Professor Sporer, assisted by Dr. Kempf. Xo spots were visible in 173 
days out of 215 days of observation. 

The mean heliographic latitude of the spots amounted to ± 7° in the 
first four months, ±9° in the second, and in the last four mouths they 
were visible only iu the northern hemisphere. Only a small number of 
the days were favorable for protuberance observations. Professor Sporer 
completed the arrangement of the sun-spot observations for 1871-1873, 
and, assisted by Dr. Kempf, computed those measured in the years 
1871-1878. 

Dr. Vogel and Dr. Midler continued the examination of the solar 
spectrum. 

Spectroscopic observations of lixed stars and nebulae were made by 
Dr. Vogel. With the instruments employed could be seen those nebuke 
mentioned by Ilerschel as "pretty bright," and under favorable condi- 
tions the observer could determine the character of the spectrum of the 
nebuke termed "faint." Only 51 nebuke spectra were examined. 

The examination of the surfaces of planets was continued by Dr. 
Lohse with the 7^-inch telescope ; oS drawings were made of Jupiter and 
observations made on Saturn. 

Dr. Lohse took photographic views of the Sun, a large number of 
which were made with a photographic telescope of 0".057 aperture and 
l m .5 focal distance. He also experimented in the laboratory on the new 
and, in astro-photography, important process of employing gelatine in 
place of collodion. 

Dr. Midler made determinations of refraction in various kinds of glass 
intended for use in astronomical instruments, lie also continued his 
photometric researches. 

Observations were made on 03 days on Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, 
Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and Vesta, 11m 1 comparison of which was made 
either direct or with Capella, and on fixed stars. 

The time-determinations were made by Dr. Kempf with the refractor 
and by meridian observations with Ertel's transit. 

The transit of Mercury was observed and the meteorological observa- 
tions continued iu the usual manner. 



586 EEPORTS OF EUROPEAN OBSERVATORIES. 

Publications of the Observatory. 

1. Notices on observations of the new star in the Swan, by Dr. Vogel. 

2. Report on the Transit of Mercury. 

3. Observations on the sun-spots from October, 1871, to December, 
1S73, by Professor Sporer. 

4. Observations and researches on the physical condition of Jupiter, 
and observations on Mars, by Dr. Lohse. 

5. On the origin of protuberances by chemical processes, by Professor 
Sporer. 

0. Dr. Vogel's report on the observations of the solar spectrum is in 
press. 

7. The star-group •/ Persei, observed in the years 1SG7-1870 with the 
8-inch refractor of the Leipzig Observatory, by Dr. Vogel. 

UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, STOCKHOLM. 
(Dr. HUGO Gvldex, Director.) 

The work of the observatory has quite unexpectedly been interrupted 
by the sickness of the director and by the resignation of the assistants. 
At present the personnel is again complete, Mr. 0. A. Lindhagen being 
hrst and Mr. II. Branting second assistant, with Mr. Rankin, of Hel- 
singfors, assisting temporarily. 

Examination was made of the error in the division of the meridian 
circle, mainly performed by Mr. Jiiderin, and to be described by him in 
a special report. 

The observations commenced in 1877, with the view of determining 
relative parallaxes by registration of differences of right ascension of 
stars close together, has to be delayed on account of the sickness of the 
director. The observations made thus far refer to the following stars: 
a Cassiopeia}. Z Herculis. 

// Cassiopeia^. P Lyrse. 

/3 Andromedoe. . v Lyrse. 

# Persei. e Cygni. 

c Persei. 01 Cygni. 

a Persei. C Cygni. 

a Aurigse. r Cygni. 

No. 01 of Argelnnder's Catalogue. No. 240 of Argelander's Catalogue. 
$ Aurigai. t Andromeda 1 . 

UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, STRASSBURG. 

(Prof. A. "Wixnixke, Director.) 

One hundred and seventy-eight observations on 1 18 nebula) were made 
in 41 nights. A very considerable periodic variability of brightness was 
recognized in the nebula /( 882 = H I. 20, and is very probable in nebula 
h 1001 = H IV, 50. 



REPORTS OF EUROPEAN OBSERVATORIES. 587 

Sixteen observations were made of Nova Cygiii. Not much progress 
was made in the comparative observations of double stars. The at- 
tendant of a Scorpii was observed on the 18th of July. 

A series of observations was commenced on the double star I 1516. 

The environs of Kepler's and Tycho's Nova were observed several 
times. 

Of variable stars minima were observed by Dr. Winnecke of S Cancri, 
Algol, A Tauri, U Corona?, and the maximum of Mira Cetti. 

Swift's comet could not be found; Tempel's periodic comet was seen 
on several occasions. 

The conjuction of Mercury and Venus was observed on September 30. 

Dr. Schur observed for time with Canchoix's transit ; 31 culminations 
of the first and 29 of the second limb of the moon were observed, and 
the opposition and quadratures of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Nep- 
tune. 

Seventy-one comparison-stars were determined. Dr. Schur and Mr. 
Hartwig continue with the heliometer the series of measurements of the 
solar diameter ; 51 measurements were obtained by Dr. Schur. The 
minimum of Algol was observed twice, that of X Tauri once. 

A series of observations with the large spectroscope was commenced 
on the refraction of the two kinds of glass employed by Merz in the 
construction of the 18-inch objective. 

Mr. Hartwig obtained measurements with the heliometer of the polar- 
diameter of the sun on 103 days, and of the equatorial diameter on 10G 
days. The same instrument was employed by him to locate the moon's 
craters : Mosting A ; Hypatia B ; Lapeyrouse. 

The diameter of Mars and Venus were measured 2 and 7 times, re- 
spectively ; the distances of r h 17, and vy, 27 Tauri observed in 7 nights, 
and the 5 star-distances in Cygnus 5 times each. 

The heliometer was improved (by Messrs. Repsold) by a new position- 
circle. 

The large comet-seeker was employed, Mr. Hartwig obtaining 2 max- 
ima of R Vulpeculse and T Herculis, maximum of V Cancri, S Corona 1 , 
R Orionis, S and T Ursoe Majoris, R Aquihc, R and S Herculis, R Dra- 
conis, S Geminorum, R Camelopardi ; 2 minima of S Ursa? Majoris, and 
the minimum of R Draconis and minima of Algol. 

Observations were made on transit of Mercury on the partial eclipse 
of the moon and the eclipses of the satellites of Jupiter. 

The following instruments were purchased : A prism-circle by Stein- 
heil, one Merz telescope of 101 mm aperture, one Plossl of 76 mm aperture, 
and a Paris theodolite which has been changed to a spectrometer. A 
2-foot Leibherr repetition-circle was presented by Director Merz. 

The buildings for the new observatory are well under way, and it is 
hoped that they will soon be ready for occupation. 



588 REPOETS OF EUROPEAN OBSERVATORIES. 

IMPERIAL OBSERVATORY, VIENNA. 
(Dr. E. Weisp, Director.) 

Owing to financial complications less progress was made in the con- 
struction of the new observatory than was anticipated. The most im- 
portant part of the work consisted in the erection of the large dome. 
The interior of the building is in a sufficiently advanced state to permit 
the occupation. 

But little hope is entertained that the new meridian circle and the 
large refractor can be obtained this year. As a consequence the instru- 
ments of the old observatory, with the addition of a ll^-ineh Clark re- 
fractor and a C-inch comet-seeker, will have to be used. 

The activity in the old observatory was very limited. Dr. Holetsehek 
determined with the meridian circle the position of those stars which 
were selected as fundamental points for the Vienna zones between 
-f- 15° and -f 18° declination. He also observed a few asteriods. 

Mr. A. Palisa continued the observations with the G inch refractor of 
the asteroids until August, when Mr. E. Glaser took his place. Com- 
paratively small results were obtained. 

Volume 27 of the Annales of the Observatory, published last sum- 
mer, contains, besides a necrology of C. v. Littrow, the paths of 2,685 
meteors and those of 1,175 meteors observed in Vienna between the years 
1S10-1S15, not reduced and published before ; and finally the meteoro- 
logical observations of 1877. 

Volume 28 of the Annates, just in press, will be devoted mainly to 
zone observations. 

ASTRO-PHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, WILHELMSHAVEN. 
(Dr. C. Bougex, Director.) 

The buildings were completed in July, 1S78, and occupied in August. 

The principal instrument is a meridian circle by Eepsold of 120 mm 
aperture, 1.5"' focal distance, 2 circles of 0.5 diameter, and is furnished 
with level, 2 collimators of C7 ,m " aperture, and an artificial horizon. 

The standard clock is one of Tiede's pendulums. A second clock of 
inferior quality is located in the chronometer room, and is used both for 
comparison <>!' chronometers and as clock for the registering apparatus 
in the meridian room. 

A Steinheil refractor of 3£" aperture is used for astronomical observa- 
tions, and some astro-nautical instruments for practice. 

The observatory possesses meteorological instruments and a self-record- 
ing apparatus for tidal observations, a collection of such magnetic in- 
struments as are used on shipboard, and a model for the study of the 
deviation of the magnetic needle produced by the iron of a ship. 

The activity of the observation is fourfold : 

1. Astronomical, including time-service. 



REPORTS OF EUROPEAN OBSERVATORIES. 589 

2. Meteorological; the observations are being published monthly in 
the "Annalen der Hydrographie." 

3. Physical, the registering of magnetic and tidal observations ; and 
4.' Nautical, comprising the examination of chronometers and barom- 
eters, and tbe determination of the compass deviation on shipboard. 

Tides have been observed at various places and the observations dis- 
cussed. Only one series, the one of Wilhelmshaven, has been printed 
in the Annales ; but as a result of the observations tidal tables for the 
Baltic Sea have been published by the hydrographie bureau of the im- 
perial navy. 

Time signals were received from the Berlin Observatory during the 
earlier stages of its time-ball service. 

Observations with the meridian circle were made on the Moon and 
such objects as are connected with it, including Uranus and Neptune. 

The meteorological observations have been continued uninterruptedly. 

Observations are being made on declination, inclination, and intensity 
of the terrestrial magnetism. 

The personnel of the institute has been increased by the appointment, 
as assistant, of Dr. Andries. 

UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, ZURICH. 
(Dr. Rudolf Wolf, Director. 

Observations on frequency of sun-spots were made whenever practi- 
cable, and the notes on sun-spot literature continued in the "Astronom- 
ische Mittheilungen." For determination of position of the spots, ob- 
servations could be taken only on sixteen days, and were conducted by 
Mr. Alfred Wolfer. 

Comparisons of Mairet's clock (standard) for sidereal time were made 
by Mr. Wolfer, who also recorded a number of observations with the 
equatorial and micrometric measurements, made 2 drawings of Venus, 
52 of Jupiter, 18 of Saturn, and observed the transit of Mercury. 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Page. 

A Study of tiie Savage Weapons at the Centennial Exhibition, i?y Ed- 
ward H. Knight 213 

Fig. 1. Kafir Keerie, Cape of Good Hope 21G 

2. Mozambique clubs 217 

3. Native Australian with club and shield, Queensland 217 

4. Australian wooden weapons, New South Wales 218 

5. Australian nulla-nullas, Victoria 218 

6. Wooden clubs, New Zealand 219 

7. Stone merai, New Zealand 219 

8. Green-stone merai, New Zealand 219 

9. Maori PiituKohatu, New Zealand 220 

10. Kakati weapons (bone of whale), New Zealand 220 

11. Ojibeway wooden club, Canada 221 

12. Wooden clubs of Dakotah. — National Museum 221 

13. Pai-Ute club. — National Museum 221 

14. Haidah war-club. — National Museum 221 

15. Haidah carved war-club. — Nat ional Museum 222 

16. Mace from Paraguay, Argentine Confederation 222 

17. Shell-headed club from a Florida shell-heap. — National Museum .. 222 

18. Stone maul from British Columbia. — National Museum 22:5 

19. Stone maul of Alaska. — National Museum 223 

20. Maori stone club, New Zealand 223 

21. Stone maid of Arickarees 223 

22. Stone mauls of Missouri Valley Indians. — National Museum 224 

23. Arickaree stone maul 224 

24. War-club of Apaches, Arizona. — National Museum 224 

25. Thro wing-stick of Uganda, Africa. — Egyptian exhibit 225 

2C. Niam-niam hurling-weapons (trumbash.) 22(3 

27. Boomerangs of New South Wales 227 

28. Australian thro wing-sticks, Victoria 227 

29. Boomerang and Moqui throwing-stick 229 

30. Kangaroo rat, South Australia 229 

31. Navajo sling. — National Museum. 231 

32. Thro wing-stones, Peru 232 

33. Bolas of Paraguay, Argentine Confederation 233 

34. Bolas of Argentine Republic 233 

35. Wooden axes from Australia, New Zealand, and British Columbia. 235 
30. Stone spalls for axes, Clarence River, New South Wales 236 

37. Maori stone hatchet, New Zealand 237 

38. Stone axes of Australia and America 237 

39. Stone adze (unmounted), New Zealand 239 

40. Maori adze, New Zealand 239 

41. Stone adze, Sandwich Islands 239 

42. Shell adze, Saint John's River, Florida 239 

43. Fiji war-axe 240 

44. Stone adze, Puget Sound 240 

45. Eskimo ice-pick, Nunivak Island 240 

591 



592 LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Page. 
A Study of the Savage Weapons, etc.— Continued. 

Fig. 4G. Eskimo ice-pick, British Columbia 240 

47. Iee-pick and skin-dresser, Siberia 241 

48. Stone adze, British Columbia 241 

49. Stone axe of Mozambique 241 

50. Stone axe 242 

51. Axes from Indian mounds, &c 242 

52. Double-bitted perforated axes 2415 

53. Eskimo adzes 244 

54. Creenlauder's adze 244 

55. Indian adze, Haidahs, British Columbia 244 

56. Japanese axe 245 

57. Bechuana axes, South Africa 245 

58. Battle-axe, Angola, Africa 245 

59. Axe of Angola 245 

60. Elephant axe of the Banyai, Zambesi, Africa 246 

61. Axes of Egypt, India, Mexico, and Yucatan 246 

62. Axes of the Philippines ■ 247 

63. Casse-tete, Dakotah 247 

64. Halberds, India and Norway 248 

65. Norwegian axes 24a 

66. Iron tomahawk, Dakotah 248 

67. Obsidian nucleus ana flakes, Mexico 249 

68. Obsidian knife, California 249 

69. Greenlander's bone knife 251 

70. Bone implements of Greenland 251 

71. Eskimo bone snow-knife 252 

72. Indian knife of native copper 252 

73. Native copper implements, Wisconsin 253 

74. Copper weapon and steel dagger, British Columbia 253 

75. Ancient Roman and modern African knives 254 

76. Dagger of Balonda, Africa 255 

77. Angola dagger 255 

78. Angola dagger 256 

79. Blackfool scalping-linife 256 

80. Maori stone sword 258 

81. Sword of the gold coast, Africa 258 

82. Two-bladed sword of the gold coast, Africa 259 

83. Sword of Angola, Africa 259 

84. Sword of Mozambique, Africa 259 

85. Cimeter orMozambique, Africa 260 

86. Monbnttoo cimeter, Central Africa 260 

87. Saber of Soudan, Africa 261 

88. The parang of the Malays 262 

89. Malay Kris 263 

90. Sword of the Philippines 263 

91. Norwegian two-handed sword 234 

92. Spears of the Philippines 2J5 

93. Australian wooden spears 266 

94. Australian wooden fishing-spears (leisters) 266 

95. Maori wooden spear 267 

96. Maori spear taiaha kwra 267 

97. Stone spear-heads 268 

98. Bone spear-heads and hook, Greenland 268 



LIST OF ILLUSTKATIONS. 593 

Page. 
A Study op the Savage Weapons, etc. — Continued. 

Fig. 99. Wooden fish-spear, Makahs of British Columbia 268 

100. Chookchee fish-spear, Siberia 269 

101. Seal-spear of the Chookchees, Northeast Siberia 269 

102. Whaling-lance of Alaska Eskimo 269 

103. Whaling-lance of Greenland 270 

104. Whaling-lance of Greenland Eskimo 270 

105. Lance-head and seal buoy, British Columbia 271 

106. Seal and fish spear, Kodiak Eskimo, Alaska 271 

107. Shark's-tooth spear of the Philippines 272 

108. Iron spear-heads of the Philippines 272 

109. Trident of Timor 273 

110. Trident of the Philippines 273 

111. Spears of Timor 273 

112. Kafir assegais 274 

113. Copper harpoon-point, Alaska 275 

114. Fish-spear, Frobisher Bay, Eskimo 275 

115. Salmon-spear of Passamaquoddy Indians 275 

116. Norwegian halberds 275 

117. Spear throwing-sticks, South Australia 276 

118. Throwiug-stick of Victoria, Australia 276 

119. Australian throwiug-stick 277 

120. Throwiug-boards of Northwestern Eskimo 277 

121. Zulu shield of ox-hide 278 

122. Mat shield of Angola 279 

123. Leathern shield of Uganda, Africa 279 

124. Wooden shield, Central Africa 280 

125. Basket-work shield, Uganda, Africa 280 

126. Monbuttoo wooden shield, Central Africa 281 

127. Wooden shield of the Malays 282 

128. Wooden shield, Dyaks of Borneo 282 

129. Leathern shield, Philippine Islands 282 

130. Wooden shields, Philippines 283 

131. Wooden shields of the Philippines 284 

132. Basket-work shield of Siam 284 

133. Chinese shield of basket-work (inside) 285 

134. Towerang or parrying shield of Australia 285 

135. Heilamon or war shield of New South Wales 285 

136. Wooden shields of Victoria, Australia 286 

137. Iron arrow-heads of Angola, Africa , 287 

138. Quiver of Uganda, Africa 288 

139. Australian bow, Queensland (male bamboo) 289 

140. Irou arrow-heads of the Philippines 290 

141. Chinese wooden bow 291 

142. Sioux Indian-bow of mountain sheep's horns 292 

143. Sioux stone-pointed arrow, Dakota 292 

144. Chipped flint arrow-heads, Utah 293 

145. Eskimo arrows, Greenland 293 

146. Paraguayan arrows 296 

147. Norwegian cross-bow 296 

Notes on some op the Principal Mounds in the Des Moines Valley, 

by Samuel B. Evans 344 

Ancient work in the vicinity of Of tumwa, Iowa 345 

B. Mounds near Keosaucpia and Pittsburg, Van Buren County, Iowa 347 

S. Mis. 54 38 



594 LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Page. 

Prehistoric Evidences in Missouri, by G. C. Broadhead 350 

Figs. 1, 2, 3, 4. Ancient walled burial place in Pike County 351 

Figs. 5, 6. Ancient work on Noix Creek 352 

Fig. 8. Mounds in Clay County 353 

Figs. 9, 10. Vaults in mounds in Clay County 353 

Fig. 11. Mound near Cote Sans Dessein 356 

Mounds in Muscatine County, Iowa, and Rock Island County, Illinois, 

by Theron Thompson 359 

Map showing location of mounds 360 

Antiquities of Rock Island County, Illinois, by Adolph Toellner 363 

Fig. 1. Mounds in Hampton 363 

2. Tohead Island 363 

3. Mound 364 

4. Mounds on Hon. John Deere's farm 364 

Mounds in Franklin County, Indiana, by Edgar R. Quick 370 

Map showing location of mounds 372 

Mounds and Earthworks of Rush County, Indiana, by T. Jackman 374 

Fig. 1. Location of mounds 374 

Mounds in Washington County, Mississippi, by James Hough 383 

Fig. 1. Mounds near Black Bayou, Mississippi „ 383 

2. Mounds on plantation of William P. Perkins 385 

Mounds in Morehouse Parish, Louisiana, by Benjamin F. Brodnax 386 

Diagram 1. Morehouse Parish 386 

2. Location of mounds 387 

Wampum Belts of the Six Nations, by W. M. Beauchamp 389 

Figs. 1-10. Wampumhelts 390 

Preliminary Explorations among the Indian Mounds in Southern Flor- 
ida, byS. T.Walker 392 

Plate 1. Mounds on Achaskote River 393 

2. Mounds on Audote River 395 

3. Mound at Ormond's 397 

4. Plan of mound at 1 >unedin 400 

5. Turtle-shaped mound on Long Key 402 

Sketch of Mound on Point Piuellos 406 

6. Mound at Papy's Bayou 408 

Report on the Shell-Heaps of Tampa Bay, Florida, by S. T. Walker.. 413 

Map showing location of shell-heaps 412 

Plate 1. Shell-heap at Shaw's Point 414 

2. Shell-heaps 416 

Mound at Bullfrog 417 

3. Ground plan of shell-heaps at Shaw's Point 420 

4. Fig. 1, shell-mound at Bullfrog 421 

Fig. 2, ground plan of shell-mound at Indian Hill 421 

Mounds on Gideon's Farm, near Excelsior, Hennepin County, Minne- 
sota, by Frank U. Nutter 422 

Plan of mounds 423 

Mounds at Eden Prairie, Minn 425 

Earthwork near Sissetou and Wahpeton Reservation, Dakota 426 

Stone hammer from Lake Minnetonka - 427 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 595 

Page. 
On the Present Fundamental Conceptions of Physics: Lectures by 

Dr. Franz Joseph Pisko 485 

Apparatus 493 

A Universal Meteorograph, Designed for Detached Observatories, by 

E. H. von Baumhauer 519 

Fig. 1. Krecke's metallic tlieruiometer 522 

2. Rain-gauge 527 

3. Part of instrument recording velocity of wind and quanti ty of rain . 528 
Figs. 4,5. Registering apparatus 529,530 

Reports of American Observatories: 

Mercury, observation of, by W. R. Brooks 564 



INDEX. 



Page. 

Abbot, General H. L., Corps of Engineers 495 

Act of Congress for protection of public buildings from fire 115 

to appoint an assistant secretary 115 

extending franking privilege to Smithsonian Institution 115 

tbat minerals, &c, be deposited in the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion 11G 

filling vacancies in Board of Regents 116 

for erection of statue of Professor Henry 11G 

for building National Museum 1'25 

Acts and resolutions of Congress relative to the Smithsonian Institution and 

the National Museum 115 

Adams, W. H., anthropology 435 

on mounds in Spoon River Valley, Illinois 368 

African pottery presented 41 

Agencies of exchanges 48 

Alabama, mica beds in 382 

Alaska, explorations in 42, 44 

new forms of mollusks from 33 

Aldrich, Charles, anthropology 429 

Aleutian Islands, remains of man in, memoir by W. H. Dall 23 

Alexander, J. W., anthropology 444 

Allegheny, Pa., Observatory 455 

Allen, A. W., anthropology 445 

Allen, C. P., anthropology 430' 

Allis, Samuel, anthropology 430 

Alston, Edward, investigation 70 

Amazon River, exploration of 47 

Anchor Steamship Company, acknowledgment due 50 

Ancient arrow-head factory in Florida 394 

pottery, composition of 349 

rock-work in Missouri 351 

Anclote River, Florida, mounds on 394, 395 

Anderson, Abel, anthropology 434 

Anderson, William Gilbert, on mounds in Illinois and Wisconsin 341 

Andrew, S. J. M., anthropology 435 

Andrews, F. D., anthropology 445 

Andrews, Frank D., on Indian relics from Schoharie, N. Y 391 

Animal mounds in Wisconsin 343,344 

resources of the United States, catalogue of collection to illustrate the . 30 

Annapolis, Md., United States Naval Academy Observatory 457 

Anthropological investigations 449 

Anthropogeny 450 

Prehistoric anthropology 450, 451 

Biological anthropology 450,457 

Psychological anthropology 450,461 

Ethnology 450,462 

Linguistic anthropology . 450, 465 

597 



598 INDEX. 



Anthropological investigations — Continued. 

Industrial anthropology 450, 467 

Sociology 450,468 

Science of religion 450,470 

Instrumentalities of research 471 

Society of Washington, meetings of 64 

Anthropology 38 

researches 38 

publications contemplated 38 

exruorations 38, 39 

appropriation for researches 39 

Indian portraits 40 

additions to collection 40 

North African pottery 41 

Mexican calendar stone 41 

Brazilian pottery 41 

New Mexican objects 41 

prehistoric articles from Europe 41 

casts of Indian heads 42 

answers to Circular No. 316 428 

Antigua, birds of 34 

Antilles, birds of the 34 

Antiquities in Tennessee, memoir by Joseph Jones 23 

preservation of, in Denmark 299 

(See Savage weapons.) 

Apparatus for testing stone 17 

Appendix to the report of the secretary 75 

Appleton & Co., steel portrait of Professor Henry. 12 

Appolinaris water, testing of 18 

Appropriations for ethnological exploration 39 

made by Board of Regents 142 

by Congress for National Museum 121 

Archaeological Bureau, Copenhagen 305 

Architects to National Museum Building Commission 126, 130 

Argentina syrtensium, description of 33 

Arizona, anthropology 428 

White River Canon, ruins in 333 

Arkansas, anthropology 433 

Armenian history, request made 59 

Armory building 62 

collections stored in 62 

appropriation for 121 

expenditures 122 

receipts 122 

Armstrong, Thomas, on mounds in Wisconsin _ 335 

Arrow-head factory, ancient, in Florida 394 

Arrow-heads from mound in Iowa 346 

from Mound in Louisiana 388 

found on Minnetonka Lake 427 

found at Schoharie, N. Y... 391 

in shell-heap in Iowa 347 

Arrow-points in mound in Illinois 3(59 

pockets of, found 3(52 

primitive manufacture of, on Savannah River. 376 



INDEX. 599 

Page. 

Arsenic acid for anatomical preparations 33 

Art building and laboratory (i-j 

Arteries, reparatory inflammation in, after ligature, by E. O. Shakespeare. .. 26, ;M 

Artes, C. F. , anthropology 435, 438 

Artificial propagation of fish 74 

Ashburn, Mo., mound at 355 

Ashes in mounds in Iowa 344 

Assistant secretary, appointment of, under circumstances llf> 

Astronomical discoveries, telegraphic aunouncement of It) 

Atkins, Charles G., assistant for census work of Fish Commission 7f> 

in charge of Fish Commission stations 73 

Atkinson, Charles, anthropology 435 

Atlas Steamship Company, acknowledgment due 50 

Aux Vases Bluffs, Missouri, mounds on 355 

Avoca, Fish Commission work at 73 

Axe from Schoharie, N. Y 301 

Bache fund, account of 28 

Bailey, Captain, explorations 45 

Bailey, W. B. F., anthropology 441 

Baird, Prof. S. F., Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries 71 

Director of Smithsonian Institution 4,5 

letter, introducing James Stevensou 42 

member of National Museum Building Commission 126, 129 

report to Board of Regents 3,11 

letter to Congress 3 

Baker, S. C. , anthropology. 445 

Ball, Col. W. H. , anthropology 440 

Ballon, W. H., anthropology 432 

Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, acknowledgment due 50 

Baltimore and Potomac Railroad, acknowledgment due 50 

Bancroft, H. H., lent illustrations 24 

Bandelier, A. F., notice of an ancient grave 367 

Banta, W. V., anthropology 431 

Barber, Mr., medallion likeness by, of Professor Henry 12 

Barbuda, birds of 34 

Barnard, E. E 476 

Barnard, J. G. , internal structure of the earth 26 

Barnes, Charles E. , anthropology 434 

Barnette, Lieut. William J 457 

Bartlett, Arthur K 458 

Barton, Stephen, anthropology 428 

Basel Physical Institute 497 

Bassett, Leslie, anthropology 431 

Batrachia and reptilia, check list of 30 

Battle Creek, Mich. , high school observatory 458 

Baumhauer, E. H. von, uuiversal meteorograph 519 

Bay view, Fla., mounds at 410 

Beach, II., anthropology 433 

Beach, J. W., anthropology 432 

Beaman, D. C, anthropology 431 

examination of mounds 346 

Bean, Dr. T. H., assistant 5 

curator of ichthyology 69 

description of fishes 32 



600 INDEX. 



Bean, Dr. T. H. , researches, fishes 70 

Bear Creek, Florida, shell-heap on 419 

Beardslee, Capt. L. N., explorations 44 

Beauchauip, W. M., anthropology 445 

on wampum belts of the Sis Nations 389 

Beaufort Harbor, North Carolina, fishes from 33 

Beauvois, E. , translation by 299 

Beck's Gazetteer, notice of ancient work 351 

Beebe, William 477 

Belding, L., list of birds of Central California 32,36 

Belgian Government prize 58 

Belknap, Capt. George N. , furnished mollnsks 35 

Benton, Thomas H., respecting human foot-print 358 

Berger's Station, Mo., mounds at 355 

Berlin Observatory 497 

Bermudas, catalogue of fishes of the 3n 

Bethel's Camp, Florida, mounds at 405 

Bibliography of the fishes of the Pacific United States 31 

Biddle, Henry J., anthropology 442 

Big Bayou, Florida, shell-heap on 419 

Bill, W.T 479 

Bird, John H., superintendent of Museum building 139 

Birds, catalogues of 33, 34 

in National Museum 67 

of Central California, list of, by L. Belding 32, 36 

Southwestern Mexico 30 

researches 70 

Black, J. W., anthropology 432 

Blackford, E. G., donations by 68 

Black Hawk Tower, 111., mounds near 363,365 

Board of Regents, executive committee of 117, 142 

journal of proceedings 141 

appropriations by 142 

meeting of 119, 141 

vacancies in 116, 141 

Boca Ciega Bay, Florida, shell-heap at 419 

Boehmer, G. H. , clerk 5 

index, anthropology 476 

translation by 577 

Bomar, Thomas H., anthropology • 442 

Bones found in mounds in Wisconsin 330,337,338, 339 

from mounds in Illinois 342 

from mound in Iowa 345 

found in shell-heaps in Illinois 370 

in mound near Muscatine, Iowa 361 

human, from mound in Louisiana 387 

of animals in shell-heap in Iowa 347 

of deer found in mound in Illinois 370 

Bonn University Observatory 498 

Booker Creek, Florida, shell-heap on 419 

Boone County, Missouri, mounds in 355 

Booth, Hon. Newton, Regent 4,141 

appointed Regent 13 

Borgen, Dr. C 508 



INDEX. 601 

Page. 

Borrelly, discovered planet 22 

Bowdish, W. M., anthropology 430 

Bowen, J., mounds on lands of 341 

Boyd, C. H. , anthropology 433 

Brachiopoda, index to . 30, 31 

Bracht, V. , anthropology 442 

Brackett, Col. Albert G., on the Shoshonis or Snake, Indians 328 

Brady, photograph of Professor Henry 12 

Brady, Samuel, anthropology 434 

Bransford, Dr., collected shells 33, 35 

Brant, B. K., anthropology 438 

Bray ton, Alembert W., contributions to North American ichthyology 31 

Brayton, G. M., anthropology 429 

Brazilian pottery presented 41 

Bredichin, Dr. Th 504 

Breslau University Observatory 499 

Brick-work in Museum building 134, 137 

Briggs, H., anthropology 445 

Broadhead, G. C, ou prehistoric evidences in Missouri 350 

Brodnax, Benjamin H., on mounds in Morehouse Parish, Louisiana 386 

Brooklyn, N. Y., Observatory 460, 461, 462 

Brooks, Mrs. Mary E 483 

Brooks, William Robert 483 

Brookville, Ind., mounds near 370 

Brown, Allan D., Lieut. Commander, U. S. N 457 

Brown, George, farm of, mound on 376 

Brown, James, land of, mound on 375 

Brown, S. C, clerk 5 

assistant in herpetology 69 

Brown, S. G., clerk 5 

Bruhns, Prof. C 502 

Bruner, Lawrence, anthropology 430 

Brunuell, L. H. , anthropology .' 430 

Brunner, D. B., anthropology 446 

Bruns, H., mounds on lands of 370 

Brussels Royal Observatory 499 

Buchanan, S. H. , anthropology 433 

Bucksport, Me. , Fish Commission station at 73 

Buffalo, N. Y., Observatory 462 

Building 61 

improvements 61 

fire-proof doors 62 

laboratory 62 

expenses 119 

Bulletins of the National Museum 29 

Bullfrog, Florida, shell-heap at 421,422 

Burial mounds at John's Pass, Florida 401 

in Pike County, Illinois 367 

in Wisconsin 343 

near Quincy, 111 341 

near Saxe's, Florida 399 

Burial place in Pike County, Missouri 350 

Burials in mounds 362 

Burnham, S. W 487 



602 INDEX. 

Page. 

Burr, Dr. R. T. , on mines in White River Cation, Arizona 3:53 

Burt, C. N., bust of Professor Henry 12 

Business arrangements, circular relative to 26 

Busts of Professor Henry 12 

Butterfly, Fla., shell-heap at 417 

Byrns, E. A., anthropology 445 

Cabinet of Antiques, Copenhagen 302 

of Arts, Copenhagen 300 

of Medals, Copenhagen 300 

Cadle, C, anthropology 442 

California, anthropology 428 

birds from 37 

Central, list of birds of 32,3(5 

kitchen-middens in 33 

Callaway County, Missouri, mounds in 355, 350 

Cambridge, Mass. , Ohservatory 462 

Campbell, S. M., anthropology 441 

Canada, anthropology 447 

Candee, F. C, anthropology 431 

Carleton College Observatory 479 

Carp, consignment of 48 

Carpenter, Dr, Philip P., monograph of chitonidre 28 

Carpenters' work in Museum building 135 

Carter, Finley, mounds on farm of 375 

Cases for new Museum building 127, 128 

Cast of Mexican calendar stone 41 

Casts, catalogue of 34 

of Indian heads 42 

Catalogue of collection illustrating the animal resources of the United States. 31 

Catlin, Indian portraits 40 

Caton, Judge, procured mule deer (iO 

Cayenne, birds from 37 

Cedar Creek, Missouri, mounds on 365 

Centennial Commission 59 

Centennial Exhibition, savage weapons at 213 

Cent ral Americai, anthropology 448 

Cerous macrotis for London Zoological Society 60 

Chapman, D. C 479 

Chapman, Rufus T ., anthropology 445 

Charcoal in mounds in Iowa 344 

Missouri 353, 354 

from mounds in Wisconsin 338 

Chase, John R., anthropology 433 

Chemical laboratory, work done in 17, 18 

Chicago. 111.. Dearborn Observatory 464 

Chitonidaj, classification of 35 

monograph of, by Dr. Philip P. Carpenter 28 

Chitons, description of 35 

Christ iania, Norway, University, collection of fishes 67,68 

Chronological collection of the Danish Kings 'AO'.i 

Churches, ancient, in Denmark, restoration of 308,309 

Cincinnati Observatory 475 

Circular relative to business arrangements 26 

relative to exchanges 26 



INDEX. 603 

Page. 

Cists, stone, near Highland, 111 30(3 

Clackamas River, Oregon, fishes from 3:? 

Clark, Edward, approved plans for National Museum 126 

confirmed estimates 71 

Clark, H. J., lucernaria 26 

Clark, Martin, anthropology - 430 

Clarke, John S., anthropology 445 

Clarke, S. C, anthropology 442 

Clarke, W. M., anthropology 441 

Clay County, Missouri, mounds iu 352 

Clear Water post-office, Fla., shell-heap at 419 

Cliffland, Iowa, mounds near 349 

Clinton, N. Y., Litchfield Observatory 465 

Cluss & Schulze, architects to National Museum Building Commission 70, 126, 140 

Clymer, Hon. Hiester 11 

Eegent 4,141 

reappointed Regent 13 

Codfish, propagation of 74 

Coffin from mound in Illinois 342 

Coffman, J. J., anthropology 446 

Coggia discovered planet 22 

Cole County, Missouri, implements from 357 

Cole, Norman, anthropology « 445 

Collaborators, loss of 64 

Collett, Robert 07 

Columbia, Mo. , observatory of the State University 465 

Columbus, Ohio, observatory of State University 466 

Comets discovered in 1879 22 

Commission for preservation of antiquities 300 

Compagnie Generale Transatlantique, acknowledgement due 50 

Congress ordered printing of report 2,3 

statue of Professor Henry 13 

Conklin, W. A. , assistance offered by 60 

Conly, J. D., anthropology 435 

Contracts for Museum building 139 

Contributions to ethnology, appropriation for 121 

expenditures - 123 

receipts 123 

Contributions to knowledge 23 

Contributions to the Natural History of Arctic America 31 

Cook, Caleb, on manufacture of porpoise oil 32 

Cooper, J. G., anthropology 429 

Co-operation of Fish Commission with United States Census 74 

of the Government Departments 57 

of the Institution . r >7 

explorations in San Salvador 57, 58 

Belgium Government prize 58 

Centennial Commission 59 

Armenian History 59 

Manitoba Library 60 

Zoological Society of London 00 

Cope, Edward D., check-list of North American batracbia and rept ilia 30 

researches, reptiles 70 

Coppe"e, Henry, Regent 4 



604 INDEX. 

Page. 

Coppee, Henry, reappointed Regent 13 

Copper bracelet on skeletons in mound in Indiana 376 

Corcoran Gallery, account of 28 

Correspondence, account of 57 

Costa Rica, birds from 34, 36 

scops from 36 

Cote-sans-Dessein, Mo., mounds near 356 

Coues, Dr. Elliott, curator of mammalogy 69 

researches, American birds 70 

Covering of the flat roofs of the Museum building 135, 137 

Cox, E. T., respecting human foot-print 358 

Cox, Hon. S. S 11 

Cox, Mr., shell-heap on lands of, in Florida 419 

Cramy, T. G., anthropology 430 

Crerry, N., anthropology 447 

Crider, F. E., anthropology 438 

Crow's Fork, Missouri, mounds on 355 

Crustaceans, the voices of 33 

Cunard Steamship Company, acknowledgment due 50 

Currier, J. M., anthropology 447 

Cushing, F. H., assistant 5 

collaborator 69 

explorations by 39, 42 

Cut-stone work in Museum building 134, 137 

Cutting, H. A., anthropology 447 

Cybium, notes on 34 

Dacnis pulcherrima aureinucha, description of 37 

Dahlberg, Charles N. , composition of ancient pottery 349 

Dahlberg, Robert N. , on composition of ancient pottery 349 

Daingerlield, H. de C, clerk 5 

Dakota, earthwork in 426 

Dall, W. H., curator of marine and aquatic invertebrates 69 

assistance rendered by 29 

index to Brachiopoda 30, 31 

memoir by 23 

new forms of mollusks from Alaska 33,35 

on Chitons 35 

on Limpets ., 35 

shells from Kitchenmiddens 33 

Darbishire, R. D. , assistance rendered by 29 

Davenport farm, Illinois, mounds on 363 

Davis, Henry, anthropology 431 

Day, John E., anthropology 434 

Dearborn Observatory, Chicago, 111 464 

Deep-sea cod fisheries, investigation of 74 

Deer-antlers found in mound in Illinois - 370 

Deere's farm, Illinois, mounds on 363, 364, 365 

Dellenbaugh, F. S., anthropology 429 

Demarara, birds from 37 

Denmark, preservation of antiquities in 299 

Deposit of flint implements plowed up by B. B. Holland 357 

Deposit with Riggs &Co 118 

Des Moines Valley, Iowa, mounds in - 344 

Devens, Hon. Charles, member ex-officio 4 



INDEX. 605 

Page. 

Diebitsch, H., clerk 5 

Diptera, catalogue of, by R. Ostensacken 26 

Dodge, C, lauds of, mounds on 340 

Dominica, birds of 33, 34 

Donaldson, Tbomas, collection of minerals 69 

Donations to the Institution 63 

Doolittle, C. L 487 

Drainage in Museum building 135, 13b 

Drake, J. S., anthropology 432 

Draper, Henry 471 

Draper, Mrs 471 

Duck from Sandwich Islands 36 

Duges, Professor, contributions by 69 

donations by 42 

Dunedin, Fla., mounds near 399, 400 

Dunlap, J. N., anthropology 432 

Dunlap, Seymour, anthropology 434 

Dusseldorf Observatory 500 

Dwight's orange grove, Florida, shell-heap at 419 

Earll, E. E., assistant for census work of Fish Commission 75 

Earthwork in Dakota 426 

near Brookville, Ind 373 

Earthworks of Rush County, Indiana 374 

Eastman, J. R., professor, U. S. N 490 

Ecuador, birds from 37 

Eden Prairie, Minn., mounds at 425 

Edgecomb, D. W , 478 

Edmunds, R. T. , assistant for census work of Fish Commissi ou 75 

Edwards, Josiah P 472 

Edwards, Vinal N. , occurrence of oceanic bonito 33 

Eells, M., anthropology 428 

Egbert, H. V 475 

Eggers, Baron H. F. A., flora of St. Croix and the Virgin Islands 31 

Electro-magnetic telegraph, account of..... 28 

Eldon, Iowa, mounds near 318 

Elizabeth, N. J., observatory 466 

Ellenberger, D., anthropology 438 

Elliot, D. J., list of humming-birds 26 

trochilidae 26 

Ellsworth, C. W., anthropology 447 

Ely Ford mounds, Iowa 346,347 

Emerson, Charles F 470 

Employe's, loss of 64 

Endlich, Dr. M. F., arrangement of laboratory 17 

assistant 5 

curator of mineralogy 69 

Engelmann, Dr. George J., examined skulls 367 

Engler, E. A 486 

Epstein, Dr., private observatory of 506 

Esimark, Professor, collection of fishes 07 

Estimated receipts and appropriations 120 

Estimates for new building 70 

Ethnology, American 39 

Euchatarodus putnami 32 



606 INDEX. 

Page. 

Europe, prehistoric articles from „ 41 

Evans, Samuel B., anthropology 431 

on mounds in the Des Moines Valley 344 

Evarts, Hon. W. A., member ex-officio 4 

Excavation for Museum building 133, 136 

Excavations, ancient, in Montana 327 

Excelsior, Minn., mounds near 422 

Exchanges, circular relative to 26 

agencies 48 

free freight 50 

international bureaus 48 

statistics of 51, 107 

of government documents 51 

expenses 119 

Expenditures, Armory building 122 

contributions to ethnology 123 

Institution 119 

National Museum 122 

preservation of collections 122 

for Museum building 137, 138 

Explorations 43 

E.W.Nelson 44 

L.M.Turner 44 

Capt. L. A. Beardslee 44 

Capt. Bailey 45 

Steamer ' ' Richard Rush" 45 

Dr. White 45 

"Jeanette" 45 

R. L. Newcombe 45 

Professor Jordan 45 

S.T.Walker 46 

J.W. Milner 46 

R. Ridgway - 46 

H. W. Henshaw 46 

ethnological - 38,39 

F. A. Ober 47 

Prof. J. B. Steere 47 

Dr. Charles J. Hering 47 

Dr. Otto Finsch 47 

among the Indian mounds in Southern Florida 392 

Fairmount Observatory, Madison, Ind 474 

Farmings Islands, natural history of 30 

Farlow, Reuben, mounds on farm of 375 

Fassett, photograph of Professor Henry 12 

Felserthal, L., anthropology 428 

Ferguson's Point, Minn., mounds at 425 

Ferrel, Squire, found ancient excavations 327 

Feuardent, Gaston L., collection of prehistoric articles 41,42 

Fever, a study in morbid and normal physiology, by Dr. H. C. Wood 26 

Ficldin, Joseph 466 

Field, Cyrus W., assistance by 19 

Finances - 14 

Finsch, Dr. Otto, explorations 47 

services of 48 



INDEX. 607 

Page. 

Fire-extinguishing apparatus presented 63 

Fire-proof doors 62 

Fins announced automatically 19 

Fisli Commission, United States, report of 37 

Fish Commission 68 

relation to the Smithsonian Institution 68 

collections of marine invertebrates 68, 70 

work of 71 

investigations 72 

steamers furnished 72 

collections by 72 

discovery of tile-fish 72 

discovery of pole-flounder , 72 

station Provincetown, Mass 72 

station Avoca, in Albemarle Sound 73 

hatching establishment, Havre de Grace 73 

station McCloud River, Cali fornia 73 

station Bucksport, Me 73 

station Grand Lake stream 73 

German carp 73 

artificial propagation 74 

new steamer for 74 

halibut fisheries 74 

deep-sea cod fisheries '. 74 

mackerel fishery 74 

co-operation with United States census 74 

Fisher, Mr. , information on mounds 355 

Fishes, descriptions of 33 

of the Bermudas, catalogue of 30 

of the Pacific United States, bibliography of 31 

of the United States, synopsis of 31 

researches 70 

Flint, Dr., collected shells 33,35 

Flint, Earl, anthropology 448 

Flint chippings, refuse of 362 

Flint implements, deposit of, in Missouri 357 

Floors of Museum building 135, 137 

Flora of St. Croix and the Virgin Islands 31 

Florida, ancient arrow-head factory in 394 

explorations in 46, 392 

Tampa Bay, shell-heaps of 412, 413 

Floyd, Henry, anthropology 442 

Foerster, Prof. H 497 

Fordham, N. Y., Observatory 467 

Foreman, Edward, assistant 5 

collaborator 69 

Fort Dodge, Iowa, Observatory 468 

Foundations for Museum building 133, 137 

Four-mile Bayou, Florida, mound on 403 

shell-heaps on 419 

Foster, A., anthropology 435 

Fowler, S. W., anthropology 434 

Fowler, Israel 474 

France, prehistoric articles from 41 



608 INDEX. 

Page. 

Frankfort-on-the-Main, Observatory in 500 

Franking privilege 115 

Franklin County, Indiana, mounds in 370 

Franklin County, Missouri, mounds in 355 

Free freight 50 

French, G. EL, anthropology 435 

French half-breeds, the, in the Northwest 309 

Friel, Joseph, anthropology 441 

Frishy, E., professor, U. S. N 490 

Frost, A. L., anthropology 447 

Fulton, R. B 482 

Gadoid fishes, description of 33 

Galle, J. G 499 

Gallery of Art 60 

articles transferred to (il 

expenses 119 

Galloway, J. C, anthropology 443 

Galvanized-iron work in Museum building 134, 137 

Gardner, photograph of Professor Henry 12 

Gardner, W. F 490 

Garfield, Hon. J. A 11 

Regent - 4, 141 

reappointed Regent 13 

Garrett, W. M., anthropology 443 

Gasconade County, Missouri, human foot-print found in 357 

Gasconade River, Missouri, mounds on 354 

Gass, Henry 5 

Geology of Louisiana, by E. W. Hilgard 26 

German carp 73 

Gesner, William, anthropology 443 

on mica beds in Alabama 382 

Gettens, W. H., anthropology 435 

Ghross, W. J., kitchen-middens on land of 370 

Gideon, Peter M., acknowledgments due 425 

Gideon's farm, Minnesota, mounds on 422 

Gill, Theodore N., bibliography of the fishes of the Pacific United States 31 

notes of fishes ." 33 

researches, fishes 70 

Glasco, J. M., anthropology 443 

Glasgow, Mo., Morrison Observatory 469 

Glass and glazing in Museum building 135 

Gleason, Mr., land of, mounds on 337 

Glyptocephalua cynogloesus, discovery of 72 

Goode, G. Brown, catalogue of the collections illustrating the animal resources 

of the United States 31 

catalogue of the fishes of the Bermudas 30 

classification of the collection to illustrate tho animal re- 
sources of the United States 30 

curator of the Museum 5, 69 

in charge of census work of the Fish Commission 75 

on the Clupea tyrannus 33 

researches, fishes 70 

and T. H. Bean, art ides in Proceedings of National Museum. 33 

Goodyear, Mr., appointment to San Salvador 58 



INDEX. 609 

Page. 

Gordy, J. P., investigation of mackerel fishery 74 

Gorget found in mound in Illinois 369 

Gorton, Charles, anthropology 447 

Gotha Observatory 501 

Government exchanges 51 

Graveyard on farm of J. O verleese, Indiana 375 

Graves in Pike County, Illinois 367 

Gray, Prof. Asa 11 

Regent 4,141 

reappointed Regent 13 

appointed to prepare sketch of life, &c, of Professor Henry. . 11 

Gray, W. B. D., anthropology 435 

Gregg, W. T 460 

Gregory, James J. H., anthropology 447 

Green, W. J. , electrician 5 

Green, S. C. , anthropology 438 

Green Lake mounds, Wisconsin 339 

Greene, Dascom 489 

Greene, Ed., anthropology 433 

Griffin, M. E., clerk 5 

Guadeloupe, birds of 34 

Guatemala, humming-birds from 34, 35 

Gulf menhaden, notes on 34 

Gulf of Mexico, fishes from 33 

Gulf States, anthropology 442 

Gutekunst, photograph of Professor Henry 12 

Gylden, Dr. Hugo 506 

Habel, Dr. Simeon, memoir by 15,23 

Habel bequest 5,118,119,142 

Hagenback, Ed 497 

Haines, Hiram, anthropology 443 

Half-breeds in the Northwest 309 

origin and development 310 

offspring of intermarrying races 313 

geographical distribution and population 314 

Halibut fisheries, investigation of 74 

Hall, A., professor, U. S. N 490 

Hamburg American Packet Company, acknowledgment due 50 

Hamburg Observatory 501 

Hamilton bequest, account of 14,16,28,117,118,120 

Hamlin, Hon. H 11 

Regent 4,141 

Hammer-stones from near Schoharie, N. Y 391 

Hampton, 111., mounds in 363 

Hanover, N. H. , Shattuck Observatory 470 

Harger, Oscar, investigations 70 

Harkness, W. , professor, U. S. N 490 

Harris, S. A., anthropology 441 

Harris, T. K., anthropology 443 

Harrison, Dr. William P., mounds on plantation of 386 

Harrison, Mrs., presented Indian poi traits 40 

Hartwig d iscovered comet 22 

Harvard College Observatory 462 

Hastings, N. Y., Draper's Observatory 471 

S. Mis. 54 39 



610 INDEX. 

Pago. 

Hastings, Prof. C. S., lectures by . 64 

Hatch, Col. Edward, letter from 41 

Hatchet in mound in Iowa . 346 

Hatching establishment at Havre de Grace 73 

Havard, Dr. V. , on the French half-breeds in the Northwest 309 

Haverford, Pa., College Observatory 472 

Havre de Grace, hatching establishment at 73 

Hawaiian Islands, natural history of 30 

Hay, Charles A., anthropology 446 

Hayes, Rutherford B., presiding officer and member ex-officio 4 

Haymond, Dr. Rufus, description of earthwork near Brook ville, Ind 373 

Hayward, Frank W., collections by . 68 

Hazzard, T. L., anthropology 446 

Hearn, Saul, mounds on farm of 348 

Heating apparatus for new Museum building 127 

Hederick, General J. M., mouuds on lands of 348 

Hemphill, Henry, collected mollusks 35 

Hempstead, G. S. B., anthropology 438 

Henderson & Co., free transportation granted 60 

Henderson, J. G., anthropology 435 

Henry County, Missouri, implements found in 357 

Henry, Professor, memorial services in honor of 11 

portrait of . 12 

busts of 12 

steel portrait of 12 

oil painting of 12 

photographs of 12 

statue of 13, 116 

examination of account of 28 

Henry, William T. , anthropology 434 

Henshaw, collections by 67 

Herford, Rev. W. H., assistance rendered by 29 

Hering, Dr. Charles J., explorations 47 

Herring Fire-Proof Safe Company, donation by 63 

Herron, Joseph, janitor. 5 

Hess, F 468 

Hess, Mrs. P. B : 468 

Highland, 111., mouuds near 366 

stone cists near 366 

Hilgard, E. W., geology of Louisiana 26 

Hill, F. C, anthropology 438 

Hill, H. II., anthropology 436 

Hill, Mr., mounds on lands of 340 

Hinckley, Isaac, assistance rendered by 50 

Hintz, Mr., mounds on lands of 335 

History, Oiugiu and, of the Smithsonian Institution, by W. J. Rhees 27,28 

Hitt, D., anthropology 435 

Hobbs, Thomas J., disbursing agent to National Museum Building Commission . 126 

Hobby, Dr. C. M 473 

Holbrock, W. C, anthropology t 436 

Holden, E. S., professor, U. S.N...'. 490 

report on American observatories 535 

Holland, B. B., flint implements plowed up by 357 

Holland, Joshua, anthropology 438 



INDEX. 611 

Page. 

Holly, A, T., examination of mounds . . .... 346 

Holt County, Missouri, mounds in 354 

Horan, H., superintendent of building 5 

Hornstono chips found at Schoharie, N. Y 391 

Hough, G. W 464 

Hough, James, on mounds in Washington County, Mississippi 383 

House rent allowed the Secretary 142 

Houzeau, J. C 499 

Howe, Herbert A 475 

Howgate Polar Expedition 31 

Hoxie, Walter, anthropology 443, 462 

Hubbard farm, Illinois, mounds on 363 

Hubbard, Lucius, anthropology 434 

Human bones from mound in Louisiana 387, 388 

in mounds in Missouri 353, 354, 555 

Human foot-prints found in Missouri 357 

Humnring-birds, description of 34 

listof, by D.G.Elliot 26 

Humphreys, JohnT., anthropology 446 

Hurlbut, W. D., anthropology 430 

Hydro-pneumatic Fire Extinguishing Company, apparatus presented by 63 

Ichthyology, North American, contributions to 31 

Illinois, anthropology 435 

Illinois, mounds in... 341,359,363,364,365,366,367,368 

in Rock Island County ...359,360,363 

on Campbell's Island 363 

near Moline 363, 365 

in Hampton 363 

on Dr. Ottman's farm 363 

onTohead Island 363 

on Hubbard's farm 363 

at Valley City 363 

on Deere's farm 363, 364, 365 

near Black Hawk Tower 363,365 

on Davenport's land 363 

near Milan 363 

in Madison County 1 366 

near Highland 366 

on land of John F. Root 366 

in Pike County i 367 

in Spoon River Valley 368 

near Quincy 341 

Iowa, anthropology 430 

Iowa City, C. W. Irish's private observatory 472 

Iowa, mounds in 344 

Ely Ford mounds 346,347 

Trawell group 345,346 

in Des Moines Valley 344 

nearCliffland 349 

near Eldon 348 

nearOttumwa 344,345,348 

Stiles Mounds 346 

Sugar Creek group. 344,345 

Village Creek mounds „. 346 



612 INDEX. 

Page. 

Implement found in mound in Illinois 369 

in Missouri 356,357 

on Minnetonka Lake 427 

in sliell-lieaps in Illinois 370 

Index, anthropology 476 

Indian heads, casts of 34, 42 

Indian Hill, Florida, shell-heap at 418,422 

Indian mounds in Southern Florida, explorations among 392 

Indian Pass Church, Florida, shell-heap at 419 

Indian relics from Schoharie, N. Y 391 

Indians, half-breeds of the Northwest 309 

Indiana, anthropology 438 

Franklin County, mounds in 370 

Iuflamation, reparatory, in arteries after ligature, by E. O. Shakespeare 26,28 

Ingalls, portrait of Professor Henry 12 

Ingersoll, Ernest, assistant tor census work of Fish Commission 75 

Inman Steamship Company, acknowledgment due 50 

Internal structure of the earth, by J. G. Barnard 26 

International Exchange Bureaus 48 

Iraju, birds from 36 

Irby, J. R. McD.,laborof 27 

Irish, C. W 473 

Irish, Miss Lizzie 473 

Irish, Miss Ruth 473 

Irish, Mrs. C. W 473 

Irish, William C, anthropology 448 

Iron-work in Museum building 134, 137 

Irwin, J. W., anthropology 438 

Jack, J. Allen, anthropology 448 

Jackman, F., on mounds and earthworks of Rush County, Indiana 374 

Jackson, J. B. S., on arsenic acid for protection 33 

Jackson, Mich., Observatory = 473 

James, F. L., anthropology '. 433 

"Jeanette" exploration 45 

Jefferson County, Missouri, human foot-prints found in 357 

Jefferson, Lieut. J. P., and others, on fishes 33 

Jenison, O. A., anthropology 435 

John's Pass, Florida, burial mound at 401 

Johnson County, Missouri, mounds in 354 

Johnson, G. H., mounds on plantation of 386, 388 

Johnson, H. F., anthropology 444 

Johnson, Julius 369 

Johnson, Prof. Walter R., on scientific writings of Smithson 27 

Johnston, Hon. Joseph E., Regent 4,13,141 

Jones, Charles C, jr., on primitive manufacture of spear and arrow points. .. 376 

Jones, John P., presented human foot-print 357 

Jones, Joseph, memoir by 23 

Jones, Joshua, anthropology 435 

Jordan, Prof. D. S., assistant for census work of Fish Commission 75 

contributions to North American ichthyology 31 

explorations 45 

on fishes from Oregon 33 

researches, fishes ~0 



INDEX. 613 

Page. 

Jordan, Prof. D. S., synopsis of the fishes of the United States 31 

Jordan and Gilbert, on fishes from North Carolina 33 

Jordan, James, information respecting Black Hawk- 349 

Journals of the Board of Kegents, by W.*J. Rhees 27, 28 

Kansas, anthropology 432 

Karr, W. W., valuable services of 139 

Kellogg, D. S., anthropology 445 

Kempf, Dr 505 

Kenaston, Prof. C. A., information of ancient remains 340 

Kentucky, anthropology 441 

Kerguelen Island, natural history of 30 

Kervey, D. K., anthropology 440 

Ketterman, W. H., anthropology 432 

Key, Hon. U. M., member ex-officio 4 

Kidder, Dr. J. H., natural history of Kerguelen Island 30 

Kilian, Ed. A., anthropology 436 

Kinger, Dr. A 501 

Kirk, C. R. , anthropology 446 

Kitchen-middens in California 33 

in Illinois — 370 

shells from 35 

Kite, J. L., anthropology 438 

Kitterman, H., notice of mounds 345 

Knight, Dr. Edward H., on savage weapons at the Centennial Exhibition. .. 213 

Knives found near Schoharie, N. Y 391 

Kootio River, Florida, mounds on 392, 393 

Kremsmiinster Observatory 5<31 

Kron, F. C, anthropology 446 

Kumlien, L., assistant for census work of Fish Commission 75 

contributions to the natural history of Arctic America 31 

Kuykendal, John C, anthropology 444 

Laboratory, chemical, work done in 17, 18 

rearrangement of 62 

Lacy, T. H. , anthropology , 441 

Lamb, Charles D 470 

Lampton, W. J., anthropology 441 

Langley, J. P 455 

Lappan, George, opened mound in Spoon River Valley, Illinois 368 

Lawrence, George N., birds of Dominica 33,34 

Southwestern Mexico 30 

researches, American birds 70 

Lawrence, Kans., University Observatory 473 

Leakin, George A., anthropology 446 

Le Baron, J. Francis, anthropology 444 

Le Clear, Mr., portrait of Professor Henry , 12 

Lectures 64 

Lectures on the present fundamental conceptions of physics 485 

Ledwith, David 16 

Leech, Daniel, corresponding clerk 5 

secretary, &c, National Museum Building Commission 126 

Legislation on preservation of monuments in Denmark 306 

Leipzig University Observatory 502 

Leverch, Mr., axe in possession of 302 

Lewis, C. H., anthropology 434 



614 INDEX. 

Page. 

Lewis, W., opened mound in Spoon River Valley, Illinois 368 

Lewis, W. H., anthropology 445 

Library of Institution 51 

additions to 53 

Libraries, principal, of the United States, list of 26 

Lichenops perspicillatus and inus, description of 37 

Lick Astronomical Department of the University of California 486 

Lightbume, Dr., collections by 68 

Limpets, description of 35 

Litchtield Observatory 465 

Locke, W. M., anthropology 436 

Long, T. P., anthropology 438 

Long Key, Florida, turtle-shaped mound on 402, 403 

Lopholatilus chameleonticeps, discovery of *. 72 

Loss of employe's and collaborators 64 

Louisiana, geology of, by E. W. Hilgard 26 

Mo., mounds near 351 

Morehouse Parish, mounds in 386 

Lower California, natural history of 30 

Lowry, Thomas J 466 

Lucernaria, by H. J. Clark - 26 

Lund University Observatory 503 

Lupton, Prof. N. T., breeding habits of the sea-catfish 34 

Luther, Dr. Robert 500 

Lyman, C. S 477 

MacDonald, W. A., anthropology 431 

Mackerel fishery, investigation of 74 

Mackey, Mr. , land of, mound on 369 

Maclean, Dr. John, Regent 4,141 

reappointed Regent 13 

member of executive committee 4 

MacLean, J. P. , anthropology 439 

MacSwain, L. D., anthropology 444 

Madison County, Illinois, mounds in 366 

Madison, lnd., Fairmount Observatory 474 

Madison, Wis. , mounds near 343 

Mammals in National Museum 67 

Manatee River, Florida, shell-heaps on : 414,416,422 

Manitoba Library, request made by 60 

Manners of Shoshoues or Snake Indians 328 

Mannheim University Observatory 503 

Mansfield, J. M., anthropology 432 

Mantel, Mr., respecting human foot-print 359 

Manufacture, primitive, of spear and arrow points 376 

Marble, Hon. E. M., member ex-officio 4 

Marine invertebrates, investigation of 70 

Marshall, T. M., anthropology 441 

Martin, Everett, exploration 337, 339 

Martinique, birds of : >4 

Marvin, D. S., anthropology 404,445 

Maryland, anthropology 446 

Mason, Otis T., anthropological investigations 449 

summary of correspondence relative to Circular No. 316 428 

Matile, Dr. George A. , on importance of Palenque slab 24 



INDEX. 615 

Page. 

Maw, George, presented North African pottery 41 

Maximo Point, Florida, mound at 404 

shell-heaps at 419 

Mazatlan, birds from 36 

McAdams, William, anthropology 43G 

McAllister, A. A., anthropology 429 

McClelland, M. A., anthropology 436 

McCloud River, California, Fish Commission station at 73 

McCormack, J. F 462 

MeCorinick, E. G., anthropology 433 

McCosh, Rev. Dr., prayer by. _.. 11 

McCrary, Hon. G. W. , letter from 41 

McDaniel, B. F., anthropology 447 

McDonald, Col. Marshall, assistant for census work of Fish Commission 75 

McElwain, R. , anthropology 446 

McFarland, R. W 466 

McGuire, J. D. , anthropology 446 

McKleroy, John M., anthropology 444 

McLouth, Lewis 495 

Meek, Fielding B., death of 64 

Meek, Thomas, mounds on farm of 374 

Meetings 63 

Board of Regents 14 

Natioual Academy of Sciences 13 

Anthropological Society of Washington 64 

lectures 64 

Meigs, Dr. James Aitken, death of 64 

Meigs, General M. C, anthropology 429 

confirmed estimates 71 

consulting engineer to National Museum Building Com- 
mission 126,128 

co-operation 39 

Meikleham, William , 467 

Memorial addresses 11 12 

services n 

to Congress for Museum building 125 

volume 12 142 

Memoirs published 23 26 

Menhaden, notes on 34 

Mepham, Mr., human foot-print in possession of 357 

Merchant Liue of S'teamers, acknowledgment duo 50 

Merrill, Dr. James C, notes on the ornithology of Southern Texas 34,36 

Metcalf, Henry, anthropology , 429 

Metcalf, Mr., collection of New Mexican objects 41,42 

explorations by 42 

Meteorograph, uni versal 519 

Metz, C. L., anthropology 439 

Mexican calender stone, cast of 41 

Mexico, explorations in 46 

National Museum of, contributions by 67 

scops from , 3(j 

Southwestern, birds of 30 

Meyer, Abraham, anthropology 446 

Miama, Mo., mounds near 356 



616 INDEX. 

Page. 

Mica beds in Alabama 3S2 

Michigan, anthropology 434 

State Normal School Observatory 495 

Middleton, G. B., anthropology 441 

Milan, 111., inounds near 363 

Milan University Observatory 503 

Miller, A. M., captain, United States Engineers 495 

Miller, George, opened monnd in Spoon River Valley, Illinois 388 

Miller, R., anthropology • 439 

Milliken, John M., description of mound in Mississippi 383 

Milner, J. .W., explorations - 4(3 

Milroy, Ind., mounds near 374, 375, 376 

Mills, Clark, casts taken by 34 

maide casts of Indian heads 42 

made bust of Professor Henry 12 

Mills, Henry 462 

Minneapolis, Minn. , skull found in 427 

Minnesota, anthropology 430 

Eden Prairie, mounds at 425 

Ferguson's Point, mounds at 425 

mounds in 422 

Minnetonka Lake, arrow-heads found on 427 

Miscellaneous Collections 23,26 

Mississippi, Washington County, mounds in 383 

Missouri, anthropology 432 

prehistoric evidences in 350 

Mounds 3f>Q 

in Pike County 350, 355 

burial place in 350 

on Noix Creek 352 

near Louisiana 351 

in Montgomery County 352 

in Clay County 352 

in Holt County 354 

in Johnson County 354 

on Sac Creek 354 

on Shoal Creek 354 

in Saint Charles County 354 

on Osage River 354 

on Gasconade River 354 

on Aux Vases Bluffs 355 

at Ashburn 355 

in Ralls County 355 

on Cedar Creek 355 

in Boone County 355 

in Franklin County 355 

at Berger's Station 355 

on Crows Fork 355 

on Spencer's Creek 355 

in Callaway County 355,356 

near Miami 356 

near Cote-sans-Dessein 356 

in Saline County 356 



INDEX. 617 

Page. 

Missouri, implements 356 

in Cole County^ 357 

in Montgomery County 357 

in Morgan County 357 

in Henry County 357 

Human foot-prints 357 

in Jefferson County 357 

from Gasconade County 357 

Schoolcraft, respecting 357, 358 

Cox, E. T. , respecting 358 

Benton, Thomas H., respecting 358 

Owen, Dr. D. D., respecting 359 

Mitchell, Brainerd, on mounds in Pike County, Illinois 367 

Mitchell, George O 470 

Mitchell, Maria 488 

Miller, Prof. Axel 503 

Moliue, 111., mounds near 363,365 

Mollusks, new forms of, from Alaska 33 

Mombusho of Tokio, contributions by 67,68,69 

Montana, ancient excavations in 327 

prehistoric remains in... 327 

stone-heaps in 228 

Montgomery County, Missouri, implements found in 357 

mounds in 352 

Monuments in Denmark 303 

Moore, Thomas, and others, on fishes 33 

Moreau, Mo., flint implements from 357 

Morehouse Parish, Louisiana, mounds in 386 

Morey, C. A . , anthropology 430 

Morgan County, Missouri, implements found in 357 

Morocco, pottery from 42 

Morrison Observatory, Glasgow, Mo 469 

Morrow, Josiah, anthropology 439 

Moscow University Observatory 504 

Mound City, Minn., mounds at 425 

Mounds at Eden Prairie, Minn 425 

Mounds at Ferguson's Point, Minn 425 

at Mound City, Minn 425 

in Franklin County, Indiana 370 

in Illinois 341,359,363,364,305,366,307,368 

in Mississippi 383 

in Missouri 350,351,352,353,354,355,356 

in Morehouse Parish, Louisiana 386 

in Muscatine County, Iowa 359 

in Southern Florida 392 

in the Des Moines Valley 344 

in Wisconsin 335,339 

near Ottumwa, Iowa - 344 

of Rush County, Indiana 374 

on Gideon's farm, Minnesota 422 

Mount Lookout, Ohio, Cincinnati Observatory 475 

Mulvey, O 473 

Mumford, E. S., anthropology 441 

Murray, Ferris & Co., acknowledgment due 51 



618 INDEX. 

Page. 

Muscatine, Iowa, mounds near 359 

Museum in Mexico presented cast of calendar stone 41 

of Ethnography, Copenhagen 302 

of Northern Antiquities, Cox>euhagen 300, 302, 303 

Myers Mound, Florida 396 

Nashville, Teun., Observatory 475 

National Academy of Sciences, meetings of Ci3 

National Archaeological Museum, Copenhagen 305 

National Museum 5, 05 

officers of 5 

fire-proof building 11,121,122 

acts of Congress 115 

archaeological collections in 23 

proceedings of 27, 32 

bulletins of 29 

object of 65 

increase of 66 

relation to Smithsonian Institution 65 

collaborators 66, 67 

birds 68 

mammals 67 

appropriations by Congress 121 

Building Commission 125 

acts of Congress establishing 125 

memorial to Congress 125 

Parker, Hon. Peter, member 125, 129 

Sherman, General W. T., member of. . 125, 129 
Meigs, General M. C, consulting engi- 
neer to 126,128 

Cluss & Schulze, architects to 126, 140 

Leech, Daniel, secretary to 126 

plans for building 126 

Clark, Edward, approved plans l'-'O 

Baird, Prof. S. F., member and agent 126,129 

modifications of the plans permitted 126 

Hobbs, Thomas J., disbursing agent 126 

heating apparatus for building 127 

cases for the building , 127, 128 

secretary of the 128 

Rhees, William J., services of 129 

report of architects 130 

Natural history of Arctic America,contributions to 31 

of Fanning Islands... 30 

of Hawaiian Islands 30 

of Kerguelen Island 30 

of Lower California 30 

Nebraska, anthropology 430 

Nelson, E. W., collections by 42,44,(57 

Net herland- American Steam Navigation Company, acknowledgment due 50 

New England Stales, anthropology 447 

New Haven, Conn., Observatory of the Sheffield Scientific School of Yale 

College 477 

New Jersey, anthropology 445 

New Mexico, anthropology 429 



INDEX. 619 

Page. 

New Mexico, explorations in 42 

New York and Brazil Steamship Company, acknowledgment due 50 

New York and Mexican Steamship Company, acknowledgment due 50 

New York, anthropology 444 

Museum of Natural History, contributions by 67 

New York City, N. Y., Rutherfurd's private observatory 479 

Newiugton, Conn., Observatory 478 

Newton, Edward, collections by 68 

Newton, W. S., anthropology 433 

Ney t, George, letter from 58 

Noix Creek, Missouri, mounds on. 352 

North Carolina, anthropology 446 

fishes from 33 

Northfield, Minn., observatory of Carleton College 479 

North German Lloyd Steamship Compauy, ackuowledgment due 50 

Norris, P. W., on prehistoric remains in Montana 327 

Northwest, French half-breeds in the 309 

Northwest coast, anthropology 428 

Nutter, Frank H. , on mounds on Gideon's farm, Minnesota 422 

Nutter, I., anthropology 441 

Nyerup, Prof. R. , collections 300 

Ober, F. A., collections made by 34 

explorations 47 

Observatories, American, reports on 535 

European, abstracts of reports of 577 

exchanging astronomical discoveries 20 

Oehler, Arthur, on stone cists near Highland, 111 366 

Otl'utt, F. M., anthropology 447 

Ohio, anthropology 438 

Ohio State University, observatory of 466 

Olmsted, Frank, anthropology 429 

Ong, J. L., anthropology 436 

Opium, testing of 18 

Oregon, anthropology 428 

fishes from 33 

Origin and History of the Smithsonian Institution, by W. J. Rhees 27, 28 

Ormoud Mound, Florida 396,397 

Ortou, William, assistance by 19 

Osage River, Missouri, mounds on 354 

Osborne, H. L., investigation of deep-sea cod fisheries 74 

Osborne, Mr., specimens collected by 68 

Osgood, Albert, anthropology 447 

Osteu-Sacken, R., catalogue of diptera 26 

Ottman, Dr., farm of, mounds on 363 

Ottumwa, Iowa, mounds near 344, 345, 348 

Overleese, John, farm of, graveyard on 375 

Owen, Dr. D. D. , respecting human foot-print , 359 

Oxford, Miss., University 482 

Oysters, testing of 18 

Pacific Mail Steamship Company, acknowledgment due 50 

Pacific Steam Navigation Company, acknowledgment due 50 

Page, W. N., anthropology 441 

Painting in Museum building 135 

Palenque Tablet, memoir on, by Charles Rau 23 



620 INDEX. 

Page. 

Palmer, Joseph, taxidermist -. 5 

Palisa discovered planet 22 

Panama Railroad Company, acknowledgment due 50 

Papy 's Bayou, Florida, mound at 408, 409 

Parker, Hon. Peter, Regent 4, 141 

reappointed Regent 13 

member of executive committee 4 

member National Museum Buildiug Commission 125, 129 

report of executive committee 124 

Parker mounds, Illinois - 309 

Parkhurst, Heury M 402 

Parks, Warham, anthropology 434 

Partridge, H. E., anthropology 436 

Paul, H. W 490 

Payne, William W 479 

Peabody Museum, co-operation of 42 

Pease, A. P. L., anthropology 439 

Pease, W. B. , anthropology 430 

Pennsylvania, anthropology 445 

Pennsylvania Railroad, acknowledgment due 50 

Perry, William F 472 

Persia, pottery from 42 

Peters, C..H. F 22,465 

Peyton, Miss Annie L., anthropology 447 

Phelps, N. Y., Red House Observatory 483 

Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad, acknowledgment due 50 

Philips, D. A., anthropology 446 

Phillips, B. , assistant for census work of Fish Commission 75 

Phillippi's Point, Florida, mound at .' 410 

Photographs of Professor Henry - 12 

Physics, present fundamental conceptions of 485 

Pickering, Edward C 462 

Pike County, Illinois, mounds in 367 

graves in 367 

Pike County, Missouri, mounds in 350,355 

Pine Key, Florida, mound on 404 

Pipe from mound near Muscatine, Iowa 362 

Pisko, Dr. Franz Joseph, on the present fundamental conceptions of physics. 485 

Planets discovered in 1879 22 

Plans for National Museum 120 

Plastering in Museum building 135, 138 

Pleasant Point, Wisconsin, mounds on 340 

Plumbing in Museum building 135, 138 

Plyer, Charles W 467 

Pockets of arrow-points found 362 

Pocock, E. D., anthropology 439 

Poey, Felipe, notes by 34 

Point Piuellos, Florida, mounds of 406, 407 

shell-heaps at 419 

Polar Expedition, Howgate 31 

Pole flounder, discovery of 72 

Pope, George, anthropology 430 

Porcupine, Canadian, occurrence of 33 



INDEX. 621 

Page. 

Porpoise oil, manufacture of 32 

Porter, Dr. Joseph Y., and others on fishes 33 

Porter, Noah, Regent 4,141 

Portraits of Professor Henry 12 

Poston, CD., anthropology 429 

Pottery, ancient, composition of 349 

Brazilian, presented 41 

from mounds in Illinois 342,343,369 

from mound in Louisiana ; 387 

from mound near Muscatine, Iowa 361 

from mounds in Wisconsin 343 

from Schoharie, N. Y 391 

in graves in Pike County, Illinois 368 

in shell-heap in Iowa 347 

North African, presented 41 

Potsdam Astro-physical Institute 504 

Poughkeepsie, N. Y., Vassar College Observatory 488 

Powell, J. W., ethnological researches 39 

Power, Frank, mound on land of 375 

Pratt, Capt. It. H., assistance rendered by 43 

anthropology. 444 

catalogue of casts 34 

Prehistoric articles presented 41 

evidences in Missouri 350 

remains in Montana 327 

Preservation of antiquities in Denmark 299 

of collections, appropriation for 121 

expenditures 122 

receipts 122 

Primitive manufacture of spear and arrow points 376 

Pritchett, Carr W 469 

Pritchett, C. W., jr 469 

Pritchett, H. S 490 

Proceedings of the National Museum 27,32 

Providence, R. I., Seagrave Observatory 484 

Provincetown, Mass., Fish Commission work at 72 

Publications 23 

Contributions to Kuowledge 23 

expenses of 119 

Antiquities in Tennessee 23 

Jones, Joseph, memoir by 23 

Habel, S., memoir by 23 

Sculptures of Santa Lucia 23 

Paleuque tablet, by Charles Ran 23 

Dall, W. II., memoir by. 23 

Ran, Charles, memoirs by 23 

Lucernaria, by H. J. Clark 26 

Clark, H. J., memoir by 26 

Geology of Louisiana 26 

Hilgard, E. W., memoir by 2fi 

Internal Structure of the Earth 26 

Rhees, William J., History of the Institution 27 

James Smithson and his bequest 27 

Smithson, scientific writings of 27 



622 INDEX. 

Page. 
Publications — Continued. 

Smithson, James, and Ms bequest 27 

Journals of the Board of Regents 27, 28 

Proceedings of the National Museum 27, 32, 34 

Chitonidse, monograph of 28 

Carpenter, Dr. Philip P., monograph 28,29 

list of zoological genera 29 

Scudder, S. H., list of zoological genera 29 

Bulletins of the National Museum 29, 30, 31 

Reports of the United States Fish Commission 37 

on ethnology — 39 

Barnard, J. G., memoir by 26 

Elliot,D. G., memoir by 26 

Trochilidse, monograph of 26 

Fever, study of 26 

Wood, Dr. H. C, study of fever 26 

Miscellaneous Collections 26, 27 

Strepomatidse, monograph of 26 

Tryon, G. W., monograph by 26 

Osten-Sacken, R., catalogue of diptera 26 

Diptera, catalogue of 26 

Toner lectures 26,28 

Shakespeare, E. O., on reparatory inflammation of arteries 26 

exchange circular 26 

business arrangements 26 

list of libraries 26 

list of Smithsonian publications : 26 

history of the Institution 27 

Quarries, aboriginal 373 

Quartermaster-General, co-operation 39 

Quick, Edgar R., anthropology 438 

mounds in Indiana 370 

Quincy, 111., mounds near 341 

Quinn, Moses, anthropology 444 

Raleigh Lassiter place, Louisiana, mounds on 386 

Ralls County, Missouri, mounds in 355 

Ramsey, Hon. Alexander, member ex officio 4 

Randolph, T. C, anthropology 439 

Rappe, Mr., human foot-print in possession of 357 

Rathbun, R., investigations -- 70 

Ran, Charles, assistant 3 

collaborator 69 

memoirs by 23 

Read, M. C, anthropology 439 

Receipts, Armory building 122 

contributions to ethnology 123 

Institution 120 

National Museum 121 

preservation of collections 122 

Red House Observatory, Phelps, N. Y 483 

Reed, Mrs. A. J., on finding of Iudian relics 370 

Reed, David R 470 

Rees, J. K 486 

Regents of the Institution 5 



INDEX. 623 

Page. 
Regents of the Institution — Continued. 

term of office 13 

election and appointment of 13 

Religion of Shoshones or Snake Indians 328 

Eemains of man in the Aleutian Islands, memoir by W. H. Dall 23 

Repayments 120 

Reports, annual 23,37 

accepted 142 

Reptiles in National Museum 08 

researches 70 

Rerick, John H., anthropology 438 

Researches 17 

in anthropology 38 

expenses 119 

Resolutions by Board of Regents 142 

Resolution by Congress, to print report 2 

respecting statue of Professor Henry 13 

relative to the Smithsonian Institution and the Na- 
tional Museum 115 

Restoration of ancient churches in Denmark 308, 309 

Rhees, William J., chief clerk 4, 5 

account of James Smithson and his bequest 27, 143 

Journals of the Board of Regents 27, 28 

Origin and History of the Smithsonian Institution 27, 28 

valuable services of 129 

Richard, J. H., artist 5 

Richard Rush, steamer, exploration 45 

Richardson, E. P., anthropology 447 

Richardson, W. S., anthropology 448 

Richie, R. W., anthropology 441 

Ricketts, Palmer C 489 

Ridgway, Robert, assistant 5 

collections 67 

curator of ornithology 69 

notes on birds 34 

researches, American birds 70 

Riggs & Co., deposit with 118 

Rochester, N. Y., Warner Observatory 485 

Rock Island County, mounds in 359,360,363 

Rockwell, Charles Hi, 488 

Rock-work, ancient, in Missouri 351 

Rodgers, John, Rear-Admiral 490 

Rodgers, Lieut. Raymond P 457 

Root, John F., mounds on farm of 366 

Roessler, A. R., anthropology 441 

Rogers, J. A 490 

Rogers, O. P., anthropology 456 

Rogers, William A 462 

Rogers, Prof. W. B., address by 11 

Roofs of Museum building 135, 137 

Ross, A. C, anthropology 440 

Ruemker, Dr. Georg 501 

Ruins in White River Cafion, Arizona 333 

Rush County, Indiana, mounds and earthworks of 374 



624 INDEX. 

Page. 

Rush Lake, Wisconsin, mounds on 335,336 

Rushville, Ind., mounds near 374 

Russell, Charles, presented Palenque slab 24 

Ruth, J. A. , anthropology 446 

Rutherfurd, L. M 479 

Sable Island Bank, new deep-sea fish from 33 

Sabin, Prof. A. H., exploration 337,339 

Sac Creek, Missouri, mounds on 354 

Saint Charles County, Missouri, mounds in 354 

Saint Louis, Mo., Washington University Observatory 486 

Saline County, Missouri, mounds in 356 

San Francisco, Cal., Lick Astronomical Department, University of California. 486 

Sanborn, F. B., donation by 63 

Sandwich Island duck 36 

Sandwich Islands, explorations in 48 

Santa Lucia, sculptures in, memoir by Dr. S. Habel 23 

Saunders, Miss R. G 462 

Savage weapons at the Centennial Exhibition, study of 213 

Savannah River, primitive manufacture of spear and arrow points on 376 

Saxe's, Florida, burial mound near 399 

Sayre Observatory, South Bethlehem, Pa 487 

Schallenberger, J. M. , anthropology 436 

Schiaparelli, Prof. M 503 

Schindler, A. Z., artist 5 

Schneck, J., anthropology 436 

Schonfeld, Prof. E 498 

Schoolcraft, respecting human foot-print 357,358 

Schwartzell, John, anthropology 446 

Schurz, Hon. C, member ex-officio 4 

Scientific writings of James Smithson 27 

Scops, notes on 34, 36 

Scudder, Mr., specimens collected by 68 

Scudder, Newton P., investigation of halibut fisheries 74 

Scudder, Samuel H., list of zoological genera 29 

Sculptures of Cosumal whuapa 15 

Sculptures of Santa Lucia, memoir by Dr. S. Habel 23 

Sea catfish, breeding habits of 34 

Seagrave, F. E 484 

Seagrave Observatory, Providence, R. I 484 

Searle, Arthur 462 

Secretary to National Museum Building Commission 126,128 

Serranoid fish, new 33 

Serviss, E. F., anthropology 433 

Serviss, G. P 461 

Seward, Sam. S., mounds on lands of 369 

Sewerage in Museum building 135, 138 

Shakespeare, E. O., nature of reparatory inflammation in arteries after liga- 
ture 26,28 

Shannon, S. G. , anthropology 446 

Sharp, J. M., anthropology 444 

Sharpless, Isaac 472 

Shal tuck Observatory, Hanover, N. H 470 

Shaw's Point, Florida, shell-heaps at 414,416,418,420,422 

Sheffield Scientific School, observatory of 477 



INDEX. 625 

Page. 

Shell-heap in Iowa 346 

Shell-heaps in Illinois 370 

Shell-heaps of Tampa Bay, Florida 412,413 

Shells from kitchen-middens 35 

Sherman, General \V. T 11 

Regent 4,141 

chairman National Museum Building Commission 125, 129 

co-operation 39 

member of executive committee 4, 124 

Sherman, Hon. J., member ex-officio 4 

Shoal Creek, Missouri, mounds on 354 

Schoharie, N. Y., Indian relics from 391 

Shoshones Indiaus 328 

lodges 329 

manners 328,331 

tribal relationship 329 

religion 328,330 

reservations 329 

superstitions 328,332 

Sibley, H. F., anthropology 436 

Signal apparatus for files 19 

Sinkers from near Schoharie, N. Y 391 

Sisseton Reservation, Dakota, earthwork near 426 

Six Nations, wampum belts of the 389 

Skeleton in mound in Indiana 376 

Skeletons from grave near Highland, 111 367 

from mounds in Illinois 341,343 

found in mounds in Wisconsin 343 

Skinner, A. R 490 

Skinning-stones found in mound iu Illinois 369 

Skull-bone in mound in Iowa 345 

Skull from Minneapolis, Mimi 427 

from mound in Louisiana 387 

Skulls from grave near Highland, 111 367 

found in mounds in Wisconsin 338 

found in mounds in Missouri 353 

Sloan, Hon. Robert, examination of mounds 346 

Slade, Elisha, anthropology 448 

Slates and slating in Museum building 134, 137 

Smiley, Charles W., in charge of Fish Commission office for census work 75 

Smillie, T. W., photographer 5 

photograph of Professor Henry 12 

Smith, H. S. S 474 

Smith, H. K., anthropology 437 

Smith, Q. C, anthropology 433 

Smith, Sanderson, investigations 70 

Smith, Prof. S. J., investigations 70 

Smithson, James, and his bequest, account of, by W. J. Rhees 27, 143 

birth and parentage 143 

feeling in regard to posthumous lame 144 

John Quincy Adams in reference to fame of 144 

Prof. Walter R. Johnson's remarks on fame of 144 

education at Oxford University 145 

graduation of 145 

S. Mis. 54 40 



626 INDEX. 

Page. 
Smithson, James — Continued. 

earnest pursuits of science 145 

scientific ambition 145 

Arago's estimate of the Royal Society 145 

name James Lewis Macie 145 

recommendation of application to Royal Society 146 

elected member of Royal Society 146 

tours and explorations 146, 148 

portable laboratory 147 

cabinet of minerals 147 

minute researches 147 

privations encountered on explorations 147 

extracts from journal 147 

friendship of eminent savans 148 

presentation of books to 148 

Sir Davies Gilbert's estimate of, as chemist 148 

Prof. W. R. Johnson's opinion of works of 149 

labors in mineralogy aud crystallography 149 

Motto on publications of 150 

Smithsonite 150 

analysis of vegetable colors 150 

practical value of his researches 150 

notes and scraps found among his effects 151 

list of writings of 151, 152 

allusion made to other writers by 153 

death of 153 

his monument at Genoa 153 

Sir Davies Gilbert's tribute to his memory 153 

analysis of a tear 153 

remarks of Dr. Johnson and George Wilson on lack of de- 
tails of private life of scientific men 155 

no autobiography of. - 155 

inventory of his personal effects . 155 

personal effects transferred to Mr. Rush 157 

the same transferred to the National Institute 157 

F. Markoe's account of mineral cabinet 158 

notice of various portraits of 158 

personal effects exhibited in Patent Office 158 

same transferred to Smithsonian Institution 158 

effects destroyed by fire 158 

will of, deliberately made 159 

account of book on wills found in library 159 

motives inducing the bequest, to the United States 160 

scientific activity of the period 160 

organization of leading scientific societies 161 

remarkable advances in science noted by Arago 161 

Cuvier's retrospect of the same 162 

educational progress of the period 162 

Lord Brougham's effort in behalf of diffusion of knowledge. 162 

Society for the 1 illusion of Useful Knowledge organized. . . 163 

purpose of, to leave fortune to the Royal Society 163 

cosmopolitan spirit of the Royal Society 164 

est ate received from Col. Henry Louis Dickinson 164 

will of, proved in court 165 



INDEX. 627 

Page. 
Smitlison, James — Continued. 

details of the will 165 

estate devised to Henry James Hungerford 166 

claims of Mrs. de la Batut 166 

decree of court of chancery relative to annuity to Mine, de la 

Batut 166 

first announcement of bequest to the United States 167 

President Jackson's message to Congress asking for action 

on bequest 167 

proceedings in United States Senate relative to acceptance 

of bequest 1S7 

proceedings iu the House of Representatives relative to the 

same 168 

Hon. Richard Rush appointed agent to obtain the bequest- 169 

character of Mr. Rush and value of his services 169, 171 

suit of United States to procure bequest 170 

delays incident to chancery suits 170 

bequest obtained by Mr. Rush and nature of the funds 172 

transfer of fund to United States 172 

legislation of Congress in relation to the disposition of the 

bequest 173 

President Van Buren's request for plans for organizing the 

Smithsonian Institution 173 

plans proposed by literary and scientific men 173 

investment of Smitlison funds in State stocks by order of 

Congress 176 

President Tyler's appeal to Congress for action in relation 

to bequest 177 

discussion of bills relative to bequest 177, 180, 181, 184 

speech of Mr. Choate advocating library scheme 178 

speeches of Mr. Tappan and others proposing plans 180 

speech of Mr. Owen advocating i Ian and reply to Mr. Choate . 182 

speech of Mr. Marsh on plan of organization 185 

action of House of Representatives on Mr. Owen's bill 190 

substitute bill by Mr. Hough for that of Mr. Owen adopted. 191 
action of the United States Senate on bill for organizing 

Smithsonian Institution 191 

organization of Smithsonian Institution 191 

list of first Board of Regents 191 

obituary notice of .. 193 

account of the first Duke of Northumberland 193 

notice of the first duke 194 

coffin-plate inscription of Hugh Smitlison 196 

account of Earl Percy, second Duke of Northumberland. . . 196 

notice of paper on tabasheer 198 

notice of paper on calamines 199 

illustrations of presentation of books to 200 

notice of researches of, by Berzelius 201 

extract from scientific writings 202 

catalogue of library of 204 

notice of city of Washington 209,210 

Smithson fund 15 

condition of 117 

Smithson, James, scientific writings of 27 



628 INDEX. 

Page. 
Snake Indians. (See Shoshones.) 

Solar eclipses, ancient 17 

South Bethlehem, Pa., Sayre Observatory 487 

Spear-heads, primitive manufacture of, on Savannah River 376 

Speedwell, steamer 72 

Spencer's Creek, Missouri, mounds on 355 

Spoon River Valley, Illinois, mounds in.... 368 

Sporer, Professor 505 

Springfield Republican, anthropology , 448 

Saint Croix, flora of 31 

Stations of the United States Fish Commission 72, 73 

Statistics of exchanges 51, 107 

Statue of Professor Henry 13, 116 

Stearns, Silas, assistant for census work of Fish Commission 75 

note on Gulf menhaden 34 

Steel portrait of Professor Henry 12 

Steel, testing of 18 

Steere, Mr., collection of Brazilian pottery 41,42 

Steere, Prof. J. B., explorations 47 

Steeruwitz, W. H., anthropology 444 

Steindachner, Dr. Franz, note on Perca flavescens 34 

Stella, J. P., anthropology • 444 

Stephens; J. L., anthropology 433 

Stevenson, James, exploration by 39, 42 

St ile's mounds, Iowa 346 

Stinson, Floyd, anthropology 438 

Stockholm University Observatory 506 

Stockwell, G. A., anthropology 435 

Stoerzer, L. , clerk 5 

translation by 485 

Stone axe in mound near Muscatine, Iowa 361 

Stone cists near Highland, 111 366 

Stone hammer from Lake Minnetonka 427 

Stone-heaps in Montana 238 

Stone, Livingston, in charge of McCloud River Station 73 

Stone, Ormond 475 

Stone, apparatus for testing 17 

Strasburg University Observatory 506 

Strasser, G 501 

Streets, Dr. Thomas M., contributions to the natural history of the Fannings 

Islands, Hawaiian Islands, and Lower California 30 

Strepomatida-, monograph of, by G. W. Tryon 26 

Sugar Creek mounds, Iowa * 344, 345 

Sumichrast, Francis E., collection of birds described 30 

Sunderland, Rev. Dr. B., prayer by 12 

Superstitions of Shoshones or Snake Indians 328 

Swan, J. G., anthropology 428 

S wenny, S., opened mound in Spoon River Valley, Illinois 368 

Swift, Lewis 485 

discovered comet 22 

Sy nopsis of the fishes of the United States 31 

Tandy, Mark, anthropology 437 

Tampa Bay, Florida, shell-heaps of - 412,413 

Tampa, Fla., Vodger's mound at 411 



INDEX. 029 

Page. 

Tanner, Capt. Z. L., commanding steamer Speedwell 72 

Tarrytown, N. Y., Observatory 488 

Taylor, William B., assistant 5 

Telegraphic announcement of astronomical discoveries 19 

Tempel discovered comet 22 

Temple, J. H., anthropology 448 

Tennessee, anthropology 441 

Tennessee, antiquities in, memoir by Joseph Jones 23 

Testing stone, apparatus for 17 

Tests made in the chemical laboratory 18, 19 

Texas, birds from 34,36 

Thompson, Miss Mary F., anthropology 448 

Thompson, Thcron, on mounds in Iowa and Illinois 359 

Thompson, Hon. R. W., member ex officio 4 

Thomsen, M., Copenhagen 300 

Thryomanes bewicki leucogaster, remarks on 3G 

Thryophilus zeledoni, description of 36 

Tile fish, discovery of 72 

Tietjen, Dr 497 

Todd, D. P., ancient solar eclipses 17 

Toellner, Adolph, on mounds of Rock Island County, Illinois 363 

Tohead Island, Illinois, mounds on 363 

Tomahawk from mound in Louisiana 383 

Toner lectures, account of . 28 

Tooker, W. W., anthropology.. 445 

Tortugas, fishes near 33 

Townsend, General E. D. , letter from 41 

Townshcnd, R. W., anthropology 437 

Train, Charles J., lieutenant-commander, U. S. N 457 

Translations 485,519,577 

Trawell mounds, Iowa -. 345, 346 

Trochilida?, monograph of the, by D. G. Elliot 26 

Trouslot, R. B., anthropology 437 

Troy, N. Y., Williams Proudfit Observatory 489 

Trumbull, J. H v examined Habel's work 16 

Tryon, G. W. , monograph of the Strepomatuke 26 

Tumulus near Quincy, 111 343 

Turner, J. A., clerk 5 

Turner, L. M., explorations 44 

collections by 42, 44, 67 

Turtle-shaped mound on Long Key, Florida 402, 403 

Tyndall trust, account of 28 

Tyrannus, notes on 34, 37 

Ulke, II., portrait of Professor Henry 12 

Underground pi] ting for heating apparatus in Museum building 136 

Uphain, E. P., clerk 5 

Upton, Winslow 462 

Urns in mounds in Illinois 342 

United States Naval Academy Observatory, Annapolis, Md 457 

United States Naval Observatory, Washington, D. C 489 

Utah, anthropology 429 

Vacancies in Board of Regents 116, 141 

Valentiner, Dr. W 503 

Valley City, 111., mounds at 363 



630 INDEX. 

Page. 

Vassar College Observatory, Poughkeepsie, N. Y 488 

Ventilation of the House of ^Representatives 19 

Verrill, Prof. A. E. , investigations 70 

Very, F. W 455 

Vienna Imperial Observatory 508 

Village Creek mounds, Iowa 346 

Virgin Islands, flora of 31 

Virginia, anthropology 446 

bonds 15,117,118,120 

Vodger's mound at Tampa, Fla 411 

Wade, J. D., anthropology 444 

Wahpeton Eeservation, Dakota, earthwork near 426 

Waite, M. E., Chancellor 4 

president Board of Eegents 4 

member ex officio 4 

Waldo, Frank 462 

Waldo, Leonard 462,484 

Wallace, S. J., anthropology 437 

Walker, S. T., collections by 68 

explorations 46 

explorations among the Indian mounds in Southern Florida.. 392 

on shell-heaps of Tampa Bay, Florida 412,413 

Wampum belts of the Six Nations 389 

War Department, co-operation 39 

Warner Observatory, Eochester, N. Y 485 

Warnick, J. E., anthropology 433 

Washington County, Mississippi, mounds in 383 

Washington, D. C, United States Naval Observatory 489 

Washington University Observatory, Saint Louis, Mo 486 

Watkins, experiments by 19 

Watkins, G. L., anthropology 445 

Watkins, J. C. , anthropology 433 

Weapons, savage, at the Centennial Exhibition, a study of 213 

Weiss, Dr. E 508 

Wendell, Oliver C 462 

West, E. P., mounds enumerated by 352 

West India Islands, exploration in 47 

West Virginia, anthropology 441 

Wheeler, Hon. W. A., member ex officio «. 4 

Eegent 4,141 

Wheeler, Lieut. George M., contributions by 67 

Whetstones from near Schoharie, N. Y 391 

White Cross Line of Antwerp, acknowledgment duo 50 

White, Charles A., assistant 5 

White, Dr., contributions by 69 

exploration 45 

White Eiver Canon, Arizona, rains in 333 

Whitestone, N. Y., Willets Point Field Observatory 494 

Whitney, L., anthropology 437 

Whitney, Prof. W. D., examined Habel's work 16 

Wilcox, P. W., anthropology 437 

Widemire, S., anthropology 446 

Wilhelmahaven, Astro-physical Observatory 508 

Wilkinson, E. jr., anthropology 440 



INDEX. 631 

Page, 

Willets Point Field Observatory, Whitestone, N. Y 494 

Williams, F. J., anthropology 430 

Williams, Richard, examination of mound 34G 

Williams, Mr., lands of, in Florida, shell-heap on 419 

"Williams Proudfit Observatory, Troy, N. Y 489 

Wilmot, Samuel, notes on Western gizzard shad 34 

Wilson, A. C 479 

Wiltheis, C. T., anthropology 440 

Winnecke, Prof. A 506 

Witter, F. M., anthropology , 432,438 

Wisconsin, anthropology 433 

mounds in 335,341,343 

Withers, Hon. R. E., Regent 141 

address by 11 

Wolf, Dr. Rudolph 509 

Woltz, T. N. , appropriation for funeral expenses of 142 

death of 64 

Wood, Dr. H. C, fever 26 

Wooden floors of Museum building 135 

Worsaae, J. J. A., member of Danish Commission 300, 304 

report on the preservation of antiquities in Denmark 299 

Wright, S. H., anthropology 445 

Yale Lock Company, contribution by 63 

Yarrow, Dr. H. C. , curator of herpetology 69 

Yates, L. G. , anthropology 429 

Young, Clarence B., clerk 5 

translation by 519 

Yucatan, birds from 36 

Ypsilanti, Mich., Michigan State Normal School Observatory 495 

Zoological genera, list of, by Samuel H. Scudder 29 

Zoological Society of London, request made by 60 

Zurich University Observatory 509 





Id 


/v3vi 










cr 


fzff^ 


< 


|9sb 






re 

CO 


\£<* 



'H 



— - X.'V 

O X£vw^ 

2 -J 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVIN0SH1MS S3IUVM8n LIBR, 
m ^mk^/ to X^*^/ ~ N^ co" N^g^ m 

co £ — CO \ ? CO 

nvinoshiiws S3iavaan libraries Smithsonian institution Nour 

CO z -r CO Z v, W 





o 

> '" 2 ^ > X(Oins2x ^ > 

2 CO » 2 CO Z 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVIN0SH11WS S3iaVHan LI BR 

co co 



4 




nvinoshiiws S3iavaan libraries smithsonian^institution noiih 

> 2 r- z r- z 




SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVIN0SH1IWS S3IHVM8n LIBR, 

2 CO 2 CO 2 , 





S 



.* 





2 V \ 

NVIN0SHllWS*°S3ldVaan libraries^smithsonian institution Noun 

co — oo — CO 

3\ — 
cc 
< 

2 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVIN0SH1IWS S3iavaaiT LIBR 

P" 

CD 
> 

co ± (/> \ 2 co 

nvinoshiiws S3iavaan libraries Smithsonian institution Nour 

CO 2 „.,. CO z 





C-\k ITLJPAM I A ht 



mirTtTi inni 



IAI I A 



r^fcii kiwiLiAPii i luir* r* -i t \iw\JO i"l 



O X^o^X — O 

-J Z _j Z 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOUfllllSNI NVIN0SH1IWS S3IUVH9n LI BR, 




SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinilJLSNI NVINOSHilWS S3IHVH9I1 LI BR 
-co -co 

NVINOSHJLIWS S3l-yV«an LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOI1T 







m 
co 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVINOSH1MS S3l8VHan LIBR 
z ■, co 2: co z: 

lo ••-' 2 co — z CO 

NVIN0SH1IWS S3IHVaai1 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIlf 
co — co — CO 

_j 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVINOSH1IWS S3ldV«an LIBR 





CD 



^v' 



z 
o 



i^§ 




CO 

CO £ CO V E CO 

nvinoshiiws S3iavaan libraries Smithsonian institution Nour 

CO Z ... CO Z CO 




Q* D C 







2 

00 



r»TiTi iTirii 




•' 



A 



